from genetic  ( david m. tate ) 
subject re win ! win ! 
article i.d. blue . 
organization department of industrial engineering 
lines 13 

said 
i only caught the tail end of this one on  . does anyone have a report 
 ( look at all that ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) 

maybe it 's just me , but the combination of those young faces out 
from under little league in every of 
my being .  .  .  . 


david m. (i do not know what it is about you that closes 
as and only something in me 
e e  ( can the of your is deeper than rose 's ) 
dy ) nobody , not even tim , has such soft hands 

organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re 
lines 15 

in article ,  ( sean garrison ) says 

i think that 
 are getting way out of hand to the point that they 're on 
a to become severely detrimental to baseball 's future. 


so you want to  

so you want to increase owners  

the two are equivalent .  . 

bob  . 


from  ( max 5 1 ) 
subject re new home for the ! ! ! 
lines 20 

writes 

i heard about a month back that the red are getting a new  . 
i have relatives that just moved up that way , and they said about the city 
the funds .  . can anybody verify this 
to a game 

fan in pa 

i have lived in the boston area for 15 years now. they have been talking 
about a new boston garden  ( hockey basketball ) since i 've lived here. one 
day the last has been overcome , and the next day there 's a new 
 . have been about  ( or whatever it 's 
called this year ) for nearly as long , but there are only preliminary 
for a new  . local politics prevents anything from being 
done in a fashion .  . there will not be a new in my 
lifetime. 


nh 

from  ( dale stephenson ) 
subject stolen second base 1992 
summary stolen for all second 
keywords second defense 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 117 

disclaimer this is for fun. 

in my baseball game , i keep track of a category called 
stolen , defined as a play made that an average would not 
make with average effort .  . using the 1992 posted 
by  ( thanks ! ) , i 've out some 
for the second  . stolen have been as plays kurt 
would not have made. 

ok , i realize that 's unfair .  . kurt 's probably the victim of , 
fluke shots , and a park factor .  . but let 's put it this way if we 
replaced every second in the with someone with kurt 's 57 . 6 . out 
making ability , how many extra would go by 

to try and it to reality a little more , i 've calculated net 
stolen , based on the number of made compared to what a league 
average would make. by the same method i 've calculated net double 
plays , and net extra bases  ( doubles and let  . 

finally , i all this into a a i call , or 
. basically , it represents the of a  . 
i add this number to ops to get  ( defense plus slug ) , which 
should represent the 's total to the team .  . so do n't 
take it too seriously. the for appears at the end of this 
article. 

the short version definition of terms 
stolen extra compared to kurt 
net stolen extra compared to average 
net double plays extra double plays turned compared to 
net extra bases extra bases prevented compared to  . 
bases and prevented , as a rate .  . 
ops quick measure of 's total  . 

national league 

name 
, l. 50 21 2 1  .  . 
, r. 42 1 1  . 1 . 
, r. 65 20 5 1  .  . 
, j. 66 8 2 1  .  . 
, b. 31 1 4 0  .  . 
, d. 51 1 2 1  .  . 
harris , l. 25 4 0 1  .  . 
, m. 43 1 5 5  .  . 
, m. 37 9 6 0  .  . 
, w. 13 16 3 1  .  . 
, c. 34 26 4 0  .  . 
, k. 0 43 3 1  .  . 

ordered by 

1 . 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 . average 
 . 
 . harris 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 . 

american league 


name 
, s. 59 18 5 1  .  . 
reed , j. 17 3 1  . 071 .  . 
, b. 56 9 1 1  .  . 
, c. 67 0 10 0  .  . 
, l. 34 2 2 1  .  . 
miller , k. 34 4 1 1  .  . 
, r. 62 4 9 2  .  . 
, c. 50 13 7 3  .  . 
, m. 37 4 2 1  .  . 704 . 
kelly , p. 42 1 5 1  .  . 
, l. 40 8 1 2  .  . 
, h. 47 6 5 1  .  . 
, s. 56 6 9 1  .  . 
, l. 28 11 3 0  .  . 

order by 

 . 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 . miller 
 . 
 . reed 
 . 704 . 
 . al average 
 . kelly 
 . 
 . 
 . 
 . 

more discussion 

 ( nhs ndp ) pa )  ( nhs neb ) ab ) 
why such a basically , it 's designed to be added into the 
ops , with the idea that a run prevented is as important as a run . 
the extra are into , while the extra bases removed are 
into  . that 's why i used pa and as the  . 

for more discussion see the post on stolen first base 1992 

j. baseball 

it is considered good to look wise , especially when not 
with information j. golden 

from  ( mark bernstein ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 10 

al played second for the white in the early sixties , as 
back up to  . good , no hit , some  . 

 ( which reminds me do they still serve hot dogs at the new ) 


mark 
systems , inc. main street ma usa 
voice  ( 800 ) in usa  ( 1(617 ) 
compuserve , 

from  ( david shapiro ) 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization what , me organized 
lines 21 
distribution na 

nntp posting host cis . yale . edu . 
in reply to 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 21 13 02 gmt 

in article  ( david steinman ) writes 

 ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 

the of the is a team that has no talent and comes 
out of nowhere to  . the  and  89 are prime examples , 
not the  . 

sorry , but it is virtually impossible to win a division with no talent 
over 162 games. 

well , with , certainly .  . however , it is quite possible to win 
it all with no talent .  .  . blue , 1992 .  . 

david 


david people can call it a , but i felt like 
i had a on my back all long .  .  .  .  . 
the is off my back .  . maybe a 
will be next .  . stan 

from  ( russ smith ) 
subject re jose 's swing 1992 vs. 1986 .  . 
distribution na 
organization ca , usa 
lines 

in article  ( gary built like huckabay ) writes 
here 's my analysis of jose ,  , and jose , 
june 1986 .  . 

1. he 's up too much. period. he needs to lose about 20 pounds , 
not gain more  . 

i 've been saying that for at least 2 years now and even the a 's 
told jose he was carrying too much weight and some would help 
his back . although . i do n't for one second believe jose used , his 
back problems are very similar to problems alot of users experience 
because they are simply carrying too much weight on their  ( frame(see jeff 
ex as a textbook example) , and imho jose is too big for his 
frame .  . 


2. his speed has absolutely vanished .  . , i 'd say he 's 
lost 4 7 of his speed , and that 's a huge amount of speed .  . 

i ca n't imagine how to estimate speed , but its pretty obvious that 
jose is missing he used to hit , likely due to his back .  . 


3. that open stance is killing him. note that he acts sort of like 
brian way open to start , then closes up as ball is 
released .  . could do this without significant head movement 
ca n't .  . also , note that does n't always close his 
stance the same way sometimes , his are open , sometimes , 
they 're fully closed. without a good starting point , it 's hard 
to make in your swing .  . 

i do n't know , he had an even more open stance when he first came up with 
the a 's , and had no problems with it then. it might be that pre back 
problems , he was quick enough to cover up any the stance 
caused , but now he 's lost just enough speed that the stance 
him. the old saying if you 're hot its a mechanism , if you 're 
cold , its a  . 

first , minimize movement before the swing .  . close and the stance , 
and severely cut down the i take on my swing .  . , this 
will cut down on the time i need to swing , and will allow me to move 
the more freely .  . 

the biggest problem imho is he never has found a stance he 's comfortable 
with for more than a few months. he changes his stance so much , he loses 
track of where the strike is. in 's night game , he was 
clearly mad at strike calls on both that looked pretty good to 
me. i think he no longer knows where the strike really is because 
he 's changed his stance so much. 

i'm also a bit concerned that because he 's got and hitting 
all the , he 'll become , swing even harder and 
himself up even worse. always said that 's famous 
practice shows did him more harm than good as they encouraged 
bad hitting  . 




smith 

i do n't know anything about x 's , but i know about some o .  . 
george on being an assistant 






from state . edu .  ( mark edward atchison ) 
subject re cleveland 
organization the ohio state university dept. of computer and info .  . science 
lines 12 
nntp posting host cis . ohio . state . edu . 

in article  ( gail a. fullman ) writes 

i wonder if will anyone because his career may be over. 

not due to the accident he just got a  ( really ) bad  . now , if you 
meant due to his floating , well .  .  .  . 



mark , a.k.a. state . edu . graduate student in the 
computer science dept , the ohio state university  ( not an ohio state university ) 
any seen above are not my own .  .  .  . 

from  ( marc j. stephenson ) 
subject re for real 
organization ibm , austin 
lines 29 

in article z writes 
who thinks the are going places 
they re currently first place. 
they re 5 4 , 5 1 on the road ! 

i agree ,  ( except that they 're in 2nd ) ! they are going places 
san diego , los , san francisco , , denver , , miami , 
philadelphia , new york , montreal , pittsburgh , chicago , st.  .  . and . 
points in between .  . ) 

but , 
they re 0 3 at home ! 

i'm just not used to an overly enthusiastic houston fan .  . i really should n't 
discourage it , so in there , !  ( but , get of that shift 
key , will ) 

apparently the new owner  ( drayton (sp  ) does n't particularly 
like excuses .  . an item in our paper  ( the austin american if you 
read it here , it was somewhere else first ) said that he would n't take 
as an excuse for because that possibility should have been 
accounted for. uh , oh. i do n't want an owner that 'll keep everybody on 
i 'd never gotten that feeling about him , but who knows does 
anybody down there in the houston area have a feel for how meddling of an 
owner is going to be 

ibm  ( advanced workstations systems austin , tx ) 
disclaimer the content of this posting is independent of official ibm position. 
internet at ibm t l 

from  ( jim savoy ) 
subject re what s with all these scores 
reply to 
organization university of 
lines 33 

 ( sean garrison ) writes 

 . i have one thing to say. i do n't know if it 's just me , but i 
thought this newsgroup is a place for discussion. why must people 
constantly post these little messages about how a certain team is 
in a certain i mean , come on ! how many people are so dependent on 
this newsgroup that they have to find out the scores mid game here 

 ( charles m kozierok ) writes 

amen .  . 

i hear , brother .  . 

take a look at the on some 
of the posts you read sometime the propagation are significant , 
often hours or even days , and even people who have access to machines 

which are close to the poster on the network .  .  .  . 

let 's try weeks ! it is april today and i just finished reading posts 
regarding the cleveland  . to say , i do n't want 
to read of games played 3 weeks ago. 

as charles mentioned (i excluded the quote ) join a mailing list if you want to 
(i consider entering 4th scores as  . thank you. now to 
plug on and read the rest of the posts about spring training .  .  .  . 


jim university of 

and bible black 


from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re the 
keywords 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 

previously i wrote 

yeah , the played over their heads almost the whole year , 
but it all caught up to them in one 10 game  . i am as old as 
 ( man ! ) and i was a big fan at the time  ( age  . 
september  64 is still a painful thing to remember. but i can tell you 
that the never led the league by 15 that year .  . going by memory 
alone , i believe their biggest lead was 7 1 2 games , and they were 
6 1 2 ahead when the famous 10 game began , a 
during which it seemed that they found just about every way to lose 
known to man. anyway , i think they just before the end and 
won their last couple games and were still in the thing until the 
final day , but finished with the one game out. and did n't 
the or somebody else finish two games back that has to be 
one of the last minute ever. 

ok , you guys stirred up my childhood , so i went and did 
some research on the final month or so of the  . it turns 
out that my were pretty accurate , at least as 
far as the record goes. on september 1 this was the 
top of the n . l .  . 

w l gb 
philadelphia 51 
74 57 5 1 2 
st. 72 59 7 1 2 
san francisco 73 60 7 1 2 

this is a game by game description of the remainder of the  


date score opponent lead  ( starting and winner loser ) 
9 1 4 3 houston 5 1 2  ( 15 4 ) 
9 2 2 1 houston 5 1 2 short  ( 15 7 ) 
9 3 0 6 houston 5 1 2 bennett  ( 9 12 ) 
9 4 5 3 san francisco 6 1 2  ( 6 5 ) 
9 5 win san francisco 6 1 2  ( 16 4 ) 
9 6 3 4 san francisco 5 1 2 short  ( 6 6 ) 
9 7 5 1 los bennett  ( 10 12 ) 
1 3 los 6 1 2 wise  ( 5 3) 
9 8 2 3 los 6  ( 12 7 ) 
9 9 5 10 11 st. 5  ( 6 7 ) 
 ( cardinals take over 2nd place from cincinnati ) 
9 10 5 1 st. 6 short  ( 16 7 ) 
9 11 1 0 san francisco 6 bennett  ( 11 12 ) 
9 12 1 9 san francisco 6  ( 12 8 ) 
 ( giants move into a tie for 2nd with st. louis ) 
9 13 4 1 10 san francisco 6  ( 17 4 ) 
 ( cardinals back in sole of 2nd place ) 
9 14 4 1 houston 6 1 2 short  ( 17 7 ) 
9 15 1 0 houston 6 bennett  ( 12 12 ) 
9 16 5 6 houston 6  ( 17 5 ) 
9 17 4 3 los 6 1 2 wise  ( 2 4 ) 
9 18 3 4 los 6 short  ( 6 8 ) 
9 19 3 4 16 los 5 1 2 bennett  ( 6 9 ) 
9 20 3 2 los 6 1 2  ( 18 5 ) 
 ( reds move back into tie for 2nd with cardinals ) 

well so far so good for the  . but now it all falls apart ... 

9 21 0 1 5 1 2  ( 12 9 ) 
 ( reds take sole of 2nd place ) 
9 22 2 9 4 1 2 short  ( 17 8 ) 
9 23 4 6 3 1 2 bennett  ( 12 13 ) 
9 24 3 5 milwaukee 3  ( 18 6 ) 
9 25 5 7 12 milwaukee 1 1 2 short (3 4 ) 
 ( cards now 2 1 2 back in 3rd , 3 1 2 in 4th ) 
9 26 4 6 milwaukee 1 2  ( 2 5 ) 
9 27 8 14 milwaukee 1  ( 18 7 ) 
 ( phils lose 7 1 2 games in 7 days take over 1st , 
1 1 2 back in 3rd ) 
9 28 1 5 st. 1 1 2  ( short(17 9 ) 
 ( cardinals take over 2nd place , drop to 3rd ) 
9 29 2 4 st. 1 1 2 bennett  ( 12 14 ) 
 ( reds and now for 1st ) 
9 30 5 8 st. 2 1 2  ( 18 8 ) 
 ( cardinals take 1 2 game lead over reds ) 
10 1 4 3 1 1 2 short  ( 5 3) 
 ( phillies 10 game cards lead by 1 2 game ) 
10 2 did not play cards lose to , for 1st , 1 game back 
10 3 10 0 1  ( 19 8 ) 
 ( cards , take first by 1 from and phillies ) 

! what a finish ! and the final were 

w l gb 
st. 93 
philadelphia 70 1 
70 1 
san francisco 90 72 3 

now it does n't appear to me that and short 
were really , at least by the four man standard of 
the day , until well along into the 10 game , at which 
time was probably for a win at any cost because the 
substantial lead had  . the way they were used at 
that time may have made the problem worse , although had one 
of his games of the year in the final day 10 0 of 
the that cost the a share of the  . 
a complete game , out five and walking one. it 
would be to see , though , how the total for the 
year for and short up against the rest of the league .  . 
also notice that the played every day from at least september 1 
through october 1 while they did n't play more games than 
the other teams , the other teams each had a couple days off during that 
stretch .  . 


eric smith 


, 

from  ( wayne hathaway ) 
subject re rule 
reply to  ( wayne hathaway ) 
organization network 
lines 17 

 ( david coons ) 
the rules say baseball is a game between two teams of 
each .  . let 's keep it that way. 

 ( david nieporent ) 
not any more the rules do n't say that. so that 's a pretty 
argument. 


really my little mind be ! i do n't have a 1993 rule book 
yet , so david , would you please post the new wording of rule 1 . 01 . i 
am curious ! much thanks. 

wayne domain 
network uucp ... ! ames ! ! wayne 
drive phone 408 0100 
san jose , ca fax 408 

from  ( dave  almost the  kirsch ) 
subject re jose 's swing 1992 vs. 1986 .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization l and the 
lines 

in article  ( gary  man from  
huckabay ) writes 

it 's certainly not very easy .  . what i do is use frame advance on the , 
and simply count the  . five times , and try to out any  . 
it 's not perfect , but it 's better than a blow to the head with a large 
metal object. 

ah , so you finally found a use for that super and frame advance 
other than babes in . ! 

i wish i had films instead of , at rather than 24 , 
but while i'm at it , i 'd like to have ten million dollars , and be able 
to eat anything i want and never gain any weight , either. 

trust me , you 'd have a time them. besides , if you 
converted the film to video you 'd have all kinds of artifacts because of the 
difference in frame rate  ( unless you 're an expert at doing 3 2 for 
a company or  . 

's list of the ten in baseball 

hey , no fair ! what about   the guy practically 
has to the around along with his body. 

's list of how the hell can he hit like that 

1. 
2. 
9. 

does n't strike me as all that strange. he 's a little bit quiet at 
the but , like , gets the through the hitting on a level 
plane .  . the first time i watched , i did n't think anyone could 
hit like that. now i at how easy he makes it look every time he makes 
contact , it 's solid . he 's got good power to all fields and rarely is he 
caught not ready for a pitch .  . 

i wonder if had a severe with and had to 
practice his swing while  on the  ) sure looks like it ) 

how  one to add to your list the guy plants his front 
foot and seems to swing across his body. he a lot of power , but 
i keep thinking he could generate even more if he could get a better 
out of his  . 

's list of i 'd give dave 's to have a swing like that. 

well , they 're already spoken for  ( by several people ) , but  .  .  . 

i 'd add 's name to the list , among others. i really like dean 
's swing , for some twisted reason , as well as pedro 's swing .  . 

that 's all for now. i'm looking at may 's , along 
with 's .  . that guy is a serious  . 

a thought about may it looks like they 've taught him to turn on the ball .  . 
imho , he 's going to fall in love with his power and start 
off the ball to the point that he 's going to see lots of 
low and away. unless he quickly and starts to left 
and left center , imho you 're going to see a good number of weak to 
the right side of the in the next month .  . 


dave like a jim blue do it again in  93 
new  .  .  . quotes out of context ! 
not to a dead horse , but it 's been a couple o  weeks  .  .  . this 
me .  . punishments .  .  .  .  . stephen lawrence 

from  ( unknown ) 
subject re causes arrest 
organization university 
lines 21 

in article  ( loren wagner ) writes 
in article writes 

maybe you would rather have ron davis back ) 


the truly amazing thing was how many years this was the closer for the 
 . you 'd have thought they could find somebody better. 





going into the ninth with a 3 run lead ,  .  .  . 2 . runs score .  .  . on 
first and second .  .  . throws , there 's a drive back , 
to the , , he caught the ball ! ! ! ! what a by ! ! 
win ! and gets the save .  . his line 1 , 2 walks , 2 , and 
one robbed home run .  .  .  . 

paul 


from 
subject re notes on vs. series 
lines 23 
organization york university 
distribution na 

in article ,  ( steven m. goldman ) writes 

so who will start this year 's all star game for the al 

probably  . 

not to put him down he 's a great  . but it helps to have 
all the recognition he 's had , plus to play in a city which is 
likely to pour in the votes .  .  .  . 

i like  . but i 'd like to differ with your opinion about a city 
which is likely to pour in the votes .  .  .  . . 

i attended many games last year during the  . i know that a 
great number of the did not fill out their , but left 
them , beer and on the of the stands .  . gets 
no more and no less votes than any other city for the all star game. 

unfortunately , this is not a one time thing. i 've attended games 
during the last four , and it has happened every time. the 
attitude to all star really me. 



from  ( joshua lawrence roffman ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
nntp posting host amherst . edu . 
organization amherst college 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 12 

baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 



john is definately not jewish .  . many in baltimore thought he was .  .  .  . 
especially after he told the baltimore jewish times so .  .  . but . later he 
admitted that it was a joke. 


from  ( charles cilek ) 
subject how is percentage 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 3 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

subject line says it all. thanks in advance. please email 

go ! 

subject re to 
from  ( steve c liu) 
expires 5 9 93 
distribution usa 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
summary big ben 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
lines 25 

i do n't know if you could call him , but big ben did n't 
much time at all in the  . of course that was because the used 
in had too large and gave forcing him to go 
on the several times. he 's done most of his learning here in the  . 
of course gregg wild thing and mike deserved a young 
did n't spend much time in the either. i read somewhere that 
are less likely to need that much time in the anyway so maybe that 
has something to do with it. 
let 's go o 's ! why not 
steve still  . 30 , 1989 

steve c. internet address 
in chief of the security division of the club earth chapter 
president of the earth chapter of the club founded april 1990 
1993 world baltimore why not series in the 
1992 1993 cup washington capitals 
for the liberation and of 
and their rehabilitation into society , the only problem is that the 
is  . from the of red 
the are the greatest female that ever existed ! 
this sig has been brought to you by .  .  .  . ! the of kings ! 
my god man , holes through his head is not the answer ! dr. mccoy 
you know , has a really nice ass. comment by m. 
the club creating the largest  . for the past months 


from  ( and a fact ) 
subject 
organization university of college of cardiff , cardiff , , uk .  . 
lines 5 

any more news on steve 's status since he lost the starting job 
would be 

thanks 


from  ( robert holt ) 
subject re all time best 
organization at t bell laboratories , hill , nj 
lines 78 

in article  ( john stephen randolph ) writes 
in article , writes 

i 've recently been working on project to determine the greatest 
at their respective  . my sources are total baseball , 
james  historical abstract , the  ( biography ) , word of 
mouth , and my own  ( biased ) opinions .  .  .  . 

feel free to comment , suggest , flame  .  . but . i tried 
to be as objective as possible , using statistical data not 
for time 's sake. (i judged on  . , ops , total average , 
range runs , total  ( total baseball ) , stolen bases 
 ( for curiosity 's sake ) , 150 g , and years played  . 


1 ) mike 
2 ) ed matthews 
one t in ! 
3) george brett 
4 ) wade 
5 ) ron 
6 ) 
7 ) frank baker 
8 ) evans 
9 ) 
10 ) ray 

how can be 6 i think he would at least be ahead of ron  . 

because a small advantage in ability comes nowhere near 
making up for the large difference in hitting .  . their average 
, using their combined average  ( ab bb ) per 162 games 

years h r bb ops 
14 . 10 . 26 5 24 94  .  .  .  . 
17 . 55 . 162 70 27 4 15 49  .  .  .  . 

, we have , per 162 games at third , 

years p a e 
13 . 15 . 30 24  . 
17 . 72 . 35 15  . 

even if 's extra 3 , 2 , and 5 are taken to mean 
he was responsible for 10 more in the field , that does n't make up 
for the extra 28 he made at the , not to mention the 
total bases .  . the difference of  . in ops should be by about 
 . to account for , but a  . difference is still  . 
the thorn are 

stolen total 
runs base runs runs 
123 14 41 . 7 . 
52 5 19 . 8 . 3) . 
usual disclaimers about t p 's fr apply , but they really should n't be 
way off the mark in this comparison .  . at least it 's better than 
percentage has a  . , best all time , but fr , 
dead last of all time. also , since this total compares 
to league average instead of replacement level , should be 
awarded an extra 6 . 5 . or so for playing more games. he had a great 
career , but i would prefer 's plus 4 years of a replacement level  . 

but i would knock off the list and replace him by stan hack .  . 
that 's a similar story , hack 's far better hitting 's 
superior  . and buddy bell would also be better 
choices  ( imho of course , though some recent net discussion supports 
this point of view . ) . 


7 ) 

should n't that be right field 



bob 



from  ( kevin kerr ) 
subject re 
lines 41 
nntp posting host com . 
organization engineering 

in article  ( robert c hite ) writes 
from  ( robert c hite ) 
subject re 
date thu , 15 apr 1993 17 19 09 gmt 

in article ( ) writes 
does any one out there listen to for those of you who do 
not know what i am talking about , it is an all sports radio 
in new york .  . on a clear night the signal up and 
down the east coast .  . in particular , i want to know how 
and mike 's show is. i go to school in virginia 
so i ca n't listen when there are on during the day. just 
wondering .  . 

the fan is an okay sports radio station , but does n't come close to 
the ultimate in sports radio , in philadelphia .  . the signal 
might not be as powerful , but then again only in new york 
feel obligated to everyone else 's with a bunch of 
complaining 24 hours a day. took two of your 
best sports too , and steve  . 
is with sports talk from 5 30 am till , check it 
out anytime your within a few hours of philadelphia .  . if i'm not 
mistaken , has the highest sports talk in the nation 

i'm from , and you have alot of saying that has a bunch of 
 . during the , the local station here 
had the on several times for broadcasts .  . i have never heard 
a bigger bunch of low , , obnoxious , , 
deformed , in my entire life ! the of the average fan must 
be in the 10 15 range at best , and they have been known to be big  . 

 ( please no flames ) ... let 's see if it works for me bob ) 



kevin p. 

s . a . b . r . member since  go ! ! ! go dolphins ! ! ! 

through , the electric wind .  .  .  .  . 


from  ( steve c liu) 
subject re bring on the o 's 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
lines 39 
distribution world 
expires 5 9 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
summary root , root , root for the  .  .  . 

i heard that is selling the team to a group in  . this would 
help so that the o 's could make some real free in the 
 . training camp reports that everything is pretty positive right 
now. the will be a between and parent 
although i would prefer parent .  . 1 draft pick jeff may be coming 
up in the o 's of the than expected .  . mike 
is trying for another  . big ben is being defended by 
saying that while the given up were an awful lot , most came 
in the beginning of the and he really improved the second half .  . this 
may be ben 's year .  . 
i feel that while this may not be 's young year , he will 
be able to pitch the entire without periods of like last year 
around august .  . i really hope can provide the support the o 's need. 
was decent but i had hoped that could learn defense 
better and play like he did in  . the o 's right now do n't have many 
left handed  . proving last year was no fluke and cal 's return 
to his would be big in a drive for the  . the 
should be , , , , . is an 
interesting case. will he strike out the side or load the bases and then get 
three pop you never know. 
the way i see the al east this year  ( with personal in ) 
baltimore 
new york 

milwaukee 
cleveland 
boston 

 ( the top 4 are the only true in my mind. one of these 4 will 
definitely win the division unless it in hell maryland ) .  . i feel 
that this baltimore 's to finally put everything together . ) . 

steve c. internet address 
for the liberation and of 
and their rehabilitation into society from red 
the are the greatest female that ever existed ! 
this sig has been brought to you by .  .  .  . ! the of kings ! 



from  ( sherri nichols ) 
subject re why 
organization systems incorporated 
lines 18 

in article  ( jon boone ) writes 
is too slow ! if he were quicker , he would still be here. 
but with and tom prince , they did n't want to lose prince in order 
to bring up that  . is about as good as and 
prince is coming along nicely ! 

tom prince is a 28 year old no hit  . think of him as a young 
 . i ca n't begin to why the have been so afraid of 
this guy , who 's been in most of the last 5  . the 
released gibson last year because prince was out of options , then 
eventually sent prince down anyway , and he cleared without a  . 
he 's another year older , and still ca n't hit why do they think he would n't 
clear now why would they care 






from  ( john neuharth ) 
subject re jim is an idiot .  . 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington 
lines 20 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

 ( richard casares ) writes 

in article , 
writes 
i just wanted to let everyone know that i have lost what little respect 
i have 
for jim after seeing today 's game. 
a fan 


yes , i also wonder if they can win with this  . 
i never believed had that much to do with 
until i saw how much they had to do with  .  .  .  . 

i like the a lot , but my heart belongs to the  .  . you . can imagine 
my when i saw the  .  . ! 

john 



from ( j. arbeitman ) 
subject missing subject 
reply to ( j. arbeitman ) 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host bones . ibm . com . 
organization ibm east subject re the worst 
lines 39 


in article ,  ( brian r. 
landmann ) writes 
joe has to be the worst in baseball .  . 

for anyone who did n't see sunday 's game , 

with a right he decides to , a left handed 
and play and , both right  . 

that 's because had a minor injury from a couple of games 
before that 
and was day to day .  .  .  . only available as a  . 


later , in the ninth with the bases loaded and two he puts 
, a with power in as a and uses luis 
, a 250 with no power as a  . what the hell 
is he thinking. 

see above. 

earlier in the game in an about mark he commented 
how fortunate the were to get and that would be a 
regular even though this meant that would be hurt , but said 
he liked coming off the  . hit over last year , 
what does he have to do to start , the guy would be starting on most every 
team in the league .  . 

at the beginning of the also said is the 
one 
guy who 's in there no matter what . 
my guess is will eventually end up being odd man out due to low 
on base percentage .  . was a great  .  .  . decent offense 
and great defense in  . but do n't worry , will be 
starting 
as soon as or an extended period of low offensive 
output .  . 


from  ( gord niguma ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
distribution na 
lines 38 

in  ( lyford beverage ) writes 

in article ,  ( edward fischer ) writes 
in article  ( rudy wade ) writes 
in article  ( gord niguma ) writes 
reference to history because he certainly did n't have the best for 
second in history. he probably did n't even have as good a as 
last year .  . 

what do you have some measure  ( like popularity in does n't count ) 
that you are basing this statement on 

uh , yes. has a lot of , but was the better 
last year .  . 

g r h bb so cs e 
, c  .  .  . 32 1 20 35 76 10 2 19 
, r  . 310 .  .  . 27 8 8 76 87 52 49 9 5 


this is fascinating .  . you say that was the better last 
year , and immediately follow that up with numbers showing that 
had a better year .  . the only category that i see which shows an advantage 
for is 

hmmm .  .  . what . about walks and got by in and 
him in by a lesser margin .  . even putting aside any other factors , 
a with a 51 point in is more than a with 
a 28 point in  . the issue has been studied before , and i doubt you 
could come up with any convincing argument the other way. 
people see the average and the , but they do n't really know 
their value is worth unless they 've studied the issue closely .  . the fact is that 
up a lot more than while was making , 
was drawing walks and being on base for , et . al .  . 


 ( fav john olerud ) 


organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re jewish baseball 

lines 11 

in article ,  ( scott barman ) says 

was n't ron , the former who got the first base hit 
by a , jewish 

i have no idea , nor do i care. however , i 'd like to point out that 
got the first appearance by a , and 
the first walk by a  . i am not sure , but i do not 
think that he also got the first hit by a  . 

bob  . 

from  ( david hollebeek ) 
subject mailing list 
nntp posting host 
organization college 
lines 7 

anyone know of a mailing list out there .... they do n't get much 
up here in grand , mi 



elaborate  . signature . files are for people who are n't as busy as i am 1992 
david 

from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject i 've found the secret ! 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 15 


why are the red in first place eight games into the , they 
already have two each from and  . starts 
again , on three days rest. 

what 's up are the going with a four man is this why 
was used in relief last night 

 . 

cheers , 

p.s. i was wrong. the have already 18 runs in two games 
this week. they should reach 25 without trouble .  . i still think it 's 
a fluke .  . 

from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re new home for the ! ! ! 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 30 

in article  ( jay rogoff ) writes 

i agree , though i 'd also be happy with a that looks 
like new  . the new park was also made for baseball .  . 
unlike three , the , , etc. , it 's not a 
park in which they also play baseball .  . 

while we 're on the subject , let 's not forget , which 
was designed to both the  . it was the first 
(i think) to have the box on so they could be 
oriented at right for baseball in parallel for football. 

not the first. , , was built 2 years earlier. 
nowadays they do n't move the back for the few 
games but the 3rd base lower used to move. it was all 
metal , which was pretty on day. 

of course , with the gone to jersey  ( and a truly good 
stadium ) , the are with a where , 
because it 's circular , the are almost always too far from the 
action. the in particular have 
always it as beautiful 
, a to how it truly is. 

it 's better than it was before they fixed it , though. back in 
the late 70 's it was a dump . 

roger  ( do n't you like ) 



! ! com . ! com . ! ! com . ! 
from  ( kevin kerr ) 
subject re 1 game closer 
organization engineering 
lines 38 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( ralph timmerman ) writes 
from  ( ralph timmerman ) 
subject re 1 game closer 
date tue , 6 apr 1993 23 38 05 gmt 


in a previous article ,  ( jason walter works ) says 

the n . y . , are now one game closer to the a . l . east .  . they 
cleveland , 9 1 , on a fine by key , and two 
by  ( tartabull(first m . l . baseball . to go out this season ) , and a three 
run by  . for all of you who did n't pick in your pools , 
tough break , he had a couple , and in a couple  ( runs(with many more 
to  . the an up and coming team of youngsters in the 
 . the only need to win more games to get the division .  . 
go  . , for g . , and , and for young. 

jason .  . 


does that mean we have to read this drivel another times this 
please spare us .  .  .  . and check you facts before you post ! 

ralph there is no life after baseball 



no one says you have to read any of it ralph .  .  . go play in traffic .  .  . , or take 
a  .  .  . they work for me .  .  . 


kevin 
president north texas  c  users group 
bbs  ( 214 ) 
go ! ! ! go dolphins ! ! ! 

through , the electric wind .  .  .  .  . 


from  ( tim shippert ) 
subject re rule 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 25 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( jay rogoff ) writes 

one last question that has always me and has n't 
yet been addressed .  . i believe the rule also does not deal with this 
situation 

however , if the is not caught , at what point can a 
legally leave his base w o fear of being off for too 
early 

the can leave his base at any time. if the ball is caught , 
he 's got to up. if it is n't caught , he does n't have to up at 
all. so , if he 's feeling lucky , your at second can for glory 
as soon as the ball is up. if it is n't caught , he 's probably 
a run. if it is , he 's probably headed for  . 

the only effect the has is to make the out , 
thereby removing the force on the on base .  . all other rules apply , 
as if you were standing second with first open and the ball is up. 


tim 
if we are going to stick to this damned quantum jumping , then i regret 
that i ever had anything to do with quantum theory. 
e. 

from  ( jiann su ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university 
distribution usa 
lines 21 

in article  ( todd rader ) writes 
stay in school. you have a lot to learn .  . 

learn what i know that 3 million dollars is a lot of money. i know 
does n't have a career out of baseball .  . i know if he 
did n't have baseball , he would n't be making near the money he is now. 

i just do n't understand how some , who only plays a for a 
living for millions of dollars , say he is not being paid enough. 

if nobody will sign him for his asking price , he will be the one  . 
the a 's will still win without him. 

, many of these have nothing if not for their 
ability .  . nothing. they are getting paid much more than most hard working 
citizens , and they are complaining of not enough pay .  . 

i do n't have a problem with them making millions .  . my problem is when the 
say they are n't being paid enough , when they already get 3 million also , 
their numbers get worse. 


from  ( david m. tate ) 
subject re young 
article i.d. blue . 
organization department of industrial engineering 
lines 

 ( mark singer ) said 
in article genetic  ( david m. tate ) writes 
 ( mark singer ) said 

we know that very , very few at this age make much of an impact 
in the , especially when they have n't even played ball .  . 

yes. but this is irrelevant . you 're talking about , when we 
have lots of information about this in particular to base our 
decisions on. 

do you really have that much information on him really 

i do n't personally , but just posted it. yes , we do. 

unfortunately , it shows that was n't as good an example as would 
have been , since his last year numbers were out of line with the previous 
years  ( which i did n't have access to) .  . 

the point remains , though knowing a guy 's minor league history is as good 
as knowing his major league history , if you know how to read it. 

why is n't likely to hit that well he hit that well last year  ( after 
his for park and league and such ) he hit better  ( on an 
absolute scale ) than or did. by a lot. 

i do n't know. you tell me. what percentage of reach or 
their 's in their we 're talking about 
1993 , you know. 

the is not a , it 's an equivalence . it 's a this is how 
well he hit last year , in major league terms  . so , in essence , he 
has already reached it. i would guess  ( bob ) that essentially half 
of all their previous in their  . maybe 
more than half , since all of these are young and improving .  . 

if that were your purpose , maybe. spent 1992 getting 
, if you will. the as a team paid a big price 
that  . 

did they may have been the difference between 4th or place 
and last place , but no more. 

perhaps they will the benefits down the road. 
do you really think they would have done what they did if they 
were competing for a 

sure they did n't have anyone better. i suppose they might have the 
farm system to acquire bell or or somebody if they were really 
in contention .  . 

the point was not that 17 is a significant , but rather that he 
had n't done anything in spring training to cause even a 
to question whether his minor league numbers were for real , or to send him 
down until he gets up . 

for a stat head , i'm amazed that you put any credence in spring 
training .  . 

if you 'd read what i wrote , you 'd be less amazed .  . nowhere do i claim to put 
any credence in spring training .  . quite the contrary i said that had n't 
done anything that even the who do put credence in spring training 
could interpret as failure . just because i think spring training numbers 
are meaningless does n't mean that bobby does it 's just a case of ruling 
out one possible explanation for sending down. 

the kid will improve playing at , 

just like keith did 

wait a minute. i missed something here. 

keith did very very well at aa , , and the over a , 
then did very , very poorly for a year in  . 



david m. (i do not know what it is about you that closes 
as and only something in me 
e e  ( can the of your is deeper than rose 's ) 
dy ) nobody , not even tim , has such soft hands 

from  ( tim evans ) 
subject re 
reply to 
organization engineering physics 
x newsreader version 6 . 4 . 19 . 
lines 17 

 ( randall rhea ) writes 


the are  . they are the of our time. 
when they play , descends upon the land like a cold front 
from canada .  . they are a to all who have lived and 
all who shall ever live. they are utterly and completely 
doomed .  . 

other than that , i guess they 're ok. 

you must not be old enough to remember the a 's in ! 

tim evans e . i .  . de co .  . 
experimental station 
 ( 302 ) p.o. box 
at at , 

from 
subject three games and notes 
reply to 
organization college 
lines 36 

to all those out there wondering about who holds the record for three 
games career , the answer is in his career with the 
cards and the  . he hit three 6 times. i am almost sure about this. in 
case anyone is wondering , the record for two games is held by 
ruth and is 72 .  . 's record may not last for much longer because of 
 . he has at least three games with three and maybe 4. i know that 
he had at least two last year and one as a  . i do n't have any record 
books at college for me to check on though. please let me know , okay , if i 
am wrong. 
onto the  . is there anyone out there who follows them those with access to local news i do n't here anything in los and i 
ca n't get around here. 
comment it looks as though san diego has gotten the better of the two deals 
that brought bell and to the  . it has also forced the team to use  . of course , could get injured again or he could 
hit with the power of 91 but with a lower average .  . bell always could finish 
with  . 240 . and 15 18 hrs essentially clark 's numbers. 
comment craig i get on base 29 of the time if i'm 
lucky at hell , of the usual starters , use  . he 's got 4 
already. is starting because of an injury to , though i 
have n't seen 's name in any box scores .  . anyway unless you are going 
to use at then use  . he at gets on base and this 
year is bases .  . 
comment though the is early and mean nothing. 
witness  . currently .  . but does have an injury , 
or wrong with him. i just do n't hear anything. 
andy is he like he did in the second half of  91 or is 
this a of promise that he throws out now and then has anyone 
seen him pitch the two good games 
score for today , sunday april 18 10 , 6. the 
as goes 5 for 5 with a  . and also 
in a cause. 
thanks for listening reading 
any comments 

kelly 



from  ( bruce kleinman ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , a of the ask group , inc. 
lines 12 

in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 

, gordon , ron  . 

guess it goes from the to the ridiculous .  . 

from ( steve novak ) 
subject re old predictions to laugh at .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host com . 
organization u s west advanced 
lines 25 

( steve novak ) writes 
 ( edward fischer ) writes 
 ( robert c hite ) writes 

dead wrong ! last time i checked , jim was still managing the 
, and doing quite a fine job thank you .  .  . best . record in 
baseball at 8 1 

look , , i got him confused with somebody else. i did n't flame 
you , and i would appreciate it if you extended me the same courtesy .  . 

what is your problem 's post was n't a flame .  . it was a 
correction of your error. 

that last was me , steve  . i 've since read the entire original 
posting by  . 

mr. fischer was actually  . let mr. hope he never makes 
some similar , tiny mistake. 



steve ban the bomb ! ban the pope ! ! 



from  ( david wood ) 
subject baseball 
nntp posting host bruno . cs . edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 8 

how does one read the for baseball they tend to be something 
like 8 9 which means it must not be runs ! 

thanks. 


david wood university of at boulder 


from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re update 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
distribution usa 
lines 25 

in article  ( michael mule ) writes 

hey ! ! ! all you who 've been knocking my prediction of baltimore .  . 

 . how many games have the won 

you flooded my with cries of 's good , 's good. 

he is , or will be. 

where is he ! ! i noticed he got over after that oh so strong first 
 . he 's not by any chance in now , is he please do n't tell 
me you 're relying on this guy to be the fourth , not the , but the 
fourth on this  . 

no , currently there 's no room for him in the  . key is having 
a most impressive april .  . is well. is back .  . 
has his way into the , and is holding his 
with an outstanding his last time out. and 
is n't doing too poorly himself. 

if the find themselves in need of a , will 
get another chance. until then , he 'll have to wait in line. 



from  ( jay rogoff ) 
subject re expanded strike  ( was re a of offense ) 
organization college , ny 
lines 5 

it was my impression watching the that were 
calling strikes above the belt , too , but not as far up as the letters. 
it would be nice if this were the case. 



subject let it be known 
from 
organization young university 
lines 10 

i would like to make everyone aware that in the west the 
did not lead wire to wire .  . through games of 4 14 93 the houston 
are percentage points ahead of the  . 


go ! ! ! ! ! 

t. 
a native 
stuck in utah 

from  ( jack mckinney ) 
subject official rules of baseball isbn 
organization 's 
lines 12 
distribution na 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 

i am trying to get a copy of the official rules of baseball .  . 
someone once sent me the isbn number of it , but i have since lost it. 
can anyone give me this information , or tell me where i can find the 
book none of my local have it. 


i'm walking home from school , and i'm watching jack 
some men building a new house , and the guy ham 
on the roof calls me a little 
 .  .  .  . in code. this space 
philips for 


from  ( dale stephenson ) 
subject the a . l .  . east 
summary the division has gone to the birds 
keywords last chance for foolishness 
article i.d. 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 

having run completely out of time , i 've got to get my and 
predictions for the a . l .  . out. one of the worse 
in last year 's prediction  . 

al east 1993 

1. baltimore 
why the well , i pondered long and hard , and it all came down to 
this 
the blue are going the wrong direction .  . 
ca n't bring myself to pick the 
milwaukee was a fluke 
are n't ready to 
red were bad last year , and did n't get any better 
's will be the new definition of replacement level 
but you do n't really think the will win , do you. no. as a matter 
of fact , i ca n't see any team in the american league either division 
on paper  ( with the possible exception of the , who i  . but some 
body has to win , so i pick the  . you do n't really think that 
is going to repeat , do you no. i'm basing the prediction 
on the expectation of big years from cal and glenn davis .  . glenn 
davis that 's insane . yes. so , without further 
strong points , some years , , getting rid of  . 
weak points may start.  ( the original 30 something ) may be 
the  . puts his best at the bottom of the  . 
 ( does anybody else think that might be a calculated to minimize 
the effect of a if you ca n't move out of the 3 
, why not move the rest of the line up ) 
would be a good sign glenn davis of the year .  . 
would be a bad sign in a race , team for  . 
the continues .  . leads the team in 
caught  . 

2. new york  . 
strong points , key ,  . could have best in american 
league .  . should improve on  . 
weak points still considered best  . the 
factor .  .  ( the lost to the  . can wholesale changes be far 
behind ) never count on (i . e .  . millitello ) to 
win a division .  . 
would be a good sign over  . 
would be a bad sign gets again. 
wo n't top a 700 ops .  . 

3. blue 
strong points willing to make big deals .  . has 
power to convince other teams its are not  .  . 
 .  . 
weak points the for bell trade has my faith in  . 
may hurt  ( that 's really a bad  . no one in 
the can get on base .  . is thin behind and ward .  . 
would be a good sign jack considered young in august 
would be a bad sign club makes no major deals in august .  . 
will post better era and whip than last year .  . and 
have a record .  . 

4. milwaukee 
strong points was exceptional last year .  . 
weak points gone. at third why ca n't keep it up. 
would be a good sign and play like last year .  . 
would be bad sign bones plays like last year .  . 
wo n't finish the year at third .  . 

5. cleveland 
strong points , , 
weak points thin really  . starts 
 . 
would be a good sign 's era is consistent with his starts .  . 
would be a bad sign power  . 
will be back on the by the all star break .  . 

6. boston red 
strong points , , , , 
weak points most incompetent in baseball .  . key free 
 . is gone in center .  . 
would be a good sign in between starts .  . 
would be a bad sign on the 
russell will make forget  . interpret that how 
you will 

7. tigers 
strong points , , 
weak points if keeps , he 'll be a this year .  . 
worst in baseball entirely replaced but not necessarily better. 
this year could be very  . 
would be a good sign the  . 
would be a bad sign not about an  . 
wo n't lead the league in  . 

one more division to go .  .  .  .  . 

j. baseball 

it is considered good to look wise , especially when not 
with information j. golden 

from  ( ray miller ) 
subject 
nntp posting host 
organization 
distribution usa 
lines 10 

i read this morning that left last nights  game with 
in his shoulder .  . does anyone have any information as to the extent of the 
injury  ( if indeed there is one) , or the cold air in just got 
his a little 

thanks for the help .  .  .  . 
ray miller disclaimer 
all opinions are strictly my own 

i once spent a year in philadelphia , i think it was on a sunday 

from  ( david j . ) . 
subject re grand 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 16 

marks writes 

do you think 's grand is the result of his new fan club last week 
a banner appeared in the 

older women for 

that depends .  . just how much older were they 




david blue riddle 1993 
it 's on. 
the is an art is coming out on this time for real. 
e mail me for the  . 

from  ( paul andresen ) 
subject re let it be known 
nntp posting host com . 
organization company , , usa 
lines 15 

in article , writes 
i would like to make everyone aware that in the west the 
did not lead wire to wire .  . through games of 4 14 93 the houston 
are percentage points ahead of the  . 

and they to be , if for no other reason than a little of the 
honor of the west .  . the supposed strongest division in baseball lost 6 of 7 
to the east yesterday , with only the prevailing .  . 

we will stretch no farm animal beyond its natural length 

paul (503) 750 

home , or (503) 
a member since 

from  ( robert c hite ) 
subject let 's talk 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 20 

the their series against the chicago 
by beating them 11 10 in a wild one at field sunday 
afternoon. it was the only win in the three game series , and 
was the first time the have lost a series in the young 
 . the to a 6 0 lead in the game thanks to 2 
john 2 run and two chamberlain  . however 
, and the middle relief was unable to hold the lead .  . 
entered the game with the 8 4 , 
however hit a ninth to tie it. in 
the , dave hit a three run shot , his first of the year 
to push the ahead to stay .  . however , in a shaky bottom of the 
the 2 runs and had the on base when 
the hit for bob  ( they were out of 
position players ) and into a double play to end the 
game. 

the bring their league 9 3 record back to action 
tuesday , , and thursday against the  . 



organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re let 's talk 

! com . 
lines 26 

in article ! com . , 
! com .  ( phil gunsul ) says 

i try to edit this newsgroup and feed it to one of the local elementary , 
schools 
they have a group of students that just love baseball and are learning to use 
computers , but i'm telling you , it 's gotten to the point that i do n't even 
edit 
the files anymore , just read them and out the trash .  .  .  . and thanks to 
all 
you people that think it 's wonderful to include a swear word or two in your 
signature files , that 's really nice .  .  .  . i have to read the whole article and 
then toss it out because of the  . sig .  . 

, why not just chop out the  . sig . 

bob  . 

ps hey kids , take all those pictures of dead out of your 
parents  and mail them to 

bob 
c o dept. of mathematics 
university of notre dame 
notre dame , 


from  ( mike silverman ) 
subject behind how 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 74 

i 've noticed that is has become lately in to 
the to finish ahead of the  .  .  . how . 

first base 

vs  .  . could . be the second coming of 
i doubt it. if performs to the of expectations , 
then even , otherwise , to 

second base 

vs  .  . no .  . will be back may 1. 
to  .  . a . big  . 



vs  .  . is excellent , but is an 
automatic out at  . is n't much better with the stick. even .  . 

third base 

dave vs  .  . has a higher and is a better  . 
has more power and is better (i think) to 
florida .  . 



santiago vs wilkins .  .  . wilkins . is ok , but santiago is better. to 


left field 

vs  .  . wow . ! 4 for 4 yesterday .  .  . i . know has potential. 
i watched him play at omaha the last couple years. until he actually proves 
himself , i give the , however , like at , this is position 
where florida might be even or better if the there has a huge year .  . 

center 

scott pose vs may .  .  . to may , even if  . the 
will use may and save for running and the like. may 
is n't ken jr , but he will hit  . with 15 if he plays 
full time. 

right 

vs  .  . jose has occasional power and a bad  . so does 
, but also has speed and a good  . to 

starters 

a lot of starters here. the wo n't 
anyone of the , but 
is average to ok .  .  . better . than the  . to 

middle relief 

even .  . the have some decent , and so do the  . 
or decent , but so are and  . 

closer 

a healthy is a big to the  . is decent , but 
no  . of course , the may have a few more games to save .  . 
look for 30 saves , 5 blown from , and 25 saves , 3 blown  ( with 
a better era ) for  . florida .  . 

overall , an to chicago .  . 
neither of these teams will threaten to win anything , of course. 
e 

go ! ! ! 

one likes to believe in the freedom of baseball 

from  ( greg sarcasm is a way of life spira ) 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization boo ! 
lines 36 

in  ( justin d. lowe ) writes 


in a previous article ,  ( david steinman ) says 

 ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 

the of the is a team that has no talent and comes 
out of nowhere to  . the  and  89 are prime examples , 
not the  . 

sorry , but it is virtually impossible to win a division with no talent 
over 162 games. 

i would amend your definition to 

a team expected to lose , but which thanks to 
talent .  . 

dave ! 


ok , the and o 's are good examples , but what about the  90 do you 
really think that anyone expected them to the a 's i know people who 
did n't even think they 'd win a game , let alone win the series .  . 

these people were very silly. any team that gets to the world series 
can win the world series , and anybody who ever expects a is 
crazy. if you put the best team in baseball in the series against 
the worst team in baseball , the worst team would win at least a game 
most of the time and very well could win the series , though the odds 
would certainly be against them. 

greg 



from  ( bob hobokenite ) 
subject re my predictions  ( nl ) 
article i.d. apr . 6 . 00 . 29 . 46 . 1993 . 
organization somewhere in 
lines 13 

, since i'm off to sleep .  . 

's work pretty well for aa  . 

who are 22 and will tend to have 
in their numbers , whether 's or not , in the next 2 years .  .  .  . 

who are 26 and older , at those levels , generally have 
's .  . 

they 're about as reliable as having major league for a  . 

bob 

organization university of system 
from ryan robbins 
subject re why the  ( can(but wo n't ) win .  .  .  .  .  . 
lines 10 

do n't knock for being a spring training  . 400 . 
but a  . 250 . regular  . 
around 30 games played is n't an indication of how good any 
is , and the quality of is way down. 

ryan robbins 
hall 
university of 



from 
subject re 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university , des , iowa , usa 


not clear to me at all. i 'd certainly rather have a team who was 
4 1 games than 2 1 games. in the 2 1 game , luck is going to play a much 
bigger role than in the 4 1 game. 

but you still need the to hold the team to 
one run. 






subject 
from  ( ian m. derby ) 
expires fri , 30 apr 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
organization virginia commonwealth university 
keywords 
summary 
lines 23 


i was watching the game yesterday and a couple of 
things impressed me. 

first is that the way the sun was shining in miami , it had a summer 
atmosphere in early spring for baseball .  . in comparison field 
in early april still has a look to it with the dead and 
up  . 

the second and most important was the  . i like these guys ! 
i will admit i am a fan first but i still enjoy baseball .  . 
it was interesting because most of these are only to 
the miami dolphins .  . the way they were cheering , i thought it was the 
 . of course day may have a lot to do with it , 
but i really got feeling of that i think is lacking with 
a lot of baseball in other cities .  . 

baseball certainly needs a charge and i hope these two 
teams bring back some  . we 'll find out friday how denver 
respond .  . 

are 2 0 ! (i better say it now before my opportunity passes 
by ) 

from  ( bruce  anonymous  hasch ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
organization the johns hopkins university 
lines 
distribution na 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
summary dave was a marginal  . yeah , right. 
keywords hall of fame , , , , joe , ) 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( steve tomassi ) writes .  .  .  . 
hi , baseball ! so what do you say do n't you think he deserves it 
i mean , heck , if dave  ( ho hum ) is seriously being considered for it , 
as is smith  ( ha ) , then why do n't we give dave a chance or 
evans ! yeah , yeah ! after the hall of fame takes in them , it can take in 
and jeff  . 

oh , yeah. dave marginal  . guy did n't hit a , had 
negligible power , was a crap and had no staying power. dave , 
now entering his (i believe ) 20th big league , is still a damn decent 
 . admittedly , his defense has slipped a great deal , but in his prime , 
he had a powerful and great range .  . take a look at the i do n't 
know where you even begin to make an argument that and are 
similar  . was a one dimension power he could n't field , 
he like an , hit for a low average  ( though , if i remember right , his 
was n't that  .  . ) . , and  ( for those who consider such things important ) 
was a absolute dick .  . 
yup , only the best 1st of the 80 's .  . i know that 
votes are conducted by , but given that he got out of the 
he deserved in , it seems that he was n't by the media. 
smith hmmmm .  .  .  . this one 's actually pretty close. he 's had a s 
solid , career as a closer despite in some nasty parks 
 ( wrigley ,  .  . ) .  . i 'd have to take a closer look at the  ( it 's been 
a while ) , but it seems is of  . 
you do make a legitimate point about the of , 
simply up a lot of saves does n't mean a whole hell of a lot if you 
blow a bunch , too. simply because minnesota and boston and  ( for a month ) 
used as a closer for longer than he should have been one , 
the has up an impressive number of saves .  . no way should 
be in the , imho .  . 
evans nice career , actually a bit  ( kinda like 
, imho ) , but not a  . 

well , in any case , i am sick and tired  ( mostly sick ) of everybody 
giving hall of fame consideration to that are by today 's standards , 
marginal .  . 

ask you this. who the hell playing the game t marginal 

honestly , smith and do n't belong there. they 're both 
that just around for a long time. big deal. 
let 's be a little more selective , huh stop handing out these so 
 . save them for the guys who really it. face it , if something 

now , wait a minute here. smith absolutely the 
position of  . his defense was so good that he 's won something along 
the lines of 10 gold  . again , gold are biased , and a 
good argument could be made that deserved one or two of 's more 
recent , but usually , this is by someone else in the early 
80 's getting the gold deserved earlier in his career. 's 
offense , you ask good , great speed numbers , in a park which , for most of his 
career , depressed offense , admittedly , no power  ( 'cept against tom 
) , but still , a definite  . 
3 , 000 , at two different positions , uh huh , a real 
 . his  was one of the great years ever by a in recent memory , 
and probably ranks behind only the of and banks , as far as 
numbers go. he 's a clear er , imho .  . 

is n't done , there will be little in the hall of fame anymore. when 
certain individuals believe that steve or jack are potential 
, the absurdity is apparent .  . gee , can these guys even compare to 
the more likely future hall of like or ryan 

well , as far as goes , you 're right. is a 
candidate , pushed because of his attitude (a minor factor , if one 
at all ) , and his great defense  ( no errors , admittedly , but the range of 
a tree stump .  .  . ) .  . should n't be in the  . 
i 've said a lot of nasty things about in the last 
year or so , but this is mostly in response to and who talk 
about  ability to win which is nothing more than  ability 
to pitch when to score tons of runs . at this point , is an 
average  ( although from his early returns in  93 , he may be damned 
close to done . ) .  . but , in all fairness , was a dominant in the 
80 's for up and down tiger teams .  . while 1984 was  ( obviously ) a great year 
for , the rest of the , the team was generally in contention , but 
not  .  career numbers are quite good , and worthy of 
consideration . 
ryan of course , but be careful .  . i you that someone will 
back your earlier logic about and smith being who 
around a long time . after all , never won a  .  .  . damn , he 's 
just who around for years .  .  .  . his w l record is  .  .  . 
 ( of course , 's a  .  . ) . 
probably , although he 's got to play reasonably well for a few 
more years  ( 10 years , even good ones , are n't enough to make the , most 
likely) .  . that said , i believe will make the , pretty much 
regardless of how the rest of his career turns out  ( barring something really 
tragic or  . he 's very popular in the media and with , and 
legitimately has been one of the best 's in the game since he joined the 
league .  . i 've always liked the guy , and i hope he does make it. and , in the 
end , i think the will make it in. but , really , it 's too early to sell .  . 

this debate comes up rather frequently on the net , and , believe it 
or not , i never of it. it 's an interesting subject. here 's an off 
the top of my head list of potential from each team .  . i probably 
left a couple of guys off , so feel free to follow up. i wo n't consider anyone 
who started playing after about 1985  ( again , too early to tell . ) . note these 
are all active , i'm not counting recent 

baltimore cal  ( should be a lock by now , even if 's record stands ) 
boston roger  ( might be a lock already , which is amazing ) , ( ) 
and  ( possibilities ) 
milwaukee  ( discussed earlier ) 
new york wade  ( possibly ) ,  ( long shot ) 
paul and jack  ( possibilities ) 

kansas city george brett  ( lock ) 
minnesota  ( too early to tell ) ,  ( lock ) 
 ( lock ) ,  ( too early ) ,  ( lock ) , welch  ( long shot ) 
texas the mighty too early to consider or strange ) 

 ( lock ) 
st.  ( lock ) , smith  ( probably ) 
new york  ( almost a lock ) ,  ( obviously , he 's got to 
past form ) 
and most certainly , not , despite what he 'll tell you ) 

los , , and are all long shots .  . 
san diego tony  ( pretty good shot ) 
(a good shot ) , ryan  ( just to see if you 're awake ) 

before i get flames this is an off the top of the head list , there 's 
probably a few that i left off , and , i did n't include 
bonds , will clark , any starting , frank thomas , , 
, etc. because i only considered guys who started playing before 
1985 ) 

e mail or post , i almost fear what i may have started here .  .  .  . 


bruce sell the team , ! ! 
if a is a good , does that mean i should him a 
bad larry 

from  ( joe loos ) 
subject bonds vs. 
nntp posting host cup . com . 
organization 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 27 

i 've been following the closely over the off newspapers , 
, etc but i had my first up close and personal last night at 
the stick. 

after watching struggle last year , 's swing was 
very impressive he 's very quick and his swing seems , even 
compared to clark  ( particularly clark as of  . 

it was interesting to see bonds hit so well. i'm not sure if 
was after revenge against the or what but he 
three very pretty  ( 1b , , hr ) for 5 's .  . 

the as a team are doing a lot of surprising things this year in 
addition to bonds .  . there has been some good and some 
seem to be much better. clayton 's defense has been  . 
seems to like off this year .  . is driving the ball .  . 
so on so forth .  . 

i hope it continues .  .  . i . think they need to continue well into june before 
people are really sold that they are for real particularly the  . 

for myself , i think the start of baker etc has really 
out a lot of from the last few years and will be a real factor 
in helping them improve over last year .  . 

joe 


from lurie ) the 
subject  . 
organization allegheny college 
lines 9 


i 'll tell all one thing. steve and are much better then the 
worst in 


who do you think i am talking about. i 'll post the answers if you e mail 
to me. use reply. or post you 're answers , but e mailing them to me 
that i will post the final results. i have one particular 
in mind. 

from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re and 
article i.d. netcom . 
distribution world , local 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 24 

 ( greg franklin ) writes 

writes 

i'm watching a spring training game , and i thought you 'd 
all like to know the particular way that . 

it seems to be n . 

but i like the way he andres 's name. 

it comes out like . 

and do n't forget his frequent references to the great sf giant star 
bobby bonds ! 

what about i for one was really sorry to hear that the 
had sent to the ! ) 


eric smith 


, 

from  ( brian r. landmann ) 
subject the worst 
organization institute of technology 
lines 31 

joe has to be the worst in baseball .  . 

for anyone who did n't see sunday 's game , 

with a right he decides to , a left handed 
and play and , both right  . 

later , in the ninth with the bases loaded and two he puts 
, a with power in as a and uses luis 
, a 250 with no power as a  . what the hell 
is he thinking. 

earlier in the game in an about mark he commented 
how fortunate the were to get and that would be a 
regular even though this meant that would be hurt , but said 
he liked coming off the  . hit over last year , 
what does he have to do to start , the guy would be starting on most every 
team in the league .  . 

furthermore , in sundays game when was thrown out at the , 
the showed the third base looking down the line 
and waving home , 

i ca n't take this anymore 

brian , a very fan .  . 


brian 
institute of technology 
internet 

from  ( craig s. richardson ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization north  ( 206 ) com . 
lines 35 

in article  ( lyford beverage ) writes 
in article ,  ( edward fischer ) writes 
in article  ( rudy wade ) writes 
in article  ( gord niguma ) writes 
. he probably did n't even have as good a as 
last year .  . 

snip 
uh , yes. has a lot of , but was the better 
last year .  . 

deleted we 've all seen them by now 
this is fascinating .  . you say that was the better last 
year , and immediately follow that up with numbers showing that 
had a better year .  . the only category that i see which shows an advantage 
for is  . 

i this last bit for anti quote of the week . 

only has a 50 point advantage in the most important offensive 
category , while , who studied in the joe school of out burning , 
has more impressive , largely due to opportunities rather 
than quality .  . 

the lines are fairly close in value , but to  . 

now ai n't , but is still the man to among 
al second  .  .  . 

craig 

craig s. celestial . 
 ( obfbl ) seattle  ( ifl ) 
black  ( ibl ) new jack city  ( kl ) 
black a growing , team ! the future begins tomorrow 

from  ( sherri nichols ) 
subject re let 's talk 
organization systems incorporated 
lines 16 

in article  ( emery chen ) writes 
one phrase for you .  .  .  . fuck . you ! ! ! ! 
thanks. 

perhaps it 's time to start rec . baseball . , where the 
can go and insults at each other and leave the rest of us in 
peace. 










from  ( doug roberts ) 
subject re , runs ,  ( was re notes on vs. series ) 
organization university of arizona , , tucson 
lines 17 
distribution na 
nntp posting host arizona . edu . 

in article  ( john bratt ) writes 
and runs are the two most important offensive statistics .  . you 
can talk about and all you want , but the fact remains 

the team that scores more runs the game ! 

flame away 
john 
ok , you asked for it ! 

i guess that does n't well for the then does it 


doug willing to trade frank for a of used ! 
let 's go ! 



from m  ( corelmark ! ) 
subject re to 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university 
lines 6 

i missed the original post , but are n't the their 
entire team this year i am from montreal , and am a fan , but , the 
rank in  ( only the trail ) and someone at 
the average age would probably be in first year university ! 
! 


from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re quick way to tell if your local writer is  . 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
reply to 
distribution na 
organization university of chicago 
lines 16 

in article  ( bob hobokenite ) writes 
ok sorry about that .  .  . i . did n't realise he was being about 
those sort of things. 

but i 'll tell you , mike  ( daily news ) usually says some pretty 
funny things in his shooting from the  .  .  . 

bob 

y know , if current trends continue , the florida will be the first 
team to go 162 0 and their opponents by runs .  . 

frank however should have mentioned that though 
his advice is legally sound , if you follow it 
the u of c law school you will probably wind up in jail .  . 
standard disclaimers james , in misc . legal . 

from  ( andrew james schaefer ) 
subject re best  .  .  . 
keywords 
organization rice university 
lines 31 

in article  ( bighelmet ) writes 
 ( ian m. derby ) writes 


since someone brought up sports radio , 

i happen to be a big fan of  . he is a baseball writer for the 
philadelphia  . every tuesday he writes a week in review  . 
he writes about unusual situations that occured during the week. unusual 
 . he has a section called of the week which are stupid 
lines by ralph  . every year he has the  . 
that stands for last guy to get a hit .  . he also writes for baseball 
america .  . that is sort of a of week in review .  . if you 
can , check his out sometime .  . he might make you laugh. 

rob 

is n't that idiot who writes in baseball america twice a month he 
writes a who it article which is really the same piece 
every time. who would have thought that buddy would have 
more home runs than the , ruth , and 
ryan combined ! he 's an idiot , if it 's the same guy. 




you live day to day and 
dream about tomorrow 


andrew 

from  ( ari epstein ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization at mit 
lines 4 
distribution world 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

i think you can add former a 's first mike  ( no relation ) to 
the list. 



from  ( alan sepinwall ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 18 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 

in article  ( mark singer ) writes 


and jewish are not mutually exclusive .  . 


i did n't mean to offend or anything , i'm just quoting himself on 
the subject. i remember one time last year he was being by 
, and the  ( ca n't remember who ) , asked if he was 
jewish because he  ( the interviewer ) was jewish and wanted to see more 
jewish  . to which replied , i'm , not jewish .  . 

so maybe that was n't the most pc thing for to say , and maybe i was 
a little naive when i posted it. i think we should just this 
subject to finding actual jewish (i myself am jewish and the 
only ones i ever knew until now were , , and  . 



from  ( gord niguma ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
distribution na 
lines 22 

in  ( bruce klopfenstein ) writes 

 ( charles m kozierok ) writes 
in article stanford . edu .  ( nelson lu ) writes 

guess which line is which 
h bb 
x  . 310 .  .  . 27 8 8 87 
y  .  .  . 32 1 20 35 


i just love how the left off this list. give me a break ! 

left and runs off this list because they are 
on the team .  .  ( to a large  . if frank thomas hit first , he 'd lose a lot 
of 's and anyways how many 2nd place have you known to drive 
in 100 runs does n't happen that often .  .  .  .  . very . unlikely with white 's 
 . in front of you .  .  .  . 


 ( fav john olerud ) 


organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re usa 
lines 13 

in article , 
 ( john franjione ) says 

also , i have the impression from reading this group and bill james 
that is a bunch of money whose mission is to 
charge as much as they can for baseball statistical info 


and bill james is not yeah. sure. do you own the bill james 
book 

bob  . 


from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re win ! win ! 
article i.d. netcom . 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 19 

genetic  ( david m. tate ) writes 

said 

i only caught the tail end of this one on  . does anyone have a report 
 ( look at all that ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) 

maybe it 's just me , but the combination of those young faces out 
from under little league in every of 
my being .  .  .  . 

hmm , it seems the little did n't do too against , 
, e. davis , and the rest of the yesterday ... ) 


eric smith 


, 

from g  ( glenn r. waugaman ) 
subject re i 've found the secret ! 
article i.d. 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 23 


in article ,  ( edward fischer ) writes .  .  .  . 

why are the red in first place eight games into the , they 
already have two each from and  . starts 
again , on three days rest. 

what 's up are the going with a four man is this why 
was used in relief last night 

is going on his normal four days  rest  ( last  . 
only one yesterday afternoon , his first 
since an 1 1 3 start 6 days before , so he should be plenty 
to go in his expected turn this saturday , as the  . not 
that this is a good thing , of course. i 'd like to see a well managed 
four man with this team .  .  .  . 


glenn 
digital equipment corporation 
, ma 
g 


from  ( connin patrick colgain ) 
subject a . l .  . east is best in baseball ! 
organization university 
lines 27 

is there any doubt that this is true after a few down years , the a . l .  . east 
is back to where it was in the early  . with the emergence of the o 's 
and the , it is far and away the best. while the n . l .  . west has the best 
team in baseball , and the are n't bad either , they have nothing else. the 
, , and all have talent , they do not have the all 
teams that are found in the a . l .  . east .  . and the just plain  . as 
for the , who knows 
the a . l .  . east has the defending , and although they lost a lot to 
free agency , is still one of the best in baseball .  . the have 
the favorite to win the young in mike , and you can never 
forget about  . the of and do n't 
hurt to much either , although i always liked bill  . while they let a 
lot go this summer  ( randy , joe , bill , bob , 
, storm davis , and craig lefferts ) , they kept the heart of their team 
 . 

my predicted finish 
1. baltimore  ( could be a biased opinion ) 
2. ny 
3. 
4. milwaukee 
5. 
6. boston 
7. cleveland  ( would have been higher if not for the accident ) 

go o 's ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 


from  ( roger maynard ) 
subject re jack 
organization dept. of computer science , university , , on 
lines 

in  ( david demers ) writes 


in article ,  ( roger maynard ) writes 

the facts are that 
has shown us that he has what it takes to play on a club. 
has n't .  . 

what does it take to play on a club 

we have no way of knowing because we cannot separate  
from the rest of the team 's .  . there is only one way of 
best in baseball .  . and that is by looking at the at 
the end of the game. each game determines which team is the best 
that day. at the end of the , the team that was the best the 
most often is the best in the division .  . the determine the 
best of the best. but the point is that the only decision making pro 
used to determine the best is the score of the game and it re 
to the teams . not the individual  . there is no method 
inherent in baseball of comparing individual  . and that 
is how it should be , because , after all , baseball is a team game. 

to say that one is better than another is to be able to say 
that a 's team would have played better with b 
in their  . speculation .  . impossible to  . 

if you want to select a group of statistics and claim that has 
done better with those statistics as a , then fine. but you 
have to be able to prove that those statistics measure the 
individual 's to the because that is the 
only measure of best that has any meaning in the context of base 
ball .  . so until you can prove that to a 
more than your evaluation of is totally sub 
and is mere opinion. i have yet to see that any of you can 
a winner with any greater accuracy than  . 

the fact is that did n't win any , did , in 
spite of  . this has been explained to you 

exactly. the won with  . and boston with 
 . i am not saying that is better than  . 
i am saying that individual comparisons between are totally 
meaningless and that anyone claiming that is better based on 
his era has missed the point of what baseball is all about. 

many , many times and you are either too stupid or too to grasp it. 

you do n't have to be rude .  . 

you are completely by the post hoc , ergo propter hoc fallacy .  . 

for you to say that means that you have either missed the entire point 
of my argument , or you yourself have committed a fallacy 
elenchi .  . i am not saying that is better than because 
he has more  ( although i have , tongue in , claimed 
that in the  . i am saying that it is impossible to an 
individual 's from that of his team 's for the purpose of 
comparing that individual 's with another individual 's per 
 . 

the are a nice and that 's about it. there is no new 
knowledge being produced .  . so when a poster claims that is better 
than because he has more , the poster is no more nor less 
incorrect than the rest of you  . 



, as always , 
so many  .  .  . 
 .  .  . and . so little time. 

from ! com .  ( phil gunsul ) 
subject re let 's talk 
organization at t information systems 
lines 33 

in article ,  ( sherri nichols ) writes 
in article  ( emery chen ) writes 
one phrase for you .  .  .  .  . ! you ! ! ! ! 
thanks. 

perhaps it 's time to start rec . baseball . , where the 
can go and insults at each other and leave the rest of us in 
peace. 






well , i 'd agree with you except that most   have more sense than 
to their in front of a group of adults .  .  . 

i try to edit this newsgroup and feed it to one of the local elementary schools , 
they have a group of students that just love baseball and are learning to use 
computers , but i'm telling you , it 's gotten to the point that i do n't even edit 
the files anymore , just read them and out the trash .  .  .  . and thanks to all 
you people that think it 's wonderful to include a swear word or two in your 
signature files , that 's really nice .  .  .  . i have to read the whole article and 
then toss it out because of the  . sig .  . do n't get me wrong , i know all the words you 
do ,  ( and i 've even made up some of my own ! ) or i would n't be able to edit them out ) 
but this just does n't seem to be the place , a public forum , to foul language , 
sorry .  .  . 

thanks to all you people that keep in mind , there might be some decent , young 
people , interested in baseball and computers reading this newsgroup .  .  . they enjoy 
your articles .  . 



from  ( forrest smith ) 
subject re rule 
organization duke university , n . c .  . 
lines 13 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

in article  ( tim shippert ) writes 
about the rule 
so , if he 's feeling lucky , your at second can for glory 
as soon as the ball is up. if it is n't caught , he 's probably 
a run. if it is , he 's probably headed for  . 

unless he 's , in which case he just heads back to the 
and for his next base running opportunity .  . 


s to my correspondents my email has been changed. e 
l my new address is d 
f if mail , try u 

subject re 
from  ( ian m. derby ) 
expires sat , 1 may 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
organization virginia commonwealth university 
lines 41 


no , he 's not nuts , is second to none the sports station .  . they 
do n't have tony bruno working radio and al doing friday 
night because they  . i live in va , but i visit 
often , and on the way i get washington ) and  . i hear 
the fan at night wherever i go  ( the signal used to be , when they 
played golden oldies ) because you ca n't avoid it. of those three , 
has the best hosts hands down. is n't a , 
and neither is mac .  . is too generic to be placed in the 
 . in fact if you have heard and the fan you notice the 
theme music is identical .  .  . same . ownership i think so ! is 
totally original .  . their hosts actually have a  ( this is a 
knock at  ( the team ) not the fan because mike and the mad dog and 
are good ) i mean comparing the morning guys in philadelphia 
to the ones in washington is a total joke. anyway , i like the fan 
and , but i think the goes to  . 

when i get back from , i go into cause has 
nada except the national sports line  ( and those guys are totally 
clueless ) 
i was really mad when was cancelled because they had steve 
doing sports phone after the games.  ( wcau is 
another strong station , now it 's an station , but they still 
have the phillies ) i started listening to the fan because i heard he 
went there. i finally heard him last summer and he was n't the same 
guy. those ny got to him. i was glad to hear him back in 
when i went to see a few games. 


i will admit , i am die hard fan and is basically an 
station 365 days a year .  . but , i bet you the are in 
control right now. 


about the knock on g. cobb , i like him. he knows the like a 
book. i remember the before they went to play san , 
 ( when everyone thought the would be blown away ) cobb said that 
the usually play their best when no one believe they can win .  . 
well they were of the victory .  . 

well that 's my  . 02 . 

from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re young 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 20 

in article  ( dave  almost the  kirsch ) writes 
that brings up an interesting point. anyone else 's piece about 
and the relationship between age , career length , and hall of 
fame members it was part of their special. 

wow. can repeat year old bill james research .  .  . 
check the abstract . ) . 

it was the most impressive thing i 've seen on in recent memory. 

perhaps in they 'll be as reliable as an average  . 

i guess ray knight makes his  . 

oops , maybe not. 

frank however should have mentioned that though 
his advice is legally sound , if you follow it 
the u of c law school you will probably wind up in jail .  . 
standard disclaimers james , in misc . legal . 

from  ( mark singer ) 
subject re young 
article i.d. netcom . 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 86 

in article genetic  ( david m. tate ) writes 
 ( mark singer ) said 

we know that very , very few at this age make much of an impact 
in the , especially when they have n't even played ball .  . 

yes. but this is irrelevant . you 're talking about , when we 
have lots of information about this in particular to base our 
decisions on. 

do you really have that much information on him really 

why is n't likely to hit that well he hit that well last year  ( after 
his for park and league and such ) he hit better  ( on an 
absolute scale ) than or did. by a lot. 

i do n't know. you tell me. what percentage of reach or 
their 's in their we 're talking about 
1993 , you know. 


as for  .  .  . if there really is a qualitative difference between the 
and the that requires a period of  ( and i do n't 
believe there is) , then would n't you rather waste 's 22 year old good 
than his 23 year old very good or his 24 year old excellent 
the sooner you get him , the more of his prime you get to 
use. 

if that were your purpose , maybe. spent 1992 getting 
, if you will. the as a team paid a big price 
that  . perhaps they will the benefits down the road. 
do you really think they would have done what they did if they 
were competing for a 


was hitting  . over 17 when he was cut from spring 
training .  . what does he have to do to a chance maybe not a full 
time job , but at least a couple starts and a few for him to prove 
his worth 

the point was not that 17 is a significant , but rather that he 
had n't done anything in spring training to cause even a 
to question whether his minor league numbers were for real , or to send him 
down until he gets up . 

for a stat head , i'm amazed that you put any credence in spring 
training .  . did you notice who he got those 10 ( ! ) off of , or 
are you going to tell me that it does n't make a difference 

the kid will improve playing at , 

just like keith did 

wait a minute. i missed something here. first , forget keith 
 . are you saying that a kid who from aa to 
and then does not improve would have been better off making a 
direct leap to the if a does well at aa and then 
does not improve at , is n't that a sign that maybe he does n't 
belong in the 

now , keith  . as i recall  ( no stat books surprise ! ) 
he from aa to in 1991. he did so well that he was 
returned to the , where he did n't do very well at all. now 
his career is in  . so how does he fit in with your 
point. good 's in aa .  . moved him right to the big club. now 
he 's one step away from being or moved out of baseball .  . 
 . 


that was me , and you so far your only counter proposal is that they 
really do n't understand how good is , or experience , 
or some combination of the two .  . i think my interpretation was more 
to the organization .  . 

well , i 've cast my lot. certainly you may understand better how 
good is. and i may experience. but neither one 
of us runs a baseball team .  . 



the 



mark 


from edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
subject re my  93  ( with only one comment ) 
article i.d. master . 
reply to edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 47 
nntp posting host 1 . rose . edu . 

in article  ( eric roush ) 
writes 
in article edu . 
edu .  ( john h. rickert ) writes 
in article  ( jackie f. 
russell ) writes 
 ( paul s galvanek ) writes 
national league west 

houston 5 . 0 . 
8 . 0 . 
! here is where you are obviously dead wrong. not since the 
of the 20 's and 30 's has a team been so nicely setup as this  ( years(and 
years to come )  . i do n't think that the all star team will be able 
this may be an appropriate comparison .  . 
the 31 2nd , 3rd and 2nd 
18 , 16 and 13 1 2 games out of first. 
in 1933 ,  34 and  35 they also finished second ( though they were only 
7 , 7 and 3 games  . 
even great teams can lose that 's why they play the  . 
 ( on the other hand .  .  .  . i'm still picking the to go all the way ) 

, surely you did n't intend to compare the  93 with the 
29 a 's .  . the were 2nd to 
a team that was as good as the 26 28 , while the 
had some from their years. ruth and 
could n't play every position simultaneously .  . 

imo , given the various ages of the and this , 
that the will be closer to their , while the 
have slightly passed their  . 

also , if you 're going to compare and , a more appropriate 
comparison to the  93 might be the  23  . 
after falling short two years in a row in world series , 
both teams won will win the series this year , despite the 
of some old on the other team .  . 
 ( casey dave ) 

perhaps so. i was only responding to the of the 20 's and 30 's 
part of the comment. if those teams were a  sure thing  and lost , 
then it 's probably not so unreasonable for someone to pick another 
team  ( not that i did) .  . 

john 
edu . 
go ! 

from  ( jay rogoff ) 
subject box score 
organization college , ny 
lines 7 

can anybody figure out why some box score make 
absolutely no sense  ( at least in the local that finds its way 
to my door . ) . i must have at in the  box for a 
good 30 seconds this morning wondering who the hell it was. would n't 
it make more sense to use 



from  ( jeffery m rachford ) 
subject update .  .  . wo . n't be long now ! ! ! 
organization university engineering computer network 
distribution na 
lines 21 


hi all you  ( and those interested .  .  . ) . 
chicago had this written in it today in regards to 
 .  .  . 

is ahead of in his from a broken 
left hand and could be back in the by may 1 , jim 
said friday .  . 
doctors cleared to swing a padded at a ball in his 
hand. 
'' i'm not surprised his rehabilitation has been moved up , '' said 
 . '' he 's a fast healer , and he does n't like being on the 
list. he 's been running since he was hurt march 5 and 
is in the best shape of his life. may 1 is his target date for 
getting back in the  . 

hold on to your  .  . more . later as information 
presents itself. 




from  ( brian curran ) 
subject re i 've found the secret ! 
organization data central , oh 
lines 19 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article ,  ( edward fischer ) writes 

why are the red in first place eight games into the , they 
already have two each from and  . starts 
again , on three days rest. 

huh last on saturday , giving him his usual four days 
rest. 

what 's up are the going with a four man is this why 
was used in relief last night 


brian data central 

i did n't think i should 've been asked to 
when the was below my age. 
, chicago white , 
on playing during a 40 degree april ball game 

from  ( gary the huckabay ) 
subject call for votes and  . please vote ! 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization hot sour club , ltd .  . 
lines 

the regular of the 1992 93 davis baseball league has 
just come to an end. to help us with next year 's league , i would 
appreciate it if you would take a couple of and vote for 
our league and  . these , and  
in them , will their for next year 's league .  . 

please vote for 5 in each category , in order. for example .  .  .  . 

1. bonds 
2. frank thomas 
3. 
4. 
5.  . 

please do not vote for in voting for this league .  . each team 
in the league gets one candidate for , and one for  . 
position is listed where applicable , along with an of 
their there (e excellent , v very good , a average , 
p poor , b very poor ) thanks .  .  .  . please reply by april 10. 
for the record the was games long .  . thanks for your help. 



name g h r bb k cs 
124 27 0 16 44 64 39 50 0 0 16 8 p 
55 3 14 85 87 44 14 5 6 5 a 
35 6 20 100 102 64 67 4 1 2 4 v 
32 0 9 59 80 61 0 1 3 5 e 
150 25 1 33 89 102 0 3 20 3 p 
138 31 1 34 128 100 0 3 38 3 e 
23 8 5 85 34 70 67 54 11 1 4 p 
27 1 3 94 60 65 67 89 20 3 8 a 
13 13 1 50 13 19 0 8 b 
deer 119 103 26 1 33 66 75 44 1 3 2 541 9 v 
bonds 145 39 4 33 128 187 62 23 5 7 e 
129 21 0 12 62 52 80 1 0 2 400 3 p 
17 1 38 59 85 28 0 0 2 8 b 

some missed time due to , others were sat down at the end 
to avoid the possibility of injury .  . there are better than those 
on this list , but each team gets one and only one candidate .  . some 
played more than games due to being to teams with more games 
left in the same time  . now , on to the  .  .  . 

name era g w l s h bb k 
3 . 01 . 30 15 8 0 1 . 76 124 12 30 2 0 2 
0 . 80 . 37 0 2 25 33 . 2 . 21 8 46 1 0 0 0 0 
3 . 40 . 26 13 7 0 1 . 56 12 26 5 1 5 
2 . 29 15 7 0 2 . 46 119 15 29 3 1 2 
3 . 24 . 28 14 9 0 1 . 172 53 13 28 4 1 1 
2 . 93 . 27 16 7 0 2 . 64 20 26 8 3 1 
3 . 62 . 28 11 11 0 1 . 66 9 28 6 1 7 
3 . 46 . 28 14 7 0 2 . 103 10 28 7 1 5 
2 . 29 13 10 0 2 . 55 131 16 29 4 0 2 
3 . 28 . 25 12 8 0 172 . 2 . 36 64 8 25 4 2 1 
2 . 94 . 31 16 11 0 1 . 13 31 17 ! 2 1 
2 . 48 . 28 12 5 0 0 . 172 42 8 27 1 0 2 
0 . 38 4 1 17 55 . 1 . 28 25 38 1 0 0 0 0 

there you have it. threw a perfect game during the year , 
and ken hill threw a no  . rob had 32 
to start the year , only to in the last two games to cost 
the 's giant sucking sounds a  . 

if you want of more , they are available by request. please 
take the time to reply if you can. thanks. 




kevin the al of the mid 90 's ! 
a living argument for if there 's anything we love more than a huge 
existence of parallel  . sig . , it 's someone quoting 100 lines to add 
universes .  . 3 or 4 new ones. and posts , too. 

    
 ( o o) 
( ) 
david mein , es ist  . ist  . 

from k  ( mully ) 
subject montreal question .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
reply to k  ( mully ) 
organization state college , n . h .  . 
lines 9 

what position does mike play i cannot seem to find it 
anywhere. thanks ! ! ! ! 1 

k 


keith j.  ( o o) 
p . s . c . ( ) internet 
, nh it takes a big man to cry , but k 

from com .  ( gerald lanza ) 
subject re seeking reference info 
organization north america  ( shelton , ct ) 
lines 23 

in article  ( david m. tate ) writes 
i seem to have misplaced the baseball bibliography that was posted here 
recently.  ( that 's what happens when you have to split a of 
files from one machine among two others . ) . could some kind soul repost the 
bibliography , or mail me a copy 

also , in particular , a of mine is looking for any information he 
can find on , linguist of ww2 .  . any references  ( or 
, for that matter ) would be appreciated. 

dave 

i believe had an in depth article on a while ago. i remember 
that the article revealed some new facts regarding the 
 . my this past february , the second of 
two years that i received same. therefore my guess is that the 
article appeared sometime in 1991  . 

can anyone else be more definitive as to a date of the article 


jerry 


from g 
subject re minnesota 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization systems l 
x mailer dos (3 . 
lines 36 

date mon , 5 apr 1993 00 19 45 
from ahmed 

since i have n't been able to keep up with baseball much this , i 
have a few questions about my favorite team , the minnesota 

1. how good does their look the last i heard , the order is 
, , , banks , and some guy i 've never heard of. 
 ( sounds pretty pathetic to me ) 

well , maybe it will be. banks is a 24 year old who has n't 
as quickly as they would have liked .  . is a 22 year old 
who is very highly  . and are also young , and 
have looked very good this spring .  . the last was between jim 
, of houston and s . d .  . and mike  . 
has n't looked very good this spring , so i believe that the has 
gone to , although they had n't wanted 3 starters this unproven .  . 
i personally believe very highly in and  . 


2. who is playing short and third 

well , scott is the  . he played mostly last year , but 
was a in the , and moved back after left to k . c .  . is 
split  ( maybe ) between , who has had a great spring , and 
, a good looking kid who has in for 3 
years. i'm not sure how the time will be divided , but they seem to be 
happy with what they have here. i like , but i fear they 
might give too much time to  . 

3. how 's doing 

sorry , ca n't help you here. 




from  ( neal heaton ) 
subject , are you there 
organization the johns hopkins university 
lines 9 
distribution na 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

to mr. 

listen , , can you explain why you in relief 
yesterday i figure no one would know this better than you yourself. 

jason a. miller 
some doctor guy 

p.s. tell he should 've made good on his thread to ) 

from  ( frank kim ) 
subject , keith miller 
organization mit for computer science 
lines 12 


hi , 

i was just wondering if anyone knew when 
and keith miller are expected to come back and what 
exactly them. 



sincerely , 

frank s. kim 

organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re update 
distribution usa 

lines 10 

in article ,  ( sam 
millitello ) says 

i think i spelled my name correctly.  . 


there are only three l 's .  . 

bob  . 


from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 17 

in article  ( robert c hite ) writes 

are you for real how many gold does smith have if a 
guy around and hit 30 a year for 15 years , would n't he 
be a given for the hall is defense not just as important 

frankly , no. offense and defense are equally important. but the 
is 80 of the defense .  . the primary role of every other 
is on offense .  . even are a bigger part of the offensive 
game than of the game.  ( they might not do much with their 
part of the offense , but that 's another issue . ) . 

that being said , i think both smith and the  . they 
hit pretty well in addition to their defense .  . 

cheers , 


from  ( todd rader ) 
subject re 
organization sun 
lines 6 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 

in article  ( jiann su ) writes 
i say buy out 's contract and let him go  . next 
, you 'll be able to sign him for nothing. that goes for any 
ball  . 

stay in school. you have a lot to learn .  . 

from 
subject game 
organization social science computing 
keywords score 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 6 


anyone know the outcome of 's game 
home runs 


gods at u . w . o . 

from  ( matthew r. montgomery ) 
subject re with a in the last two weeks .  .  .  . 
organization washington university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 15 



watch us in 1993 ! 


should n't that be  watch us in 1993 ! ' ) 

or maybe  watch us in 1993 ! ' 

or even  watch us sore in 1993 ! ' 


matt 
 no , really i like the  


from  ( brian odom ) 
subject re new uniforms 
article i.d. usenet . 
organization university 
lines 37 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 

in ( ) writes 

usually one or two teams changes their logo or a minor 
uniform change per , but the past few have been 
incredible .  . 
any thoughts on the new  ( old ) uniforms .  . i 
remember seeing a rose card , and unless i miss my 
guess he was wearing the exact same  . 
the  ( how about doc s today ! ! ! ! ! ) have 
the patch on the shoulder , and changed the 
on the front of the jersey .  . to my knowledge it is the 
first time that has been changed since , and it reminds me 
a little of the logo .  . 

as far as i know , , pittsburgh , and new york  ( nl ) change their 
uniforms every year .  . every other year (e . g .  . , new york ) , it will say 
in , new york in , or new york in all caps .  . minor changes , 
but they do change them often. last year , i think they had new york in all 
caps .  . did have blue or last year what about 
pittsburgh 

many teams have for a return to a previous style 
of uniform , or at least uniforms that look more traditional .  . 
 ( phillies , , , white , , etc . ) . and the once 
bright have been altered to gray .  . the trend has also 
seen the newer baseball fields the parks of the 
early years , as opposed to the 
throughout the sixties .  . 

i hate the gray .  . they should opt for more color  ( like the white  . 
i hate white team versus gray team .  . spring training uniforms look much 
better. 

with now , no one 
in the 's office , and inter league play on the 
, it 's nice to see that baseball at least looks like it 
was meant to be. 

from 
subject re my predictions  ( nl ) 
organization western university , green , 
lines 56 

in article ,  ( mark singer ) writes 
in article  ( bob hobokenite ) writes 
i 've said the would improve by injury as well. here 's how. 

is a better than greg  . 
ryan is a better than  . 
jones is a better than anyone the 
put out there. 

mel is better than nixon  . 

that 's how. it forces them to play the young guys .  . 

bob 

i continue to be amazed at these comments .  . while might some 
day be a better than , i find it totally amazing for 
you to suggest that this 22 year old with three of 
baseball is now better than , a five year who is 
noted for his ability to call a game , and who has a better than average 
 . oh , perhaps you are talking about hitting .  . well , sure , 
might hit better. perhaps he probably will. 

but has there ever in the history of baseball been a 22 year old  ( or 
younger ) who compared among all league 
in terms of defense and brought a  . was n't it 

yes , ivan , last year .  .  . and threw out 51 of the 
 . not too for a from aa .  . 20 years old last 
year .  . 

who was supposed to be that good in his year 
not. was n't it santiago who was supposed to be that good 
in his year not. 

i can continue this thread with the others mentioned , but you get 
the point. you and others seem to be so quick to dismiss the 
veterans in favor of the hot young  . perhaps 
just perhaps the team of the 
knows something more than you do. and perhaps what they know is 
that very , very few 21 and 22 year old come up to the 
and make an impact .  . 


the 




mark 


roy f.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . wait till tommy the lord and 
western university .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . finds out that he 's wearing  . 
all opinions contained  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . perry  ( talking about lasorda ) 
are all mine own , and that 's the sin .  . baseball , what a way to spend a day ! ! 

from  ( james m mcdowell ) 
subject texas info 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 4 

would someone please give me the address for texas 
orders .  . thanks very much. 

jim 

from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 16 

in article  ( jay rogoff ) writes 

there is a book that you can find in sale 
called jewish baseball stars , and baseball peter has 
compiled a pretty definitive list of jewish in the  . 

i wish i had n't sold my copy of jewish baseball stars .  . it 's a short shelf 
(i . e .  . , the one on top of the toilet tank ) special. the writing in that 
books is so awful every taken to 
the degree and then mangled that it 's funny .  . 

is the author , i think. 

roger 



from brian austin 
subject re tigers 
organization freshman , h general , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 4 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

i basically agree , the tigers are my favorite team .  . actually , their 
might actually be better this year than last  ( not that 's 
saying a hole  . how  that home on tuesday ! ! by the way , 
goes for win 2 , 000 today. 

from 
subject re montreal question .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

in article , k  ( mully ) writes 
what position does mike play i cannot seem to find it 
anywhere. thanks ! ! ! ! 1 

currently , he 's all over. he played 2nd when was out. he was 
to third when came back .  . and today , he played for a cold 
 . 

his natural positions seem to be in the middle , but they will seemingly 
find a for somewhere as long as his is hot. 

p. 

from  ( david j . ) . 
subject re tigers 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 17 

david writes 
the at michigan and should be than ever this year .  . 
with mike at the head and ernie back at the , the tiger 
will bang this summer .  . already they have 20 runs in two games 
and with , , and deer i think they can win the division .  . no 
! bull ! , , , and make up a decent that 
will keep the team into many games .  .  .  .  . 

yeah , if the tigers can keep 20 runs a game. if i'm reading all this 
correctly , one is going to pull this team out of 
contention .  . like says , i 'll believe when i believe it. 


david blue riddle 1993 
it 's on. 
the is an art is coming out on this time for real. 
e mail me for the  . 

from  ( david g. paschich ) 
subject re bb big cat 
organization organization who cares you just gotta say go bears ! 
lines 14 
distribution na 

nntp posting host soda . berkeley . edu . 
in reply to 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993 23 27 29 gmt 

in article  ( ken kubey ) writes 

i suppose a foul ball machine  ( like brett butler ) is pretty valuable , 
but i 'd rather watch  ( and root for ) the lower guys who can 
actually hit the ball .  . 

and i 'd rather watch  ( and root for ) a team that scores lots of runs 
and games. 

of course , i'm for the and andres anyway. but that 's 
for irrational  . i also root for frank thomas .  . ) 

david 


subject re jewish baseball 
from  ( david fry ) 
organization math department 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 10 


once , on , the category was jewish sports , believe it 
or not. the answer was , this had four no with the 
in the  . the said , who is aaron 
said something like , i do n't think aaron was a  . 

david 
division of applied sciences 
university ... ! ! ! 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( michael mule ) 
subject re and 
distribution world , local 
organization institute of technology 
lines 19 

but i like the way he andres 's name. 
y all up on , 'll be like that in a couple of years ! ! 
it comes out like . 
and do n't forget his frequent references to the great sf giant star 
bobby bonds ! 

's a great personality. he 's the reason i like broadcasts .  . 
 ( it 's certainly not the quality of the  . 

chop chop 

michael  



michael 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from  ( doc ) 
subject re evil on my face as 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 29 

boy , off to any fan who can actually up the courage to put 
down  . i mean , all the have done is gone to two 
world series .  . also , being the fan that i am , i really have to hand it to 
all the out there that are capable of driving me crazy with that 
that they have. 

however , i do have to anyone saying that all are stupid. the 
way i see it , either i'm just too stupid to acknowledge it , or that observation 
was just plain wrong. you might have us confused with bear  . ) 

anyway , about a two weeks ago just about everyone was saying that the 
would finish up last in their division .  .  ( even behind florida ! ! ) 
these same people were the to clean up in their respective 
division .  . well , we 're ten games into the and these people are a little 
less vocal now. i wonder why. 

well , the way i see it , the east is up for grabs , and whoever wants it most is 
going to take it , with the exception of florida .  . every team seems to have 
good and , with presently the pack .  . but , i just 
have to point out , if the do take the east , they 'll do it without the 
benefit of a  . however , and it pains me to say it , the 
is going to go to the west .  . 

just had to get that off my  . 

doc 


benefit of a 

from  ( robert and stimets ) 
subject snap 5 game 4 18 
keywords finally 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization university 
lines 

kevin 's sacrifice in the off brett 
pitch to give the a 2 3 come from behind victory over 
new york .  . for , who got the started 
with a solid single to right , moved to second on bob kelly 's 
down the third base line , and to third on jeff 's well placed a 
rare show of excellent execution by the recently offense .  . 

2 0 after tim in the  . he had only 
given up one hit in the first four , a fourth lead off double 
by  . was left at third by bobby after 
joe to short .  . was hitting for who 
argued 's inside strike by drawing the line  ( really , he 
should know better than  . , and later jeff ended up getting 
 . 

the  started with a johnson 's first pitch  . must 
have been slightly , as he was on the next pitch by jeff kent 's 
single , then a ryan to left was  ( surprise ) by 
and turned into a  . 's to the drawn in 
failed to bring in , then the play of the game occured 

was due up , so larry met with the 
to discuss the possibility of a suicide  . they called it perfectly 
was out to after 's first pitch pitch out and the threat ended .  . 
 ( is n't the national league great ) 

the picked up 2 runs in the seventh to up the game. after 's 
ground out , , chris , and got back to back to back 
the third  . then with a long 
to center .  . a double by might have dan , but 
third base dave threw up the stop sign too late himself was 
out to killing the  . 

rob came on in the ninth and  . with two and a 
on second came to the and all i could think of was the sunday game 
in late august last year when 's three run a loss on 
and spelled the beginning of the end for 's  . ended 
up walking , and out to left to give the their first win in a 
week , and earned his third save in as many opportunities .  . the win went 
to steve foster  ( 1 2 ) who got in what must be an ego two perfect 
work , out three.  ( 2 1 ) got the loss though i'm a bit 
surprised he even in the  . i 'll take it , though. 

the are now 3 9 , still the worst team in baseball with the victory 
today. the are 6 5. 


the line 

new york 

r h k bb lo 

4 0 1 0 0 0 
4 0 0 1 0 0 
1 0 0 0 0 0 
3 0 1 0 0 0 
3 0 0 2 1 1 
johnson 3 1 1 1 0 2 
kent 3 1 1 1 0 0 
3 0 1 1 0 0 
c 3 0 0 2 0 0 
p 3 0 0 0 0 0 

30 2 5 8 1 3 

johnson  ( off , off , 0 0 pitch ) 
 ( off , in , 0 out , 1 , picked off ) 
 ( off , in fourth , 0 out , 0 on , at third ) 
johnson , 




r h k bb lo 

kelly 4 0 1 0 0 0 
3 0 1 0 0 0 
3 0 0 0 1 0 
3 1 1 0 0 0 
p 0 0 0 0 0 0 
4 1 1 1 0 2 
3 0 3 0 0 0 
c 0 0 0 0 0 0 
2 0 0 0 0 1 
c 3 0 1 1 0 1 
p 1 0 0 1 0 0 
1 0 0 1 0 0 
foster p 0 0 0 0 0 0 
1 0 1 0 0 0 
0 1 0 0 0 0 

28 3 9 4 1 5 ( ) 

( ) was in the seventh after his double when was run down. 

 ( off , 2 out , on first , stranded ) 
, , and 

sf and 




new york 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 2 5 0 
0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 x 3 9 0 




r er h k bb 
new york 
 ( l 2 1 ) 8 3 3 9 4 1 


6 2 2 4 4 0 
foster  ( w 1 2 ) 2 0 0 0 3 0 
(s 3) 1 0 0 1 1 1 



, 



32 , 
t 2 23 


coming up 
the travel to pittsburgh for three then continue on into chicago for 
three. next game is tuesday at 7 35 , expected to pitch are  ( 0 1 ) 
vs.  ( 0  . 




from  ( bruce kleinman ) 
subject re best record ever in baseball 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution usa 
organization corporation , a of the ask group , inc. 
lines 5 

in article  ( steve c liu) writes 
of all teams , i believe the have the best record ever in baseball .  . 
sometime way far back .  . 110 and something. 

i think it was the cleveland with  . 

from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re pleasant surprises 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 22 

in article lurie ) the writes 

actually , i kind of liked the trade .  . we did trade the of 
the year , , but with at first for another 8 years , why 
bother .  . 

i 'd be willing to make two 
1 ) does n't win roy .  . 
2 ) is out of baseball within five years. 

i'm skeptical of the first , because i do n't think is that good a 
, and he is on a team .  . 

i'm skeptical of the second because of his back .  . is 32 this 
year , and how many play until they are 40 not too many , and 
most of them did n't have back problems when they were 32 .  . 

could be wrong on either or both , but i think that 's the smart way to 
bet .  .  .  . 

cheers , 


from  ( kim krattiger ) 
subject re kevin 
organization the notes server 
lines 14 

rec . baseball . 12 23 apr 14 , 1993 

what 's up with kevin of san francisco i thought he was to be 
the , but he 's only gotten a few relief  . are they 
going with four starters for now , or is someone else the 

thanks , 
p. 


giant 's have a five man of john , , 
bill , jeff , and bud black dave  . black has 
been put on the 15 day and dave will take his starts .  . 


from  ( vb30 ) 
subject jewish baseball 
organization college 
lines 10 
originator 
nntp posting host 

just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 

thanks. 
bobby 

from  ( jay rogoff ) 
subject re new home for the ! ! ! 
organization college , ny 
lines 19 


i agree , though i 'd also be happy with a that looks 
like new  . the new park was also made for baseball .  . 
unlike three , the , , etc. , it 's not a 
park in which they also play baseball .  . 

while we 're on the subject , let 's not forget , which 
was designed to both the  . it was the first 
(i think) to have the box on so they could be 
oriented at right for baseball in parallel for football. 

of course , with the gone to jersey  ( and a truly good 
stadium ) , the are with a where , 
because it 's circular , the are almost always too far from the 
action. the in particular have 
always it as beautiful 
, a to how it truly is. 



from  ( justin d. lowe ) 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 35 
reply to  ( justin d. lowe ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( david steinman ) says 

 ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 

the of the is a team that has no talent and comes 
out of nowhere to  . the  and  89 are prime examples , 
not the  . 

sorry , but it is virtually impossible to win a division with no talent 
over 162 games. 

i would amend your definition to 

a team expected to lose , but which thanks to 
talent .  . 

dave ! 


ok , the and o 's are good examples , but what about the  90 do you 
really think that anyone expected them to the a 's i know people who 
did n't even think they 'd win a game , let alone win the series .  . we proved 
them wrong , though , did n't we 

as for this year , ignore their record now. they 've had a start , and 
that has nothing to do with  . they shall rise again. the hunt for 
a  october continues .  .  ( with all due respect to wlw ) bye .  . 



1993 spring 
road , 5 race , pull , , wars , banner , spirit  . 
the rides again ! 
 ( do n't you just love that intense feeling in a hall ) 

from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re rule 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 31 

 ( jay rogoff ) writes 

one last question that has always me and has n't 
yet been addressed .  . i believe the rule also does not deal with this 
situation 

if is declared and the ball is caught , can up 
and advance at their own risk , as on any ball .  . 

however , if the is not caught , at what point can a 
legally leave his base w o fear of being off for 
too early when the 
ball the ground when a first the ball after it 
the ground 

enlightenment would be appreciated. 

i'm not sure i understand this question. when the if rule is invoked , 
the is automatically out. this the from being 
forced to advance to the next base if the ball is not caught. other 
than that , is n't it just the same as any situation in which a on 
a base is not forced to the next base on a dropped ball that is , 
if the ball is caught he can up and run  ( or decide to stay ) , and 
if the ball is dropped he can have left the base at any time. 


eric smith 


, 


from  ( david m. tate ) 
subject re the worst 
organization department of industrial engineering 
lines 19 

said 

no .  .  .  . is the worst in baseball .  . i 've never seen a guy who 
can waste talent like he can. one of the best raw talent in the league , 
and he 's still finding a way to lose .  . i 'll be surprised if he makes it through 
the next 2 weeks , unless improvement is made. 

i'm confused .  . how is it 's fault that he ca n't win with a team 
whose best offensive is i mean , let 's be real. kansas 
city will have to get outstanding years from their entire just to end 
up near  . they have less offense than any other team in baseball , even 
if you count the teams .  . 



david m.  ( dtate , sir , with not quick 
member , , tims , hands not soft , eye not 
and in denver they call you a 
the big and compare you to my own ! 

from the edu .  ( gregg walters ) 
subject ryan on 
organization scientific computing boulder , co 
lines 18 

heard ago on radio , denver .  . 

ryan to have on a knee , and 
to miss 2 5 weeks. 

 ( nied ) lead  ( gooden ) 4 0 in 7th .  . 
all runs in first  . 

gregg 




o 





from  ( michael ) 
subject how to keep score like the 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 15 

all , 

i 'd like to learn how to keep score when i watch ball 
games using official methods .  . where can i get 
and instructions on how to use them 

i appreciate it , 

mike 

's law it always takes 
michael longer than you think , even if you 
take into account 's law. 
douglas 


from  ( greg woods ) 
subject re feed game to 
organization scientific computing division boulder , co 
lines 18 

in article  ( donald p boell ) writes 
is it just me , or does look totally lost in the 

he 's been playing horrible defense .  . said after 's game that 
he wanted to up the a little , because has been 
having a rough time and clark has not been hitting .  . 
he was true to his word i went to thursday 's game and young 
was in right and boston  ( who has a very hot bat ) was in left. 
was careful to say though that he did n't necessarily mean for 
these changes to be permanent but he wanted to give these other two 
a shot while clark and were not playing well. 

in defense of , it looks like right field in high 
is a bitch to play .  . some of the have been having 
some problems too  ( although bobby made a great into 
the to rob boston of an extra base hit in thursday 's game ) 

greg 

from  ( brian curran ) 
subject re games 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization data central , oh 
lines 13 
nntp posting host com . 

in article ,  ( vb30 ) writes 
does anyone know where i can get a list of nationally televised 
games , such as and i live on the east coast and i 'd 
like to as many games as i possibly can ! 

this list is published every week in baseball weekly .  . 


brian data central 

that was not swimming .  . that was  . 
a german reporter , after watching 
mark get during a 1991 race 

from ( ) 
subject re where is he 
organization university of virginia 
lines 9 

last year was in a ball , probably at in the 
florida state league .  . i believe he began this year in aa which 
is  . george wo n't rush him and he 'll be 
allowed to progress at his own rate to and then to the 
bronx .  . this guy is the real thing. 

jonathan 



organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re win again !  ( the team record is 9 3) 

lines 12 

in article ,  ( anthony 
michael jivoin ) says 

with the , the red definitely have a chance for the 
east this year .  . he brings class , work and leadership to 
the park each day. 


too bad he does n't bring the ability to hit , pitch , field or run. 

bob  . 


from  ( warren usui ) 
subject rec . baseball . fantasy . 
organization computing corporation , los , california 
lines 40 



april 1 , 1993 


i am in an league that uses standard rules 
except that the following are used 

for position 
lowest average 
strike 
caught 
errors 

for 
losses 
blown saves 
era 
 allowed 

this is the year that i 've participated in this 
league .  . last year i won the due primarily to the fact that 
i had terrible  . i would like to lower my average 
which is rather high because i do have jose  ( who made up 
for this by helping me lock first place in  . anyway , 
someone offered 

andres for bud black 

i can afford to give up bud black because i still have  . 
however , i am afraid of andres actually doing well this  . 
should i make the trade or not 

your comments will be appreciated. 


warren 

i'm one with the universe on a scale from 1 to 10. 


from  ( david j . ) . 
subject re 1993 east 
article i.d. usenet . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 

robert c writes 
here are the , , and for 
the 1993 national league east philadelphia 

i think the only in effect here are  . of course , if this 
all becomes true , i 'll be the first to one myself. 


david blue riddle 1993 
it 's on. 
the is an art is coming out on this time for real. 
e mail me for the  . 

from com .  ( gerald lanza ) 
subject re the 
keywords 
organization north america  ( shelton , ct ) 
lines 21 

in article  ( ian m. derby ) writes 

after reading my local paper today , i found out that the 
started the at 10 2. i am not as old as , but i 've 
heard many talk about the serious job the did that 
 . they were ahead of the by 15 games that in 
mid august .  . they managed to lose a bunch from then on and the 
took the division .  . 15 ! ! ! games ahead and lost it .  .  .  .  . i 
hope this is much different. 


strictly from memory , i think the were something like 
ten games up with 12 to go , lost 10 in a row , and 11 of last 12 
to lose to the  . seems impossible , but how i 
remember it. i also felt at the time that of 
the lost the as a by product of their  . 


jerry 

p.s. in , a single team out of 8 won the no divisions .  . 

from  ( howard wong ) 
subject jack 
organization mind link ! british , canada 
lines 9 

as of today , april 17 , jack has lost his first three starts .  . 

however , the are doing well without him and injured dave stuart .  . 

this is a credit to the rest of the  . 

has jack lost a bit of his what is the worst start jack has had 



from  ( alan sepinwall ) 
subject re mel hall 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 26 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 

in article  ( doug dolven ) writes 

has anyone heard anything about mel hall this i 'd heard he was n't 
with the any more. what happened to him 

doug 

mel is alive and well and playing in japan .  .  ( the let him go because 
he was asking for too much money , and because they thought that they were 
going to get bonds , making hall  . ! well , at least 
they got o to replace the mel  . 


i'm outta here like ! 



 ( scene from real genius where is trying to pick up a 
blonde ) 
so , if there 's anything i can do for you , or , more 
to the point , to you , you just let me know. 
can you hammer a through a board 
with your penis 
not right now , no. 
a girl 's gotta have her standards  ( she walks away ) 


from  ( dave eisen ) 
subject re bob was damn right ! 
organization , inc. 
lines 51 

why did i get into this 

in article  ( austin jacobs ) writes 
do n't you guys think so i mean , c mon ! what the heck are women doing 
even thinking of getting into baseball .  . they cause so many problems. just 

assuming you 're serious , i guess you 'd be surprised to hear 
that us guys do n't think so. i would guess that a tiny 
of 1 of the folks reading your post agree with it. i kind of 
doubt that even you agree with it. 

i'm not going to go through your points one at a time , because , 
after all , not many of them have anything at all to do with baseball .  . 

i'm only replying to this because you brought up , the 
who  ( is ) baseball on the grounds of sex 
discrimination because she was n't to the  . 

! look at  . just because she 's a woman , everybody on the 
face of the earth thinks it 's great that she 's getting an opportunity to 
 . if you even watched the games and had an greater than that of 
beef , you 'd see that she is not nearly as good as most  . 

i 've never seen her a game. i have no first hand experience 
with her ability as an  . 

but i have seen her on talk shows .  . and her point seems to be 
that she can call and strikes as well as any of the 
and she knows the better than most. it seems 
to me that she is missing the point and if that 's how she sees 
the role of in the game , well i would n't promote her 
either. 

the primary role has nothing to do with calling 
safe or out hell , joe could do that. their primary function is 
to maintain order in the game , keep the game moving , and keep the 
from trying to kill each other. 

have to be extremely tough people. that most 
of us , both men and women. and if  . thinks that she 
deserves to be a major league because of her command of 
the , then i think that her as well. 
need to command the game command of the is secondary .  . 




dave to succeed in the world , it is not 
enough to be stupid , you must also 
 ( 415 ) be well  . 
home  ( 415 ) 

from  ( craig stelter ) 
subject re 1988 1992 , third base 
organization  ( srsd mid ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 2 . 
lines 37 

wrote 
in  ( dale stephenson ) writes 

compiled from the last five average reports , here are the career 
for the individual in the reports .  . are courtesy of 
 . are listed in order. 

and some comments , with some deleted. 

third 

, scott  .  . 0 . 
looks good. too bad he 's moving to short .  . 

, mike  .  .  . 0 . 
this is an interesting line. his 1988 figure was slightly below average .  . 
his 1990 was pathetic , and his 1991 was the next best year by anybody .  . part of 
that may be his  . 1988 was with the  . 1990 was with the 
, who appear to have a  . 1991 was with the , and 
judging by and , the may be a good place to play 
third .  . 

,  .  .  .  . 632 . 0 . 

apologies if i do n't know what i'm talking about ) , but as a fan , 
i like to think they have good in any park .  . not sure if i remember 
completely or not , but i think played with the in '87 for the 
world series , and again in '88  ( note that 's his lowest of the  . i believe 
the next 3  ( or at least the last two ) were played with the angels .  . lots 
of factors make a  .  .  . i hate it when so many use the  . 
it may not be ideal , but nice to enjoy baseball and 
even when it 's and raining .  . 

craig 

i'm sure the company for which i work does not have all the same opinions 
that i do .  .  .  . 

from  ( douglas fowler ) 
subject  ( atas ) n . l .  . games 8 2 8 5 of all 
article i.d. usenet . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


philadelphia at chicago teams for 1st after sunday 
dick in the first game of a four 
game series .  . one friday , one saturday , and a good old sunday  . 
what could be better , declared ernie banks .  . perhaps the fact that the 
are challenging 
it 's , it 's always been that we 've , 
 . if we can get by , then , , or 
2 of the last three we 'll know we might be able to 
win .  . 
lord , i hope we pull it off. 
the once in the top of the first singled , 
rose followed with a hit , sending around second .  . cut 
the ball off in left center , and threw a bullet in to ernie banks , who threw 
to ron to get at third .  . rose went to second on the play .  . 
lifted a long to center , moving rose to 
third .  . was walked the were absolutely refusing to let him 
them. both and will likely draw 130 150 walks this 
year .  . is starting to hit very well , and he a double into a 
gap in right center .  . cool papa bell 's speed allowed him to cut the ball off 
and prevent from  . fox was walked , and bob 
grounded out to second , ending the threat .  . 
teams are starting to realize that you do n't have to pitch to or 
, and that is their run total .  . it puts a lot of pressure on 
and dick allen  ( who with and 
rose at first ) , and it 's a credit to the that they 've been able to 
their  . the have at times. so came the 
analysis from frank chance. 
the got that run back when bell for a hit , thomas  
moved him to second , and after made out singled 
home a run. in the sixth , ron a two run to make it 
3 1. dick got in trouble in the , as singled and 
singled him to third .  . ed entered to face fox , but dick allen 
out of the to hit .  . allen to right , but for the , 
had moved to left and had been inserted for defense .  . 
he fired a bullet to home to keep at third .  . , hitting 
for , was walked , and bruce entered .  . larry grounded into 
a 1 2 3 double play , but ed walked as a  . desiring a 
, since was likely to attempt a hit with the quick 
running at third , chance brought in smith , who a 
pop up to the from the , ending the  . the 
took the win , 3 2 , moving a game behind the  . 
steve was called upon to battle 3 finger brown saturday .  . to get 
another in the , ron moved to first and bill 
played third .  . unfortunately , brown allowed , and the 
was down even more , as the tried to maintain a lead against 
 . , sixth , had knocked two of his own , driving 
home four runs .  . hit two home runs , and added 
another , and the score was 8 6 , after  . the 
had more in the bottom of the , as the 3 more 
runs to ice an 11 7  . 
sunday 's bill saw cool papa bell gather seven straight at one 
point , including a rare outside the park home run in the second game , off 
 . of the took the first , 4 2 , but 
the captured the second one 5 4 , with the win .  . bruce 
two for the save , though he allowed one run in the 
 . the stood half a game behind these co leaders , and would 
conclude their series with the on monday .  . 

montreal at st.  ( louis(august 3 6 ) 3 way tie for 1st 
is on a roll , and he continued it versus john friday .  . 
the have a wide variety of , and while they are n't among the 
all time , they are getting the job done. after their first 
first two games , they suddenly found themselves only 2 1 2 games out of 
first in this  . 
5 3 on friday , and dean 3 2 
saturday .  . however , the refused to give up , 6 2 on sunday .  . 
the cards captured monday 's game , too , as steve steve 
3 2. we 're really good against ground ball because of our 
team speed ,  . i do n't see why we ca n't win this 
division .  . 
the and may have some reasons for them. two of 
the way through the , there is a 3 way tie for first. 

new york at  ( pittsburgh(august 3 6 ) 3 straight 3 2 for , 
now 2 back but in 4th ! 
when your team is in a like we are , the worst thing is to play in a 
's park like this , spoke before the series .  . keith 
added that their defense takes away quite a few runs per year , 
and it must be giving them an extra 6 7  . the have made only 
26 errors all , 6 ahead of the second place  . error tend 
to be around 50 for the best all time teams .  . 
foster 5 2 friday , and 
3 2 saturday , in a game some outstanding defense .  . when 
ryan and two 6 hit the in another 3 2 win sunday , the 
could once again look forward to a victory getting them back to the 
 . mark. they had been unable to several times in the past month .  . 
met in the afternoon game. both 
stuff , and the only runs through eight were on home 
runs a shot by of the and a two run by ralph 
for the  . the  singled home a run in the 
top of the ninth off , working his second , after 
for at second .  . with one out and a on 
first , was sent in to hit .  . the countered with kent 
, him in the in the order and putting bonds in 
left field as the ninth place  . a forcing 
at second .  . he hard into , preventing the 
from turning their double play of the afternoon. 
allowed a hit , but threw out at third from near the right 
field line , ending the  . , who entered 
to pitch the , and got one out before bonds a rocket to deep 
center , running through the stop sign at third to score an inside the park 
to win .  . the had an improbable 3 straight 3 2 , 
and had moved to within 2 games of first place , with seven weeks to go. 

san francisco at  ( boswaukta(august 3 5 ) 
another sunday appeared on the , as the 
managed to close the gap on the other teams thanks to some starting 
that just would n't  . in fact , reported john , 
once this rough part of the is over , maybe as early as this coming 
week , we may shift to a 4 man again for a little while. 
continued his hot friday , beating and 
the 4 1. had all four r . b . i . s . on 3  . 
joe saturday in a  . the  park had been a 
haven , but this took the cake , as the won a affair 16 13 .  . 
had three , , matthews , and 
had two , and aaron , ernie , , and mel had 
one each .  . the had home runs going into sunday 's 
, putting them on a for , which would be 4 short of the 
national league record .  . they were still a behind the  61   . 
they had allowed over 120 , though. blue actually got the win after 
2 in the  . he allowed only a run in the sixth , but 
in the seventh .  . joe earned the save .  . 
in the , the  failed to hold a lead in the 
first game , but aaron off bill foster in the as the 
won , 4 3. the took the second game , however , by a 6 2 score .  . 
the by aaron was a 150 by the however , they to 
three game below  . , making a extremely unlikely .  . 

san diego at  . 3 5 ) jones 
in the first of this 3 game series , and the felt rather 
good. with his back in the last cleveland game , the 
trade looked even better. 's average was even  . of 
course , the was very poor , and joe gordon was only adequate in the 
, but these were minor problems , since the was holding up. 
jones a good game friday , and won 6 3. two 
home runs .  . mel harder earned a win with the help of mark davis and ray 
saturday 5 4 was the final score .  . tom 
to a 3 3 tie through eight before  . the game was 
for 4 more until the  . had departed after 
10 , and john a  . tom browning was working 
his second , when dave with one out and 
joe gordon was around. both home , 
and the a 5 3 win .  . the three game had the 
into a tie with the  . though the denied it , the highly 
emotional series with the may have taken too much out of them. 

at  ( houston(august 3 5 ) 
another series off by a took place in the 
wide open of the  . the sent joe to the hill in 
the first game , opposite  . normally , , i 
would be challenging by being ready to at them. i ca n't afford 
to with this team , though we have to get our own going we ca n't 
afford to let the us. he then and said well , maybe 
davis will get once. 
the fact that glenn davis leads the team in with ( ! ) is 
primarily why he would be , but it should be understood that his 
current would give him for the  . the hitting on this team is 
a little better , but the power is all and  . still , is 
the main reason no home runs were hit over the , as he threw 
two out trying for inside the park  . for those of 
the of the  park , they have a 23 foot high gray all 
around the must be hit into the to be home runs .  . the 
foul poles are feet from home , but the are 400 feet away , 
with center field at feet. it 's as if some three year old threw a 
and told his  if i ca n't hit home runs , nobody will hit 
home runs  , roy  . 
the stole five bases friday , but the decided to 
the baltimore chopping that had failed 6 weeks before for , anyway , 
davis , jim , and jose did not have to mess with their , 
according to the  . after poles and reached base via the 
baltimore chop , jose with a pitch .  . he responded with 
a two run double , but playing first for davis up , and the 
did n't score any more in that  . they did score 3 in the fourth to 
a 3 2 , and the wound up 6 4. they threatened 
to do even better the next game , as tommy john would be their opponent .  . 
met privately with the starters at 6 a . m .  . before the game. 
i think i know how we can the baltimore chop , he explained .  . 
how can we do that , wondered .  . 
they 're going to be beating the ball down , so we 've got to be ready to 
on the run. steve will start at first to dig out of the , but i 
want all of you to practice your and throws .  . we 'll go with 
a shallow almost the whole time. 
the plan almost worked .  . mike scott allowed only two runs through eight 
, but the got three two of them when bill 
pushed a into the in the fourth with on second and 
third .  . 3 2 was the final , with dave smith another save .  . the 
a victory in the first game of the bill sunday , as 
ryan walked five , three of whom in a 4 1 win .  . 
lost the second game 4 2 to , however , as the  
stolen bases in the series proved to not be enough. 
we 're mostly a power team , ron  . and , when he 
plays , are our only real speed demons , though a couple other 
plays can do it now and then. we 're in a place like the  . i 
guess that 's why they 're so successful there. indeed , it seems that 
teams give them the most trouble in the  . the  
12 bases in 16 attempts , giving them 230 on the  . 
after these series 
a . l . east . 
team w l gb 
new york 42 
cleveland 65 46 3.5 
64 46 4 
boston 64 47 4 . 5 . 
baltimore 59 52 9 . 5 . 
43 25 . 5 . 
washington 39 73 28 

a . l . west . 
63 48 
minnesota 61 48 1 
chicago 59 53 4 . 5 . 
kansas city 57 54 6 . 5 . 
california 57 56 8 
milwaukee 45 66 17 
seattle 32 78 31 . 5 . 

n . l . east . 
chicago 57 53 
philadelphia 54 
st. 54 
pittsburgh 56 56 2 
montreal 53 56 3.5 
new york 48 64 10 

n . l . west . 
66 46 
66 47 0 . 5 . 
san francisco 65 46 0 . 5 . 
54 56 11 
houston 50 61 17 . 5 . 
san diego 36 75 29 . 5 . 

doug me , age 4 now and other 
ever wonder if , after relatives have to give lots of love 
missed the 3rd strike in the support ,  cause heaven is just a great 
he to first and made it big that forever and ever ! ! ! 

from  ( michael mule ) 
subject update 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 22 

hey ! ! ! all you who 've been knocking my prediction of baltimore .  . 
you flooded my with cries of 's good , 's good. 

where is he ! ! i noticed he got over after that oh so strong first 
 . he 's not by any chance in now , is he please do n't tell 
me you 're relying on this guy to be the fourth , not the , but the 
fourth on this  . 

as for the o 's , it 's still early .  . 


see y all at the 
go 
chop chop 

michael  


michael 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from  ( mike fester ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
organization local organization 
distribution na 
lines 38 

in article writes 
in article  ( rudy wade ) writes 
in article stanford . edu .  ( nelson lu ) writes 
guess which line is which 
h bb 
x  . 310 .  .  . 27 8 8 87 
y  .  .  . 32 1 20 35 

the walks should give it away. 's , in general , somewhat more valuable than 
, and 's in was quite a bit larger than 's 
in  . 

i'm no , but what 's more valuable 

28 w 5 more , 12 more hrs or 
7 more and 52 bbs  ( let 's not forget the 39 extra  . how many cs ) 

had 9 cs .  . had 2. 

do n't forget the 59 more had  ( his out his cs , and 
he had one more sacrifice than  . a replacement level second 
could have had 17 , 5 walks , and a couple of for the additional 
had. a is little different than a home run. we 're talking 
almost 60 walks for or seven home runs and four  . i 
would say the almost 60 walks are more valuable .  . 

also , got a far greater boost from his home park than did from 
his. and or seven home runs hmm .  . 

so , if you wanted to pick a second to play in , you 'd take 
 . anywhere else , and you 'd probably take  . 

mike 

disclaimer these h h damn ! h h q .... w q ! d x 
x q c q q save quit ! quit 
man @ l c e x i t help d d ! ! 
man help c c e ! help quit q hey , what does stop d .  .  .  . 

from  ( sean sweda ) 
subject final run total .  .  .  . 
organization university of michigan itd and support 
lines 22 
nntp posting host itd . umich . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 


i 've been saying this for quite some time , but being absent from the 
net for a while i i 'd stick my out a bit .  .  .  . 

the will set the record for runs by an al 
team since the inception of the rule. s .  . any ideas what this is ) 

they will fall easily short of 600 runs , that 's for damn sure. i ca n't 
believe these media fools picking them to win the division  ( like our 
tom of the news claiming is some kind of 
genius for the he 's made ) 

c 






itd president , bob fan club 
city 
internet baseball league play ball ! 

from ( steve novak ) 
subject re old predictions to laugh at .  .  .  . 
article i.d. 
organization u s west advanced 
lines 25 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( edward fischer ) writes 
 ( robert c hite ) writes 

dead wrong ! last time i checked , jim was still managing the 
, and doing quite a fine job thank you .  .  . best . record in 
baseball at 8 1 

look , , i got him confused with somebody else. i did n't flame 
you , and i would appreciate it if you extended me the same courtesy .  . 

what is your problem 's post was n't a flame .  . it was a 
correction of your error. 

your reply was a flame .  . 

no , i do n't know everything in the world. does that surprise you 

not in the least. 




steve ban the bomb ! ban the pope ! ! 



from  ( kevin mundstock ) 
subject joe not for baseball 
reply to  ( kevin mundstock ) 
organization computing center , at , , ny 
lines 16 

did anyone notice the words not for baseball printed on the picture 
of joe in the day section in usa 
today any reason given for this 

also , i just noticed something looking at the ryan in 
the  . on 8 22 89 , became 's  . 
on 6 11 90 he his no against  . i believe the 
last out in the game was made by  . and on 5 1 91 , 
his 7th no on the same day a certain someone stole his 
base , which it. it seems that is having a lot of 
at 's expense .  . imo , deserves it , and it seems as 
most of the net agrees with me from what i 've seen on it lately. they are 
both great , but imo , has , both in playing 
and more importantly , in attitude. just my thoughts. 

kevin 

from  ( rudy wade ) 
subject re game of april 
article i.d. netcom . 
organization home of the 
lines 7 

in article (j .  . michael clark ) writes 
a single to left with two breaking up the no  . 
win 1 0 on a 1 by jose  . 

that 's might be what it takes to the this year .  . 

look at 's line 6 , 2 walks , 1 er , 7 so and a loss. 

from  ( kenton yee ) 
subject proposed re sub rule 
organization national , , ny 
lines 19 

a lot of teams carry 3 on their 25 man , 
but the 3rd is seldom ever used. he is only 
in case of extra or the 2nd 
is injured during a game. so to free up this 
for an extra or , why not 
invoke a re rule 

if the last on a team is 
injured during a game , the team is 
to in his place for purposes 
a who has previously been from 
the game. 

given this rule , a team would n't need 3 
 . the 3rd could be playing 
in or be a non  . 

ken 


from  ( dale stephenson ) 
subject re 1988 1992 , third base 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 64 

in  ( craig stelter ) writes 

wrote 
in  ( dale stephenson ) writes 

compiled from the last five average reports , here are the career 
for the individual in the reports .  . are courtesy of 
 . are listed in order. 

and some comments , with some deleted. 

third 

, scott  .  . 0 . 
looks good. too bad he 's moving to short .  . 

, mike  .  .  . 0 . 
this is an interesting line. his 1988 figure was slightly below average .  . 
his 1990 was pathetic , and his 1991 was the next best year by anybody .  . part of 
that may be his  . 1988 was with the  . 1990 was with the 
, who appear to have a  . 1991 was with the , and 
judging by and , the may be a good place to play 
third .  . 

,  .  .  .  . 632 . 0 . 

apologies if i do n't know what i'm talking about ) , but as a fan , 
i like to think they have good in any park .  . not sure if i remember 
completely or not , but i think played with the in '87 for the 
world series , and again in '88  ( note that 's his lowest of the  . i believe 
the next 3  ( or at least the last two ) were played with the angels .  . 

actually , 's first year with california was 1991. his  . 632 . was n't 
out of line with his career , and his  . was actually below average 
in 1988. but check out the last three years at the  . 

1990 
 . 
al  . 
1991 
 . 
 . 
al  . 
1992 
 . 
al  . 

for the last three years , the highest in either league have been posted 
by minnesota three different ones , including one  ( pags ) who was 
to horrible elsewhere. that does n't prove a park effect is at 
work , any more than san diego 's horrible numbers prove a park effect 
is at work. but it looks like a strong possibility to me. 

lots 
of factors make a  .  .  . i hate it when so many use the  . 
it may not be ideal , but nice to enjoy baseball and 
even when it 's and raining .  . 

and it might even be a nice play to base .  . 

j. baseball 

it is considered good to look wise , especially when not 
with information j. golden 

subject chris 
from  ( theodore r krueger ) 
organization university of arizona , tucson 
lines 11 

after the time out call by chris  ( which resulted in 
a technical foul , since his team had no time left ) perhaps 
will take the place of bill as the master of  . at least 
this red fan hopes so. 




when clinton 's secret service had to be replaced by an active 
duty she on the grounds that her family the military .  . 


from 
subject re early returns 
organization social science computing 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 11 

in article ,  ( adam levin ) writes 
just curious if anyone has started to early in the in the 
bb this year .  . ... 

a concerned fan of the bb , 

i am to produce the first update of the bb this week 
please send info about the most significant  ( longest , most critical , 
etc . ) . home run that you have seen yet this  . 

 . 

from  ( david kenney ) 
subject my 1993 predictions 
reply to 
organization corporation , , 
lines 57 

i thought i 'd post my predicted since i find those posted by others 
to be interesting. sorry this is after day. i that these 
were before the first pitch .  . ) 

al east 
1. new york the most  ( only ) improved team in this division 
2. blue and no way. 
3. milwaukee they always seem to do better than i expect 
4. baltimore , but , , and will drop 
5. cleveland still do n't seem to know what they are doing 
6. tigers all key but are another year past 
7. boston red any team with and might be than 7th 

al west this division was the for me to pick .  . whoever of the top 
4 gets should win it. 
1. minnesota young seem to have best chance for success 
2. texas i do n't know why i have them here. jose 
3. chicago white frank thomas but no  . 
4. a 's is the best and would keep any team close 
5. seattle i like , but do n't see much here 
6. kansas city will score no runs 
7. california angels will win no games 

east 
1. montreal good all around , plus no ! 
2. st.  ( jeffries whiten )  ( jose clark ) , no 
3. pittsburgh youngsters will take up more slack than expected 
4. new york some good , still not a team 
5. philadelphia they do n't impress me 
6. florida they know what they 're doing 
7. chicago they do n't know what they 're doing 

west the 2 best teams in baseball are in this division .  . 
1. awesome starters , but offense could be a concern 
2. would not surprise me if they won it all 
3. houston any team that signs wo n't  . closer to 4 than 2 
4. san diego could be the of 1993 
5. los better than the 
6. san francisco because the just stink 
7. will become the seattle of the  . 


montreal d.  ( braves , yes i'm probably contradicting 
what i said in my west comment . ) . 
new york d. minnesota 

world series new york d. montreal hating the will be 
again 

bonds , or maybe 
young jose 
al frank thomas will it  ( again ) , but might win it 
al young roger  ( at least will it  ( again ) 



david 

from  ( jay rogoff ) 
subject re best 
distribution rec 
organization college , ny 
lines 5 

on two separate i saw dick allen  ( back when he was richie ) 
at off the middle of the black 's 
background screen. i think both shots would have feet. 



from com .  ( gerald lanza ) 
subject re  61 
organization north america  ( shelton , ct ) 
lines 20 

in article  ( paul andresen ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael mueller ) writes 
hi all , 

does anyone know who were the 4 for the 
that were referred to as the corp because they were so young 

steve 22 18 12 
23 15 9 
jack 22 10 13 
22 13 9 


this list brings to mind possible the worst trade since for 
, i.e. , for frank , i think in 
. proceeded to win the in and 
may have out in  67 but was injured on a slide into 
second when he with the mighty al  . 

jerry 

from  ( jeff eastman ) 
subject re questions 
organization national 
lines 23 

in article , m 
 ( corelmark ! ) wrote 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 
in article , writes 
today  ( 4 14 ) p mike from , whom did they move to make 
room for 
also , are john of the on the 
thanks for anyone who can give me more info ! 

ken 
cal , 


is on the effective march 26 or something like that. 



the sent to iowa to make room for  . 

jeff 



from  ( david wood ) 
subject re need some relief 
nntp posting host bruno . cs . edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 14 

in article  ( david wood ) writes 
shaky ) giving up just one run. then game the relief .  . three 

combined to give up 3 runs  ( one each i believe ) in the 7th 

be taken lightly .  . going into today 's game , the had the league 's 


, can i type or what 



david wood university of at boulder 


from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re , runs ,  ( was re notes on vs. series ) 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
distribution na 
lines 53 

in article  ( roger lustig ) writes 

right. so who cares which gets , as long as the team 
gets more runs if a helps the team get more r and , but 
does n't score them all himself , who cares 

amusing , is n't it seems only the realize how much baseball is 
a team game , efforts from every for the win .  . 

consider the red game last night. the won 4 3 in the bottom 
of the  . who won the game 

a strong ( ) , allowing only two runs .  . 
ryan a couple , though he needed some excellent 
plays behind him to do so. 
a couple of , gave up the go ahead run , and 
got with the win when the two in the bottom of 
the  . 

looks like a team effort to me ! yet only got credit for 
the win .  . 

how about the offense 
and hit (i think) hrs early in the game. without either 
one , the would have lost in  . 
led off the with a solid single .  . 
for , providing the speed to go from first 
to third when .  .  .  . 
cooper ripped a second single in the  . 
avoided the , getting the run home with a fly. not much of 
a help , but it was something. 
then hit a double , the cooper all the 
way from first !  ( hill 's lack of defense helped . ) . 

cooper and were with runs , and were 
with  . but it seems to me that it was 's hit 
that set up the whole ! and did really contribute as 
much as 

furthermore , people seem to consider to be more significant than 
runs .  . did contribute more than cooper cooper provided the 
game , and moved the run to third base with 
only one out ! 

credit based on runs and is clearly ridiculous .  . you 
can argue that and do n't show you who came through in the 
, but r do n't do any better. at least and do n't 
claim to try to tell you that. 

here 's to the red who contributed to last night 's victory .  . 
all 20 of them ! 



organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject re white update 

lines 9 

i think is out in left because he is with his 
mind. he is trying to stir loose the mental block that he has had. 
was supposed to play in left last night  ( 4 14 ) but we were 
out. it 's not like we need to add any more to our team .  . 

it 's mental 

jimmy 
go , !  ( that 's the white , know ) 

from  ( steve c liu) 
subject baseball 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
lines 17 
distribution usa 
expires 5 5 93 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
summary 1992 ii wanted 

, my friends and i are running the fantasy baseball 
league  ( pure fantasy baseball  . , we are running the league 
using baseball ii with the  . ii and we need the 
for the 1992  .  ( preferably the 1992 major league stat disk ) we have 
the  total but needs the split otherwise we have 200 
games because the  . turns total into vs. l 's 
unless you know both right and left handed  . 

so , if anyone has the  stat please e mail me ! 

steve c. internet address 
for the liberation and of 
and their rehabilitation into society from red 
the are the greatest female that ever existed ! 
this sig has been brought to you by .  .  .  . ! the of kings ! 



from  ( thomas j radosevich ) 
subject 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 21 



hi all , 

i 've been locked in a small closet to a lab for the last week or 
two without access to really important information. i saw the 3.5 million 
shoulder back on the how long is he out for (i . e .  . how many millions 
will he get this year ) nothing personal against mind you , just 
wondering how bud can keep up money for him when he lets current 
big go over a relative  .  ( please realize the term 
relative can only be used with sarcasm when discussing baseball 
) . 

additional questions i did nt get to see bones pitch this spring how is 
he looking and where is he going to fit in the 

how is up at third 

are they going to build a new when 

tom 

from  ( joseph sheehan ) 
subject re young 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 120 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 
summary is better than current ! 
keywords solid ! good 

in article  ( mark singer ) writes 
in article  ( edward fischer ) writes 

i'm still catching up from spring break , but bear with me .  .  .  . 

in the , especially when they have n't even played ball .  . we 
certainly believe this kid is going to be very good some day , but 
there is really no need to rush him , especially since we have a 
million dollar that is probably well served by a 
who is in game calling and handling .  .  
time will come. let 's give him some time in  . 


has proven , over 1400 in the minor , that he is 
ready to play in the  . he is not being  . who are 
clearly too good for aa and play behind at the major league level 
are wasting their time , and may actually have a court case against 
major league for keeping them , at  . 

no. maybe i need to improve my writing skills. , who is very 
ordinary , is not likely to hit so well at age 22 


unless is me  ( i'm 5 7   , and born to play 
second base  ) , he belongs in the major  . 

training .  . what does he have to do to a chance maybe not a full 
time job , but at least a couple starts and a few for him to prove 
his worth 

gee .  . i do n't know. 17 sounds pretty good to me ! about as good 
as your reasoning that the kid should play a back up role rather 
than start every day at  . talk about me as a  .  .  . 

is n't saying he should back up. he 's saying he should be put 
in a position to win the job in the major , which , imho , he 
would if given the opportunity .  .  ( val , if i'm , please 
let me know . ) . 

so far you have come up with two arguments against 
1 ) he is very ordinary  . 
2 ) he is young , and most when they are young. 

the first is irrelevant .  . he 's trying to make the with his  . 
and the second involves seriously reasoning .  . 



ok. most are not ready for the at age 22  ( see current 
related posting on clayton , one of my  . most 
benefit , rather than being or hurt , by playing at  . 
most need to be solid to help their 
in the  . those are the arguments against for the 
for this year .  . 

but the who are ready are 1)the ) best and 2 ) the ones most 
likely to benefit from being in the  . is not a middle 
of the road  . he 's the real thing. now. 

again , the most important thing a can do is hit .  . does that 
better than or  . if his defense is good enough for 
, or , it 's good enough for  . if he really was 
awful , he would no longer be a  . see , ed .  . 

now. the have two who have demonstrated solid 
abilities to call games , to work with the , to out 
 . not mind you , but solid , experienced veterans .  . 
the have a very solid with two big in the 
, an excellent at first , a solid candidate 
at third and one of the better hitting  . the center 
field will probably hit  .  . however good  
what they have to offset the in experience and 
ability .  . the kid will improve playing at , and 
he probably wo n't being a reserve with the big club. 

oh , where to start .  .  .  . ok. first of all , solid ! good. i want good  . 
solid is one of those words used to describe nice white guys who really 
are n't very good at baseball .  . think of it as without the caps .  . 
it 's a strategy to say , we have solid guys , we do n't need to improve .  . 
you used it four times in that paragraph , btw. 

same for experienced .  . i might add , though , that greg and 
are n't exactly and  . has played three years , 
five , although 90 and 91 were a  . the only difference , 
imho , between and is the supporting cast .  . 

two big  .  . i like justice , but i find mr. 's trend  . 
call it one and a maybe. the  is ok , but neither 
has any value outside of the  . vs. and vs. 
are awful .  . i 'll leave the comment alone. has 
too much bandwidth already. if the  . , i 'll 
mr. 's run down , and i live in ny and la .  . 
 ( got that , mike ) 

and does n't call , anyway 

goodness .  . do you believe the other poster who thinks 
is being held down because of his future potential 
why on earth do you people made this decision 
are they idiots who have built this  .  .  . 

nope .  . they 're baseball , possible the most short 
collection of people in the nation .  . do you not believe this goes on , 
mark do you think frank thomas needed those three months in in 
1990 or cal was n't really better than bones last year 

and i'm the  .  .  . 

you 're mostly polite make defensible , if flawed cases have wit and 
have , in the past , admitted being wrong. that does qualify you on r . s . b .  . 
we 'll make an out of you , yet ) 

the 
mark 


 .  .  . greg . , more like 
voice , i'm afraid .  .  .  . 
, 4 8 93 


from ( ) 
subject re behind how 
article i.d. 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 12 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 


writes 

and will have era 's 1 run higher than last year , and 
the will be idiots and not pitch as much as  . 
wo n't be good (i think he 's a pitcher ) 

this so far , and helped to lead the 
at top in era , even better than the at  . 
era at 0 . while at 0 .  . we know it is early 
in the , we have learned how to enjoy the 
short while it is still there. 

from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re 1988 1992 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 25 

in article  ( brett rogers ) writes 
in article  ( dale stephenson ) writes 
smith ,  .  .  .  .  . 664 . 0 . 
the 's 1988 is the second highest year ever. still very good , 
but i do n't like the way his numbers have declined every year .  . in a few 
years may be a  . 

that 's rich .  .  .  . smith a  .  .  . 

why do you suppose he 's immune to the of time he 's 37 .  . 
in a few years he 'll be 40 .  . he does n't get to as many as 
he used to , and will get to still as his legs go , as they do 
on every human so far. 

remember was a at he end of his 
career too.  . just about everyone else who 
played into their late 30 's .  . 

roger 
brett 






from  ( bruce klopfenstein ) 
subject  . source over case closed 
organization green state university b . g .  . , oh. 
distribution na 
lines 13 

 ( mike fester ) writes 

i 'd say you could make a good for them being about equal right now. t p 
rated higher , actually. 

mike 

finally , an objective source. 's a great , but so is  . 
nice to see the objective source cited rather than my 's bigger than 
your posts. 




from the  ( michael lurie ) 
subject  . 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization allegheny college 
lines 14 


do you realize that the are paying matt 2 , , 000 dollars 
this year ! ! ! !  . and only gets , 000 .  . 



by the way , the are going to win it all 


are the best. 



by the way , , an ex , will be of the year .  . 

from  ( craig meyer ) 
subject re jack 
organization , stanford university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 27 

michael wrote 

in any case , i think would have made a better  . why 
is , and is left handed  ( how many left handed starters does 
have 

well , i agree that is a better  . however , why does 
everyone say that you want starters i understand 
, even though they usually face more 
than  . i just do n't understand why people insist 
on starters , unless there is a park effect (e . g .  . ,  . 
most in are , so starters will have 
the advantage more often than starters .  . 
i guess one argument for starters is that certain teams 
may be more vulnerable to 's than 's .  . however , this is probably 
only a factor in the , because teams seldom their starters 
for this reason during the regular  . 

i think you just want the best starters you can get , regardless of 
whether they are or  . starters tend to have 
higher era 's than starters , precisely because 
go out of their way to start inferior  ( or perhaps because of 
the  . 

am i missing something here 

craig 

from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re mike 's 1993 predictions 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 24 

in article  ( vaughn , richard ) writes 
in article , writes 
in article ,  ( vaughn , richard ) writes 

mike mentioned his  93 baseball in 
passing on the radio yesterday. being that this is 
 , the opinions are well worth consideration .  . 

indeed ! after all , he was the the year of the big east in the 
! , none of those teams made it into the 
, much less new  . 

neither did he ! 

overall mike has an outstanding prediction record .  . 

overall how do you figure 

ignore him at your own peril .  . 

so far my radio has n't from not being to  .  .  . 


roger 

subject a new in future 
from  ( ian m. derby ) 
expires sat , 1 may 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
organization virginia commonwealth university 
keywords 
summary 
lines 17 


those who live inthe philadelphia area .  .  .  . 

back in september i was listening to , and i remember the morning 
guys were talking with ed  . the topic of conversation 
was a new ball park for the  . the for this new park 
was suggested to be near station .  . at the time , the was 
that in the future this could become a reality. has 
there been any new news on this subject or is it still a dream 
i know the city of philadelphia has other ahead , such as the 
new center and the spectrum ii. but it would be 
nice to see this a reality. it is that the leave 
the and leave it solely to the  ( and if that 's the case , 
the should make the a grass , but that 's another 
 . i want to see that day ! 

comments 

from  ( scot hughes ) 
subject re i hate to mention , but .  .  .  .  . 
keywords , , 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization none 
distribution na 
lines 32 

in article  ( bruce m hasch ) writes 
in article ,  ( paul andresen ) writes .  .  .  . 
i feel as if i might be causing some bad by doing this , but i just have 
to know .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

is the ack man still in organized baseball 

glad you asked ! ! the ack man , and of his relatives , are currently 
the baltimore  . personally , i believe 
that the evil the real o 's , and are currently in the 
process of , , ,  . 

no , no no. the ack man is apparently an alien life form , much 
like the people from planet , who can take on any form  ( the 
ability remains the same ,  . the ack people have been on 
many teams to date , but it appears that the  ( mentioned 
above) and the  ( barnes , , , and 
rojas ) have been the prime target. apparently john was 
up by the ack people during spring training due to the fact that his 
system rejected the , and has been on the ever since. contact 
the authorities ! this evil plot must be stopped !  ( the ack people can 
keep jack and , though. i enjoy watching 
suffer too much to want these guys returned to normal ) 

 . 




department of chemical engineering in  93 ! 
university , montreal , quebec witty saying here 


from  ( lance smith ) 
subject re quick way to tell if your local writer is  . 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization the little of the poor 
distribution na 
lines 28 

in article  ( bob hobokenite ) writes 

(i think that 's him ) fits perfectly in this category .  . 

could be. there is a that writes weekly for some press 
and also for baseball america .  . 

anyone who writes dean has 2 at this , he 'll 
have home runs ! should be shot .  . 

if , at the end of april , he has 11 , and anyone writes at this 
, he 'll have 100 ! they shot too. 

has done this sort of thing , but he has never been serious about it. 
he usually states that this sort of is useless at the top of 
such  . i think he did it one and some was 
to be thrown out of 60 games and some could expect to be 
150 times. 

does some really funny stuff. his weekly baseball are good 
collections of strange things that happened during the previous week. he 
also regularly  . 


smith after being named for the 
a 's , mr was by a 
special limited edition red headed an  . 
r . s . bb .  . signature . murder at the 

from  ( dan swartzendruber ) 
subject re first red win 6 0 
organization open software foundation research institute 
lines 18 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( jim mann ) writes 

deleted 

someone told me this game started at 10 05  . is this true who 
in their right mind would go to a game on monday at 

keep in mind this was in  . today was patriots day , a state 
holiday .  . i think it might be a floating holiday , but given that the 
also happens the same day , most people do n't go in. 




include disclaimer . h . 

dan s. 

from 
subject re 
lines 41 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university , des , iowa , usa 

in article ,  ( dave p7630 ) writes 
in article ,  ( sherri nichols ) writes 
every single piece of evidence we can find points to major league baseball 
being 50 offense , 50 defense .  . a run is just as important as a run 
prevented .  . 

this certainly passes the common sense test for me , but is there any 
statistical evidence to say what percent of defense is and what 
percent is i 'd really like to know. btw , , thanks for 
the data i find it fascinating .  . 

of course a run is just as important as a run prevented .  . 
just as a saved is a earned .  . enough with the  . 
my point is that if the starters are able to live up to 
their potential , they wo n't need much offensive support .  . 
i realize this is a big if .  . this leaves the  in the  . 
there is no legitimate comparison .  . two young , and three other 
that most any team in the league would kill to have as their first 
or second  . it seems to me that when quality take the 
, the other teams score less runs .  . the team that scores the most 
runs  . this puts the team with the better at the advantage 
 ( providing they can stop the team from  . a low 
game would clearly benefit the  . they should have many 
low games due to their excellent and below average hitting .  . 
on the flip side , if you had a starting of great offensive , 
i would be arguing that this team would not need great  . 
they would have an advantage because they could simply their 
opponent .  . the name of the games is to win .  . even ray knight knows that 
you do this by putting more runs up on the  . 
all i'm trying to say is that if you the quality 
like the have , the offense does n't need to be as strong .  . 




dave 






from  ( harold brooks ) 
subject , , and 
organization bill 's safety and record bar , , ok 
lines 49 

off and on over the last several months , threads about and 
related have gotten me to thinking about how well we can 
a 's using information about his overall 
and the number of in position  ( risp ) 
that he with. in the model , bill james calculated 
predicted as  .  ( total bases ) home runs .  . this 
completely the context , which was all that 
could do , since context was unknown to it. so i thought i 'd 
take that idea as a starting point and look how good a fit to 
the data you get by comparing  ( rbi home runs ) to  . 

i 've started with team data , using data from the 's that 
i 've picked up over the years when a ) i could afford them and 
b ) i could stomach the thought of increasing 's  . 
that gave me the years 1984 1986 , 1988 , and 1990. (i do n't 
have team for '87 or i could add that year . ) . if you 
run a simple least fit to the data you get 

 ( rbi home runs ) 0 .  . 

the correlation between the and the is 0 . 86 . , which is 
significant at a high level. so , i feel like the 
fit is good at the team level. i 've no started to move on to 
the level and have looked at 4  ( will clark , 
smith , joe , and  . i hope to 
add quite a few more during my free time this year .  . 

it does n't do too , except the equation the 
low  ( smith ) , which may be a fault of the model or it 
could just be  . the results 


years actual predicted 
 ( 84 88 , 90 ) 400 402 . 6 . 
clark  ( 87 , 88 , 90 , 92 ) 6 . 
matt  ( 84 88 , 90 ) 8 . 
smith  ( 84 88 , 90 ) 6 . 

i think we can make a case  ( and i hope to make it stronger ) that 
can be predicted simply from knowing how a overall 
and how many men are in position when he comes up. 

more later , 



national severe  ( norman , ok ) 
i used to work for a , too , but i did n't drink on the job. 
p. on 's view that florida can win the east in  93 

from  ( doug bone ) 
subject to 
article i.d. 24 . 
lines 34 

 ( sherri nichols ) writes 

can anybody name a who was   to the  ( let 's , for 
argument 's sake , define as brought up to the for more than 
a cup of coffee prior at age 22 or , and below 
expectations ) , whose career was by this 

i tend to agree that are not hurt by early play in the big  . 
the organization is a ground to test this hypothesis , as they 
had little talent on their for some time. steve , for example , 
was to the , and he very poorly during his initial campaign. 
his subsequent has not been affected by his 5 era during his 
year .  . bill james pointed out that it was relatively unusual to struggle so 
and then  . 

bob was also to the  ( out of arizona state directly ) had 
good numbers immediately .  . 

i am not certain of the ages of people like smith , craig , and 
 . the were so bad when they came up 
that they might have been  . and smith , but it 
did n't hurt ps and may have been  . i seem to recall 
well initially , though i do n't have  . 

douglas bone internet 
standard disclaimers bitnet bone 
apply. uucp  .  . ! ! stanford . edu . ! bone 

from  ( chuck  .  .  . mcmath ) 
subject re  is a genius ! 
organization ear admiration society 
lines 37 

in article ,  ( chuq von rospach ) 
wrote 

 ( chuck  .  .  . mcmath ) writes 



when the protected mike benjamin  ( career average  . 
, there were surprised looks in the bay area 

benjamin 's  .  .  . , 42 , 14 h , 4 , 2  . 

and 's even been sent down to  . so it 's even better than that , 
eh 

of course , the protected list was done by the old regime , not the new , so 
this is rosen 's baby , not 's .  . 

and i 'll tell you what. let 's look at this again at the end of the , 
and , say in three years , and see who the genius is. one of the more 
decisions by the , imho .  . even if benjamin does improve 
over the past  ( and his hitting is better ) he 's never going to be 
more than a utility if .  . might turn into a top in 
another year .  . 

i think the next time i post something like this , i obviously need to make 
the sarcasm a bit more obvious .  .  .  . 





, inc. 
national library of medicine national of health 
, md no is good 
hey , hey , hey , swing anon .  . 
this opinion by cosmic radiation 

from  ( gidi avrahami ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization of 
lines 8 

i thought that was jewish .  . i seem to recall this 
was mentioned once while he was still at  . 

also , i have my suspicions about esther  ( nee  . 





from 
subject re jewish baseball 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university , des , iowa , usa 

in article ,  ( pablo a iglesias ) writes 
in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 

thanks. 
bobby 



would have to be the most famous , because his jewish 
faith actually affected his play .  .  ( missing late or was it world 
series games because of kippur ) 

i thought that was  . 









from ( ) 
subject re mel hall 
organization university of virginia 
lines 10 

writes 

has anyone heard anything about mel hall this i 'd heard he was n't 
with the any more. what happened to him 

doug 



japan , i think. 

from  ( james kahn ) 
subject re tigers a 's 
organization university of rochester  ( rochester , ny ) 
lines 11 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 

in article  ( michael wynblatt ) writes 

thing 20 4 going into the top of the ninth , 
used his closer ,  . the tigers have 8 
and at least 6 were available. does trust 
them that little 

i think he just wanted to get some work , because the 
tigers had days off both the day before and the day after. 

jim 

from  ( mark singer ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 18 

in article  ( vb30 ) writes 



it 's , not , and he 's not jewish he 's 
 ( by the way , the correct according to himself , 
is . all the get it wrong) 



and jewish are not mutually exclusive .  . 





mark 


from  ( matthew t thompson ) 
subject music censorship survey please fill out 
organization university of new hampshire , nh 
lines 
nntp posting host edu . 

, i'm doing a paper on censorship in music and i would appreciate it if you took the time to participate in this survey .  . please answer as each question asks  ( 'why ' simply means that you have room to explain your answer , if you chose . ) .  . the last question is for any comments , questions , or suggestions .  . thank you in advance , please e mail to the address at the end. 

i ) are you male female 
ii ) what is your age 
iii)what ) is your major occupation 
iv ) what type of music do you listen to  ( check all that apply ) 
a. hard b. metal c. alternative d. e. 
f. jazz g. soft h. easy listening i. country 
j. classical k. hard core l. dance m. new age 
n .  . others  ( did i miss any ) 

1 ) do you think with or offensive be labeled yes no why 




2 ) do you think certain should be from  ( under 18 years of age ) yes no why 




3) do you think certain should be banned. period. yes no why 




4 ) if yes to any of the above , who should decide 
a. parents 
b. government 
c. music industry 
d. other 

feel free to add any comments on this. 





5 ) do you think more less should be done for record sales , or do you think the present system is enough 





6 ) what is your definition of censorship also , feel free to add comments , suggestions , questions , or further explanations .  . 








please e mail at or hit  r  to reply. 

thanks. 
matthew t. 


disclaimer if any responses are used in paper , they will be (sp ) unless the person they what their name to be used. 



this  . sig . is closed for 

, matthew t. ! , , @ 
e mail at or 


from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject old predictions to laugh at .  .  .  . 
summary long ! 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 


oops ! i came across this file from last year .  . thought you might 
enjoy some of these thoughts. the predictions were made on the 
date indicated .  . they are largely out of order. 



june 11 , 1992 
 ( me ! ) 
what have i done i the expected percentage for 
each team from their , total bases , and runs allowed .  . i use the 
basic rc and the  . i then compare this 
with their actual percentage .  . all through june 7. 

team w l 
baltimore 0 . 33 21 0 . 36 
boston 0 . 26 25 0 . 38 
0 . 750 34 22 0 . 
new york 0 . 28 26 0 . 5 
milwaukee 0 . 226 28 25 0 . 31 
0 . 24 31 0 . 11 
cleveland 0 . 316 . 274 22 34 0 . 7 

minnesota 0 . 30 24 0 . 29 
0 . 32 23 0 . 50 
texas 0 . 33 26 0 . 90 
chicago 0 . 212 25 27 0 . 22 
california 0 . 664 22 32 0 . 30 
kansas city 0 . 310 . 22 32 0 . 13 
seattle 0 . 310 . 290 22 33 0 . 24 

you all know how things turned out. the , red , and 
all disappeared .  . the and tigers continued at essentially the 
expected  . the and in the second half .  . 

the predictably took a  . that should n't have surprised 
anybody .  . , as predicted , the dropped behind the 
angels and  . they clearly did n't the 22 33 record in 
june .  . the white and a 's their game a bit , while the 
dropped off a little. but for the most part things were as expected .  . 

okay , so there were a few blatant errors. but for a 
, i thought this did pretty well. 


from tue 31 16 36 34 1992 
1. the insert kent into the starting 
sometime this year  . is or released , 
brandt becomes the , and the best in baseball 
has , , , , freeman , and smith , who 
starts as well. 

 . smith made the instead of  . and 
was n't released until the end of the year .  . i wo n't comment on the 
 .  ( jeff ) 

2. the starting job outright by the end 
of may .  . goes on the , and goes on a nice hitting 
(a la gregg in 1988 ) with  . 
the center field job a bit later  ( all star break ) and 
nixon on as a valuable  . is released unless 
the find a in a trade .  . 

right on  . wrong on and  . a bit early on 
, as with  . did n't pick  .  ( did anybody ) 

3. to be fired this year  ( 1992 ) in order 
, , , 

three of them went , right is still around  ( and likely to 
stick , it  . 



from com . ! com . tue 31 17 04 22 1992 
1 ) bonds gets from for some young talent .  . 

nope ! they won the division , and so kept him for a shot at the 
 . 

2 ) win division 

) well , they did n't finish last .  . 

3) repeats in the west 

got that one right. 

4 ) surprise everyone , but finish second behind  . 

nope .  . 

5 ) 20 , but is by who 22 .  . 

i guess this is why you picked the to win , huh 

6 ) roger is injured early in the  . 

 . not nice to something like this. 

7 ) fails to hit even 20 home runs and is often injured .  . 
8 ) due to 7 , drop out of race .  . 

you got that right ! 



and my response .  .  .  . 

from tue 31 17 57 42 1992 

! can tell you are a fan ! do you mind if i make some counter 
predictions against yours they follow 
2 ) come in third , behind pittsburgh and montreal .  . 

okay , so the finished  . but i got the and 
right ! 

4 ) the offense and , dropping them to fourth 
place in the al east .  . boston games , the division , the , 
and the world series .  . 

first half dead on ! second half  .  .  .  . i'm a fan , go easy 
on me ! 

5 ) his , gets blown out , and goes on the from 
may through mid  . 
runs a  . record the for giving away 
that great talent , who has a solid year in  . 

so i got my predictions for and reversed .  . ) i 
was at least close , and was right about  .  ( though i do n't 
know. has criticized the trade ) 

6 ) roger another , as well as 20 games. 

close. no  . 



in article ,  ( amit likhyani ) writes 
excerpts from netnews . rec . baseball . 1 apr re  ( east 
trade 's .  .  .  ( 591 ) 

ops for 1992 
 . 

i will down avenue if does not more than 
a  . ops .  . something is wrong with that  . 

some predictions need no introduction ! 



from mon apr 13 02 09 15 1992 
from 
do you care to put your prediction down for you 
mark will get 90  . i say you are out of your mind. that 
is almost impossible for a 10 type guy behind  .  ( who 
kills most of the rallies he does n't finish . ) . 

why do you say that mark has driven in  ( '90 ) and  . 
last year mark was second primarily and it was his worse year 
average wise .  . since he is either 3rd or this year i 
he will be back up to his previous standards (i think he will be better ) 
90 's is not that much of a stretch .  . 

sometimes us get lucky .  . did n't hit behind 
the entire , but he also finished with only  . 



from tue may 19 22 09 06 1992 

the most prediction ever 

mark will hit 61 or more hrs this year .  . 

nope .  . he down , and the injury finished him off. did n't 
even reach 50 .  . but a prediction , nonetheless .  . 



from thu may 21 16 42 21 1992 
(1) baltimore will not  . they will not win the division this year , 
but they will finish within five games. i find the of two 
20 each easier to comprehend than that of two  . 
no offense i think their is about as good as the division 
has to offer .  . 

the finished seven games out. none of them won 20  ( though 
might have had a chance , with better relief and more  . 

(2) nobody else in the division is worth a  . they all finish a minimum 
of games out , the tribe 30 .  . that 's another reason to watch 
baltimore this year and next they wo n't waste many of those games 
against the rest of the division .  . 

except for the  ( who you probably forgot ) , you were right ! the 
rest of the division was thoroughly  . the and 
led with 76 , the red with 73  . none were 
horrible , but four were five or more games below  .  . 


from  ( david johnson ) 
date thu , 6 1992 15 47 30 gmt 

right. that was me. i never said the were a to it 
but i said that milwaukee will be more of a threat than baltimore .  . i 
do think that should win it but after '87 i do n't consider 
anything a unless you have something like a 4 game lead with 3 
games to go. i do think that the have the best team in 
the al east and if we had a good , or even average we might 
have a bigger lead right now. i also think that the will not 
play much better than  . baseball for the rest of the  . 

you win ! 



from thu 14 14 33 45 1991 

in article you write 
7. the first and only 0 162 ever ! ) 

prediction the cleveland will win 70 or more games next year .  . 

you were right ! 



from fri 13 01 15 52 1991 

1. jose will win the 1992 young award if he is healthy enough to go 
at least  .  ( who would have thought he would try to steal a base why 
risk such an injury ) 

he had , but did n't win the young. surprised all. 

2. the will win 88 games in at least 3 of the next 6 years 
 ( probably the last 3) and their will have a team era 
among the best 4 in the al in at least 3 of the next 6 years  ( but not 
necessarily all the same years as they win 88 ) .  . this one will take a 
long time to verify .  . 

i do n't think i want to wait that long .  . but they won 89 games last 
year , and they were in the league in era. not a bad start. 

4. ben will not challenge for an era title in the next 2 
years , nor will he have 18 either year .  .  ( by challenge , i 
mean finish among the leaders being among the leaders before the 
is done does n't count . ) . he will probably never be the 
he was to be , but is still a decent to have. 

looks like it. he was n't bad last year , just too consistent to be an 
 . so far this year looks like more of the same. 

5. the will give up many walks if when they get rid of their 
 . (i am not when or whether they will get rid 
of him , and you will have to give the team a little bit of time to 
before seeing the radical change .  . they would have a fine if 
they would just steal ray miller away from  . the white seem to 
have the same problem , but not as bad . ) . 

i honestly ca n't say. did they get rid of him their bb were 
down last year .  . 

7. will have 90 if he starts 145 games , hitting in 
the 3 or 4 or 5 in any or the 6 in a with very 
good in the 4 , 5  . this applies for each of the next 3 
years. 

i just do n't think he 's that good .  .  .  .  . 

12. will never again hit over  . 240 . with 400  . 

) so far , so good. i'm definitely not waiting to check this one. 



from ! fri 13 12 38 08 1991 

no matter what and his scouts say , paul will 
never ever be an adequate major league  . never ! (i have never 
seen a starting who can only strike out 3 per 9 at 
be successful in the ) . 

current plans seem to be to use in long relief .  . he has a 
and unusual  . he might be decent in that role .  . 



from sat 14 01 51 28 1991 
m . v . p .  . 
a . l .  . frank thomas 
n . l .  . 

division 
a . l .  . east baltimore 
a . l .  . west chicago white 
a . l .  . chicago white 
n . l .  . east st. 
n . l .  . west 
n . l .  . 
w . s .  . 

wrong on all of the above.  ( hal ) 



and my ! 

from sun 20 23 52 57 1991 

will not walk as many as 50 times in 1992 .  . 
will hit more than he has walks in 1992 .  . 

hit 34 last year , walking 52 times  ( but five of those were 
intentional ! ) .  . okay , so i  . but i might have been right. 



from tue 31 15 25 28 1992 

are the o 's going to sign cal , of is 's shut  ( outgoing 
money only , wide open for cash 8  ) 

my prediction  ( which you may make note of , ) ) , is that 
will defer any serious on cal 's contract until the  
is over. will give cal every opportunity to have his 
a bit from last year 's before coming forth with an offer .  . 

 ( despite claims that was designed to cal 's strength , my feeling is that 
the foot left center canyon will cut down on cal 's power ) . 

after all , it 's hard to to offer 3 4 million year to an 
all star game al gold baseball deity ) 
but it 'd be a lot easier to offer a similar to an obviously 
but above average who had a career year one full 
ago. 

of course , if cal does match his  91 numbers , then is going to be 
with a rather huge  ( and expensive ) problem .  .  .  . 

how much did cal sign for when did he sign if i remember 
correctly , he got a rather contract despite a weak  . 



and finally .  .  .  .  . 

from thu 12 10 35 1991 

generally , because of in 1993 , there will be a lot of 
talent hanging around. much of it will not make it , as the 
teams look for talent around which to build their 
teams .  . my specific predictions 

as of april 7 , 1993 

jim and will be selling  . 

is still in sf .  . is gone 

neither charlie nor  ( presently in tiger aa but 
big leaguers ) will be playing ball .  . 

they are n't in the  . 

nor will dave  ( who says he 's keeping in shape with a hope for 
another shot with  . 

never heard of him. 

and will be in the major  . 
 ( they are in the tiger minor league system ) 

i do n't think they are in the  . 

ron will be a minor league with the  . 

what happened to him. 

it will be bye bye for  . 

if he 's still around , he 's stuck in the  . 

will not be a  . 

 . with out , looks to get a lot of  . 

will have moved to  ( they 're on the 
net ! ) , 

) 

and dave will return to canada to live. 

 . 



thanks for listening ! 


from  ( charles m kozierok ) 
subject re tigers 
organization institute of technology 
lines 20 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 
keywords is the top offensive team in the league 

in article  ( david vergolini ) writes 
the at michigan and should be than ever this year .  . with 
mike at the head and ernie back at the , the tiger 
will bang this summer .  . already they have 20 runs in two games and with 
, , and deer i think they can win the division .  . no ! 
bull ! , , , and make up a decent that will keep 
the team into many games. then there is to close it out. watch out 
boston , , and baltimore the city are back .  . 

nice  ( or should i say ) .  . 
and yes , the are a fun , team that i would pay to see. 
but last year , they went 75 87 .  . this year , their offense is essentially 
the same , and their is , at best , essentially the same. so why 
do you think they will suddenly improve to win the or so games which will 
be required to win the a . l .  . east what has changed that i do n't see 

remember , a 20 4 win is worth as much in the as a 3 2 win .  .  .  . 


charles 

from  ( jay rogoff ) 
subject re  61 
organization college , ny 
lines 6 


bunker were later. 

, , steve , and . . . 



from  ( dale stephenson ) 
subject re  ( not rookies ) 
article i.d. 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 19 

in  ( daniel brian lake ) writes 

you 'd think that an team would be filled with young , not guys 
like , , b smith .  .  .  . 

it depends .  . if you can get your old veterans cheap , and if they can perform 
at a higher level than your young talent can now , why not the talent 
develop in the while giving the some familiar names to  . 
if the veterans are gone in a year or two that should be just about right. 

maybe someone should tell those front office people in denver .  . ) 

open question which was more important to the , the 
draft or the regular draft .  .  ( they 've had one of each , i think . ) . 

j. baseball 

it is considered good to look wise , especially when not 
with information j. golden 

subject al 
from michael 
reply to michael 
distribution rec 
organization canada remote systems 
lines 11 


i am looking for a source of american league baseball for 
individual in the same format as printed in newspapers , ie .  . i do 
not want to provide a list of and get back nice printed reports 
for 35 a week. 

does anyone know of such statistics and an idea of the 
cost 

canada remote systems , ontario 


from  ( russ anderson ) 
subject re a of offense 
originator 
lines 35 
nntp posting host 
organization the 1991 world minnesota ! 


in article ,  ( pablo a iglesias ) writes 
in article  ( edward fischer ) writes 
last year the american league runs in games , for a 
total of 8 . 6 . runs per game , with 1.0 game. through tuesday , the al 
has runs in 48 games , for a total of 9.9 runs per game , and a 
total of 1 . 7 . game. in 1987 there were 9 . 8 . runs per game , and 2 . 3 . 
game. 

the big question how significant is this have we returned to 1987 
or is this just a minor abberation 

some thoughts 

d ) i thought offense was generally down in april , as the 
got warm and got tired .  . this may be a bigger 
abberation from the norm than it seems. 

1. i do n't get a feeling that the has been an issue this year .  . 
there does n't seem to be a really cold in north america which 
does makes it harder to hit  ( not to mention making the ball carry less ) 

you obviously did not watch the in chicago .  . 

no cold it 's been most of the week in minnesota .  . 
 ( 5 in last weekend ) 

i would still put things under the too early to tell category .  . 

yup .  . 


disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 
upon my employer or anyone else.  ( c ) 1993 
ex  jack , 10 , 0 runs  ( world series ! ) 

from  ( eric roush ) 
subject re to 
organization biochemistry 
lines 33 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

in article  ( mike marler ) 
writes 
in 
 ( shannon  . for ed .  . tech ) writes 

at times it seems as if no others in the are used by for middle 
relief .  . marvin only 7 this spring .  . he is supposed to be 
over his , and i am wondering if is still trying to decide who to 
use as middle relief and thinks that marvin might be his better choice 
early in the  . i would immediately give many chances to 
pitch after spring and then use bedrock and freeman after that. i am 
wondering 
how he intends to use  .  ( whatever happened to ) 


do you mean he was for mark davis in the middle 
of last  . one for another , as had n't 
come back from his injury in 91 .  . i think he 's now. 

anyhow , as middle relief , marvin ai n't that bad. he at least can 
pitch a couple of or do up work. i do n't know much 
about  ( was he the league guy ) , but 
everybody else in the pen is a 1 man , except maybe 
 . 



eric duke . edu . 
i am a marxist , of the sort 
, , 

!  ( although the internet comes close . ) . 


from  ( charles m kozierok ) 
subject re baseball 
organization institute of technology 
lines 9 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article  ( david wood ) writes 
how does one read the for baseball they tend to be something 
like 8 9 which means it must not be runs ! 

that spread means you bet 5 on the to win 8 , or 9 on the 
favorite to win 5. 


charles 

from  ( rudy wade ) 
subject re 1 game closer 
article i.d. netcom . 
organization home of the 
lines 18 

my god , hope we do n't have to put up with this kind of junk all ! 

in article  ( jason walter works ) writes 
the n . y . , are now one game closer to the a . l . east .  . they 
cleveland , 9 1 , on a fine by key , and two 
by  ( tartabull(first m . l . baseball . to go out this season ) , and a three 

how many home runs by just 1 , right , you must be thinking 
of dean or  ( both of texas ) who each had 2  . 

run by  . for all of you who did n't pick in your pools , 
tough break , he had a couple , and in a couple  ( runs(with many more 

i do n't know how many to follow , but he was 1 for 4. 

go  . , for g . , and , and for young. 

spare us , please ! 

subject win the ! ! ! ! 
from  ( maria rosales ) 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 4 

win the ! ! win the ! !  .  .  . 
i guess i'm a little early here .  .  .  . 
see you in october .  .  .  . 


from  ( david steinman ) 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization engineering 
lines 15 

 ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 

the of the is a team that has no talent and comes 
out of nowhere to  . the  and  89 are prime examples , 
not the  . 

sorry , but it is virtually impossible to win a division with no talent 
over 162 games. 

i would amend your definition to 

a team expected to lose , but which thanks to 
talent .  . 

dave ! 

from  ( david vergolini ) 
subject tigers 
organization michigan state university 
lines 7 
nntp posting host edu . 
summary who can stop the of the tiger 's  . 
keywords is the top offensive team in the league 

the at michigan and should be than ever this year .  . with 
mike at the head and ernie back at the , the tiger 
will bang this summer .  . already they have 20 runs in two games and with 
, , and deer i think they can win the division .  . no ! 
bull ! , , , and make up a decent that will keep 
the team into many games. then there is to close it out. watch out 
boston , , and baltimore the city are back .  . 

from  ( gary the huckabay ) 
subject bill james book 1993 .  . 
organization l orange club , ltd .  . 
lines 26 

 ( dave  this has never happened to me before  kirsch ) writes 
correction was the only identified in this book as a grade a 
who was exposed to the draft .  .  . , according to bill james in the 
 stop the  section his  . he valued 
at 21 , and said that 's value does not increase as a 
result of his selection  ( although he did a break getting away from the 
strongest in  . 

i thought bill james  latest book completely and totally  . i bought 
it , but will not anything of his ever again without thoroughly 
looking at it first. what tripe .  . 

the book is inconsistent , and filled with selective analysis. james 
claims to be looking forward , and then makes some absolutely bizarre 
statements of value. not only that , but i got the impression he 
probably at the book for about an hour before he put his name 
on it. 

to say i was is a grand  . 



kevin the al of the mid 90 's ! 
a living argument for if there 's anything we love more than a huge 
existence of parallel  . sig . , it 's someone quoting 100 lines to add 
universes .  . 3 or 4 new ones. and posts , too. 

from  ( bob hobokenite ) 
subject re quick way to tell if your local writer is  . 
article i.d. apr . 6 . 00 . 33 . 22 . 1993 . 
distribution na 
organization somewhere in 
lines 7 

ok sorry about that .  .  . i . did n't realise he was being about 
those sort of things. 

but i 'll tell you , mike  ( daily news ) usually says some pretty 
funny things in his shooting from the  .  .  . 

bob 

from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 20 

 ( orin roth ) writes 

well , my guess is because america loves  . every year , no matter 
the  talent or the predictions , they never  ( as close to never as 
possible ) win anything. over the years , as the has mounted , america 
has fallen in love with these  . the have more 
in chicago then some teams do  . the have more 
than most of the teams in their division combined .  . 
an of the at the beginning of the 
like no one else.  ( including the champs ) it must be that eternal hope. 

actually i the spirit of the fan at the several years 
ago who held up a sign that said wait till next year . 


eric smith he threatened me ! if it was a president of the 
united states you 'd investigate ! ... what 's the 
difference i'm a of the united states ! 
, jerry 


organization university of system 
from ryan robbins 
subject re rule 

lines 8 

actually , there can be any number of on a side. you can 
have a 25 man , a 40 man , etc .  .  .  .  . 

ryan robbins 
hall 
university of 



from m  ( corelmark ! ) 
subject re best 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university 
lines 18 

i have n't been following the previous 's .  . but there are two , that i saw 
live that would have to be up there  ( up where there ! ) .  . 
1 ) monday 's to bury the in the in  . 
it was hit off steve , who is a and primarily a  . 
why was he used as a when the  had and 
up in the  . considering monday could n't touch , 
would have been a safe bet. he was n't even doing any drugs at that 
time  ( or so he told me and around 50 others on a recent venture into 
montreal .  . the was n't the important aspect .  . it was the  . 
seventh game , a tie game , and in the top of the  . the almost 
came back though .  .  .  . 
2 ) mike hit one that killed the in  . so close , yet , so 
far. 
and 
3) killed a pitch on the second day of the a couple of 
years ago. it went off the technical in the big o .  . it almost left 
the ! that was hit hard ! ! ! 
! 

from ( ) 
subject re the are rapists ! ! 
organization university of virginia 
lines 34 

writes 
in the new book about the it talks about how they like to rape little 
girls before games. sick ! ! ! 



is this the book by bob  ( spelling ) , the 
worst team money can buy if it is , i would n't give the book , 
or anything in it any value whatsoever. wrote the 
book to make money  ( obviously ) and literature is 
going to sell a lot better than what he usually writes for the 
papers .  . i'm not calling him a liar , but if there was any proof 
that a met had a little girl before a game  ( let 
alone doing it on a regular basis ) they would be in jail , not 
 . 
for those people who do not know what the press is like 
in new york , it is probably more cut throat than in just about 
any other part of the u.s. keith said it very well on 
a couple of days ago , they would much rather mention a 
fight , than a two run in the ninth to win a 
game. i do not read 's news regularly , but i 
do know that he has been accused before as being an 
that enjoys  ( hopefully for only reasons ) to 
up a news story , even if there is n't one there. now as far as 
the confrontation with bobby a few days ago , i almost 
totally blame  . no matter what a member of the press 
does , and no matter how much of a individual he might 
be , that does not give a the right to threaten a 
 . 
personally , i always thought that a writer that 
always follows a club around should report the news , but not be 
looking to degrade a team .  . i do n't know whether to blame 
, because that may be the only way to keep a job in new 
york .  . 

from  ( kevin schmidt ) 
subject through first week 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

here is the  ( offensive index ) for all with at 
least 10 at  . 

it is early in the so there are some high numbers. bonds 
finished last at 0 .  . 

i welcome comments and suggestions .  . 

kevin 

league 0 . 
league 0 . 252 . 
league 0 . 
league 0 . 

rank 

1 , 1 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
2 , 1 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
3 , 1 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
4 , may 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
5 , boston 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
6 , bell 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 467 . 
7 , 0 . 0 . 458 . 0 . 0 . 458 . 
8 , 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 600 . 0 . 
9 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
10 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 467 . 
11 mon , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
12 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
13 mon , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
14 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 
15 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 
16 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
17 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
18 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
19 mon , 0 . 675 . 0 . 0 . 600 . 0 . 
20 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
21 , 0 . 646 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
22 , bonds 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
22 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
24 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
25 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
26 , anthony 0 . 0 . 320 . 0 . 0 . 
27 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 
28 , 0 . 0 . 357 . 0 . 0 . 357 . 
29 mon , 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 
30 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
31 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
32 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
33 montreal 0 . 0 . 0 . 490 . 0 . 
34 los , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
35 mon , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
36 , king 0 . 0 . 0 . 346 . 0 . 
37 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 
38 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 
39 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 357 . 
40 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
41 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
42 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
43 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
44 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
45 philadelphia 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
46 , justice 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
47 pittsburgh 0 . 0 . 0 . 428 . 0 . 
48 , 0 . 0 . 310 . 0 . 0 . 
49 , 0 . 473 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 0 . 
50 , young 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 310 . 
51 0 . 467 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
52 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
53 , 0 . 458 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
54 , 0 . 0 . 357 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 
55 , benjamin 0 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 0 . 273 . 
56 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
56 0 . 0 . 0 . 345 . 0 . 
houston 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
59 mon , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
60 , 0 . 0 . 240 . 0 . 0 . 
61 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
62 , 0 . 0 . 226 . 0 . 0 . 273 . 
63 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
64 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
65 , 0 . 0 . 276 . 0 . 310 . 0 . 
66 , 0 . 408 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 316 . 
66 , 0 . 408 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
mon , 0 . 400 . 0 . 276 . 0 . 345 . 0 . 
70 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
los , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
72 , 0 . 0 . 226 . 0 . 0 . 250 . 
72 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 276 . 
74 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
75 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
76 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 250 . 
mon , wood 0 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 0 . 
78 , santiago 0 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 320 . 
80 , clayton 0 . 0 . 345 . 0 . 0 . 345 . 
80 los , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, bell 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 0 . 
los , 0 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 273 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
85 , 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 0 . 
85 0 . 0 . 256 . 0 . 0 . 
87 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 310 . 
88 , kent 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 320 . 
89 , 0 . 0 . 240 . 0 . 0 . 
90 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
90 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, lewis 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 
, clark 0 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 0 . 
los , 0 . 0 . 0 . 357 . 0 . 
0 . 0 . 0 . 357 . 0 . 
, 0 . 345 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 240 . 0 . 
0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 290 . 
, 0 . 0 . 208 . 0 . 208 . 0 . 345 . 
103 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 273 . 
103 los , reed 0 . 0 . 276 . 0 . 276 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 226 . 0 . 290 . 0 . 
florida 0 . 0 . 226 . 0 . 0 . 
los , davis 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 212 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 
109 , clark 0 . 316 . 0 . 0 . 290 . 0 . 
110 los , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
110 , 0 . 0 . 179 . 0 . 0 . 
, bell 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 217 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 357 . 
114 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 316 . 0 . 
115 , martin 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
115 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
117 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
mon , 0 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 0 . 250 . 
119 , pose 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
120 mon , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, johnson 0 . 274 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
122 , kelly 0 . 272 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 0 . 
123 , nixon 0 . 256 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
124 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 
, 0 . 250 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 154 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 316 . 
128 , 0 . 0 . 150 . 0 . 150 . 0 . 
129 , 0 . 217 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 179 . 
130 , 0 . 212 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 212 . 
131 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
los , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 250 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
mon , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, chamberlain 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 200 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
138 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 150 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 150 . 
, 0 . 0 . 172 . 0 . 0 . 172 . 
, 0 . 0 . 100 . 0 . 100 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 128 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
145 , 0 . 122 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
150 , wilkins 0 . 0 . 000 . 0 . 000 . 0 . 
, 0 . 000 . 0 . 000 . 0 . 000 . 0 . 000 . 
, 0 . 000 . 0 . 000 . 0 . 000 . 0 . 000 . 

0 . 74 . 1 . 28 . 1 . 64 . 2 . 25 . 0 . 53 . bb 0 . 34 .  ( sb 2 cs ) 

h 

h 

 ( h 2 3 hr ) 

 ( h bb )  ( ab bb ) 


oak dr. 
m s 
pasadena , ca 

from  ( sue rankin ) 
subject 
organization athena design , inc. 
lines 13 
nntp posting host athena . com . 

i am fortunate enough to have for an red game in 
baltimore on saturday ,  . i have n't been to the new park , 
and i was wondering if anyone out there can give me or good 
or anything helpful about the place so that i can enjoy every moment spent 
there. 
for instance , what time do the open do we see the take 
when will the red take anything you can tell me would be 
appreciated. thank you in advance. 
please respond to my e mail address. 
i know it 's still three and a half months away , but i'm ! 




from  ( paul andresen ) 
subject dick 
nntp posting host com . 
organization our of the stand up 
lines 13 

does anyone know if the dick who does the radio reader on is one in 
the same with the who for the in  64  65 

just curious. 

paul , spending too much time reading the baseball encyclopedia 

we will stretch no farm animal beyond its natural length 

paul (503) 750 

home , or (503) 
a member since 

from  ( bobby prisco ) 
subject re pleasant surprises 
reply to 
organization brothers , inc. 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( alan sepinwall ) writes 

and now , the not so pleasant surprises 

 . the book on was , keep him healthy and 
he 'll produce .  . well , he has n't done too much so far. sure. he 's 
hit a few , but those were all shots , and he has n't 
gotten any of the big that your man is supposed 
to give you. then again , he had a slow start last year  ( once he 
got off the , that is) and turned into a one man 
see you in the series ! 




let 's see .  .  .  . april  .  .  . less than 30 at  .  .  .  . and you claim that he 
has n't done too much so far ! 

cut this guy some slack .  . will produce this year .  . it 's scary to think 
just how much he 'll produce if he were to stay healthy all year .  . 

the have a lot going for them this year good starting , good 
, good defense and a good  . also , i like  . frank 
on 1st is also a good move. everything sounds good so far. 

if the stay healthy , they have a good chance at the  . this 
is the most fun i 've had watching the since 78 ! 

bobby 


from  ( douglas fowler ) 
subject re jack 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 60 
reply to  ( douglas fowler ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( edward fischer ) says 

in article  ( phill st. louis ) writes 
jack  starts have been like his starts .  . he has an era of 
17 . 18 . in his 3 starts .  . 

what does luck have to do with a 17 . 18 . era he was lucky to get 21 
last year , but he had an era of 4 . 04 . with a team that a lot of 
runs .  . i would be happy if he could still pitch with an era of 4 . 04 . , but 
he seems to be suffering from a total  . 

bad are more prone to this total collapse than good  . 
they are closer to the of  . the smallest push and 
they completely lose their grip .  . 

but good ones can collapse somewhat , then come back the next year .  . 
went from 20 and an era of 3 or so in  24 to 13 19 and 
an era around 4 in  . he well for several more years. 
won 13 and lost 20 the year after his 27 10 record .  .  ( source bill james 
historical baseball abstract . ) . 
and let 's not forget john , who started 1 5 and finished 21 6 in 
1985 .  . he had a pretty bad era when you take into account at 
the start of the  . 

he gave up early runs 
in his  games and would get stronger as the game went on , thus giving 
up few runs in the last going .  . he in the game and gets the win .  . 
how else would he have so many 

yup .  . he used to dig himself a hole , then get it together and stick in 
until the run support eventually came through. this year he just 
has n't gotten it together. 

if i recall , he had a 4 . 50 . era in the 1st half and a 3 . 50 . era in the 
2nd half of last year .  . 
hmmm , 21 runs in 11  . suppose he starts 30 more games , and 
up w 200  . if he allows 4 runs a game in the next 
, he 'll have a 4 . 75 . era or so at the end of the year .  . (i think i have 
his right . ) . this is going to be hard to come back from. 

jack may be finished .  . it is time to or be released , if he does 
not return to his form from last year .  . 

his 5 million contract is an awful lot to eat ! 

my 1st is that is very , and that he may be 
through an injury and not telling anyone. my 2nd guess is that he will be 
to the the remainder of the after a few more starts .  . 
 ( perhaps when comes off the or will , who went 3 or 4 
against the tribe today , start for he looks like 
a really good one. is to find starters , i 'd imagine. 
, the have a very good offense . ) . 
i do n't think they would dare release him before the end of the year .  . 
he 'll just be replaced by or  . 

doug me , age 4 now and other 
ever wonder if , after relatives have to give lots of love 
missed the 3rd strike in the support ,  cause heaven is just a great 
he to first and made it big that forever and ever ! ! ! 

from 
subject ! ! rescue us from ! ! 
organization post office , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 


so far looks like a total idiot .  . 


1 ) smith should learn how to and return from the  . i 
would rather have smith pitch right handed than have pitch at all. 

2 ) i am sure was ready to say i told you so after had an 
impressive win last week. now 's latest has 's 
reputation .  . now he looks like he is back in his  form when he had the 
al 's highest era among starters .  . four our  ( sake(not 's sake ) , i hope he 
with a 3.5 era for the rest of the  . yeah , right. 

3) and are a bit  . they are still doing  . 
but considering the amount of talent and they have 
shown their first , they seem to have actually gotten a little 
bit worse. was almost his year against  . 
had a very good his year .  . he showed a lot of concentration at 
the in his year .  . 

4 ) walk well , he seems to be on the end  . but i still think that 
walk his contract .  . 

5 ) should accept a part of the blame for the situation. i 
ca n't understand his and 's fear of tom prince through 
 . even if they do , what 's the use. he is like  . 
not a very smart  . also , i am blaming in this case , since he is convinced that is through , while giving him 
way too much time last year in the regular and the  ( playoffs(slaught 
should have played in all 7 games he has a good average against right handed 
 . did n't and this last year , and attempt to 
trade last year itself any fool could tell them 
was n't very fit last year .  . 

6 ) is scary ! ! ! 
7 ) well , he is not going to have such a high era at the end of the 
 . maybe it will be in 3 4 range .  . but 1 million plus come on. other 
than the home run giving stage goes through for a few weeks , 
has served the very well each year .  . so far , he seems to have 
well for the  . i think the should have spent the money 
on in  . 

8 ) the well , young has surprised me a bit with his instant impact .  . other than that , their excellent has n't been too much of a surprise .  . i think we should thank for that. 

9 ) worse than expected , especially  . 
10 ) how come he was n't given a contract extension last year now his 
value has increased  . 

11 ) smith ! ! well , eric davis was signed for a comparable amount .  . 
let 's see. eric can hit better. he can run better. he can field better. 
now why the go after eric davis .  . an injured davis is better 
than a healthy smith .  . even if smith gets some big this year , he wo n't be an  . he has looked terrible on the bases and in the field .  . 

12 ) big big zero .  . has yet to make a agreement 
in favor of  . he seems more concerned about that 
idiot by the team for a move to bay .  . 
13 )  . the and positions look good. the 
and would have looked good if we could have gotten to replace 
two of the four  . eric davis , van and would have made a 
very respectable  . even without eric davis , would have 
a respectable with , , and  ( merced(i think he should hit 
left handed against in of switch  . did have options 
for the  . , the biggest accomplishment of 's was 
getting really cheap .  . too bad. 

14 ) draft for bonds forget it. the can rant and  . 
they will not get those  . as of now , the issue is still being  . 
now , if this convince anyone that and are idiots , 
nothing else will. 

on a final note. tim wo n't be as awful as he was in his last 2 
starts .  . but do n't count on him like last year for the rest of 
the  . also , if the are in contention towards end of the 
, they will miss 's hitting and his  ( speed(he has 
in the second half of the last 2 seasons ) 




subject best  .  .  . 
from  ( ian m. derby ) 
expires sat , 1 may 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
organization virginia commonwealth university 
keywords 
summary 
lines 19 


since someone brought up sports radio , 

 ( anyone give an opinion ) 

which city do you think has the best sports in terms of 
print media 

 ( these are general questions ) 

is the washington post better than the philadelphia or the ny 
times 

the philadelphia daily news compared to the new york daily 
news 


do you notice papers being subjective or objective to the home team 


from  ( mscidave ) 
subject re young 
news software vax vms 1 . 3 . 4 
reply to 
organization news 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 47 

 ( mark singer ) said 

most need to be solid to help their 
in the  . those are the arguments against for the 
for this year .  . 

now. the have two who have demonstrated solid 
abilities to call games , to work with the , to out 
 . 

this is the crux of the argument  ( to me at  . both the 
and the non camps seem to agree on the fact that a 's 
defense is basically at present. you can talk about how 
important calling a game is , or the , or blocking 
in the  . but there is little or no way to tell exactly how various 
's rank in defense . 

looking at specifically is there any reason to suspect 
that he is a bad other then the fact that the 
 ( or the media ) has labeled him a bad as far as i 
can tell he does n't have any particular problem in his mechanics 
 ( such as  . he might be a little rough around the edges in blocking 
the ball , or the pitch to get a good call but all he needs to 
clear that up is playing and practice time. i ca n't see how 
at are any better then in the ! 

all we 're left with is the calling the game aspect .  . and 
at always given credit for calling good games and helping 
the  . but this is a reputation that is given to almost 
all  . how is catching at going to help learn 
the major league the only way any is going to 
learn tom 's is to tom  . similarly , i would n't 
be if the 's claimed to prefer to over 
to because they are used to to  . but 
given time they will say they are comfortable with  . 

now , since ca n't learn how to handle the major league 
's while he 's in and since he does n't have any 
problem in his mechanics , what is he going to learn in that he 
ca n't learn just as well while in the 

dave 

dave 




from  ( john hunter ) 
subject white mailing list 
reply to 
organization mount u , , n . b .  . canada 
lines 9 

hi , 

i 'd like to subscribe to the white mailing list , if one exists. 
can someone please e mail me the address 

thanks alot , 
john 



from  ( shawn luddington ) 
subject re jack 
organization york university , , canada 
lines 40 

in article  ( edward fischer ) writes 
in article  ( greg spira ) writes 
 ( howard wong ) writes 

has jack lost a bit of his what is the worst start jack has had 

uh , jack lost his about 5 years ago , and has had only one above 
average year in the last 5. 

again goes to prove that it is better to be good than lucky .  . you can 
count on good tomorrow .  . lucky seems to be prone to bad starts  ( and a 
bad finish last year ) .  . 

 ( yes , i am every last run he gives up. who was it who said 
was a better than ) 

cheers , 


hey , i do n't see boston with any world series on their 
fingers .  . damn , now has three and probably the hall of fame in his 
future. therefore , i would have to say easily made the best 
 . and do n't tell me boston will win this year .  . they wo n't 
even be in the top 4 in the division , more like  . 

















from edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 19 
distribution na 
reply to edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
nntp posting host 1 . rose . edu . 

in article  ( bruce 
klopfenstein ) writes 
 ( charles m kozierok ) writes 
in article stanford . edu . 
 ( nelson lu ) writes 
guess which line is which 
h bb 
x  . 310 .  .  . 27 8 8 87 
y  .  .  . 32 1 20 35 
i just love how the left off this list. give me a break ! 
a little , but in the interests of fairness  ( stats from elias ) 
r 
 . 310 .  .  . 8 76 20 . 5 . 
 .  .  . 20 316 21 . 2 . 

so we see that has a large advantage in  ( runs in ) , 
 ( runners not driven in ) and  . 

john edu . 

from  ( adam levin ) 
subject early returns 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 13 

just curious if anyone has started to early in the in the 
bb this year .  . i expect the , while getting the , 
would have to rank up there. luis and may are among 
the early league leaders , and all 6 of their bombs have come at the 
 expense .  . neither of them have exactly been know for their 
in the past. 

how have the been early i know high has produced a of 
runs , but is it the everyone expected yet 

a concerned fan of the bb , 

adam witness to the lone loss of the so far 

from  ( richard casares ) 
subject odds 
nntp posting host corp . sgi . com . 
organization silicon , inc. 
lines 6 

does anyone have a list of odds for teams making 
the world series 

i 'd appreciate a mailing .  . thanks , 



subject re vs  ( was re 's again ) 
from  ( brian smith ) 
expires sat , 1 may 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
distribution usa 
organization university of , dept. of math sciences 
lines 

in article genetic  ( david m. tate ) writes 
i 've read all of the followups to this , but i thought i 'd go back to the 
original article to make specific comments about the method 


 ( john oswalt ) said 

he has obtained the play by play records , in computer 
form , for every major league baseball game for the past several years. 
he an which i call sum over situations , and wrote 
a computer program to every major league 
using it. it works like this 

look at every situation in every game in a baseball  . a 
situation is determined by , score , where the are , 
and how many there are. for each situation , count how many 
times the team eventually won the game that the situation occured in , 
and divide by the number of times the situation came up , to come up with 
a value for that situation. 

this was first done by george in the late  early  , and 
reported in 

article an investigation of in baseball 
author george r. 
journal research 
issue volume 11 4 , august , pp. 

later , did the same thing using to generate 
a larger set of data to avoid the kind of small that other 
people have worried about. he reported this in the hidden game of baseball 
 ( with john  . modified the method a bit and did some work 
on what he called a value added measure based on these values .  . 
his were based directly on marginal runs , though , not on win  . 
these results , as applied to the , were reported in one of the 
bill james baseball abstract books  ( 1987 help me out here , somebody .  .  . ) . 

for example , a situation might be 3 , score 2 0 , on second 
and no  . there were regular major league games last 
year .  .  ( with the and , there will be more this year . ) . 
say this situation came up in 100 of those , and the team ahead won 
75 of them. then the value of this situation is 0 . 75 .  . 

description of method look at change in win probability based on the at 
plus any , and credit the by that amount each time 
he gets a appearance. 

now , for each , sum up all his at and base running values 
for the to obtain an overall value for that  . obviously 
the sum of all  values for each game , and for the as a 
whole , will be 0. 

that 's only because you always credit x to the and x to the 
there 's no involved. 

ok , there 's a very big problem here that nobody has yet commented on you 're 
adding , and do n't add .  . runs you can add the 
total team runs breaks down into how many runs joe contributed plus how many 
runs fred contributed , etc. but do n't work that way. if bob 
increases his team 's chance of by 1 in each of 400 , that does 
not mean that bob increased his team 's chance of by 400 . in fact , 
it does n't mean anything , because the units are  . 

i agree and disagree. john is saying that the efforts will result 
in 4 more then losses .  . while you are probably correct that 400 
does not mean 4 more then losses , it means something. i would 
rather have a who increased my teams chances of by 1 in 
each of 400 then i would a who increased my chances of 
by  . 5 . in each of 400  . thus , there appears to me to be an obvious 
positive association between john 's statistic and games. thus , 
before you disregard this stat , it appears to me that further study must 
go into what sort of relationship there is. 

consider an example bob a 2 out in the bottom of the first 
about .12 on your scale. he does the same thing again in the fourth , with 
the score , for another  . 14 .  . and again , in the seventh , with the score 
, for another  . 22 .  . and , finally , in the ninth to win the game by a score 
of 7 6 , for a value of 0 . 5 .  . bob hit 4 in 4 , and 
was by your method with .12  . 14 .  . 22 .  . 5 .  .  . but what does 
that mean was bob responsible for the win certainly not the defense 
is always 50 responsible  ( if you include in that ) , and bob was n't 
 . in fact , bob was only 4 7 of the offense  ( which is a lot , but not 
even close to 100 ) .  . furthermore , what about the other 3 team runs say 
they all came on by fred then fred was hitting to tie up the game , 
which are just as valuable as to take the lead  ( see lindsey ) , and fred will 
himself have a good  . 4 . or so. so fred and bob combined have 
138 of a win in one game. there 's clearly a problem here. 

the only problem here is an that these number mean exactly 
how many the team has .  . first , we are using over many 
and applying them to one game. second , remember some 
take away from the chance of you  . that is a 
who gets an out gets a negative probability in most cases. 
thus , i'm not sure in any given game when you add up all the numbers 
for a team who won that they will add up to 1 in that game. sometimes , 
they will add up to more then one sometime , less than one. also , 
the  bad  ( giving up 6 runs ) may have given 
them a large negative percentage for that game. also , any that 
an 0 4 night would give large  . 



greg thinking about the right things , but his intuition is off the 
mark. are important. the total number of runs 
value is outweighed by when they come , or are prevented from  . 
the which greg allows is not enough. 

in another article , i proposed a test of this. we can a team 's 
won lost record quite accurately by looking at how many runs total they 
score and allow , without regard to when those runs score in the game. if 
late runs are really more important than early runs , then looking only at 
late runs should lead to a better , right 

no , but really only because you have a smaller size. i would 
think however , that the number of runs you score in the first 
would be just as good as a prediction as how many runs you score 
in the last  . and , realize something else a closer usually 
comes in in a close situation , not a blow out. it is hard to argue 
that any runs that a closer gives up in a game have equal importance 
to those given up in the first  . look , a closer giving up runs 
often means a team will lose many games. on , the other hand a 
who gives up runs often still leaves his team a chance to win .  . the 
has many more to do something about. but , i am not 
saying all late situations are equally important either. if 
i am down 8 runs in the ninth , it really does not matter how many 
runs my gives up in the ninth .  . 

here 's another thought experiment apply this method to  . what 
you find is that points in the first half of the game have almost 
exactly no value , because no lead is safe with an entire half yet to play .  . 
furthermore , the sub in off the who the free throws with 
no time on the gets a 1.0 for the game , while the star forward who 
27 points in the first half before his gets a zero .  . 

does this make sense 


no , but why would you assume that the teams probability of would 
be 0 before the in which the free throws were made. look , 
if you are down 1 point with 5 seconds left , there is a fairly high 
probability that you will win the game if you are in of the 
ball .  . and , do not forget that somebody elses missed shots , , 
, bad defense , etc. caused a negative chance that the team 
would win .  . 

from reading all of the discussion on this statistic , i feel that those 
who it to a certain extent are doing so out of an  . 
at first look this statistic  . but , it really 
does not. revolves around the idea that certain 
in crucial situation their and others 
goes down. i 've never seen convincing proof that this really happens. 
so , if you assume there is no , then that means that except 
for a lot of , this statistic has a positive association to 
 . there is a way to get rid of the if you 
do not believe in  . certainly , we could find out what 
the average value of a home run is for example. we may find for 
instance , that a home run increases your chance of by 15 
on average while a your chance of by 5 . 
i bet if this were done we would find that this statistic was just 
as good as other statistics we have for and losses .  . 

how do we relief say john and have the 
exact same statistics  ( runs , earned runs , k 's , bb 's , 
etc . ) . both had exceptional numbers. john , however only 
in closer situations , while was a up man. who was more 
to their team probably john .  . who was the better 
they were probably about the same. 

brian smith 

subject re was a good , you  ( plus idiots ) 
from 

organization university of , , new 
nntp posting host ac . 
lines 

in article ,  ( david robert walker ) writes 


1988 16 4 23 28 29 7  . 67  .  .  . 
1989 19 5 33 41 27 10  . 274 .  .  .  . 
1990 110 17 1 27 44 16 9  .  . 272 .  .  . 
1991 16 3 0 3 12 0 1  . 240 . 10  .  .  . 
55 10 86 72 27  .  . 256 .  . 316 .  . 
23 4 36 52 30 11 

this is what looked like in 88 91 , with everything converted 
to a neutral park , on the basis of run production. his equivalent 
average started at  . in 88 , was up to  . 274 . in 89 and in 90 .  . so 
let us say he had established , in his last two , a  . level 
of play .  . 

i'm not quite sure how these numbers are generated .  . it appears that in 
a neutral park 's and tend to drop  ( he actually loses two 
home  . or do they what is equivalent average 

one thing , when looking at 's , is that you can see that took 
away some  . normally , you expect some would be to go for 
or in big parks , or to be caught , and for that matter you 
expect lots of and anyway. but , despite his speed , 
hit very few and not that many  . so i would expect his 
value to have risen quite in a neutral park .  . 

that is good. very good , in fact. but it probably does n't make the top 
ten in the league .  . the best in the al in 1992 was dave 
's  . thomas was first at  .  . first in the was bonds , 
an  . tenth was ,  .  . but  . is better 
than any in the past five years by joe it is about what 
had in 1988 ( . what jose had the last two years 
just ahead of time  five year average better than ryan 
's  . 

jose has been a  .  . in a fairly neutral park .  . 
i would guess the at around a  .  .  . 
maybe  .  . . not even close. 

he got more attention from the media than was from his 
baseball playing , though his was a lot better than his hitting .  . 
that is the basis for the net . comments . about him being  . the 
media would have you beleive he was a great  . i think he was a 
good , maybe very good  . he was imo , something like the best 
in the  . 

i 'd put him about there too. 

note i had n't realized the media had him so much. i thought he 
was always viewed by them as a better , and only so so 
at baseball .  . he did only have one 30 , 100 , and was n't 
 . 

note 2 i maybe have on this a bit in the past , but there is a 
mistake being made  ( by the 's , as they are known , on this group ) 
with respect to like and and  ( and perhaps  . 

we find , that if you look at a large group of , their past major 
and minor league numbers will their future numbers fairly well. 
their are some the they are , the less good the prediction 
the lower the minor league , the less good (i imagine ) , the more recent 
the has left college ball , etc. 

now of course , this prediction involves quite a bit of error. sometimes 
a with poor 's  ( dave justice , the 1990 ventura ) becomes a star .  . 
some develop  ( shane , brian downing ) , some do n't  ( oddibe 
,  . this error involves real things there are 
real reasons why did n't hit and did. it may  ( who knows ) 
involve parks and and and and lifting 
and so on. 

but still , you have this big pool of , and things work pretty well. 
one of the reasons for these predictions accuracy is the common background 
of the  . one thing we know about baseball is 
that all of them  ( or almost all ) have spent a good deal of time playing 
ball .  . their are similar. 

what has n't been established is what happens when you a 
with a different background is there some reason to believe that a 
, or a , or a , or a tony ( ) , or an , or so 
on , has such a different background , that the standard model and standard 
assumptions fit this person 

it has n't been established that you can use 's with two  . 
 ( it has n't been established that you ca n't , but then statistics is , after 
all , an  . i personally think otherwise individuals continually 
make completely statements about and and  . 
look at those good but not great minor league numbers , they say. well , 
what happens if those numbers simply do n't mean what they usually mean 
it might mean that ken suddenly has a better year in houston than 
 . it might mean that suddenly has a better half year in 
than  . 

then again , it might not. ken and might go right back in the 
this year , live up to those poor 's .  . but you guys t know. what 's 
worse , you do n't know that you do n't .  . and you do n't know that there are 
other you wo n't know about and lifting and 
again. you seem to think that the model is perfect and eternal .  . it 's not. 
it 's got some error. 

oh well. 

bill 

still thinks butt is truly might be right 

from  ( david robert walker ) 
subject re 
organization university of virginia 
lines 34 

in article  ( neal traven ) writes 

one of the chapters in and thorn 's  hidden game  is titled 
 is 44 of baseball , ' implying that is 6 . how do 
they determine that beats me it 's been a long , long time since i 
read it. 

this was  ( my opinion ) the thing in the hidden game. the 
argument was 

1 ) defense , or runs allowed , is 50 of the game. 
2 ) runs amount to 12 of the runs allowed earned runs , 88 . 

3) since runs are the result of , not , and 
earned runs are the product of , not , is 12 
of defense and is 88 of defense .  . 
4 ) with 1 , is 44 of the game , 6 . 

is usually than that. my own feel is that is in 
the 25 33 of defense range call it 30 70 between and 
 . 

one also has to separate offense into and , with the 
split probably somewhere around 49 . 5 . and 0 . 5 . . 

i 'd give a little more credit than that , maybe 45 5 , or 
even 40 10. give a team of and a team of john 
identical  ( which would n't be that unreasonable ) , and 
even if you do n't let steal a single base , they 'll score a lot 
more than the by going first to third more often.  ( no offense , 
 . 

d. 


from  ( richard detweiler ) 
subject re vs 
organization division 
keywords , 04 . 16 . 
lines 37 

in article a . com .  ( ed dougherty ) writes 

as a fan as as a  . baseball fan , i'm anxious to see the 
 . series .  . anyone know when it starts and where the first games 
will be played 

this is (i think) always good baseball  ( to me ) and the are 
also off to a good start. 

ed doc 

when is it did you say well let me shell out here and run this 
program .  .  .  .  . 

m 

and the answer is 

monday , 5 10 at philadelphia  ( 5 35 pm ) 
tuesday , 5 11 at philadelphia  ( 5 35 pm ) 
, 5 12 at philadelphia  ( 5 35 pm ) 
friday , 6 25 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 
saturday , 6 26 philadelphia at  ( 5 05 pm ) 
sunday , 6 27 philadelphia at  ( 11 35 am ) 
friday , 7 30 at philadelphia  ( 5 35 pm ) 
saturday , 7 31 at philadelphia  ( 5 05 pm ) 
sunday , 8 1 at philadelphia  ( 11 35 am ) 
monday , 9 27 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 
tuesday , 9 28 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 
, 9 29 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 
thursday , 9 30 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 


this is a great little program its available at an ftp site near 
you  ( unfortunatly i do n't recall which one) .  . any question 
you got is answered with this little gem .  . many thanks to the author 
for providing this service .  . 

from  ( scott barman ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization american software development corp .  . , west , ny 
lines 16 

in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 

was n't ron , the former who got the first base hit 
by a , jewish 

scott mailing list  ( feed the following into your shell ) 
mail ! 
subscribe 
let 's go ! ! 

from  ( phill st. louis ) 
subject a or 
organization university of british , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ca . 

does anyone know where is or he was taken 
by the in the rule v draft , but not kept on the  . baseball weekly 
said that he was to , but a paper indicated that 
the took him back .  . is there an fan , or anyone reading this , 
who knows 

thanks 


from  ( richard detweiler ) 
subject re the worst 
organization division 
lines 75 

from another not so but still wondering about a few things 
fan 

in article  ( brian r. landmann ) writes 
joe has to be the worst in baseball .  . 

he 's not the greatest this is true. 

for anyone who did n't see sunday 's game , 

i saw it. 

with a right he decides to , a left handed 
and play and , both right  . 

was hurt , although the said he told he 
could hit if they needed him to. 

later , in the ninth with the bases loaded and two he puts 
, a with power in as a and uses luis 
, a 250 with no power as a  . what the hell 
is he thinking. 

i wondered the same thing. but giving joe the benefit of the 
doubt , i 'd say he was thinking that is hurt enough that 
he did n't trust his ability to effectively but he wants his 
speed on the bases so run him. i was completely 
confused about. maybe he had a good record hitting against that 
particular i do n't know. anybody got an idea 

earlier in the game in an about mark he commented 
how fortunate the were to get and that would be a 
regular even though this meant that would be hurt , but said 
he liked coming off the  . hit over last year , 
what does he have to do to start , the guy would be starting on most every 
team in the league .  . 

well , so far i have n't seen much to say should n't be playing 
but it is too bad that is the odd man out when they play 
ahead of him. that i do n't quite understand. 

furthermore , in sundays game when was thrown out at the , 
the showed the third base looking down the line 
and waving home , 

yup , i looked for this on the too. if i'm joe , i'm 
going to have a talk with after the game on that one. he 's 
got at third with i believe a hot 
coming up there 's no reason to risk giving the go sign 
in that situation unless he was sure the ball is going to the stands .  . 
it 's his job to watch the play develop he should have known 
was there to back up a bad  . that seemed inexcusable in my book. 
btw , i saw do the same thing last year with third 
and going into a sure out at home in a critical situation. on the 
, there 's waving him around. it looks like this might be a 
serious problem. the card 's were n't good base at all last year 
and i wonder how much of the fault lies in the base  . 


i ca n't take this anymore 

well , i'm still hanging in there. 

go ! ! , ! ! ! 

brian , a very fan .  . 


brian 
institute of technology 
internet 

dick 



from  ( driftwood ) 
subject re jim is an idiot .  . 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 9 


i totally agree with each point you made. jose looked 
like a single a up there. who on 3 1 count with 
and your teams down by a run , and you have n't the ball all 
day. i also think too much is made of that thing. watching 
the games i get the feeling steve knows a lot more about what 
the should be doing than does. said it best when he 
stated after another terrible at we ca n't wait 
returns ! 

from  ( steve c liu) 
subject spring records 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
lines 26 
distribution world 
expires 5 9 93 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
summary commandments 

the  again is having a fine  . 
four , low team era ,  ( well , i have n't gotten any baseball news since 
march 14 but anyways ) could they , yes. could they win it all maybe. 

but for all those of teams with bad spring records , remember 
's first law of baseball  ( from his book on managing ) 

no one gives a damn in if you lost a game in march .  . ) 

btw , anyone have any idea on the for the o 's 
it 's pretty much set that , , and are the 
first four in the  . 

here at johns hopkins university where the is the blue ( , 
their baseball team logo was the club 's logo .  . now it 's a 
correct blue  . god , ca n't they think of an original idea 
it 's even in the same pose as the baltimore on the o 's  . 
how many people realize that the is really called a baltimore 

steve c. internet address 
for the liberation and of 
and their rehabilitation into society from red 
the are the greatest female that ever existed ! 
this sig has been brought to you by .  .  .  . ! the of kings ! 



organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from david 
subject re questions 

lines 1 

to make room for , the sent down to  . 

from  ( robert holt ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
keywords hall of fame , , , , joe , ) 
organization at t bell laboratories , hill , nj 
distribution na 
lines 14 

in article  ( mark singer ) writes 

i'm no fan .  . just thought i 'd point out that he 's the 
only in history to have five three games. joe 
has four. three. and also three. 
ruth , , and two each .  . 

had three games , which is the current record .  . 



bob 



from  ( michael kessler ) 
subject box scores 
lines 8 
organization dakota state university 
lines 8 


i was wondering if anyone types in the box scores each day. 
i am at college and am not able to get them till the weekend. 
i would be if someone could p mail the box scores every so 
often. 
also i am looking for a 93  . 



from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
distribution usa 
lines 12 

in article  ( jiann su ) writes 
i say buy out 's contract and let him go  . next 
, you 'll be able to sign him for nothing. that goes for any 
ball  . 

i doubt would clear  . and if he did , he would 
be signed for the major league minimum , with picking 
up the remaining 3 million tab .  . 

some value on field too .  .  .  . 



from the  ( michael lurie ) 
subject re joe not for baseball 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization allegheny college 
lines 10 

in article 
 ( kevin mundstock ) writes 
did anyone notice the words not for baseball printed on the picture 
of joe in the day section in usa 
today any reason given for this 



yes , and the answer is simple. to create a better feeling in the park , the 
will be back for baseball games where you saw those words. 

from k  ( mully ) 
subject request for al  .  .  .  . 
reply to k  ( mully ) 
organization state college , n . h .  . 
lines 4 

anyone have the al individual or where i can find them 

k 


subject mailing list 
from  ( chihuahua charlie ) 
distribution usa 
organization academic user services 
nntp posting host edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 lines 14 
lines 14 


is there anyone out there running a chicago national 
league list if so , please send me information 
on it to .  .  .  . 


thanks ! 


o charlie is not responsible o 
o academic user services for anything anywhere , o 
o the university of except for that one o 
o incident where 200 .  .  .  . o 
o o 

from  ( david wood ) 
subject re bob was damn right ! 
nntp posting host bruno . cs . edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 24 

in article  ( austin jacobs ) writes 
do n't you guys think so i mean , c mon ! what the heck are women doing 
even thinking of getting into baseball .  . they cause so many problems. just 
look at  . remember that reporter that entered the new 
england patriots room she started like a little girl ! i 
just do n't think women belong in a man 's  . before you smart guys 
flame me for this , i know the given example was about football. who cares 
it still applies to other male sports .  . how can we have women 
! look at  . just because she 's a woman , everybody on the 
face of the earth thinks it 's great that she 's getting an opportunity to 
 . if you even watched the games and had an greater than that of 
beef , you 'd see that she is not nearly as good as most  . 
besides , she is probably more worried about cracking a with a 
foul off of wade   . or jose 's  . either way , there 
are too many  . 


austin  ( bob fan club member 12 ) 

someone tell me there 's a ) hidden here somewhere .  .  .  . 


david wood university of at boulder 


from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re , runs ,  ( was re notes on vs. series ) 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
distribution na 
lines 23 

in article  ( john bratt ) writes 
and runs are the two most important offensive statistics .  . you 
can talk about and all you want , but the fact remains 

the team that scores more runs the game ! 


flame away 

so what does that have to do with 's the team with the most 's 
does n't necessarily win the game. 

yes , runs are the most important for a team .  ( so why does 
every newspaper rank team offense by average ) 

but for an individual , runs and are context dependent , and tell 
us very little about the himself , and more about his and 
position in the order. 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from  ( greg spira ) 
subject re park experience  ( long ) 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 19 

 ( craig eid ) writes 

these things should have been done a long time ago , but it took a real 
 ( ex president peter magowan ) to figure it out. just 
like he used to tell his , if the do n't come back , i do n't 
need as many . this is n't a knock on bob he was a 
but he did n't deal much with the general public. 

interesting article , craig .  . it 's amazing how hard it is to get baseball 
teams to understand how to properly market their teams and treat their 
 . no other business could ever get away with the century 
attitudes that most current owners display in running their  . i guess the 
owners look at baseball 's high growth rate and ask why it 's necessary 
to bring 20th century business practices into the game , but they do n't 
realize how much more growth the game is capable of and how much they 
pay in terms of long term popularity by not doing better by the game 
and its  . 

greg 

from  ( dodger ) 
subject gross out again. 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 60 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

went to the game it was cap night. 

ok , but had control trouble all night. 
in the first , he walked a , him to second , then 
a single the run , with the taking second on the 
home. another single made the score 2 0 cards. 

tried a new line up , reed , and 
third ! and eric were in favor of 
and webster .  . 

in the first to make the score 2 1 cards. 
the the game in the second on a two out single 
by  . 

by the fourth , had already made about 80 , but 
the score was still 2 2. the defense made several impressive 
plays .  . looked great behind the , down a 
trying to steal second , throwing a out at first who 
had a bit from first base , etc. 

also made a play , keeping a ball from going into 
the  . the on first was so sure that ball was going 
through , he just kept running past second .  . got up and threw 
to third and easily got the at third .  . 

my heart sank in the 7th when gross got up to warm up in the  . 

was lifted for a , and when gross entered the game 
with the score still 2 2 , just knew it was over. 

gross was because he on tuesday , just 2 1 3 
, forcing to use much of his  . the 15 
game had the same effect the next night .  .  . so . only gross was 
given his light work out tuesday .  . 

gross lived up to his name. he walked the first , gave up a hit 
to the second , and walked the bases loaded .  . after a resulted 
in a force at home , lifted a ball to make it 
3 2 cards. gross paid little attention to the , and the next 
thing you knew , the cards had stolen a fourth run. the on 
first was eventually out in the run down , but the 4th run had 
long before that. 

, the mounted little offense after the second  . 
smith the ninth .  . he had little trouble getting 
and  ( does anyone have trouble with these days ) .  . 
his first hit as a , a single , but 
that was all the offense the could mount .  . smith got his 
third straight save against the and all i got was my 
free cap and a good look at  . if keeps this 
up all year , he will be a strong candidate for of the year 
 . though its really early , is already showing signs 
of a sophomore year .  . 

the final score .  .  . 4 runs on 7  . 
2 runs on 7  . 




from lurie ) the 
subject i think i am going to cry again lose it again 
organization allegheny college 

i ca n't believe this , has an era in the 80 's he is improving ! ! ! 



key a great game , and they it up again. 

from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
distribution na 
lines 21 

in article  ( edward ouellette ) writes 

my point might not be a perfect stat but nothing is. and no stat  ( or lack 
of ) can tell me there are no  . maybe no stat can tell me , 
either , but some people are .  .  .  . i just know it ! ! ! 8 ) 

i was somebody would mention  . the 
two words simply do not go together. with in 
position ,  .  .  . 418 . last year .  . this does n't quite 
, but most hit better in this situation. 

he hit  .  .  . with in position ! 

the difference had in such  . had 
in such  . got 25 more chances , yet succeeded only 
20 more times. 

frankly , i do n't believe in  . but if i did , my vote would 
go to for  ( let alone best in the al ) .  . 



from  ( warren usui ) 
subject re the 
keywords 
organization computing corporation , los , california 
lines 21 

in article  ( eric smith ) writes 
yeah , the played over their heads almost the whole year , 
but it all caught up to them in one 10 game  . i am as old as 
 ( man ! ) and i was a big fan at the time  ( age  . 
. 
. 
. 
the or somebody else finish two games back that has to be 
one of the last minute ever. 

since i was born in the late , i too remember  . that year , 
the were several games out of first and i think finished sixth in the 
league .  . this was kind of odd because they won the world series both the 
previous year and the following year .  . 



warren 

i'm one with the universe on a scale from 1 to 10. 


from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re jack 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 33 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( charles m kozierok ) writes 

the only really valid retort to is were n't the red trying 
to get too oh , sure , they said was their first choice 
afterwards , but what should we have expected they would say 

wanted all along. the idiot .  . giving the man 40 million 
to play with is like giving a five year old a loaded with the 
safety off. the only question is how many shots he will get off 
before somebody is wise enough to take it away. 

and do n't tell me boston will win this year .  . they wo n't 
even be in the top 4 in the division , more like  . 

if this is true , it wo n't be for lack of by , so who cares 

i do n't see why people expect boston to finish sixth .  . the bottom four 
teams last year were essentially  . boston , in seventh place , had 
73  . the and , for fourth place , had 76  . 

now i should think it is obvious that the red improved more than 
the or tigers .  . basically , the red are stronger this year 
at , , , , and  . they have starting  ( so 
far , at least ) and better  . i see no reason why they 
should n't win 85 games. , the are in and 
the tigers still have no  . they will win some 20 3 
, but they will lose an awful lot of 7 5 games too. 

maybe the will play poorly , win 78 games , and finish  . 
but i think third or fourth place is more likely. 

cheers , 


from  ( douglas fowler ) 
subject 1 dimensional teams  ( was re final run total .  .  .  . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 43 
reply to  ( douglas fowler ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( sean sweda ) says 


i 've been saying this for quite some time , but being absent from the 
net for a while i i 'd stick my out a bit .  .  .  . 

the will set the record for runs by an al 
team since the inception of the rule. s .  . any ideas what this is ) 

they will fall easily short of 600 runs , that 's for damn sure. i ca n't 
believe these media fools picking them to win the division  ( like our 
tom of the news claiming is some kind of 
genius for the he 's made ) 

would you say the same thing about the in  65 or  66 true , 
is probably as good as , and they have no , but still , 
these teams were with home run leaders who had very bad , with 
lots of low games , etc. and they did n't use , whereas 
jeff is having a super for them. 
that being said , i still picked them or so , but i think a 
team can win if they have enough hitting .  . there 's more of a 
chance of that , i think , than of a team with hitting but no 
 . at least , to me. 
i wonder , though which one do you people think would do better a team 
with johnson , in his prime , , , and young , in no real 
order , as the starters , with , fingers , and in the , but 
with a offense  ( assuming good defense , like , , etc . ) . 
or a team with poor , but with an offense of cobb , , ruth , , 
, , , and again , you pick the order. 
i would postulate that the one would be several games better by 
 end. even the best can succeed only 2 5 of the time in 
their best years , but a great can lots of taking all 
the in their prime , they might 50 in a year .  . and all 
the offense would have to do is get 1 run across .  . 
i wonder if someone with or something could plug such all 
time teams into a regular , have it played , and report the results 
i would love to see that. 

doug me , age 4 now and other 
ever wonder if , after relatives have to give lots of love 
missed the 3rd strike in the support ,  cause heaven is just a great 
he to first and made it big that forever and ever ! ! ! 

from  ( sherri nichols ) 
subject re young 
organization systems incorporated 
lines 38 

in article genetic  ( david m. tate ) writes 
as for  .  .  . if there really is a qualitative difference between the 
and the that requires a period of  ( and i do n't 
believe there is) , then would n't you rather waste 's 22 year old good 
than his 23 year old very good or his 24 year old excellent 
the sooner you get him , the more of his prime you get to 
use. 

can anybody name a who was   to the  ( let 's , for 
argument 's sake , define as brought up to the for more than 
a cup of coffee prior at age 22 or , and below 
expectations ) , whose career was by this i'm serious i 
tend to agree with david that bringing the up sooner is better , but 
i 'd like to look at for whom this theory did n't work , if there are 
any. i 'd prefer within the last 10 years or so , because then i can 
look up their minor league  .  ( it 's important to distinguish between 
who legitimately had below what their minor league numbers 
would have , as opposed to who were and failed , but 
actually had not out of line with their minor league  . 

let 's kick it off with an example of a who was , although 
there does n't seem to have been any damage to his career. bell was 
given in the major at age 21 , and performed well below what 
you would expect from his numbers the same  . he got the 
next year at age 22 , and still  . however , the next year , at 
age 24 , his improved , and he won the everyday job , 
and has been there ever since. it 's really hard for me to see where he 
would have been better off staying in the minor league  ( where he was 
performed quite well in aaa ) during this time , rather than being 
cleveland might have been better off , i suppose , because they might have 
been less likely to give up on him. 

yes , if you bring a up early , he 's likely going to struggle .  . but 
does that delay the time at which he stops , and starts 
up to expectations 




from  ( kokopeli ) 
subject re old predictions to laugh at .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 35 

 ( edward fischer ) writes 


from thu 12 10 35 1991 


ron will be a minor league with the  . 

what happened to him. 

maybe i can help you. he 's a major league with the  . 
so above prediction is wrong. 

my prediction the red series and will 
occur at the end of the world. 

and one will finish in the top 10 of an offensive this 
year .  . 

and no will have an era below 3 . 50 .  . 

and the will not begin until .  .  . august .  . they 'll give way 
to the angels .  . but still challenge to the end. 

really. not making any of this up. if i am , may god strike me down 



thanks for listening ! 


dylan ,  . con the official usenet fan of the 
major , u of , boulder  . clip this  . sig . for 
po box , boulder , co 20 off on your next ! ! ! 
 . life is bigger .  .  ( this space blank ) 

from genetic  ( david m. tate ) 
subject re  ( was re walling ) 
article i.d. blue . 
organization department of industrial engineering 
lines 20 

edu .  ( john h. rickert ) said 

 ( and i thought did n't really start hitting for a 
living until after 1973 ) 

depends on what you mean by for a living . was the year he led the 
league in hit at with 50 , but he 'd been getting a lot of 
earlier than that , and was never a full time  . 20 35 early in 
his career , 15 20 a year just before going to the , and 30 50 in the 
years. 

we 're talking about a guy with a 20 year career as an , a  . 
career average , and or so career  . 



david m. (i do not know what it is about you that closes 
as and only something in me 
e e  ( can the of your is deeper than rose 's ) 
dy ) nobody , not even tim , has such soft hands 

subject the 
from  ( ian m. derby ) 
expires mon , 10 may 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
organization virginia commonwealth university 
keywords 
summary 
lines 9 


after reading my local paper today , i found out that the 
started the at 10 2. i am not as old as , but i 've 
heard many talk about the serious job the did that 
 . they were ahead of the by 15 games that in 
mid august .  . they managed to lose a bunch from then on and the 
took the division .  . 15 ! ! ! games ahead and lost it .  .  .  .  . i 
hope this is much different. 


from  ( doug ritter ) 
subject re expanded strike  ( was re a of offense ) 
organization data central , oh 
lines 30 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( eric roush ) writes 
in article 
 ( edward fischer ) writes 


we wo n't really be able to say anything for at least another couple of 
weeks. but so far it looks like a !  ( might the 
be the strike ) 



watching the on , i would have said that the strike 
in the has expanded this  . specifically , it appears that 
the strike has moved above the belt .  . yeah , the 
have commented on that also , but it was also my perception .  . 

however , the strike has n't climbed all the way up to 
the letters . it 's more like a little ways under the letters. 

any other perceptions out there 

judging by the way the  have performed thus far , it 
appears to me that the has been to the size of a  . 

1 2 ) 


douglas n .  . 
life is short ride hard ! 
 .  .  . ! uunet ! ! 

from  ( bam ! ) 
subject the bob dylan baseball abstract 
distribution na 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 42 


just a little something i found while reading the voice , which 
is not noted for its sports , but the print some 
interesting features .  . this year , the predictions team analyses for 
the 1993 were presented in the form of bob dylan  . i 
do n't have the article in front of me , so i 'll only give the memorable 
ones here that i remember and know the to. i could dig up more 
if there is interest .  . 

 ( to the tune of ) 

is in the , mixing up the medicine .  . 
george is on the thinking  the government. 
wade in a coat , out , paid off , 
says he 's got a bad back , wants to get it laid off. 
look out kids , it 's  you did. 
do n't know when , but it 's again. 

 ( to the tune of like a ) 

once upon a time you played so fine 
you threw away before his prime , did n't you 
people said beware , he 's bound to 
but you thought they were just kidding you. 
you used to laugh about , 
the that was  out. 
but now you do n't talk so loud , 
now you do n't seem so proud , 
about having to for your next deal .  .  .  .  . 

 ( to the tune of 61 ) 

well and should have some fun , 
just keep them off of 61 ! 

 ( to the tune of the of   ) 

this is the story of the , 
the man st. came to , 
for something that he never done , 
he 's sit in the owner 's box but one .  .  .  . 
day he could have the of the world ! 

from  ( david m. tate ) 
subject re 
organization department of industrial engineering 
lines 54 

said 

in article ,  ( sherri nichols ) writes 
every single piece of evidence we can find points to major league baseball 
being 50 offense , 50 defense .  . a run is just as important as a run 
prevented .  . 

of course a run is just as important as a run prevented .  . 
just as a saved is a earned .  . enough with the  . 

it 's not a , and  ( unlike your comments below) it 's not a tautology .  . 
it need n't have been true. if every in baseball were essentially 
the same in quality (i . e .  . if the of ability were much 
smaller than the of ability ) , then runs would be 
much more important than preventing them , simply because the ability to 
actively prevent runs would be much weaker .  . 

my point is that if the starters are able to live up to 
their potential , they wo n't need much offensive support .  . 

if that 's your point , you should have said so. what you in fact said was 
and defense win , and later is the essence 
of baseball . neither of which says what you are now claiming was your 
point , and neither of which is true. 

it seems to me that when quality take the 
, the other teams score less runs .  . the team that scores the most 
runs  . 

and you accuse of ! 

this puts the team with the better at the advantage 
 ( providing they can stop the team from  . a low 
game would clearly benefit the  . 

it 's not clear to me at all that this is true. in high games , the 
team with the better offense a high percentage of the time. in low 
games , the split is essentially 50 50 regardless of team ability .  . 

they should have many 
low games due to their excellent and below average hitting .  . 
on the flip side , if you had a starting of great offensive , 
i would be arguing that this team would not need great  . 

i thought you said and defense win and is 
the essence of baseball . 




david m.  ( dtate , sir , with not quick 
member , , tims , hands not soft , eye not 
and in denver they call you a 
the big and compare you to my own ! 

from  ( doug roberts ) 
subject re vs. al 
organization university of arizona , , tucson 
lines 2 
nntp posting host arizona . edu . 
keywords game length 

doug ken hill for ! ! 
let 's go  

from  ( bam ! ) 
subject the bob dylan baseball abstract 
distribution na 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 49 


just a little something i found while reading the voice , which 
is not noted for its sports , but the print some 
interesting features .  . this year , the predictions team analyses for 
the 1993 were presented in the form of bob dylan  . i 
do n't have the article in front of me , so i 'll only give the memorable 
ones here that i remember and know the to. i could dig up more 
if there is interest .  . 

 ( to the tune of ) 

is in the , mixing up the medicine .  . 
george is on the thinking  the government. 
wade in a coat , out , paid off , 
says he 's got a bad back , wants to get it laid off. 
look out kids , it 's  you did. 
do n't know when , but it 's again. 

 ( to the tune of like a ) 

once upon a time you played so fine 
you threw away before his prime , did n't you 
people said beware , he 's bound to 
but you thought they were just kidding you. 
you used to laugh about , 
the that was  out. 
but now you do n't talk so loud , 
now you do n't seem so proud , 
about having to for your next deal .  .  .  .  . 

 ( to the tune of 61 ) 

well and should have some fun , 
just keep them off of 61 ! 

 ( to the tune of the of   ) 

this is the story of the , 
the man st. came to , 
for something that he never done , 
he in the owner 's box but one .  .  .  . 
day he could have been the of the world ! 


bill ! ! 
po box ! atlantic alliance ! 
 ( 908 ) new , nj ! con  93 ! 

i am not an i am a free man ! 

from  ( matthew t thompson ) 
subject re survey 
organization university of new hampshire , nh 
lines 17 
nntp posting host edu . 
keywords survey , 

yes , i know this is not rec . music . ,  ( as someone has already pointed out , thanks i know that ) , i'm trying to get a random and also i'm for  . 
so please , do n't mail me complaining that it does n't belong here or that it is wasting bandwidth .  . 
this everybody not just readers of music groups. please either complete the survey , or hit  n  , because i 'll just back  . 

thank you 
matt 





matthew t. 
electrical computer engineering 
university of new hampshire 
e mail or my evil at 



from 
subject deep drive  ( bbddd ) returns 
organization social science computing 
distribution na 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 72 

in article ,  ( jonathan king ) writes 

a less well part of the now infamous for 
bell trade was the fact that san diego included , 000 in the 
deal. even less than this , however , was that the , 000 
did n't come from the , but from an un named source , and that the 
money did n't go to the blue  . in , the money was diverted 
into a london bank account owned by a character named 
gray .  . 

i should be so lucky the account number must have been rejected ! ) 

the odd thing was that gray was n't some british , but a 
canadian social scientist working at the university of western 
ontario .  . gray was previously known to the authorities only as an 
associate of john , and as the man who had the previous year 
discovered the true name of bang ben  . 

to be accurate , it is big bang ben  . 

soon after that , gray and sent word to ottawa that canada had 
achieved absolute superiority over the united states in the field of 
research , as she controlled both the 
pitch alike and the research institute .  . the prime 
 . 

i hope not. to think that i would give any pleasure to 
really ruins my day. ps matthew a ending 
to the section on the  . 

okay , so i'm not giving up the day job. but , in an effort to help me 
keep the day job , i 've managed to the job of running the 
deep drive onto gray , to whom future deep 
drive related should be sent 


or please identify any messages with the 
subject line 

can take this post as the to in about what he plans to 
do as the new director of the research institute , and what kind of 
body are wearing this spring .  . , i have to go 
pick up that of cards i bought to fill in the 
area behind our tool shed .  .  .  . 



realizing the importance of this work , john and i 
concluded that we might be able to pool some resources .  . i have not yet 
gone through the archives that jonathan sent to me when i do , i will 
send out an official introduction to the deep drive  . 

however , i wonder if we need to the project , now that the 
principal and research archive have changed. send your 
suggestions for a of the study to me , at the address given 
above. 

and , just think it 's day. soon , the will be flying 
out  ( no , get your minds out of the gutter ) of the ball parks , and 
helpless will be injured by the 
atmosphere .  .  ( and you thought that were made of 
! ) 

who will be the stars this year can anyone hope to combat brad 
's record start to last year 

the is young , the in mud , the hot dogs 
starting to for the rest of the year .  . play ball  ( and take  . 

and may all your  . 

 . 

from  ( jason lee ) 
subject re ryan out for 2 5 weeks ! ! 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 12 

and then  ( cs1442aq ) 
ryan has right knee .  . is having and 
is expected to miss 2 5 weeks. 

that 's too bad. i really had hoped could end his career with a great 
year .  . i suppose there is still hope. 


jason 
e i 1 0 the most beautiful equation in mathematics .  . magic 
for all sad words of tongue and pen , the are these number 
it might have been. john 

from  ( randy palermo ) 
subject re dead 
organization silicon , inc. , view , ca 
lines 16 
nntp posting host sgi . com . 

in article writes 
being a baseball fan and a fan of the above mentioned i was 
wondering if anyone could clue me in on whether the dead  ( or members 
of ) the national anthem at giant 

i would imagine that it is a bit too early for anyone to know , but 
an answer would be greatly appreciated. 

it is my understanding that the dead will the na at the 
home on mon .  . 4 12. the are today in st.  . 



fax  ( 415)961 ) 
silicon computer systems , n .  . mt. view , ca 
play an , go to jail .  . that 's the law 

from  ( keith keller ) 
subject re my predictions for 1993 
article i.d. netnews . 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 17 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 

in article  ( kevin mundstock ) writes 
since everyone else seems to be running wild with predictions , i 've 
decided to add my own to the fire 
they might seem a bit normal , but there are a few  ( albeit , small ) surprises .  . 

al of the year 

what makes you think will still be in new york at year 's end with 
george back ) 


keith let s go ! ! ! ! ! 
let s go ! ! ! ! ! 
league ! ! ! ! 

next time you go over my head , i 'll have yours on a  . 
 . benjamin , 1993 

from  ( david demers ) 
subject re montreal question .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization dept. , san diego 
lines 13 
nntp posting host edu . 


in article , k  ( mully ) writes 

what position does mike play i cannot seem to find it 
anywhere. thanks ! ! ! ! 1 

he 's a by training , but he 's been at second  ( mostly ) and third 
this year for the  . 

dave 
computer science engineering 
san diego ... ! ! cs ! 
la , ca  ( 619 ) , or , fax  ( 619 ) 

from state . edu .  ( steven m casburn ) 
subject re do people want 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 19 

in article  ( doug steele ) 

this is a top 10 posting for the al. 

home runs 
team hrs team 
5 cle 13 
4 13 

did anyone think that texas would have the top two home run leaders at a 
given point in the and neither one would be jose 

steve 


steve state . 
i personally of results from anything but violent and ruthless 
truth telling that will work in the end , even if 
john , 

from  ( donald p boell ) 
subject day cast 
organization the notes server 
lines 34 

here is the day cast 



scott  ( l ) 31 games , 6 14 , 5 . 08 . era , 0 saves 
andy  ( r ) 18 games , 2 8 , 6 . 72 . era , 0 saves 
 ( r ) 67 games , 10 15 , 4 . 57 . era , 0 saves 
henry  ( l ) 28 games , 6 9 , 4 . 02 . era , 0 saves 
 ( r ) games , 5 9 , 4 . 10 . era , 9 saves 
david  ( r ) 6 games , 3 0 , 1 . 17 . era , 0 saves 
jeff  ( r ) games , 46 30 , 3 . 65 . era , 21 saves 
steve reed  ( r ) 18 games , 1 0 , 2 . 30 . era , 0 saves 
bruce  ( l ) games , 43 64 , 4 . 31 . era , 3 saves 
smith  ( r ) games , 90 , 3 . 44 . era , 6 saves 
wayne  ( l ) games , 8 8 , 3 . 44 . era , 3 saves 

the rest 

joe  ( c ) games ,  . , 3 , 70 , 10 
 ( c ) 32 games ,  . 110 . , 1 , 5 , 0 
 ( ss ) games ,  . , 1 , 20 , 1 
 ( ss ) 21 games ,  . , 0 , 1 , 0 
andres  ( 1b ) games ,  . , , , 59 
charlie  ( 3b ) games ,  . 250 . , 48 , , 13 
jim  ( 3b ) 5 games ,  . , 0 , 0 , 0 
eric young  ( 2b ) 49 games ,  . , 1 , 11 , 6 
 ( of ) games ,  . , 38 , , 40 
boston  ( of ) games ,  . 250 . , 65 , , 
clark  ( of ) games ,  . , 28 , , 5 
 ( of ) 290 games ,  . , 0 , 49 , 
young  ( of ) games ,  . , 3 , 109 , 
 ( of ) 15 ,  . , , 



from  ( russell earnest ) 
subject re to 
organization institute of technology 
lines 29 

in article ,  ( len reed ) writes 
in article  ( hanson loo ) writes 
did n't bob go straight from arizona state univ .  . 
to the i remember he had one great 
month hitting and then the next i heard 
he was in japan .  . 
a month well , he did have a short career compared to what one might 
have expected for such a highly due to being injury prone , 
, and having no work  . but he certainly did not 
suffer from being to the  . 

sorry , this is exactly how he suffered from being to the  . 
being and having no work , to being injury prone with 
nothing to loose , might have been in  .  ( did you intend a 
after your comment ) 

this brings back the long suffering of pre chop who 
kept being promised the bob back to back power  . who 
could stop that guess we 'll never know. 

p.s.  ( are there any yet ) is getting any playing time out 
there i plan to be at the game on june , they 'll have to play him then. 



read that to memory and process it ! russell 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
arpa 

from  ( richard izzo ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
distribution na 
lines 20 

in  ( randall rhea ) writes 

the are  . they are the of our time. 
when they play , descends upon the land like a cold front 
from canada .  . they are a to all who have lived and 
all who shall ever live. they are utterly and completely 
doomed .  . 
other than that , i guess they 're ok. 

oh , up. what me is that they might actually 
finish last , which i believe has n't happened since their second in 
 . never mind that is 0 2 with a 16 . 50 . era , at 7 . 50 . , 
our main recent  ( lind , , jose ) are  . , 
david is 0 2  ( about how he was doing in before the 
several years ago ) , our hitting , and our has collapsed , 
and we 've won one game at home they 've won more games in their first ten 
games than last year , and brian is actually over the 
line ! 

rich. 

from  ( orin roth ) 
subject re , east not so weak 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 34 

in writes 

i love it how all of these people are blaming the success 
on a weak division .  . why do n't we look at the record of the teams in 
each division  ( read inter play ) , we 'll see that the east 
is really kicking the shit out of the west .  . i know it is early , but 
that is all we have to go on. is just so strong with their 
 . , is 2 7 coming off a at 's in 
philadelphia , and houston was swept in it 's first three games by the 
in the  . that , my western division friends , shows 
that the three best teams in your division may not be as strong as you 
think ! ! 

or you may be posting this way too early and be eating your words by 
mid  . c mon , the have n't proved anything yet. 
was similar to the 2 years ago. they  . they started having 
a good year , but did n't get any respect until they actually won the 
division .  .  ( which is how it should be ) so until the at least 
have a good year , not just a good 2 weeks , they wo n't get any respect 
either. btw , 's  . is actually a to how good 
the really are. their record is 6 3. can you imagine the 
record if they were  .  . and 's hitting will 
improve  . 
no , i'm not a fan .  . just defending a good team .  . 
 . 
u. 

all the way in  93 
hit like a club 
need 

bob 

i'm really a in ! 

from  ( sean garrison ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host berkeley node . net . yale . edu . 
organization yale 
lines 37 

in article , 
 ( theodore r krueger ) wrote 

is n't it funny that a white person calls a and gets 
for a year , but a black person calls someone a and there is no 
consequence 




, you 're missing a vital point. as roger pointed out in a 
previous response , the reason why was from baseball was 
because she had been known to call and think in a biased manner on 
a constant basis. such thoughts affected her practices .  . , 
on the other hand , was found to have mentioned this one word a single time. 
if he had been known to go around , criticizing homosexuals , it would be a 
different story. furthermore , he is merely an  . he does n't have to 
anyone as had to do. dave , the former who is 
an admitted homosexual , has decided to assist in a before a 
game at  . he , like you , thinks that should be from 
baseball .  . is for a year 's  . in my opinion , 
that 's ludicrous .  . as rose on said , if you start 
who have mentioned a word even a single time 
under whatever conditions , then you 'd probably have enough people remaining 
to play a three on three game. now , honestly , if you truly analyze the 
differences between the two cases that you bring up in your article , i 
would think that you 'd reconsider your thoughts. 







behind the ! 



from  ( sandra vigil ) 
subject re all star team 
organization corporation , 
lines 49 

 ( antonio pera ) writes 


 ( magazine(april 1993 ) had a couple of interesting articles about 
including its all star team .  . 
some of the major points are 

's morning edition a report this morning  ( 4 19 ) on 
american in and how they have many of 
the same problems by black african american 
when they first entered the league .  . however , although baseball 
has to the presence of black , many 
still labor under the stereotype of being , 
hot , . the report also that despite 
the  ( my word ) of about 
discrimination against black in its , 
baseball has actually done much better by black than 
 . 

another interesting point was the language problem. the 
reporter elaborated on an with which he 
gave in spanish to a spanish speaking newspaper reporter with 
the fact that there are maybe 2 major baseball writers that 
speak spanish , despite the fact that spanish is one of  ( if not 
the ) easiest to learn , so easy that the author 
learned spanish at age 50 in order to research his 
book , all the pretty horses . yet , few organizations 
spanish speaking , one of the exceptions being 
the a 's .  . 

another point 

nearly 90 of american have some african blood. 
yet , most report that they 'd never really felt black until 
playing ball in the us. 


enough , it is the early presence of american 
baseball in the major that support the idea that 
baseball was integrated before the of , 
as many light black or brown , americans were 
incorporated into baseball .  . 

s 

i did not know the for the disease 
of images , but i believed in the healing 
power of words and stories. 
until the end of the world 

from  ( ron castelletto ) 
subject red 
keywords red baltimore philadelphia boston 
organization university of 
distribution na 
lines 20 


can someone send me information for the 
following teams baltimore , philadelphia and boston .  . 

also , if you have a home available can you tell me the dates 
for all home games between and between and if 
any of these games are nights or special discount nights 

thanks ! ! ! ron 

ps and also who the opponents are for these games ) 

do not reply to this account , 
please reply to 

ibm canada lab technology 
associate development 
on  ( 416 ) tie line 
internal mail 51 


from  ( mike jones ) 
subject re jack 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host aix . ibm . com . 
organization ibm aix development , ny 
lines 57 

 ( roger maynard ) writes 
it sure does. and it all depends on the definition that you use for better . 
yours is based on what could have been and mine is based on what really 
happened. 

well , actually , most of ours is based on what really happened and yours is 
based on some fantasy of how it happened. but that 's ok , i understand you 
have a background .  . like plus make look good. 

is it 's fault that boston had no offense is it because of that 
the blue had such a strong offense do n't tell me that has this 
ability to cause the offensive to score more runs .  . 
this is the perfect example of your problem. you are 's 
from the rest of the team 's efforts .  . you can only do 
this if you can say for sure what the team would have done without 
 . only then can you compare .  . but you cannot know how the team 
would have done without  . your analysis is fallacious .  . 

ok , how about a answer , then. here 's a very question to which 
i'm sure a fair number of us are very in the answer to. please 
answer yes or no , roger 
can a cause the offensive on his team to score more runs 
al only , please. 

for anyone else following along , it is a well known and fact 
that a team 's win loss record is closely related to the number of runs the 
team scores and the number the team allows .  . it 's not a definite , 
hard and fast function , but there is definitely a correlation .  . in fact , as a 
rule of , if teams a and b both score x runs and team a allows y runs , 
for every 10 runs than y that team b allows , it will win another game. 
so , for instance , if we look at the 1991 blue , we find that 
they runs and allowed , of which allowed 114 .  . all other 
things being equal , if frank , with his 3 . 44 . era had replaced jack 
for the 240 . 2 . threw  ( plausible , since threw 
for boston ) , the red would have allowed about 15 runs , or 
enough for 1 2 more  . now , that does n't take into account that 
half his in , which is a harder park to pitch in 
 ( particularly for a lefthander ) than  . so , , roger .  . unless you 
really do believe that a can somehow affect the number of runs 
his team scores , could you enlighten us to the fallacy in this 
analysis clearly , it would be to claim that would 
necessarily have put up a 3 . 44 . if he had been on the last year , but 
that is not the claim .  . we look at what the actual were and 
's as better than  in the sense that had 
performed as did , his team would have been better off. 

it takes an open mind to really truly understand what is happening out 
here in the real world guys .  . 

this is true , but not so open that your brain falls out. 

mike jones aix high end development 

computer .  .  . if . you do n't open that this moment i shall straight 
off to your major data banks and you with a very large  . got 
that 
zaphod 

from  ( amy j patterson ) 
subject games ) 
reply to  ( amy j patterson ) 
organization iowa state university 
lines 4 

does anyone know if the games are in 
good ole ames iowa 

thanks all. 

from lurie ) the 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization allegheny college 

in article 
writes 



i remember reading somewhere that 7 of the league was jewish during the 
50 's .  . now , there is practically nobody 

from  ( mark singer ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
keywords hall of fame , , , , joe , ) 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution na 
lines 15 


i'm no fan .  . just thought i 'd point out that he 's the 
only in history to have five three games. joe 
has four. three. and also three. 
ruth , , and two each .  . 

i do n't think 's game , else i believe he would 
also have had two .  . 


the 


mark 


from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re young 
article i.d. cs . 1993apr6 . 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 17 

in article  ( mark singer ) writes 
your speculation  ( and 
others ) that will produce better than the two proven veterans 
is nothing more than speculation , no matter how well founded .  . 

your speculation that the two proven veterans will produce better 
than is also no more than speculation .  . it does make 
a difference whether the speculation is well founded or not. 

obviously , the believe they can win with the catching they 
have , and i agree. if they change their minds , they 'll call up  . 

though this is a good point. the one speculation is safer , 
because it can be reversed .  . 

cheers , 


from  ( dan bergmann ) 
subject need software for baseball 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization lawrence national 
lines 10 
nntp posting host gov . 


i'm looking for software  ( hopefully free and runs on unix box ) which will 
keep track of statistics for my company team  ( batting  . etc . ) .  . 

if you know of any please post or respond to me by e mail .  . many thanks. 



dan 


from  ( steven rubio ) 
subject re kevin 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 8 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

is the one in the  . dusty has also said he 
trusts to get the final out in a where is 
, so you might see a couple of saves for kevin .  . then again , if 
any of the regular , is a possible candidate to 
start , though this would appear less likely now that dave did well 
in an emergency start. 



from  ( gaetano napolitano ) 
subject era 
distribution ca 
organization ca , usa 
lines 17 



as the subject tells all i am trying to find out what is the to 
the era for the  . 

if any of you baseball have it please e mail me at 





thank you very much 






from  ( gary wieman ) 
subject cards la , lose , life is good ! 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
keywords 

just a few lines about my favorite team sweeping the  ( one of 
my least favorite ) in la  ( sweet ! ) .  . also the  ( my other least 
favorite team ) loss to the made this this a great day and a 
great start to the as the are on the  . 

big smith is having a great start and the seem to be 
hitting in the even though they have had a few games with lots 
of and not many runs .  . with the on 
hitting in spring training , the will be lower 
this year  ( probably due to the high numbers by jose and 
and 's off  . 

i do n't know why all the fuss about the  . the media and all the 
on r . s . b . forget who is right behind them in the  . 
give the wild thing a week or two before he starts blowing some games 
and we 'll see who is in first then. i believe the 
is more complete than the and that will make the 
difference. 

on a side note , a few years ago  ( 5 6 ) , a comment was made by some 
baseball or about the defense .  . he was asked 
where to hit the ball against the and he replied fair .  . i 
remember it being in the they said it section of sports illustrated .  . 
i would like to know who said it and what issue it was in. 

go ! ! 



from  ( david j . ) . 
subject c . 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 8 

could some kind soul out there e mail me the on where i can find the c . 
program i'm interested in some road trips this year .  .  .  .  . 


david blue riddle 1993 
it 's on. 
the is an art is coming out on this time for real. 
e mail me for the  . 

from 
subject re the 
organization university of missouri 
x posted from missouri . edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 16 

in article 
 ( ian m. derby ) writes 



after reading my local paper today , i found out that the 
started the at 10 2. i am not as old as , but i 've 
heard many talk about the serious job the did that 
 . they were ahead of the by 15 games that in 
mid august .  . they managed to lose a bunch from then on and the 
took the division .  . 15 ! ! ! games ahead and lost it .  .  .  .  . i 
hope this is much different. 


i do n't .  . 
fan 

from  ( scott barman ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization american software development corp .  . , west , ny 
lines 18 

in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 


oh .  .  .  . i forgot .  .  .  . art , former red and  .  . 
between in  ( fell short of qualifying for top 10 because of 
and with ron no was n't  . 

scott mailing list  ( feed the following into your shell ) 
mail ! 
subscribe 
let 's go ! ! 

from 
subject re all time best 
organization master 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( roger lustig ) writes 


in article , 
writes .  .  .  . 

i 've recently been working on project to determine the greatest 
at their respective  . 

career 

what about u. , the greatest 2nd in cleveland 
history in , over  .  . a great , great second  . 


jon 




from 
subject 
reply to 
organization , no. , ma .  . 
lines 5 

i was wondering if anyone had any kind of park  . 
i would appreciate it if someone could send me one. 
thanks in advance. 

dan 

from  ( ted frank ) 
subject smith a 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 18 

in article  ( brett rogers ) writes 
in article  ( dale stephenson ) writes 
smith ,  .  .  .  .  . 664 . 0 . 
the 's 1988 is the second highest year ever. still very good , 
but i do n't like the way his numbers have declined every year .  . in a few 
years may be a  . 

that 's rich .  .  .  . smith a  .  .  . 

why do you expect him to remain the best in the game until 
he his third birthday , or something why is it such a 
strange concept that a forty one year old smith might be a 
in 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from  ( alan sepinwall ) 
subject help ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 26 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 


just ca n't win .  . 

bob 's the game of his life through eight  ( yanks 
lead 6 1 ) , so decides to let the kid try and get his first complete 
game. manages to get two , but in between , four score , 
and all of a sudden it 's 6 5 , and just ca n't get the third out. 
so goes to the , and gets out the first guy he faces .  . 

last night , jimmy key is another in a long string of games of his 
life  ( this guy just keeps getting better ! ) through eight  ( yanks 
lead 4  . this time , thinks , i do n't want a repeat of that 
near with , so i 'll give my some work. steve , 
whose era was 54 . 00 . coming into the game , left with it at 00 .  . he did n't 
do too good. then comes in. he gives up a two run , and the 
win it , 6 5. 

what 's going on this is already the third or fourth time this year that 
the has blown a lead .  . have done it twice together , 
's done it once , and i think even did it once. what 's the 
deal we finally have starting , so all of a sudden , our 
turns to shit ! 

what 's gonna do and what 's george gonna do if this continues to happen 



from  ( dave  almost the  kirsch ) 
subject going to a game  .  .  . 
keywords , , 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization l and the 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

well , after suffering from an intense fit of minnesota , 
i 've decided to road trip to milwaukee and take in a couple of games this 
weekend. a couple games at will be great to , 
but i thought why not go to for a game too 

i see the are playing the on sat  ( 2 05 start , i believe 
that 's eastern time  . i it would be fun to down to 
for the day game and live it up a little. i'm wondering if anyone 
(esp .  . fans ) have some advice on 

1 ) if i'm taking 41  ( skokie hwy ) south until it runs into 94 , what 's the 
best way to get to i'm planning on getting there an hour or 
two early and paying through the nose for to keep things easy .  . 

2 ) is it probable that i 'll be able to walk up and get  ( 2 or 
3) on game day i figure since it 's early in the year , 's out and 
the is n't great i should be able to get  . if not , what 's 
the best way to get advance can i call the  office 
directly and pick up at the will call 

3) any advice on where to eat before or after the game 

4 ) do they allow i  ( present from lundy ) into the 
) 


dave like a jim blue do it again in  93 
new  .  .  . quotes out of context ! 
not to a dead horse , but it 's been a couple o  weeks  .  .  . this 
me .  . punishments .  .  .  .  . stephen lawrence 

from  ( donald p boell ) 
subject re best 
organization the notes server 
lines 5 

i 'd have to say the most impressive hrs i 've ever see came from dave 
and his infamous moon drives .  .  .  . 




from  ( marty olevitch ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
nntp posting host 
organization washington u. physics dept 
lines 3 





from  ( michael mule ) 
subject re the worst 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 24 

in article  ( brian r. landmann ) writes 


e , 
later , in the ninth with the bases loaded and two he puts 
, a with power in as a and uses luis 
, a 250 with no power as a  . what the 
is he thinking. 

if memory serves me well , hit it , and damn near the game. 
obviously knows his better than you do. 


see y all at the 
go 
chop chop 

michael  


michael 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from  ( alan sepinwall ) 
subject re 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 54 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 

in article  ( robert c hite ) writes 
in article ( ) writes 
does any one out there listen to for those of you who do 
not know what i am talking about , it is an all sports radio 
in new york .  . on a clear night the signal up and 
down the east coast .  . in particular , i want to know how 
and mike 's show is. i go to school in virginia 
so i ca n't listen when there are on during the day. just 
wondering .  . 

you 're right about the signal being strong .  . i live in west philadelphia , 
and i can get fan almost perfectly .  . it 's a sports dream  ( especially 
if that person is from ny and wants to hear about his teams while he 's 
away at  . as for , it 's turned out to be , 
then  . neither of them wanted to work a full four hour show , so ed 
and dave  old four hour was broken down into two 
two hour show from 10 12 , and from 12 2. and they 
both happen to in comparison to and dave .  . come back , guys ! 


the fan is an okay sports radio station , but does n't come close to 
the ultimate in sports radio , in philadelphia .  . the signal 
might not be as powerful , but then again only in new york 
feel obligated to everyone else 's with a bunch of 
complaining 24 hours a day. took two of your 
best sports too , and steve  . 
is with sports talk from 5 30 am till , check it 
out anytime your within a few hours of philadelphia .  . if i'm not 
mistaken , has the highest sports talk in the nation 


like i said , i live in , so i can hear fan and or whenever i 
want. but i cannot stand  . and it is n't because i the 
sports teams the are my favorite team  ( yanks are favorite 
al ) , and the are n't too bad either. there are two big problems 

1)total ) emphasis on the home teams , especially the  . unlike 
the fan hosts , who can at least answer a question about an 
out of town team if a asks , the hosts seem 
to have no clue about any team that does n't play on 
broad street. also , periodic sports  ( every 20 
minutes ) gives sports news and scores from around the 
country. it 's very rare to hear an out of town score 
being reported on  . 

2)the ) hosts .  . with the exception of , who i miss 
from his days at fan , none of the hosts really seems to have 
both a broad knowledge of the or a good on air presence .  . 
the worst is cobb , who seems to have been solely 
on the basis that he used to play for the  . 

anyway , that 's my two on the whole fan vs battle .  . 



subject re , east not so weak 
from  ( ian m. derby ) 
expires tue , 27 apr 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
organization virginia commonwealth university 
lines 13 


that 's very true. i live in , home of the 
, and they have this guy ryan who hit 17 's at home 
last year .  . now that does n't sound like a whole lot , but the way the 
is built , home runs are a  . in fact , ron , 
brian and david justice all proved they could hit in 
 . when they were sent to the , they never came back .  . 
if you can hit in , you can hit anywhere. 

so far , after beating  ( phillies ) 9 0 in the first game , the 
best team in history has been rather  . too many 
expectations i guess. 


subject re , the have support 
from  ( dave  almost the  kirsch ) 
organization l and the 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 18 

in article  ( robert c hite ) writes 
most of deleted  .  .  . i have an editor and know how to use it 

okay we 've been conservative and added about 18 so far. now 
we 're adding about 4 more thanks to the teams .  .  .  . 
okay , 22  . math , 72 22 94 
hmmm .  .  .  . i think good enough to win the worse division in 
baseball 

next time , before you say something foolish , get a clue first ! 

either this is an example of great sarcasm or i'm really , really worried .  . 


dave like a jim blue do it again in  93 
new  .  .  . quotes out of context ! 
not to a dead horse , but it 's been a couple o  weeks  .  .  . this 
me .  . punishments .  .  .  .  . stephen lawrence 

from  ( jim clouse ) 
subject world series 
nntp posting host 
organization state university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 3 

does anybody else think that should become part of 
a 's career why not 


from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 24 

in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 

i doubt it. 

was one of two jewish the other is  . 

other good buddy , , norm and larry , 
ken , , ed  . 

there have been over 150 jewish major  . a few years ago there 
was an article about someone who keeps track of this in magazine 
the article was entitled jews on first , of course. 

there have also been at least two books on the subject. 

roger 


from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re best 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 18 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( charles m kozierok ) writes 

the best home run i have ever seen came off , believe it or not , 
roger  ( sorry , val ) a couple of years ago. he threw a ball to 
which was literally at 's , and he absolutely 
the crap out of it. after the swing , 
for a new ball he did n't even turn around to look , or 
even get upset .  . the ball hit the in the left field standard , 
some 70 or so feet about the green  ( over 100 feet above the 
ground total ! ) 

truly an amazing shot .  . 

i agree. home runs off are always memorable .  . kinda like 
and  . they do n't happen very often. 

cheers , 


from  ( charles m kozierok ) 
subject re what s with all these scores 
organization institute of technology 
lines 42 
nntp posting host electric mit . edu . 

in article  ( joseph hernandez ) writes 
in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( charles m kozierok ) writes 
in article  ( sean garrison ) writes 
stuff about scores deleted. 
at just that exact time to see the message. even results after the game 
is over are not necessary , thanks to mr. who posts daily 
and results here every day. 

am i supposed to take that as a or a put down just wondering .  . 

it was meant entirely , 100 , as a  . 

i do this as a service to the entire baseball world on usenet , especially 
for those in the east coast who ca n't get final scores for west coast games 
in their newspapers or late tv  . this is helpful to in other 
countries who either receive only weekly scores or by the week. also , 
many have requested for this kind of service previously but it was only 
available through bbs 's or some pay news services .  . by the way , mine is free 
of charge and has no restrictions .  . 

i was not trying to criticize your service at all. 
in fact , i was trying to encourage others to use it. 
i do n't personally use it , but i'm sure others do , and that was my point in 
posting there is no need for individuals to , in an ad hoc fashion , 
what you have already organized .  . 

if you want to send and scores , set up a private mailing list 
and use that. 

remember i only post final scores and the updated once a day to the 
rec . baseball . newsgroup .  . other than that , everything is done through 
private e mail .  . currently , there are people on my mailing list that 
branches off into other mailing lists available for many others. and the list 
grows by an average of 35 people a day. 

having one person , such as yourself , who does it , is a great idea. 
having 100 do it is not. that 's all. 

keep up the good work , joseph .  . 


charles 

from  ( dale stephenson ) 
subject re 1988 1992 , third base 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 122 

in  ( dale stephenson ) writes 

compiled from the last five average reports , here are the career 
for the individual in the reports .  . are courtesy of 
 . are listed in order. 

and some comments , with some deleted. 

third 


name 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 88 
, kevin  . 0 . 
yep , that kevin  . i never would have expected him in the 
1  . 

,  . 0 . 
it 's no accident that the first two names are 1988 only .  . as with first 
and second base , 1988 was the year of the  . average was 20 points 
higher in both than any other year .  . 

, scott  .  . 0 . 
looks good. too bad he 's moving to short .  . 

,  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
highest five year regular , though he 's only had one year as good as kevin 
. 

,  .  .  . 0 . 
, tim  .  .  . 600 .  .  . 0 . 
, kelly  .  .  .  .  . 664 . 0 . 
the other in the league .  . 

, mike  .  .  . 0 . 
this is an interesting line. his 1988 figure was slightly below average .  . 
his 1990 was pathetic , and his 1991 was the next best year by anybody .  . part of 
that may be his  . 1988 was with the  . 1990 was with the 
, who appear to have a  . 1991 was with the , and 
judging by and , the may be a good place to play 
third .  . 

, matt  .  .  . 0 . 
add another to the list. 

, ken  . 675 .  .  .  . 0 . 642 . 
, chris  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 642 . 
too whose career average may their value. i do n't know 
what happened to judging by the three previous years , his low 
1992 may be a fluke .  . is merely average , however. his incredible 1988 
 ( best year ever ) brings his average up a lot. 

, steve  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
strange last two years. 

, mike  . 0 . 
according to reputation , one of the best ever at third base .  . 
but at the end , he was below average .  .  ( average in 1988 was  .  . 

, wade  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
has been pretty good. i do n't know what happened in 1990 , but every 
other year he has been above average , usually by quite a bit. 

,  .  .  . 0 . 
last year a fluke or a 

average  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
, kevin  .  .  .  . 0 . 
al average  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
why is it that the two usually have very close 
to one another , but very different from year to year any ideas 

,  .  .  . 600 .  . 0 . 
is  . 

, dave  . 0 . 
, dave  . 0 . 
, greg  . 0 . 
three first time , above average in 1992 .  . i'm not sure why 
gets all the grief about his  . he 's never had a good year , but while 
at second he improved to become an average , and is an average 
at third .  . 

,  .  . 0 . 
, on the other hand , is a below average  . each year he 's about 
10 points below average .  . and it 's probably not just the park , since 
had excellent in the three years before this. 

,  . 0 . 
moving back to second was a good idea. 

, chris  .  .  .  . 0 . 
so why is supposed to be good he 's had a grand total 
of one year above the league , and was pretty bad last year .  . 

johnson ,  .  .  .  . 0 . 
,  .  .  .  . 0 . 
johnson and separated at birth. to his credit , 
did have one above average year  . could n't even break 
the  . 600 . mark without the help of the year of the  . 

, dave  . 0 . 
good , but his needs work. 

,  .  . 0 . 
not a good  . 

, jeff  . 0 . 
,  . 0 . 
both are better off at  . 

,  .  . 0 . 
two horrible years for  . does n't seem to 
have helped his any. 

, dean  . 0 . 
texas with not only the lowest career , but the lowest 
at third ever. , dean .  . 

j. student at large 

it is considered good to look wise , especially when not 
with information j. golden 

from 
subject jim is an idiot .  . 
organization ball state university , , in univ .  . computing 's 
lines 14 

i just wanted to let everyone know that i have lost what little respect i have 
for jim after seeing today 's game. first of all how could he 
start over may .  . after the way may played at the end of last year and 
the way he up the league how could you let him sit the not 
to mention that a right  ( maddux ) started .  . i really blew my top when 
hit for wilkins with tommy ! how can you do that 
just because of the thing , too much is made of that. wilkins is 
twice the that is. then the next was jose , one 
of the i have ever seen , and who had looked terrible at all 
day , and let him hit , while may still sat the  . i think even 
harris was by this because he showed may sitting in the while 
was  . face it has got to be the worst in 
baseball .  . 
a fan 

from 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
lines 18 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

in article ,  ( orin roth ) writes 
well , it 's the  . at least up until they started 
it was. are they still , 
if so , why and how did they receive this label 

there is no team , repeat , no team , that is america 's team .  . this is a 
country with 26 teams ( 2 up north ) and there is no one team that is 
america 's .  . who would the other teams belong to 

and how does it happen well , teams receive this through success 
 ( cowboys ) , national exposure  ( cubs ) , or both  . it 
successful campaigns .  . , turner , other 
people into thinking that their representative teams are hip so that people 
will watch them on tv and buy their products. arrogant local adapt the 
and think that their team is the one that america 

it comes down to dollars and  . 
p. 

from  ( david k. lowenthal ) 
subject re 
organization u of arizona cs dept , tucson 
lines 13 

the situation with the  is a case in point for the 
need for a  . 

this is true , but the main thing the i.e. needs to do 
is to suspend bobby  . you cannot allow a team to come out at 
the as the did. i usually , but in this case , 
the were dead wrong. should go for 5 games. if i 
had ever a game where that happened , i 'd have every 
that came out. only and would have been , and 
then would have gone in the argument. 

dave 


from  ( michael wynblatt ) 
subject re tigers 
keywords tigers 
nntp posting host 
organization state university of new york at stony 
lines 15 

in article ryan writes 
i think that the tigers are the greatest baseball organization of all 
time. 
... 
deleted 

on behalf of the rest of us tiger out here , i for this 
 . we try to keep it to a minimum , but we did win a game 
the other day , so sometimes it 's hard to control. see 

) 
michael 




from  ( dan swartzendruber ) 
subject re best 
organization open software foundation research institute 
lines 16 

in article  ( donald p boell ) writes 
i 'd have to say the most impressive hrs i 've ever see came from dave 
and his infamous moon drives .  .  .  . 

i remember one he hit at field that went across 
the street  ( in dead center field ) and hit a house on the roof .  . he 
a lot , but when he did connect , watch out ! 






include disclaimer . h . 

dan s. 

from  ( christopher shustakg ) 
subject where can i find baseball statistics 
organization public access unix for , ma , usa 
lines 7 

i am interested in uncovering statistics on boston red from 
march 1992 present. i want to look at changes in average , , 
hit games , runs , stolen bases , and on base during 
every game. where can 
i find this information do any sports log this info or do i 
have to go directly to the ball club 
thanks for the info .  . 

from  ( david demers ) 
subject re let 's talk 
organization dept. , san diego 
lines 17 
nntp posting host edu . 


in article , writes 
in article ! com . , 
! com .  ( phil gunsul ) says 
... 
ps hey kids , take all those pictures of dead out of your 
parents  and mail them to 

bob 


and send him a shift key too .  .  .  . 

dave 
computer science engineering 
san diego ... ! ! cs ! 
la , ca  ( 619 ) , or , fax  ( 619 ) 

from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re 1988 1992 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 13 

in article  ( brett rogers ) writes 
in article  ( dale stephenson ) writes 
smith ,  .  .  .  .  . 664 . 0 . 
the 's 1988 is the second highest year ever. still very good , 
but i do n't like the way his numbers have declined every year .  . in a few 
years may be a  . 

that 's rich .  .  .  . smith a  .  .  . 

why not is a too , and 
is a weak  . even great decline as they age. 



from  ( fisher greg ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization michigan state university , college of engineering 
lines 16 
nntp posting host ee . edu . 

in article  ( roger lustig ) writes 
in article  ( david fry ) writes 

once , on , the category was jewish sports , believe it 
or not. the answer was , this had four no with the 
in the  . the said , who is aaron 
said something like , i do n't think aaron was a  . 

well , it is a jewish name .  .  .  . 

8 ) 

roger 

that 's right. remember ! ! 


from lurie ) the 
subject re pleasant surprises 
organization allegheny college 
lines 9 

in article  ( alan 
sepinwall ) writes 
's era is in the 
or , and 's is .  .  .  .  . infinite .  . (i did n't think such 
a thing was possible , but it is) .  . 


actually , according to usa today , has 1 to him , 
but maybe that is incorrect .  . by the excellent report. 

organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re win home 
distribution usa 
lines 7 

in article ,  ( sam 
millitello ) says 

i'm telling you , , three l 's .  . call up mom and ask. 

bob  . 


from  ( kevin mundstock ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( kevin mundstock ) 
organization computing center , at , , ny 
lines 14 

in article writes 

here 's an interesting quote from bill from get that off 
the field 
 ( gibson ) was , at minimum , two  . 
speaking of , anybody know any good 
mike curious george 

here 's one i remember  ( sort of ) 
's in a room late at night and gets a call from someone .  . 
after he answers the phone the person at the other end asks if he 
up. answered , no , the phone did. 

kevin 

from  ( jim mann ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
reply to 
distribution usa 
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma 
lines 57 
nntp posting host stratus . com . 

in article 
 ( jiann su ) writes 
in article 
 ( todd rader ) writes 
stay in school. you have a lot to learn .  . 

learn what i know that 3 million dollars is a lot of money. i 
know 
does n't have a career out of baseball .  . i know if 
he 
did n't have baseball , he would n't be making near the money he is 
now. 


and michael , jack , and bill would n't be 
making near as much money if they were n't  . so what 's 
your point 

i just do n't understand how some , who only plays a 
for a 
living for millions of dollars , say he is not being paid enough. 

if nobody will sign him for his asking price , he will be the one 
 . 
the a 's will still win without him. 

will they you ca n't usually take away one of the team 's best 
and still expect them to win .  . or do you think the 
will continue to win without bonds .  . 


, many of these have nothing if not for their 

ability .  . nothing. they are getting paid much more than most hard 
working 
citizens , and they are complaining of not enough pay .  . 

so. again , jack gets paid much more than most hard 
working citizens  ( and much more than for that 
 . 


i do n't have a problem with them making millions .  . my problem is 
when the 
say they are n't being paid enough , when they already get 3 
million also , 
their numbers get worse. 

the reason the latter often happens is that many of these folks 
start making the real big late in their career , when they 
are on the decline .  .  ( there are exceptions , of course. dave 
apart after making his first million because he put most 
of that million up his nose . ) . 


jim 
stratus computer 

from tech . edu . 
subject are still looking ! 
lines 18 
organization institute of technology 





and , 

step one was taken on the  triumphant trip this year ! 

 ( yes , that was english ! ) 

's era after 's game 0 . 00 .  .  . nice . try ! 





jew 


from  ( geoffrey e dias ) 
subject attention anyone in ny or va 
organization york university , , canada 
lines 13 


there are two reports about a that is 
either in the  farm system or the  . his name is bill  . 
he was picked up by the , but had to be offered back to the 
before they were able to send him to the  . 

one report says that the took him back and him 
to  . the other says that he is on the   . which one is 
right 





from edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
subject re gotta a question .  .  .  .  . 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 24 
distribution usa 
reply to edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
nntp posting host 1 . rose . edu . 

in article  ( david demers ) writes 
in article ,  ( jimmy kuo ) writes 
 ( michael mule ) writes 
.... 
what is the runs allowed before a can get credit for a 
relief i.e. if a comes in with a 5 run lead does he 
with the save .  . 
if you come in and pitch the last three , and your team was ahead 
when you got out there and the game , you get a save .  . 
sort a correct. if you at least 3 , entered with your team 
in the lead , was the when the game ended , the game was never 
during your , and your team won , you get a save .  . 
well , the says that in the opinion of the , you must have 
effectively for your 3 this save is not automatic , 
unlike the others. 

someone in actually looked at these games a few years ago 
and found that the official awarded the save in every one 
of the games even those in which the had 
 ( allowing 4 or 5  . 

seeing , hearing  ( my two sense worth ) 
john 
edu . 

from m  ( corelmark ! ) 
subject re questions 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university 
lines 26 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 
in article , writes 
today  ( 4 14 ) p mike from , whom did they move to make 
room for 
also , are john of the on the 
thanks for anyone who can give me more info ! 

ken 
cal , 


is on the effective march 26 or something like that. 



comes off the on april , and will be evaluated on the 24th .  . 
he is throwing well , and without pain on the side. 

is not on the  . he suffered from the and lost 
 ( this is the official total ) 12 pounds .  . he will be back , , 
next week. 

walker will be back this or tomorrow .  .  .  . 

! from montreal .  . 


from  ( cs1442aq ) 
subject out for 2 5 weeks ! ! 
organization university of texas at arlington 
lines 4 

ryan has right knee .  . is having and 
is expected to miss 2 5 weeks. 



from  ( adam levin ) 
subject re best  .  .  . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( bighelmet ) writes 
 ( ian m. derby ) writes 


since someone brought up sports radio , 

i happen to be a big fan of  . he is a baseball writer for the 
philadelphia  . every tuesday he writes a week in review  . 
he writes about unusual situations that occured during the week. unusual 
 . he has a section called of the week which are stupid 
lines by ralph  . every year he has the  . 
that stands for last guy to get a hit .  . he also writes for baseball 
america .  . that is sort of a of week in review .  . if you 
can , check his out sometime .  . he might make you laugh. 

might you 'd have to have no sense of humor at all not to ! my favorite 
stuff are the zero , who have n't hit in a long time , 
the  ( who is that named after , i ca n't remember ) , and the box score 
line of the week. , i just found out that the has been 
moved to sundays .  . i get my to send it to me up here in boston every 
week. great stuff ! 

adam a 

from  ( edward kim ) 
subject re  . source over case closed 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 19 07 35 gmt 
distribution na 
lines 8 

organization ibm lab 

that 's a joke !  ( alomar might not be a gold , but he 's certainly 
no worse than ) . 
actually is a two time gold  ( 91  . 






from  ( david k. lowenthal ) 
subject re 
organization u of arizona cs dept , tucson 
lines 14 

in article  ( forrest smith ) writes 

should 've the game the second time the garbage got 
thrown at his  . he should also have the game at the 
point where ron was assessed the second strike in the ninth , on the 
grounds that he  ( cox ) was on the field and time should have been called .  . 

both would be denied , of course. the 's judgement 
determines the garbage thing , although i think the game should be 
called  ( but that 's my personal opinion .  .  . does . n't  . there 
is time only when the says , so the second argument is baseless .  . 


dave 

from  ( michael fath ) 
subject help looking for cleveland sports mailing list info 
organization dana institute 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

i'm looking for the address to join the cleveland sports mailing list. 
if anyone knows it , i would be if they could email a copy of 
it to me. if you are a member , just mail me one of the list 's letters. 
i could probably figure it out from there. 

thanks ! 




michael j. 
m m m m f dept of and molecular genetics 
m m m medical school 
m m f boston , ma 

from edu .  ( bradley w. brock ) 
subject re times 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 20 
reply to edu .  ( bradley w. brock ) 
nntp posting host 1 . rose . edu . 

in article  . daniel 
sokol ) writes 
wrote 

is the chicago baseball any good does the new york times 
have daily 

i do n't know about the but the times has daily and 
 . 
of course , they have special emphasis on the and 

beware .  . the original poster looks to be from , and chances are 
gets the edition of the that is printed in chicago for the 
 . this edition has only on monday  ( and sunday ) and an 
extremely sports section  ( few game , mostly just color 
 . 

w. , department of mathematics 
rose institute of technology resist not evil .  .  .  .  . love your enemies .  . 
edu . some nazarene 

from  ( king banaian ) 
subject re 
lines 40 
organization college 

frank 's list of was this 

p , , 
p , , 400 
p , , 250 
p , , 
p , , 
p , , 
, , 
, , 250 
, , 
, , 
, , 150 
c , , 
c , , 
, thomas , 
, , 
, , 
, , 
, , 5 . 
, , 250 
, , 
, , 
, , 
, , 290 
, r . , 
of , , 

what do all of these have in common they do not qualify for 
 . they were never free  . 

it 's called the reserve clause .  . look it up. 

and a year from now we will about how several of these guys are way 
and getting outrageous raises in  .  . 

king no taxes no new taxes , 
no old taxes , we are 
dept. of economics , college enough.  . 
latest 1993 2 . 4 .  ( please run , ! ) 

from  ( charles rosen ) 
subject re the worst 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization the university of , 
lines 61 

in article 
 ( brian r. landmann ) writes 

joe has to be the worst in baseball .  . 

for anyone who did n't see sunday 's game , 

with a right he decides to , a left handed 
and play and , both right  . 

later , in the ninth with the bases loaded and two he puts 
, a with power in as a and uses luis 
, a 250 with no power as a  . what the hell 
is he thinking. 

for your information , is injured (i think it is his shoulder or 
cage ) , so he could not use him as a  . 

earlier in the game in an about mark he commented 
how fortunate the were to get and that would be a 
regular even though this meant that would be hurt , but said 
he liked coming off the  . hit over last year , 
what does he have to do to start , the guy would be starting on most every 
team in the league .  . 

i do believe that was a very good for the cards. he does 
not have too much offensive capabilities , but he is an awesome  . 
since when have the actually thought of offense instead of defense ) 
i forgot who st. gave up for him , but it was not too much. 

as far as is concerned , he is a and so is brian , who 
him out. i expect to see a in  . 

furthermore , in sundays game when was thrown out at the , 
the showed the third base looking down the line 
and waving home , 

i agree with you on this one. as soon as threw that ball , i knew that 
was a dead  . but how could have known that would make 
a perfect 

i strongly believe that is one of the best in baseball .  . do n't 
forget the cards of  91 that won all those close games and went 
from last place to second place  ( although they were by the 
last to first  . he won a division title , and barely lost a 
race when he was with the  ( why ever even considered firing him i 
will never  . with at the , the are heading 
in the right direction .  . 

one more thing , one game does not make a  . yes , they lost to the , 
but with the second best in the national league  ( first in the 
east) , and a pretty good offense , the will win a lot more than they 
lose .  . maybe this is the year that they will go all the way. 

charles , a very enthusiastic fan 


charles rosen thirty four to ! ! ! 
university of national ! ! ! roll ! ! ! 
, al  ( need i say more ) 


from  ( kevin hansen ) 
subject re scott 
nntp posting host 16 . psych . edu . 
organization minnesota family study of minnesota 
lines 38 

in article  ( eric roush ) writes 
path cis . edu . ! edu . ! news feed 1 . edu . ! ! ! duke ! news . duke . edu . ! duke . edu . 
from  ( eric roush ) 
newsgroups rec . baseball . 
subject scott 
message id 
date 5 apr 93 18 21 18 gmt 
sender 
organization biochemistry 
lines 13 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 
usa today reports that he may be going on the 
 ( arm pains of an  . 

further news would be appreciated. 



eric duke . edu . 
i am a marxist , of the sort 
, , 

!  ( although the internet comes close . ) . 


did go on the 15 day with a in his left side  ( near 
 . he is on until 4 18 93 .  . 

no news as to who the will bring up. 

kevin 
mn family study university of minnesota 
 ( 612)626 ) 


contact university of minnesota women 's 

theory , experiment decides m. 

from  ( neal traven ) 
subject re the 
lines 25 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

robert c wrote 
i think most of the problems mainly from gene 's 
in managing the  . down the stretch , he 
jim , chris short , and (i think those 
are the three ) each on only 2 days rest for quite some 
time. by the time they hit the last 2 weeks of the , 
obviously none of these guys had an left in their  . oh 
well. 

was long gone he was probably an in  . or maybe a 
colt  . 45 .  . the 3rd was art , the previous year 's  . 
bennett was the 4th  . 

they were indeed 6 . 5 . up with 12 to go , but they won their final two 
games after the 10 loss  . the final game victory 
 ( bunning 's win , if memory serves ) kept the from for the 
title they and the were both 1 game behind the cards , with the 
 ( giants ) another game back .  . the could n't hold an early lead 
against the cards that final sunday , or there would have been a 3 way 
tie .  . too bad they could n't have saved some of the 15 or so runs they 
on saturday when they st.  . 


you 're only young once , but you can be 
forever. larry 

from  ( joseph hernandez ) 
subject and scores for tue , apr , 1993 
keywords , 04 . 06 . 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization sports division  ( major league baseball dept . ) . 
lines 72 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 


and scores for tuesday , april , 1993 
 ( including yesterday 's games ) 

national west won lost  . gb last 10 home road 
01 00 1 . 000 . 1 0 won 1 00 00 01 00 
01 00 1 . 000 . 1 0 won 1 01 00 00 00 
san diego 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
san francisco 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
00 01  . 000 . 1.0 0 1 lost 1 00 00 00 01 
houston 00 01  . 000 . 1.0 0 1 lost 1 00 01 00 00 
los 00 01  . 000 . 1.0 0 1 lost 1 00 00 00 01 

national east 
florida 01 00 1 . 000 . 1 0 won 1 01 00 00 00 
new york 01 00 1 . 000 . 1 0 won 1 01 00 00 00 
philadelphia 01 00 1 . 000 . 1 0 won 1 00 00 01 00 
pittsburgh 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
st. 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
chicago 00 01  . 000 . 1.0 0 1 lost 1 00 01 00 00 
montreal 00 01  . 000 . 1.0 0 1 lost 1 00 00 00 01 


american west won lost  . gb last 10 home road 
01 00 1 . 000 . 1 0 won 1 01 00 00 00 
texas 01 00 1 . 000 . 1 0 won 1 00 00 01 00 
california angels 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
chicago white 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
minnesota 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
seattle 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
kansas city 00 01  . 000 . 1.0 0 1 lost 1 00 01 00 00 

american east 
boston red 01 00 1 . 000 . 1 0 won 1 00 00 01 00 
new york 01 00 1 . 000 . 1 0 won 1 00 00 01 00 
milwaukee 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
blue 00 00  . 000 . 0 . 5 . 0 0 00 00 00 00 
baltimore 00 01  . 000 . 1.0 0 1 lost 1 00 01 00 00 
cleveland 00 01  . 000 . 1.0 0 1 lost 1 00 01 00 00 
tigers 00 01  . 000 . 1.0 0 1 lost 1 00 00 00 01 


yesterday s scores 

national league american league 

montreal 1 new york 9 
2 cleveland 1 

1 texas 7 
chicago 0 baltimore 4 

los 3 boston 3 
florida 6 kansas city 1 

philadelphia 3 4 
houston 1 9 

0 california idle 
new york 3 chicago idle 

pittsburgh idle milwaukee idle 
st. idle minnesota idle 

san diego idle seattle idle 
san idle 


joseph . 
kings 
angels 


from  ( jody hagins ) 
subject o 's lose at home to 
reply to 
organization data general corporation , , md 
lines 11 

gives up 3 hrs  ( gonzales 1 , 2 ) and gives up 
1  ( gonzales ) to lose 7 4. 

texas 7 10 0 1 0 
baltimore 4 9 0 0 1 



data general corporation , , md 



from  ( mike jones ) 
subject re my predictions  ( nl ) 
reply to 
organization ibm aix development , ny 
lines 34 

 ( mark singer ) writes 
in article  ( bob hobokenite ) writes 
is a better than greg  . 
but has there ever in the history of baseball been a 22 year old  ( or 
younger ) who compared among all league 
in terms of defense and brought a  . was n't it 
who was supposed to be that good in his year 
not. was n't it santiago who was supposed to be that good 
in his year not. 

 . , 24 year old games ,  . 290 .  .  . 418 .  . threw 
out a few  . santiago , 22 year old games , 
 .  .  . 467 .  . he threw out a few , too. ivan , 
20 year old 88 games ,  .  . 276 .  .  . did n't exactly 
behind the  . 

i can continue this thread with the others mentioned , but you get 
the point. you and others seem to be so quick to dismiss the 
veterans in favor of the hot young  . perhaps 
just perhaps the team of the 
knows something more than you do. and perhaps what they know is 
that very , very few 21 and 22 year old come up to the 
and make an impact .  . 

true. which only makes it more important to realize when you have one of the 
few.  last year , to major league , was 
 .  .  . , 15 hrs .  . how bad does he have to be behind the for that 
to not be better than 's  .  . 316 .  . 

mike jones aix high end development 

i would not admire hitting against , because if he ever hit you 
in the head you might be in the past tense .  . 


from  ( michael chen ) 
subject re jack 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( michael chen ) 
organization university 
lines 44 

in article  ( shawn luddington ) writes 
in article  ( edward fischer ) writes 
in article  ( greg spira ) writes 
 ( howard wong ) writes 

has jack lost a bit of his what is the worst start jack has had 

uh , jack lost his about 5 years ago , and has had only one above 
average year in the last 5. 

again goes to prove that it is better to be good than lucky .  . you can 
count on good tomorrow .  . lucky seems to be prone to bad starts  ( and a 
bad finish last year ) .  . 

 ( yes , i am every last run he gives up. who was it who said 
was a better than ) 

cheers , 


hey , i do n't see boston with any world series on their 
fingers .  . damn , now has three and probably the hall of fame in his 
future. therefore , i would have to say easily made the best 
 . and do n't tell me boston will win this year .  . they wo n't 
even be in the top 4 in the division , more like  . 




gee , i never knew made a comment about how 
with boston was gonna bring a world series title to boston .  . i do n't 
think ever said boston will win this year .  . boy , talk about 
sensitive ,  . ) 

in any case , i think would have made a better  . why 
is , and is left handed  ( how many left handed starters does 
have 



mike 




from  ( brett rogers ) 
subject re 1988 1992 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 12 

in article  ( dale stephenson ) writes 
smith ,  .  .  .  .  . 664 . 0 . 
the 's 1988 is the second highest year ever. still very good , 
but i do n't like the way his numbers have declined every year .  . in a few 
years may be a  . 

that 's rich .  .  .  . smith a  .  .  . 

brett 




from  ( gerry myerson ) 
subject the bob dylan baseball abstract 
organization school of , university , australia .  . 
lines 19 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
originator 


reposted , without permission , from rec . music . dylan . 

in article , wrote 

for those of you who like both bob and baseball , check out the 
current voice  ( april 13 ) , p .  . john and hart 
have written the bob dylan baseball abstract , and they have 
covered every team in both  . 

example 
 . an  the silent will  . from the scores between 
the lines. for they 're one too many  . and a thousand runs 
behind. 






from  ( jay heminger ) 
subject re tigers 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
originator 



all i can say is 




g o t i g e r s ! ! ! ! ! ! 





the supreme ! ! ! 

go blue ! ! ! go tigers ! ! ! go ! ! ! go lions ! ! ! go red wings ! ! ! 


from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re win ! win ! 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 18 

in article lloyd  ( lloyd nebres ) writes 
 ( look at all that ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) 

indeed , if the color on a team 's uniforms is any indication of the 
future , the are in trouble ! refer to the san jose for 
proof .  .  .  . but i have hope for the  . i was a sometime member of the 
fan club at the , and have a deep respect 
for the guy. he 's a gem .  . and , of course , gives that 
class .  . but yeah .  .  .  . whoever designed those uniforms was guilty of a 
of style and imagination. ! 

maybe i'm just a child of the 80 's , but i really liked the  uniforms .  . 
the nicely in the sun .  . it 's enough to make me a fan .  . 

frank however should have mentioned that though 
his advice is legally sound , if you follow it 
the u of c law school you will probably wind up in jail .  . 
standard disclaimers james , in misc . legal . 

subject re rule 
from 
reply to 
organization state university , , mn 
nntp posting host 29 . 2 . 
lines 14 




in article ,  ( david coons ) writes 
in article 
writes 
i am doing a paper on the rule. any information 
or even opinions would be greatly  . magic 

should be  . the rules say baseball is a game between two teams of 
each .  . let 's keep it that way. 

last weeks sports illustrated has a couple of big articles on the 
 . it is the 1993 baseball issue. is weeks sports illustrated 

from  ( greg spira ) 
subject re 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 10 

 ( scott barman ) writes 

forget it. word has it three divisions with a wild card is just about 
a done deal. it has to be decided soon since with the 
also have to begin soon. 

preliminary started already , i believe. though the word 
is that they are going  . 

greg 

from  ( mark singer ) 
subject re pleasant surprises 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 48 

in article  ( edward fischer ) writes 
in article lurie ) the writes 


i 'd be willing to make two 
1 ) does n't win roy .  . 
2 ) is out of baseball within five years. 

i'm skeptical of the first , because i do n't think is that good a 
, and he is on a team .  . 


i do n't have a history , but i do n't recall that the 
of roy 's come from teams .  . in fact , i think team is 
generally irrelevant , as almost always the most candidate  . 
am i wrong 

and he is not necessarily on a team .  . while the angels  
is still very weak , their everyday is doing quite well , thank 
you. is playing great .  . is learning to make the  . 
appears fine , but even if he 's not is ready to come up. 
between and they 'll the hot corner .  . 
and are and  . even and are contributing .  . 

personally , i think they can finish over  . which makes them a 
team .  . 




the 



i'm skeptical of the second because of his back .  . is 32 this 
year , and how many play until they are 40 not too many , and 
most of them did n't have back problems when they were 32 .  . 

could be wrong on either or both , but i think that 's the smart way to 
bet .  .  .  . 

cheers , 




mark 


organization university of system 
from 
subject dead 
lines 15 

being a baseball fan and a fan of the above mentioned i was 
wondering if anyone could clue me in on whether the dead  ( or members 
of ) the national anthem at giant 

i would imagine that it is a bit too early for anyone to know , but 
an answer would be greatly appreciated. 


curious , 
robert 

robert 
park st. black bears 
, me 1993 
 ( 207)866 ) 42 1 2 

organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re swing 

lines 16 

in article ,  ( brian kiviat ) 
says 

what i think is about his 's is the way he out over 
the to watch outside etc. this not done to get a better 
look at the pitch , but to make it seem , this ball is so far out i need 
to just to get near it so you better call it a ball . this is my 
unbiased opinion of what i see. your mileage will vary .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
is to watch if you forget who he is at the time. 

a lot of in when come. 's tends 
to that , i think. 

a great to watch if you forget who he is unbiased ... hmmm .  .  .  . 

bob  . 

from  ( kevin mundstock ) 
subject my predictions for 1993 
reply to  ( kevin mundstock ) 
organization computing center , at , , ny 
lines 62 

since everyone else seems to be running wild with predictions , i 've 
decided to add my own to the fire 
they might seem a bit normal , but there are a few  ( albeit , small ) surprises .  . 

american league east w l gb 
1)new ) york 93 
2)baltimore ) 90 72 3 
3)toronto ) blue 86 76 7 
4)cleveland ) 78 9 
5)boston ) red 85 16 
6)milwaukee ) 74 88 19 
7)detroit ) tigers 73 89 20 

american league west w l gb 
1)minnesota ) 94 
2)kansas ) city 70 2 
3)texas ) 85 9 
4)chicago ) white 85 17 
5)oakland ) 74 88 20 
6)seattle ) 70 24 
7)california ) angels 65 29 

al 
al young kevin 
al of the year tim 
al of the year 
al of the year 

national league east w l gb 
 . 91 
2)philadelphia ) 89 73 2 
3)montreal ) 88 74 3 
4)new ) york 78 7 
5)chicago ) 12 
6)pittsburgh ) 73 89 18 
7)florida ) 54 37 

national league west w l gb 
1)atlanta ) 66 
2)cincinnati ) 94 2 
3)houston ) 89 73 7 
4)los ) 80 14 
5)san ) francisco 15 
6)san ) diego 75 87 21 
7)colorado ) 59 103 37 


young john 
of the year 
of the year joe 
of the year eric davis 

st. 
al minnesota 
world st. 

the st. are what my heart says .  . 
what my brain says , is they will win the division , lose to the 
in the , and the will win the series against minnesota .  . 
but for now , i 'll stick with the cards all the way. 

kevin 

from  ( emery chen ) 
subject re let 's talk 
summary what bullshit ! 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 19 

article from as follows 
from  ( brian michael lucy ) 
subject re let 's talk 
date 15 apr 93 06 29 05 gmt 
organization university 
lines 9 

in article ,  ( amit 
ani ) writes excerpts from netnews . rec . baseball . 9 apr 93 re 
let 's talk  ( 963 ) like this. oh 
well. how do we p i r a t 
e s ` 
jew are there any who want to put money on that if 
not , stop your  . ben got  . true  ( last week ) , but 
he 6 and got 9 runs behind him. that s why 
we 're 8 1 ! 

one phrase for you .  .  .  . fuck . you ! ! ! ! 
thanks. 

from  ( shawn luddington ) 
subject re montreal question .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization york university , , canada 
lines 14 

in article k  ( mully ) writes 
what position does mike play i cannot seem to find it 
anywhere. thanks ! ! ! ! 1 

k 


keith j.  ( o o) 
p . s . c . ( ) internet 
, nh it takes a big man to cry , but k 

he 's played 2nd and 3rd. i also heard he can play short too. 



from  ( geoff anderson ) 
subject re 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 11 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

in article writes 
i was wondering if anyone had any kind of park  . 
i would appreciate it if someone could send me one. 
thanks in advance. 

dan 

me too ! i would like any park or action or about baseball .  . 

geoff 


from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re pleasant surprises 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 45 

in article  ( mark singer ) writes 

i do n't have a history , but i do n't recall that the 
of roy 's come from teams .  . in fact , i think team is 
generally irrelevant , as almost always the most candidate  . 
am i wrong 

not really , though i would n't personally say the most 
candidate . rarely does a win roy when called up in mid 
, and there have been several in recent years. but this is 
more a factor of than anything else. (i wonder .  . if 
like he is capable of , will he receive votes he 's 
only 31 , he could have a long career ahead of him ! ) 

and he is not necessarily on a team .  . while the angels  
is still very weak , their everyday is doing quite well , thank 
you. is playing great .  . is learning to make the  . 
appears fine , but even if he 's not is ready to come up. 
between and they 'll the hot corner .  . 
and are and  . even and are contributing .  . 

personally , i think they can finish over  . which makes them a 
team .  . 

i think they are a second division team .  . they should finish ahead of 
the , , and possibly  . but i do n't think 
they 'll be above  .  . (i think the east is stronger this year . ) . 

last year their was bad and their offense was horrible .  . this 
year their offense is better , but their is still pretty bad. 
even if returns to form , he wo n't replace what they lost in 
 . i do n't believe it. 

and while their may be good , and they have decent speed , their 
offense lacks  . they do n't have any power  . 
 ( salmon , , davis , and none with more than 20 
potential . ) . 

cheers , 


p.s. which al team had the most last week those go go tigers ! 
the finally managed to convince them that they needed more 
in their  . you see , they were too many runs 
too  . gotta run more to break that up. 

from  ( john f carr ) 
subject re proposed re sub rule 
organization institute of technology 
lines 11 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 


the red usually have 2  . i do n't think they have a now , 
but they used to use as a , as well as a middle 
and  . you do n't need a good 3rd , just a 
one , so you can afford to lose a little catching ability and pick 
a who can be of use elsewhere on the field .  . 




john 

from  ( kenneth melcher ) 
subject re the 
reply to 
organization exploration and technology 
lines 3 

my has always blamed the collapse in  64 on me .  .  .  . on 21 , , the had something like a 9 game lead with 12 to play .  . i was born on 21 ,  . the proceeded to lose something like 10 straight while the cards won 10 straight  ( does anyone know exact numbers ) , and a was blown .  . to this day my likes to me that it all began when i was born ! 



from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re jack 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 30 

in article  ( shawn luddington ) writes 

hey , i do n't see boston with any world series on their 
fingers .  . 

 . so 

damn , now has three and probably the hall of fame in his 
future. 

he certainly did n't his last one. how many games did he blow 
in the world series all of the ones he started 

therefore , i would have to say easily made the best  . 

oh , yes. definitely .  . therefore is better than  . 

do n't give me that shit. if boston had , , , and 
ward while had , jack clark , jeff , things would 
have looked a little different last fall .  . give credit where credit is 
due .  . this of praise on makes me sick .  . 

and do n't tell me boston will win this year .  . they wo n't 
even be in the top 4 in the division , more like  . 

i'm willing to bet they do n't finish sixth .  . i'm also willing to bet 
they do n't finish first. and if you give me 3 2 odds , i'm willing to 
bet that they finish ahead of the blue  . 



from  ( charles m kozierok ) 
subject re best 
organization institute of technology 
lines 22 
nntp posting host electric mit . edu . 

in article  ( dan swartzendruber ) writes 
in article  ( donald p boell ) writes 
i 'd have to say the most impressive hrs i 've ever see came from dave 
and his infamous moon drives .  .  .  . 

i remember one he hit at field that went across 
the street  ( in dead center field ) and hit a house on the roof .  . he 
a lot , but when he did connect , watch out ! 

the best home run i have ever seen came off , believe it or not , 
roger  ( sorry , val ) a couple of years ago. he threw a ball to 
which was literally at 's , and he absolutely 
the crap out of it. after the swing , 
for a new ball he did n't even turn around to look , or 
even get upset .  . the ball hit the in the left field standard , 
some 70 or so feet about the green  ( over 100 feet above the 
ground total ! ) 

truly an amazing shot .  . 


charles 

from  ( teflon x ) 
subject re update 
organization college , , ma 
lines 26 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 

in article  ( michael mule ) writes 
hey ! ! ! all you who 've been knocking my prediction of baltimore .  . 
you flooded my with cries of 's good , 's good. 

where is he ! ! i noticed he got over after that oh so strong first 
 . 

about as good as 's .  . better than 's and 's 

he 's not by any chance in now , is he 
he 's in the  . is in charge after all. 

please do n't tell 
me you 're relying on this guy to be the fourth , not the , but the 
fourth on this  . 

he 's got the talent to be the 4th now , and the  . 
he was a higher  ( and generally better ) than 
who happens to be , well hey , the 's 4th  . 


as for the o 's , it 's still early .  . 

as for , it 's still early .  . 

toby 

from  ( jeffery brown ) 
subject re early returns 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 17 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

in article writes 
just curious if anyone has started to early in the in the 
bb this year .  .  .  .  . 

the that jack served to the in his first 
at this year went feet , if i remember right (i 'll have to check 
my at  . i think that 's the longest so far in the 
through the first stand  ( five games ) there. a weak showing , despite some 
promising ... ben , rich , and the 
rest of the ... making  . 

anyone have the measure value for 's grand in the 


jeff brown big of the brown 
astronomy dept. 
u. of washington 

from  ( mark bernstein ) 
subject jewish  ( was jewish baseball ) 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 8 

for that matter , how many of the press box have been jewish the 
only jewish that comes to mind is steve ( ) , who had 
a show on in philadelphia in the  . 

mark 
systems , inc. main street ma usa 
voice  ( 800 ) in usa  ( 1(617 ) 
compuserve , 

from  ( adam shah ) 
subject re when is due back 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
distribution na 
lines 18 

in article  ( christopher taylor ) writes 
when are the planning on his 15 days on 
the are up today , but are they bringing him back this 

thanks for any info .  . 



the chicago form has today  ( 4  . but 
given the way that changes his so often , that could just be 
the work of a confused stat page editor .  . 



adam 
aka  .  .  . 
go for baseball  .  .  . 
s 2 chicago , il  ( 312 ) 

from  ( sean garrison ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host berkeley node . net . yale . edu . 
organization yale university 
lines 11 

i 'd love to see a  . 







behind the ! 



from  ( alan sepinwall ) 
subject re when is due back 
distribution na 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 16 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 


came off the today and will start against the  . 
 ( now , if only he can go the distance so that the does n't have to 
come in .  .  .  .  . ) . 

i'm outta here like ! 



what 's this this is ice .  . this is what happens to water when it gets 
too cold .  . this this is kent .  . this is what happens to people when 
they get too  . 
, real genius 




from  ( richard casares ) 
subject re jim is an idiot .  . 
nntp posting host corp . sgi . com . 
organization silicon , inc. 
lines 16 

in article , 
writes 
i just wanted to let everyone know that i have lost what little respect 
i have 
for jim after seeing today 's game. 
a fan 


if you think that 's bad , just wait until he tries in 
the again. 

yes , i also wonder if they can win with this  . 
i never believed had that much to do with 
until i saw how much they had to do with  .  .  .  . 



from tech . edu . 
subject with a in the last two weeks .  .  .  . 
lines 24 
organization institute of technology 




and , and girls , lend me your ears for but a moment , 



the national eastern division will be the .  .  .  . 



philadelphia 


i one hundred and ten percent ! ! ! 



chamberlain 



watch us in 1993 ! 


from  ( greg spira ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 

 ( steve tomassi ) writes 


hi , baseball ! so what do you say do n't you think he deserves it 
i 
mean , heck , if dave  ( ho hum ) is seriously being considered for it , 
as 
is smith  ( ha ) , then why do n't we give dave a chance or 
evans ! yeah , yeah ! after the hall of fame takes in them , it can take in 

and jeff  . 

unfortunately , you seem to lack the ability to rate  . dave 
has had a better career than half the people in the hall of 
fame .  . and evans are both one of the top 100 
of all time. smith has had probably the greatest long career 
of any relief since , with the possible exception of  . 

on the other hand , probably is n't one of the best 750 
of all time. 

and , though a good , is n't in smith 's class career wise .  . 

well , in any case , i am sick and tired  ( mostly sick ) of everybody 
giving 
hall of fame consideration to that are by today 's standards , 
marginal .  . 

honestly , smith and do n't belong there. they 're both 
that just around for a long time. big deal. 

we 're talking 2 of the top 50 of all time here. there probably 
are n't 5 in history who were better than these two .  . 

let 's be a little more selective , huh stop handing out these 
so 
 . save them for the guys who really it. face it , if 
something 
is n't done , there will be little in the hall of fame anymore. when 
certain individuals believe that steve or jack are potential 
, the absurdity is apparent .  . 

 . , while a very good , simply does n't 
belong near  . 

gee , can these guys even compare to 
the more likely future hall of like or ryan 

if and ryan  ( okay , no if there ) get into to the hall , they will be 
marginal hall of  ( unless keeps hitting like he did last year for 
a while longer ) 

to put this in perspective , here 's a listing of the 
values of the of the you mention .  . in 
is how high they are up on the greatest ever list if they make it. 
while no one would claim these are perfect , they should give 
you a good value of these guys' as compared to average  . 

43 . 0 .  ( 41 ) 
smith 42.1  ( 45 ) 
dave 40 . 3 .  ( 53 ) 
37 . 5 .  ( 68 ) 
evans 35 . 2 .  ( 80 ) 
24 . 3 .  ( 180 ) 
ryan 21 . 6 .  ( 219 ) 
jack 11 . 8 .  ( 478 ) 
dave 0 . 4 . 
steve 5 . 8 . 

to give you an idea of how these numbers compare to those in the hall 
of the whose career 35 . 0 . , 64 are in the hall 
of fame .  . the ones who are n't include 4 century , ron , bobby 
, and bob johnson .  . 

of those who score between 30 . 0 . and 34 . 9 . , 15 of 25 are in. of 
those who score between 25 . 0 . and 29 . 9 . , 24 of 44 are in. 


greg 

from  ( danny smith ) 
subject win 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization texas , inc. 
lines 15 

well , looked excellent as the the 1 0. 
justice in the only run with an single in the first. get 
ready for him to have a year .  . he is now hitting the ball to 
the opposite field with a lot of power to go with his natural 
power to right field and his good eye. if he healthy 
which he should  ( his back is full strength this year ) he should 
get over 100 and close to 30  . 

in another note , the got off to a good start beating the 
 . i believe the score was 6 3 but i'm not sure. i wish 
them and the well this year .  . hell. i think it would be 
funny to watch the hit the again this year .  . 

dan smith 


from  ( russ anderson ) 
subject re vs. al 
originator 
lines 12 
nntp posting host 
organization the 1991 world minnesota ! 


in article ,  ( john bratt ) writes 

how about game length i do n't know if this is a valid statement or not , 
but al games sure seem to last a lot longer .  . 

make sure to take the , ,  . factor into account. 


disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 
upon my employer or anyone else.  ( c ) 1993 
ex  jack , 10 , 0 runs  ( world series ! ) 

from lurie ) the 
subject re pleasant surprises 
organization allegheny college 

in article 
 ( edward fischer ) writes 
in article 
lurie ) the writes 

actually , i kind of liked the trade .  . we did trade the 
of 
the year , , but with at first for another 8 years , 
why 
bother .  . 

i 'd be willing to make two 
1 ) does n't win roy .  . 
2 ) is out of baseball within five years. 




no , you are quite correct , but i was using some wishful thinking. 
was wasting away , while can provide a great for 
the team .  . 

from  ( david nieporent ) 
subject re jim is an idiot .  . 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization princeton university 
lines 21 
originator 
nntp posting host phoenix . princeton . edu . 

in  ( driftwood ) writes 

i totally agree with each point you made. jose looked 
like a single a up there. who on 3 1 count with 
and your teams down by a run , and you have n't the ball all 
day 

oh , this is an easy question. the answer is any not named 
or  . 

i also think too much is made of that thing. watching 
the games i get the feeling steve knows a lot more about what 
the should be doing than does. said it best when he 
stated after another terrible at we ca n't wait 
returns ! 


david m. only one thing wrong with theory .  .  .  . 
is stupid ! is theory i ever heard ! 
princeton . edu . 
baltimore 93 who 's the dangerous cult the or the 

from  ( daniel zappala ) 
subject angels win ! 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 6 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 


the angels won their home against the today before 33 , 000 
at , 3 1 on a 3 by mark  . j . t .  . and 
hit home runs for the angels .  . 

daniel 

from  ( mark horan ) 
subject re best second 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 29 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( ted frank ) writes 

in article writes 
personally , i think that is all  . he is producing incredibly now , 
but in the long run , he will never put up the numbers that has .  . for 
this moment , may be the best , but overall out by a long 
shot .  . 

when was 's age , he was putting up  . with no power. 
's 1992 is 25 points higher than 's career high. 's 
career high in and is higher than 's .  . is 
still better than , but only because has n't reached his full 
potential yet. 's got a 2.5 year on  ( he has 
did n't have until he was 26 ) , and is likely to 
put up better career numbers than in everything except home runs .  . 
he 'll pass in stolen bases sometime in  . 

is not known for his stolen bases .  . what competition did 
have came in a year after , and the same year as , 
, and the other  . so less attention was given to  . 
is the only one in his class to be worth a  . besides the 
numbers do n't count. national league are much better  . 

larry on someone elses account 


mark 



from  ( richard l. trionfo ) 
subject question about 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 12 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i have for the and i was wondering if 
anybody familiar with the could tell me where 
section 15 in the lower level is  . 
please e mail the response , 
thanks , 
rich 

you 've read the hat , now see the movie .  . 
in the morning 
a blurb you 're a blurb ! 


from 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization university of missouri 
x posted from missouri . edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 23 

in article 
 ( orin roth ) writes 


well , it 's the  . at least up until they started 
it was. are they still , 
if so , why and how did they receive this label 

, but without a doubt , america 's team is the  . why 
 . 
u 




i'm really a in ! 

sorry , but i saw a survey somewhere that showed that america 's favorite 
team is the damn  . so much for the being loved .  . 

have taken 3 out of 5 series from the 
but have a record against them  ( spring training games not counted ) 


from 
subject re david 
lines 5 

has david with a team yet i 'd think the tigers with their 
would this guy ! 




from  ( sam lubchansky ) 
subject re joe not for baseball 
article i.d. po . 114 . 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 27 
nntp posting host student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( kevin mundstock ) writes 
from  ( kevin mundstock ) 
subject joe not for baseball 
date 6 apr 93 02 50 27 gmt 
did anyone notice the words not for baseball printed on the picture 
of joe in the day section in usa 
today any reason given for this 


i would assume that the words (i saw the picture ) indicated that those 
will not be available for baseball games. if you look at the picture 
of the in the , in relation to the areas not for 
baseball , those just look terrible for watching baseball .  . now , if 
they should happen to reach the post , i would imagine that they 
would consider some of those up , but that is surely a worry 
of the future. 






in the , people see what they 'd like to be. in the , 
they see what they actually are , and they treat him with scorn .  . 

secure initial pleasure , but grain is 
more of time. 

from  ( tim evans ) 
subject re is  ( re the worst ) 
reply to 
organization engineering physics 
x newsreader version 6 . 4 . 19 . 
lines 15 

 ( scott d. davis ) writes 


 ( kc ) news was doing a report on that. they said that is 
really a and not a  . but for some reason 
he took the job. whatever the reason , the need a new 
now .  .  . while . it is too late. 


and have the 

tim evans e . i .  . de co .  . 
experimental station 
 ( 302 ) p.o. box 
at at , 

from  ( 25836 michael  ( evenchick(f113 ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
organization , , nj 
lines 128 

in article ,  ( steve tomassi ) writes 

hi , baseball ! so what do you say do n't you think he deserves it 
i 

mean , heck , if dave  ( ho hum ) is seriously being considered for it , 
as 

is smith  ( ha ) , then why do n't we give dave a chance or 

evans ! yeah , yeah ! after the hall of fame takes in them , it can take in 


and jeff  . 

i am trying to think how to respond to this without involving personal feeling 
or perceptions and i can not without having to back up my points. 
however , i think you approached this the wrong way. i believe all of the 
people mentioned here the hall of fame more than dave does. i 
feel they were all much better  . i am not saying i they to 
go but that they would it more. 

imho 
dave definately not. they guy only had a couple of years were he 
could hit with a respectable  . the rest of his career i do not 
think he was very by  . i also do not think he did a lot for the 
game. i mean really i am a met fan he was a met for part of his career and i 
still would not back him for the hall of fame .  . 

dave i think so. he is by , he has had several 
where he hit for a respectable average and his numbers are 
 ( in my opinion without stats ) better than 's  ( probably by quite a 
 . i also perceive him to be a leader , maybe not as much as some other 
people but none the less a leader. i think he has made substantial 
contributions to the game of baseball and to society. examples of this are 
some of the things he has done (i know some of this from when he 
was with the  . i think he the type of that kids can look up to 
and while this is definately not the only for the hall of fame i 
think it deserves some consideration .  . 

smith maybe , i would have to see his again but he definately would 
to go before the likes of  . 

evans no. 

maybe , he has had a very good career , he is a leader  ( although 
a silent one) , he is a good role model .  . are the good enough i am not 
sure but i would once again believe they are much better than 's both 
the average as well as the power numbers  ( but not as good as  . just 
think , did not have as much for most of his great years. 

jeff my guess is no , but it kind of depends on his numbers. off the 
top of my head i would take smith first. 


well , in any case , i am sick and tired  ( mostly sick ) of everybody 
giving 

hall of fame consideration to that are by today 's standards , 
marginal .  . 

honestly , smith and do n't belong there. they 're both 

that just around for a long time. big deal. 


well , i strongly disagree here. both of these guys it for sure. i 
talked about leadership above , both of these guys are leaders and have been 
in their teams to the post  . does have very 
good offensive numbers both average and power and has okay numbers 
 . the difference with is that if you gave him a home run for 
every run he saved by making an incredible play at he would have 
aaron 's home run mark by now. how many of those great plays saved 
games how many of those great plays motivated his team to and win a 
game while i believe both of these guys have numbers , baseball is about more 
than numbers  ( or at least at baseball is about more than  . 
both of these guys are proven stars and belong in the hall of fame .  . as does 
george brett who also belongs in this class of  . 

let 's be a little more selective , huh stop handing out these 
so 

 . save them for the guys who really it. face it , if 
something 

is n't done , there will be little in the hall of fame anymore. when 

certain individuals believe that steve or jack are potential 

, the absurdity is apparent .  . gee , can these guys even compare to 

the more likely future hall of like or ryan 


steve i am not sure , probably not but i guess i could see someone 
making a case for him. 

jack once again not my first choice but i can see why someone might 
bring up his name. 

probably .  . the only reason i do not say definately is he still 
has time left in his career. if he continues doing what he has been then my 
probably will turn into a definately .  . 

ryan is there really any doubt i think i heard something about him 
having some 53 records  ( maybe they were not all good i do n't know i did not 
hear any of them just the  . he has the numbers , he has the 
contributions to the game and community and he is a great role model .  . i would 
not say that he is the best to ever pitch the game  ( probably not even 
top 20 ) but he would be the first i would put in the hall of fame 
because of his accomplishments  ( no , , respectable numbers 
even with some weaker teams ) you can go on and on. i really hope he gets all 
the possible votes .  . 

so in summing up i have 3 groups , those that belong , those that probably do 
but i am not sure and those that i towards saying do n't belong at least 
not without my seeing and possibly hearing reasons why they should go. 

yes , ,  ( brett(not in your mail ) , o .  . smith , and ryan 
maybe and l. smith 
no , , , evans and definately 

as i said i do not have the around so i do not have numbers to back this 
up these are entirely my opinions based on my perceptions .  . 

mike 

q steve 

from john  ( john carson ) 
subject kansas city e mail contact 
organization mind link ! british , canada 
lines 11 

would the person who is running the e mail list for kansas city please 
e mail details regarding mailing list. if you on the list and know the info 
please send me info as well. 

please e mail as i do n't have time always to read this group 

john 

john 
d . john . carson j h concepts  ( 604)589 ) 


from  ( eric roush ) 
subject re quick way to tell if your local writer is  . 
article i.d. news . 
organization biochemistry 
lines 28 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

in article 
 ( warren usui ) writes 
in article 
 ( bob hobokenite ) writes 
anyone who writes dean has 2 at this , he 'll 
have home runs ! should be shot .  . 



now , on the other hand , probably does have a shot at 
's .  . ) .  . 

the after one of play have committed one error. at this rate 
they 'll have 1 , errors this ! 

well maybe i'm right this time .  .  .  . 



actually , you might be ) 


eric duke . edu . 
i am a marxist , of the sort 
, , 

!  ( although the internet comes close . ) . 


from  ( neal traven ) 
subject re 
lines 22 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

dave wrote 
in article ,  ( sherri nichols ) writes 
every single piece of evidence we can find points to major league baseball 
being 50 offense , 50 defense .  . a run is just as important as a run 
prevented .  . 

this certainly passes the common sense test for me , but is there any 
statistical evidence to say what percent of defense is and what 
percent is i 'd really like to know. btw , , thanks for 
the data i find it fascinating .  . 

one of the chapters in and thorn 's  hidden game  is titled 
 is 44 of baseball , ' implying that is 6 . how do 
they determine that beats me it 's been a long , long time since i 
read it. 

one also has to separate offense into and , with the 
split probably somewhere around 49 . 5 . and 0 . 5 . . 


you 're only young once , but you can be 
forever. larry 

from  ( doug dolven ) 
subject mel hall 
organization cs 
lines 9 


has anyone heard anything about mel hall this i 'd heard he was n't 
with the any more. what happened to him 

doug 

doug 



from state . edu .  ( michael d tissandier ) 
subject re awful report 4 14 
nntp posting host bottom . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 63 

in article 
 ( robert and stimets ) writes 
actually , i'm not sure that won but they were ahead 2 7 in the bottom 

of the  . i was going to post the box score but since was playing 
so bad , the pub i was at had to turn the game off. 

so here 's what 's up 

had seven , all , by the end of the  . this makes 
it games with exactly one extra base hit .  . 

was 0 5 with in position. 
now if a team is going to be completely without power , they absolutely 
have to hit in situations .  . 

tom browning 4 . 1 . , giving up 5 runs and 10 h 
its 
while out 5. he was surely the  . 
starters , while supposedly solid , have won only one game this year .  . 
 ( of course , the have only won two .  .  . ) . 

clean up went 0 4. besides yesterday 's , he 's at the 
 . 

may not actually return friday .  . this may not mean anything since 
may 
not find themselves in a save situation for a while .  .  .  . 

speaking of which , the have ha exactly one lead this week .  .  .  . for one and 
a half after chris  on tuesday .  . 

tony says the are just not the well right now. 
good call ,  . 

well , there 's a big difference between just not the well and 
what the are doing at the  .  .  . ! ! ! ! ! 

a fan on the verge of a nervous  .  .  .  . 

mike 

why is it that the on kevin is  out 2 3 days  no matter 
what day you read it 



i 've told you before and i 'll tell you again. the strong 
survive and the weak disappear .  . we do not intend 
to disappear .  . 

jimmy 

state . edu . 





yours , 




from  ( ted frank ) 
subject 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 42 

there 's a lot of about how much are  . i thought 
i 'd put together an team that could win a  . i 
and let four of the as much as half a million dollars the 
highest paid is frank thomas , at  . i cut some , like 
, chris , keith , tim , and a bunch 
of , all of whom could have arguably made the team better at a 
cost of 1 million for the lot of them. the total team is 
7 , , , slightly over a  . if that 's too , 
you can dump thomas and , replacing them with paul and 
a minimum wager to save a bit over a million dollars , and still have one 
of the best teams in the  . 

p , , 
p , , 400 
p , , 250 
p , , 
p , , 
p , , 
, , 
, , 250 
, , 
, , 
, , 150 
c , , 
c , , 
, thomas , 
, , 
, , 
, , 
, , 5 . 
, , 250 
, , 
, , 
, , 
, , 290 
, r . , 
of , , 

frank however should have mentioned that though 
his advice is legally sound , if you follow it 
the u of c law school you will probably wind up in jail .  . 
standard disclaimers james , in misc . legal . 

from  ( keith keller ) 
subject re a new in future 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 18 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 

in a philadelphia a few days ago , it was reported that there were 
two (2) plans for a new the already mentioned 
street station proposal , and a near broad street and race street , 
i think. i ca n't remember the exact details , but the would be 
build practically  . there is a small lot that could be used , 
according to the paper. the street plan has run into some trouble , 
because does not want to some of its lines in order to 
the  . i do n't have an opinion just yet , just letting 
everyone know that there are really two options being discussed right now. 
neither of these plans will be put into effect very soon , however , because 
nobody wants to pay for it ) 


keith let s go ! ! ! ! ! 
let s go ! ! ! ! ! 
league ! ! ! ! 

when i want your opinion , i 'll give it to you. 

from edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
subject re no joke have record ! ! ! ! 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 21 
distribution usa 
reply to edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
nntp posting host 1 . rose . edu . 

in article  ( tom 
white ) writes 
the highest single game was game 5 of the world series , 
october 6 , at the la  . white over , 1 0. 

gate ,  . 

largest regular game 78 , , again in la , for the first 
game in the city of angels day , april 18 ,  ( home , 
 . 

the might really nail the record .  . 

the record for a is larger , but since 's are 
all but nowadays , why bother listing it .  .  .  . 

was n't there an 85 , 000 new york at cleveland game in the late 40 's 


edu . 
prediction for 1993 70 , 50 

from  ( david j . ) . 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university 
distribution usa 
lines 11 

su writes 
bobby supposedly use the word   when he got mad at that author 
in the  . should he be from baseball for a year like 

it would n't bother me .  .  .  . 


david blue riddle 1993 
it 's on. 
the is an art is coming out on this time for real. 
e mail me for the  . 

from  ( jimmy kuo ) 
subject re questions 
organization peter group 
lines 5 
nntp posting host 64 . 14 . 

writes 
today  ( 4 14 ) p mike from , whom did they move to 
make room for 

 . 

from  ( john neuharth ) 
subject re new uniforms 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington 
lines 16 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

writes 

while i enjoy the trend towards the more classic style of uniform 
and i disagree with the person who wants a return to the non gray road 
uniforms it should be that one of the , if not the reason 
for the of uniforms , especially  ( re the new road all 
green a 's caps and the navy blue road cap ) , is the 
money to be made in sales of new merchandise .  . 

no kidding .  .  . just . ask the white  .  .  . 

too bad , really .  .  .  . 

john 



from  ( sherri nichols ) 
subject re 
organization systems incorporated 
lines 21 

in article writes 

not clear to me at all. i 'd certainly rather have a team who was 
4 1 games than 2 1 games. in the 2 1 game , luck is going to play a much 
bigger role than in the 4 1 game. 

but you still need the to hold the team to 
one run. 

yeah , but what 's your point you still need the offense to score more runs 
than you allow , too. 

the do have a fine  . but that 's still only half the 
game. 








from bbs  ( bob comarow ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
reply to bbs 
organization the 
lines 4 

dave is jewish 

bob 


from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 23 

in article writes 

not clear to me at all. i 'd certainly rather have a team who was 
4 1 games than 2 1 games. in the 2 1 game , luck is going to play a much 
bigger role than in the 4 1 game. 

but you still need the to hold the team to 
one run. 

not if you 've four runs , you do n't ! why even the best 
why not make it easier for them 

in the 2 1 game , the best in the world ca n't 
for a blown call , a bad hop , a of wind .  . close is the 
wrong way to win both keeping runs down and a lot 
yourself are against the shit happens aspect of baseball .  . 

not every great even good  . the big red machine of 
the 70 's was league average in  . but somehow , rose 
etc. managed to win 100 games more than once , at  . 

roger 


from ( joe cipale ) 
subject re red lead 8 0 after 2 ! ! ! ! ! ! 
organization semi , beaverton or 
lines 46 

in article  ( steve twombly ) writes 
the boston red lead the 8 0 after 2  . 

the are the only team in the al east after 4 days. 

go jump in the you non believers ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 


steve 


as i have read this net the last few days , i am continually amazed at the 
of baseball by many individuals .  . especially when it 
comes down to saying that the have n't a prayer .  . as a long time red 
fan , i will simply say the impossible dream year for those of you 
with short  . short lives , or both. 

to be a red fan is to continually be the subject of abuse and criticism 
from those who only follow  the hot  . this statement is supported based 
on the increased number of   out on the net. a true fan of a 
team , any team , will follow that team through the good years as well as the 
years , and be rewarded when the time is right. 

yeah , so what if let a go through his legs in  . who cares if 
told to go up a and earned a quick shower .  . the 
fact is , they were one of the best teams in the league those years and the 
supported them. now that it appears that they are on times , the number of 
come from all over. so what ! let them play and we will see what 
happens come september .  . the red may not be that good , but they are certainly 
not that bad , either and they do have a chance to win the world series , after all , 
remember the who would have given them a chance to even make it that 
far , let alone baltimore .  . 

let 's face it , baseball is a wonderful game and is far more than 
and  . because of this , one can never say with absolute what 
the outcome will be over the course of 162 games. 


warning elvis can be 
to your health it sure wo n't help 
your reputation .  . 

i , therefore i am ! go red ! go ! 
go ! go ! 



from  ( michael mule ) 
subject re the worst 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 19 

in article  ( brian r. landmann ) writes 
later , in the ninth with the bases loaded and two he puts 
, a with power in as a and uses luis 
, a 250 with no power as a  . what the hell 
is he thinking. 

did n't get a hit , though 

see y all at the 
go 
chop chop 

michael  


michael 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from  ( mike fester ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
organization local organization 
distribution na 
lines 41 

in article stanford . edu .  ( nelson lu ) writes 
second in history. he probably did n't even have as good a as 
last year .  . 

guess which line is which 
h bb 
x  . 310 .  .  . 27 8 8 87 
y  .  .  . 32 1 20 35 

the walks should give it away. 's , in general , somewhat more valuable than 
, and 's in was quite a bit larger than 's 
in  . 

i'm no , but what 's more valuable 

28 w 5 more , 12 more hrs or 
7 more and 52 bbs  ( let 's not forget the 39 extra  . how many cs ) 

of course the 28 and 12 are more valuable .  . 

but do n't forget the  . you ca n't have it both ways 's higher 
raw numbers are due to him having more playing time , and thus he had more 
and , but do n't forget the cost of those  . 

 ( btw , just to answer your question , had 49 and 9 cs had 
10 and 2 cs , which gives a minute plus on 's side . ) . 

something else to consider 

's h r were  .  . ,  .  . ! 's was  .  . 
and  .  .  . pretty clearly , got a huge boost from his home park .  . 

i 'd say you could make a good for them being about equal right now. t p 
rated higher , actually. 

mike 

disclaimer these h h damn ! h h q .... w q ! d x 
x q c q q save quit ! quit 
man @ l c e x i t help d d ! ! 
man help c c e ! help quit q hey , what does stop d .  .  .  . 

from  ( alan sepinwall ) 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 22 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 

in article  ( orin roth ) writes 

well , it 's the  . at least up until they started 
it was. are they still , 
if so , why and how did they receive this label 

probably because everyone  ( that is , everyone who has cable ) can watch 
every game. they are the only team that has all of its games 
 . and if you do n't like your local team , or you do n't 
have a local team , the can kind of become your local team because 
you can watch them every day. 


i'm outta here like ! 



what 's this this is ice .  . this is what happens to water when it gets 
too cold .  . this this is kent .  . this is what happens to people when 
they get too  . 
, real genius 


from  ( jiann su ) 
subject 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university 
distribution usa 
lines 2 

bobby supposedly use the word   when he got mad at that author 
in the  . should he be from baseball for a year like 

from  ( robert c hite ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 26 

in article ( ) writes 
does any one out there listen to for those of you who do 
not know what i am talking about , it is an all sports radio 
in new york .  . on a clear night the signal up and 
down the east coast .  . in particular , i want to know how 
and mike 's show is. i go to school in virginia 
so i ca n't listen when there are on during the day. just 
wondering .  . 

the fan is an okay sports radio station , but does n't come close to 
the ultimate in sports radio , in philadelphia .  . the signal 
might not be as powerful , but then again only in new york 
feel obligated to everyone else 's with a bunch of 
complaining 24 hours a day. took two of your 
best sports too , and steve  . 
is with sports talk from 5 30 am till , check it 
out anytime your within a few hours of philadelphia .  . if i'm not 
mistaken , has the highest sports talk in the nation 

rob 

p.s the only nice thing about the fan is that they talk sports all 
night. will begin to do that somewhat soon 




from  ( paul andresen ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host com . 
organization company , , usa 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( sherri nichols ) writes 
in article writes 
this certainly passes the common sense test for me , but is there any 
statistical evidence to say what percent of defense is and what 
percent is 

not yet i wish there were. it 's much more difficult to these apart 
than to apart runs and preventing runs .  . 

and thus , we come to one of the true of baseball these things , along 
with many others will never be separated .  . almost everything in baseball is 
and  . this is what allows us to carry on all the 
arguments that we have. if everything could be explained and balanced on a 
statistical basis , none of the wonder and mystery would be left. why we might 
have to resort to just going out the and enjoy the game itself. 

paul , feeling a little anti today 

we will stretch no farm animal beyond its natural length 

paul (503) 750 

home , or (503) 
a member since 

from  ( daniel zappala ) 
subject re 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 31 
distribution world 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 


mark brings up the incident , where he lost a 
and the fan caught it. 

before each game the public address makes a speech 
wherein he says that are welcome to the of that 
are hit into the stands as long as they do not interfere with any 
that are in the field of play .  . was the fan wrong should he have 
been more aware of the situation and acted to avoid any possibility 
of interference 

yes , i think he should have done more to get out of the way. as much 
as want to a ball , they really should be aware that 
the game is more important. as a fan , he has to be aware that 
this is the home , and that entails helping the home team win 
in any way possible. as soon as the ball was hit that far , his first 
instinct should be to root for to it , not to try to 
it himself , particularly when he is sitting that close. 

i enjoy the attitude of the , where they are against 
team home runs so much , they actually them back on the 
field .  . 

now , this has nothing to do with whether could have caught it or 
not. sure , he probably up , but the fan should realize his 
first responsibility is to get out of the way and help the team win .  . 


daniel 



from  ( donald p boell ) 
subject 2 5 , two more errors , 6 more walks 
organization the notes server 
lines 36 


name h rs e 

boston of 12 7 2 6  . 
28 13 3 1 9 2  . 
5 2 1  . 400 . 
24 9 1 2 8 2  . 
e. young 28 9 1 1 1 5 10 5 3  . 
25 7 1 2 5 2 1 2  . 
of 4 1 1  . 250 . 
21 5 1 5 3 1  . 
clark 24 5 2 2 1  . 208 . 
c 25 5 1 1 3 2  . 200 . 
6 1 1  . 
18 1 2 1 4  . 
g. young of 1 1  . 000 . 
p 12  . 000 . 

65 9 3 5 34 37 9 11  . 

name l r h r er k bb era w l s 

wayne l 2 . 7 . 3 0 0 3 2 0 . 00 . 0 0 0 
l 5 4 3 1 1 6 1 . 80 . 0 0 0 
smith r 12 . 3 . 15 3 3 2 3 2 . 19 . 1 1 0 
r 5 6 2 2 3 5 3 . 60 . 0 0 0 
r 12 15 6 6 5 8 4 . 50 . 1 1 0 
r 5.7 7 3 3 7 3 4 . 76 . 0 0 0 
r 5 . 3 . 7 5 3 2 3 5 . 06 . 0 0 0 
henry l 6 9 6 5 4 1 7 . 50 . 0 1 0 
l 3 7 6 5 3 4 15 . 00 . 0 1 0 
reed r 2 . 7 . 7 7 7 1 3 23 . 63 . 0 0 0 
r 1 . 3 . 6 10 9 1 4 60 . 75 . 0 1 0 

61 86 51 44 32 42 6 . 49 . 2 5 0 


from  ( richard detweiler ) 
subject cards mailing list 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 9 

count me interested in a 's mailing list. if anyone 
finds one or starts one , please let me know. 

thanks , 

dick 




from  ( scott barman ) 
subject re 
organization american software development corp .  . , west , ny 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

in article  ( ray miller ) writes 
i read this morning that left last nights  game with 
in his shoulder .  . does anyone have any information as to the extent of the 
injury  ( if indeed there is one) , or the cold air in just got 
his a little 

thanks for the help .  .  .  . 

all they said on the radio that he developed in the shoulder 
after throwing a that did n't  . because of the cold 
night in denver they decided to remove him from the game rather than 
let him pitch .  . he is expected to pitch his next turn in the 
 ( expected to be april 20 , at vs the  . 

scott mailing list  ( feed the following into your shell ) 
mail ! 
subscribe 
let 's go ! ! 

from  ( brian curran ) 
subject tiger 
organization data central , oh 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

does anybody have a of the tiger thanks ! 


brian data central 

i did n't think i should 've been asked to 
when the was below my age. 
, chicago white , 
on playing during a 40 degree april ball game 

from  ( dave  almost the  kirsch ) 
subject re my predictions  ( nl ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization l and the 
lines 26 

well , as long as folks are their wisdom , l 

al west al east west east 
1 ) chicago 1 ) 1 ) 1 ) st. 
2 ) texas 2 ) new york 2 ) 2 ) montreal 
3) minnesota 3) baltimore 3) houston 3) new york 
4 ) 4 ) boston 4 ) los 4 ) philadelphia 
5 ) seattle 5 ) 5 ) san diego 5 ) pittsburgh 
6 ) kansas city 6 ) milwaukee 6 ) san  . 6 ) chicago 
7 ) california 7 ) cleveland 7 ) 7 ) florida 

details to follow later. pick it apart as you like. 

also , if anyone is still taking for prediction pools , 
could you mine and add it to the list thanks. 

i'm just glad it 's day makes up a little bit for the 
patterns here. 

, 


dave like a jim blue do it again in  93 
new  .  .  . quotes out of context ! 
not to a dead horse , but it 's been a couple o  weeks  .  .  . this 
me .  . punishments .  .  .  .  . stephen lawrence 

from  ( steve c liu) 
subject best record ever in baseball 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
lines 19 
distribution usa 
expires 5 9 93 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
summary can you believe it 

of all teams , i believe the have the best record ever in baseball .  . 
sometime way far back .  . 110 and something. 

steve c. 

steve c. internet address 
in chief of the security division of the club earth chapter 
president of the earth chapter of the club founded april 1990 
1993 world baltimore why not series in the 
1992 1993 cup washington capitals 
for the liberation and of 
and their rehabilitation into society , the only problem is that the 
is  . from the of red 
the are the greatest female that ever existed ! 
this sig has been brought to you by .  .  .  . ! the of kings ! 
my god man , holes through his head is not the answer ! dr. mccoy 
you know , has a really nice ass. comment by m. 
the club creating the largest  . for the past months 


from  ( random ) 
subject scott 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 3 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host access . net . 

does anyone have the on how long is he going to be 
out for 


subject quick way to tell if your local writer is  . 
from  ( bob hobokenite ) 
organization somewhere in 
lines 10 


(i that 's him ) fits perfectly in this category .  . 

anyone who writes dean has 2 at this , he 'll 
have home runs ! should be shot .  . 

if , at the end of april , he has 11 , and anyone writes at this 
, he 'll have 100 ! they shot too. 

bob 

from  ( michael mule ) 
subject offensive offense 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 16 

hit a home run in his only today. nixon was 1 for 4. 
single .  . 's over  . 400 . nixon around  . 200 .  . whom would you start 
wise up , bobby .  . 


see y all at the 
go 
chop chop 

michael  


michael 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from  ( howard lynch ) 
subject re sign mark davis 
organization the notes server 
lines 8 

i had heard the about la , , , and all being 
interested in mark davis , so it does n't surprise me that a 
team had to give up something and cash to actually get him. 



ps .  . anyone else draft this guy i really did and got a 
loud cry of when will you ever give up on this guy ) 

from  ( charles m kozierok ) 
subject re win home 
organization institute of technology 
lines 14 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( sam 
millitello ) says 

i'm telling you , , three l 's .  . call up mom and ask. 

bob  . 

yeah , and in case even that is n't enough to boy genius 
to pick up a paper and see how his name is spelled , 
here 's another hint the single l comes between the two i s .  .  .  . 


charles 

from  ( craig eid ) 
subject park experience  ( long ) 
organization  ( srsd mid ) 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
lines 36 


i 've been a for years and never really 
about the old place. sure , it 's been cold , the food lines were long , 
and the hands were , but this was all part of the  . 
or so i thought. 

i went to tuesday 's game (3 1 over the marlins ) and the  stick was 
a much different place. nothing short of a will eliminate the wind , but 
everything is a lot better. the lines are a lot , the are 
clean and have running water , and the hands were very polite .  . 

the new  ( lights up and after each homerun ) and the 
are very nice , as are the new  . the start right at the top 
of the and give a great view , and they 've got beer stands at the 
of the  . the only complaint is that the electronic 
old looks electronic could be better. 

these things should have been done a long time ago , but it took a real 
 ( ex president peter magowan ) to figure it out. just 
like he used to tell his , if the do n't come back , i do n't 
need as many . this is n't a knock on bob he was a 
but he did n't deal much with the general public. 

i 'll give an example of how the level of service has changed. the 
as i was using it. an came over , for 
the problem and proceeded to fix the machine .  . after he was done , he cleaned 
the machine and said he was glad to be able to help. in the old days , there 
was no and the folks at the stands would say go to 
the stand 100 feet away they might be able to help . 

all in all , it was a fun day 



craig 
e mail address 

from  ( william lechner ) 
subject question ! ! 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 19 

ok all you , i have a good one for you. 

1. prior to the foul rule what is the record for the most foul 
by 1 during one at 

2. total 

3. who was the 

4. who was the 

5. same as 1 4 except after the foul rule. 

associated data would be nice too  ( such as date , , teams , etc . ) . 

bill 




from 
subject re 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
reply to 
organization state university 
lines 6 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( jiann su ) writes 
does any know if , , got cut he use to be with 
, but was in the draft .  . 


i believe he was sent down to  . 

from  ( joseph hernandez ) 
subject re what s with all these scores 
organization sports division  ( major league baseball dept . ) . 
lines 38 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( charles m kozierok ) writes 
in article  ( sean garrison ) writes 
stuff about scores deleted. 
at just that exact time to see the message. even results after the game 
is over are not necessary , thanks to mr. who posts daily 
and results here every day. 

am i supposed to take that as a or a put down just wondering .  . 
i do this as a service to the entire baseball world on usenet , especially 
for those in the east coast who ca n't get final scores for west coast games 
in their newspapers or late tv  . this is helpful to in other 
countries who either receive only weekly scores or by the week. also , 
many have requested for this kind of service previously but it was only 
available through bbs 's or some pay news services .  . by the way , mine is free 
of charge and has no restrictions .  . 

if you want to send and scores , set up a private mailing list 
and use that. 

remember i only post final scores and the updated once a day to the 
rec . baseball . newsgroup .  . other than that , everything is done through 
private e mail .  . currently , there are people on my mailing list that 
branches off into other mailing lists available for many others. and the list 
grows by an average of 35 people a day. 

if people on usenet really do n't want to see the postings i do to 
rec . baseball . on a daily basis , please just let me know. if the response 
is overwhelming against the posts , i wo n't do it anymore. 

thanks for your time. 

joseph 


joseph . 
kings 
angels 


from  ( jay heminger ) 
subject re tiger 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
originator 



i hate to be rude , but the , post the instead. 


the supreme ! ! ! 

go blue ! ! ! go tigers ! ! ! go ! ! ! go lions ! ! ! go red wings ! ! ! 


from  ( david j . ) . 
subject re help ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 15 

writes 
deleted 

what 's gonna do and what 's george gonna do if this continues to happen 



george will do the only logical thing he can do when the  is n't 
fire the  . 


david blue riddle 1993 
it 's on. 
the is an art is coming out on this time for real. 
e mail me for the  . 

from  ( tom gwitt ) 
subject re mel hall 
organization allegheny college 
lines 11 

in article 
 ( doug dolven ) writes 

has anyone heard anything about mel hall this i 'd heard he 
was n't 
with the any more. what happened to him 


he is in japan playing baseball .  . 

tom 

from  ( roger maynard ) 
subject re jack 
organization dept. of computer science , university , , on 
lines 33 

in  ( shawn luddington ) writes 

hey , i do n't see boston with any world series on their 
fingers .  . damn , now has three and probably the hall of fame in his 
future. therefore , i would have to say easily made the best 
 . and do n't tell me boston will win this year .  . they wo n't 
even be in the top 4 in the division , more like  . 

yeah , how many does have 

 like good old canadian logic .  .  .  . 

btw the only good thing i can say about the 's this year 
is that it could have been worse. might have stayed healthy .  . 
















, as always , 
so many  .  .  . 
 .  .  . and . so little time. 

from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re pleasant surprises 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 33 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( alan sepinwall ) writes 

1)spike )  . sure , he 's hitting like crazy , but the guy cannot 
field to save his life ! and they said he was brought in to 
provide defense , , and even 
are better than  . 

remember it 's still early .  . look for his offense to tail off , and 
his defense to improve  . he has that because i heard 
that either last year , or over the last 5 years , or something like 
that he has the third highest percentage among major league 
behind c . r .  . and tony  ( i'm not gonna help this sorry 
team at all )  . i do agree though that he has not looked all 
that impressive in the field thus far. 

only has one error so far , i believe. that seriously 
the harm he has done in the field .  . 

will play any ball he  . he will have a fine 
percentage , like always .  . the problem is that he does n't 
reach anything that is n't hit straight at him ! 

this would n't be quite as obvious a problem if he were playing next to 
kelly or  . but the third for the 
is wade  ( who should have moved across the last year ) ! 

i 've only seen one game , 's first start , but there were three 
hit to the left side which would have been stopped by quality 
 . instead they were charged as against  . 

cheers , 


from  ( michael wynblatt ) 
subject  ( was re woofing ) 
keywords 
nntp posting host 
organization state university of new york at stony 
lines 22 

in article state . edu . state . edu . writes 
do you mean just like  have you to anytime they open 
up the lines for to call talk about idiots ! the 
are just as bad too. 



the new york talk shows are just awful in this regard .  . people are constantly 
calling and with  ( stuff like ) i was thinking , why do n't the 
trade and to seattle for ken jr and johnson , 
that would really help the team or do you think the can get roger 
. the show hosts are pretty good about handling these guys , but it 's 
still annoying. 

the best one was at the end of one show , a started out with i was 
thinking , why do n't the trade for .  .  .  . and then the host up on 
him. i ! 

michael 




from 
subject re super tough baseball 
reply to 
organization college 
lines 37 

in article ,  ( anthony michael jivoin ) writes 
in the bruce video glory days , from the born 
in the usa , they show two quick shots of a baseball game 
on television in the bar bruce and the e street are playing .  . 

name the teams 

which 

who is the 

what two go down 

also at the end of the video bruce is throwing at a 
strike and his last pitch a young boy lines a base 
hit into center .  . as bruce and the kid walk of the field the 
kid asks him how he did today. 

bruce mentions the team he was playing and that a certain 
got him in the bottom of the ninth .  . 

name the and the team ! 
and 





if anyone gets these i 'll be impressed .  . 

anthony m. 
national center for research 

p.o. box 3000 
boulder , co 



from  ( jon boone ) 
subject re why 
organization pittsburgh center , pittsburgh pa , usa 
lines 27 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

on mon , 12 apr 93 00 53 14 gmt in greg wrote 

does anybody in the pittsburgh area know why mike was released 
last year i kept saying that should get the of the playing time , 
that he was clearly the better at this point , but insisted on 
keeping a pretty strict  . and now he is released that does n't 
make any sense to me. 

greg , 

the story goes like this 

is too slow ! if he were quicker , he would still be here. 
but with and tom prince , they did n't want to lose prince in order 
to bring up that  . is about as good as and 
prince is coming along nicely ! 

do n't feel too bad for him. he 's still gonna get 4 , 000 , 000 
over the next two years he 'll be able to do most of what he wants to 
do. 



jon network systems administrator 
pittsburgh center  ( 412 ) 
i do n't speak for anyone other than myself , unless otherwise stated ! ! ! ! ! ! 


from 
subject re pleasant surprises 
reply to 
organization university of , 
lines 89 

in article ,  ( alan sepinwall ) writes 

some pleasant  ( and then some not so pleasant ) surprises about the 1993 
edition of the bronx bombers so far. 

first , the pleasant 

1)spike )  . all through spring training , this guy was 
looking like the second coming of mike , but with 
even worse hitting .  . now the guy is third in the major 
in , and he 's pretty high in total and runs 
 . i know it 's still early in the , but he and 
kelly  ( more on him in a minute ) have provided a lot of 
spark at the bottom of the order that 's given the big guys 
 ( mattingly , , o'neill ) plenty of opportunities .  . 
let 's hope he keeps this up. 

2)pat ) kelly .  . the guy is finally showing some of the ability 
that led stick michael to label him a star for the . 
i would n't go that far , but kelly looks infinitely improved 
at (i guess the he took from in spring training 
really paid off. huh ! and here i thought would never 
do anything to help anybody besides himself ! ) .  . and his , 
like always , has been  ( he and the 
best right side of the in all of baseball  . 

3)paul )  . we had to get rid of kelly , partly 
because he was under too much pressure in ny to be the next 
bonds  ( he wo n't do that in , either) , and partly 
because he had this real tendency to give up 
in the second half of the year .  . i just felt that we could 've 
gotten more for him than  . well , so far , o is 
turning out just fine. he looks like he should be able to 
 ( if not surpass ) mel hall 's numbers from last year , 
and he keeps from around  . 
now , if only would play him against some more to 
see what he can do ! 

 . a friend made a comparison between and jack 
they never have impressive but they always 
find some way to win  ( although seems to be that 
 . i that would be the least important 
part of the steve trade  ( best trade since we got that ruth 
guy ) , maybe up as a good middle  . but i like what 
i 've seen so far. he does n't pitch pretty , but he gets the job done. 

 . what 's going on here key was just supposed to provide 
the with some  ( you know , up the left 
side , provide experience , get maybe 15 wins ) , and here this guy 
is everybody he faces ! who needs or  ( 0 2 ) 
i 'll take key any day. 

and now , the not so pleasant surprises 

1)spike )  . sure , he 's hitting like crazy , but the guy cannot 
field to save his life ! and they said he was brought in to 
provide defense , , and even 
are better than  . 

remember it 's still early .  . look for his offense to tail off , and his 
defense to improve  . he has that because i heard that either 
last year , or over the last 5 years , or something like that he has the third 
highest percentage among major league behind c . r .  . and 
tony  ( i'm not gonna help this sorry team at all )  . i do agree 
though that he has not looked all that impressive in the field thus far. 

 . the book on was , keep him healthy and 
he 'll produce .  . well , he has n't done too much so far. sure. he 's 
hit a few , but those were all shots , and he has n't 
gotten any of the big that your man is supposed 
to give you. then again , he had a slow start last year  ( once he 
got off the , that is) and turned into a one man 
late in the year , so we 'll see. 

3)the )  . ! ! ! ! ! what happened we were supposed to have 
one of the most solid in the ! , the pen 
has already blown three saves  ( maybe more i have n't  . 
the great 's era is in the 
or , and 's is .  .  .  .  . infinite .  . (i did n't think such 
a thing was possible , but it is) .  . , they 'll get their 
acts together , or else 's gonna burn out the starters 
for fear that the 'll blow a lead .  . 

in the immortal words of the , holy cow , ! that key 
guy can pitch , ca n't he 

see you in the series ! 



from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re and scores for fri .  . , apr .  . 16th , 1993 
keywords , 04 . 16 . 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 23 

in article  ( joseph hernandez ) writes 
houston 1 seattle 1 
montreal 2 blue 3 
new york 3 2 
5 tigers 3 
pittsburgh 5 kansas city 5 
san diego 4  ( 13 ) new york 4 
st. 4 cleveland 3 
los 2 boston red 4  ( 13 ) 
1 california angels 
san francisco 6 milwaukee rain 

this leads me to believe that it 's not really a year , and that 
we 've just had a of high games. i bet this one day 's worth 
of games everything back to close to average .  . 

interesting , because the other day , all but three games had ten or more 
runs , and yesterday no game had more than  . 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

subject re mike 's 1993 predictions 
from  ( bob hobokenite ) 

organization somewhere in 
lines 9 

hmm i thought 's predictions always at or below 
 . , especially in the  .  ( not counting college 
bowl  . 

he 's a nice for explaining past tense , and for mapping out 
what plays teams might do but for the future , he only 
looks good compared to  . 

bob 

from  ( david j . ) . 
subject re the are rapists ! ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 19 

writes 
i do not read 's news regularly , but i 
do know that he has been accused before as being an 
that enjoys  ( hopefully for only reasons ) to 
up a news story , even if there is n't one there. now as far as 
the confrontation with bobby a few days ago , i almost 
totally blame  . no matter what a member of the press 
does , and no matter how much of a individual he might 
be , that does not give a the right to threaten a 
 . 

was n't threatening anyone. he just wanted to give him the dollar 
 . ) 


david blue riddle 1993 
it 's on. 
the is an art is coming out on this time for real. 
e mail me for the  . 

from  . bose ) 
subject re and 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 38 
nntp posting host carina . unm . edu . 

in article  ( donnie trump ) writes 
i was watching peter on last night , and he 's got me a little 
confused .  . 

while talking about , he started mentioning people who might benefit 
from the fringe they 'll be facing hitting 50 home runs , 
getting 150 's , and 25 games. this was , 
of course , all in reference to what happened the other times that baseball 
has expanded  ( early 60 's , late 60 's , late 70  . 

what really confused me , though , was the mention of al who would 
do well next year .  . specifically , roger 25 games , and the 
likes of and hitting 50 home runs .  . 

my question is how in the hell will the help the al the 
last time i looked , there was n't a lot of talent jumping  . did i 
miss something 

only if you in believing that peter is more knowledgable about 
baseball than the average  . okay , i'm  . still , the man 
actually had the gall to say that one out of every in the this 
year did not pitch in the last year .  . 

huh 

imo , this will not see the explosive jump in offense that the 
other had , since the talent was over both  . 
in  defense , because the talent came from the al as well , some 
increase will be seen. he also gets credit for mentioning that the jump 
in offense was due also to the rules changes after the  . he 's still 
full of it .  .  .  . 



kurt  ( as in , not rose ) 
if you take out all the f ks , this is an 18 page book. 
, though a copy of 's 
, nails 

subject mark 
from  ( russ smith ) 
lines 13 

i was on all last week and did n't see any news at all. could 
somebody fill me in on how st. ended up with mark in a 
trade who did we give up , allen watson , young , or did 
make a decent deal 




smith 

i do n't know anything about x 's , but i know about some o .  . 
george on being an assistant 


from  ( john stephen randolph ) 
subject re all time best 
organization university 
lines 

in article , writes 

i 've recently been working on project to determine the greatest 
at their respective  . my sources are total baseball , 
james  historical abstract , the  ( biography ) , word of 
mouth , and my own  ( biased ) opinions .  .  .  . 

feel free to comment , suggest , flame  .  . but . i tried 
to be as objective as possible , using statistical data not 
for time 's sake. (i judged on  . , ops , total average , 
range runs , total  ( total baseball ) , stolen bases 
 ( for curiosity 's sake ) , 150 g , and years played  . 

career 
1 ) 
2 ) 
3) 
4 ) 
5 ) 
6 ) 
7 ) dick allen 
8 ) 
9 ) 
it 's i before e except after c , and in people named keith .  . 

10 ) bill 
11 ) george 


1 ) 
2 ) joe 
3) 
4 ) 
5 ) 
6 ) 
learn to  . it 's  . 

7 ) charlie 
8 ) 
9 ) bobby 
10 ) bobby 


1 ) 
2 ) cal jr 
3) john lloyd 
4 ) smith 
5 ) 
6 ) joe 
7 ) vaughan 
8 ) luke 
9 ) ernie banks 
10 ) 


1 ) mike 
2 ) ed matthews 
3) george brett 
4 ) wade 
5 ) ron 
6 ) 
7 ) frank baker 
8 ) evans 
9 ) 
10 ) ray 

how can be 6 i think he would at least be ahead of ron  . 




c 
1 ) gibson 

1a ) 1993 


2 ) 
3) 
4 ) 
5 ) bill 
6 ) 
7 ) roy 
8 ) 
9 ) 
10 ) 


1 ) 
2 ) stan 
3) 
4 ) 
5 ) bonds 
6 ) tim 
7 ) joe 
8 ) ralph 
9 ) 
10 ) al 


1 ) 
2 ) cobb 
3) speaker 
4 ) 
5 ) joe 
6 ) 
7 ) 
8 ) duke 
9 ) 
10 ) 


1 ) ruth 
2 ) aaron 
3) frank 
4 ) mel 
5 ) al 
6 ) 
7 ) dave 
8 ) 
9 ) tony 
10 ) rose 

p 
1 ) walter johnson 
2 ) 
3) young 
4 ) 
5 ) 
6 ) tom 
7 ) roger 
8 ) bob gibson 
9 ) warren 
10 ) 
11 ) 
12 ) 
13 ) bob 
14 ) jim 
15 ) steve 

overall  ( estimated ) 
1 ) ruth 
2 ) 
3) 
4 ) cobb 
5 ) aaron 
6 ) 
7 ) speaker 
8 ) 
9 ) w . johnson . 
10 ) 
11 ) 
12 ) 
13 ) f . 
14 ) 
15 ) 
16 ) j . gibson . 
17 ) c . young . 
18 ) 
19 ) 
20 ) 
21 ) 
22 ) 
23 ) j . 
24 ) 
25 ) 
26 ) 
27 ) 
28 ) matthews 
29 ) 
30 ) 
31 ) 
32 ) brett 
33 ) gibson 
34 ) 
35 ) 
36 ) 
37 ) jr. 
38 ) lloyd 
39 ) 
40 ) 
41 ) 
42 ) o . smith . 
43 ) 
44 ) bonds . 
45 ) 
46 ) r . 
47 ) 
48 ) 
49 ) 
50 ) 


again , feel free to comment .  .  .  . 

mike , 



from  ( michael mule ) 
subject re etc .  .  . 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 39 

let 's look at the effects of inflation on 's   . 

i read once that the made 80 , 000 one year and that was about as good 
as it got for him. 

let 's assume he made that in  ( i'm not sure of the , but i know 
i'm in the pun  . ) 

today , assuming a 4 inflation rate , which is an if 
not accurate , his 80 , 000 would be worth .  . 

80 , 000 x  ( 1 4 )  ( 1993 1928 ) 
80 , 000 x 65 
just over 1 , 000 , 000 .  . 

assuming inflation is average of around 5 . 

80 , 000 x  ( 1 5 ) 65 
almost 2 , 000 , 000 .  . 

(i did n't these numbers  . 

these numbers might lead one to believe that today 's are slightly 
 . the appears to have made then what today 's average to above 
average make now. perfectly accurate , year of , and 
average inflation rate would make this analysis more accurate , but i 
think i'm off by much. 

chop chop 

michael  




michael 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

subject and , please help me 
from  ( shawn v. hernan ) 
organization university of pittsburgh 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id blue . cis . pitt . edu . 
x mon , 5 apr 93 22 34 04 gmt 
lines 12 

, 

i have a choice of two more or less identical to 
, one in 
denver , and one in , both may 24 28 .  . could some kind 
or 
 ( they do play in the area , right ) please let me know if 
there 
are home dates for that week. i 'd love to a game. 

thanks , 


from  ( dave  almost the  kirsch ) 
subject re young 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization l and the 
lines 31 

in article  ( edward fischer ) writes 

sorry , this does n't fly. the good have always been ready 
for the early .  . how many were not contributing major 
by the time they were 22 

that brings up an interesting point. anyone else 's piece about 
and the relationship between age , career length , and hall of 
fame members it was part of their special. basically , they looked 
at that had 1000  ( or abs ) by the time they 
were 24 , and noticed some interesting things. 

for starters , they found out such comprised the majority of in 
the history of the game. they also found out such represented the 
majority of the in the hall of fame .  . the , though , was that 
they actually did some number and found that such  
lasted much longer than the of not in that group. they also 
found that these produced at both a greater level of and 
produced over twice the raw  ( hrs , etc ) of the other  . the first 
group the second something like  . to  . in raw , and blew away 
the second group in such categories as hrs , , , etc. 

it was the most impressive thing i 've seen on in recent memory. 

i guess ray knight makes his  . 


dave like a jim blue do it again in  93 
new  .  .  . quotes out of context ! 
not to a dead horse , but it 's been a couple o  weeks  .  .  . this 
me .  . punishments .  .  .  .  . stephen lawrence 

from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re best second 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
distribution usa 
lines 22 

in article  ( mark horan ) writes 
is not known for his stolen bases .  . what competition did 
have came in a year after , and the same year as , 
, and the other  . so less attention was given to  . 
is the only one in his class to be worth a  . besides the 
numbers do n't count. national league are much better  . 

you 're right thomas , , , and do n't even begin 
to compare with , , and , so no wonder gets so 
much attention .  . 

got no attention his year because his year was 
terrible .  . so was his sophomore year .  . 

national league are much better that certainly explains 
's 1993 , are you confusing have era 's that are 0 . 40 . lower 
because they do n't face 's with much better 

frank however should have mentioned that though 
his advice is legally sound , if you follow it 
the u of c law school you will probably wind up in jail .  . 
standard disclaimers james , in misc . legal . 

from  ( benjamin fradkin ) 
subject tigers ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
organization university 
lines 7 

were they or baseball in on saturday from looking 
at the school , some people may think it was football. between two games this 
week , the tigers 40 runs ! ! ! ! the offense can carry them , i hope the 
will hold out. i was at yesterday , i looked 
up the score was getting higher. what a great site it was to see the tigers 
kicking butt while a game at  . go tigers and go tony 
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

from  ( david k. lowenthal ) 
subject re  is a genius ! 
organization u of arizona cs dept , tucson 
lines 22 

in article  ( randy palermo ) writes 
will clark 
matt 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . all . came up through the system. 

 . everyone comes up with clark , ,  . these guys 
were all up in 1987 .  . that 's ancient history. so in the last 6 years , 
noone , right does n't count. i said 2 solid years. 

btw , lead the last in throwing out  . he is 
an excellent  . i agree that his offensive are 
limited but he does seem to be improving on them. 

let 's see what he does w o the help of a every other pitch .  . 
as i remember , even bob had a good percentage under 
roger craig , who loved to sacrifice the count for being thrown 
out. of course , he suffered from 3 ball 1 strike a lot too. 
i am not a big fan of  . 


dave 

organization penn state university 
from 
subject re vs 


lines 17 

i hate to be the burden of bad news , but i think i will this time ! ) 

the usually play at either 7 05 p . m .  . or 7 35 p . m .  . eastern time for 
 . on sundays the time is usually 1 35 p . m .  . eastern time. 

is in  . is in part of the time and in part 
of the time  . the times that were given were for time 
starts .  . 

please check a map in case i am wrong. but i am certain that is in the 
time  . 


thanks for listening ! 


the 

from  ( joel chan ) 
subject game score report 
organization department of mathematics , university of 
lines 12 

just out of curiosity , what happened to the weekly al and game 
score reports i used to enjoy reading them throughout the summer 
for the last two years. 

yours , 

joel 

joel , dept. of mathematics , university of 
blue 1992 world series ! 
history those who ignore it are condemned to repeat it. math , too. 
from the strip 

from  ( greg spira ) 
subject re , runs ,  ( was re notes on vs. series ) 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
distribution na 
lines 28 

 ( john bratt ) writes 

and runs are the two most important offensive statistics .  . 

actually , they 're pretty worthless , if you want to 
with  . and runs should be all they do is 
confuse victims of brainwashing like yourself. 

you 
can talk about and all you want , but the fact remains 

the team that scores more runs the game ! 


uh , so 

you 've just explained why we use and to  . 
precisely because the team that scores more runs the game. 
traditional baseball have gotten way too far away from methods 
which to see who to those runs that 's 
where , , runs created , , etc. come in. these 
simplify matters so that we can more easily measure a 's 
offensive to the team 's runs  . 

thank you for making our case. have a nice day. 

greg 


from  ( anton dejong ) 
subject re 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 13 

there is field in seattle , which makes lots of minor and 
league and  . these things are real  ( around 200 for a 
jersey ) but they are very authentic in look and nicely made. 

paul , long live steve and the la angels 

their phone number is 1  . the last catalog shows three 
36 home , 42 home , 39 home they 're each 00 .  . all their 
merchandise is and is an authentic  . i own a couple 
and they are excellent .  . they also have caps and  . you should 
call to get on their mailing list even if you ca n't afford their  . 



from  ( steve c liu) 
subject re no joke have record ! ! ! ! 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
lines 23 
distribution usa 
expires 5 9 93 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
summary is just too small .  .  .  . 

hell , the  day game could easily be the largest in history 
if we had a with 80 , 000  . but the (a 
definitely excellent ballpark ) only holds like 45 , 000 with  . 
sales for the entire year is moving fast .  . are almost 
gone for every game this year .  . it 's a extremely that the o 's 
could sell out every game this year  ( especially if we lead the division for 
most of the year like  . 
on another front , the sale of the to anyone is likely to be 
forced upon who is major debt apparently .  . maybe we can get an 
owner willing to spend on a proven free in the  . 
has made the o 's as the  . the o 's 
looks pretty good. , , , , and  . 
baltimore is my pick for the in a very al east .  . 

steve c. internet address 
for the liberation and of 
and their rehabilitation into society from red 
the are the greatest female that ever existed ! 
this sig has been brought to you by .  .  .  . ! the of kings ! 

second to last day of the gregg  ( the true wild thing ) 
a wild pitch allowing the blue to tie .  . blue win in the 
and ends the baby birds  miracle of  . 

from edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
subject re to 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 13 
reply to edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
nntp posting host 1 . rose . edu . 

in article  ( russell earnest ) 
writes 
this brings back the long suffering of pre chop who 
kept being promised the bob back to back power  . 
who could stop that guess we 'll never know. 

why not played 130 games in 1985 and hit 27  . 
played 162 and hit 37 .  . 
in 1986 hit 27 in games and hit 29 in games. 
 ( and the lost and 89  . 

john 
edu . 

from  ( teflon x ) 
subject re ! ! rescue us from ! ! 
organization college , , ma 
lines 28 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 

in article writes 

so far looks like a total idiot .  . 

5 ) should accept a part of the blame for the situation. i 
ca n't understand his and 's fear of tom prince through 
 . even if they do , what 's the use. he is like  . 
not a very smart  . also , i am blaming in this case , since he is convinced that is through , while giving him 
way too much time last year in the regular and the  ( playoffs(slaught 
should have played in all 7 games he has a good average against right handed 
 . did n't and this last year , and attempt to 
trade last year itself any fool could tell them 
was n't very fit last year .  . 

sorry , but this is the biggest load of bunk i 've seen in a while. 
a ) the have been trying to trade for some time now. 
nobody was even interested .  . 
b ) several other teams had made it known that they would prince , 
who was out of options .  . 
c ) 's release had nothing to do with him being through. he 
was released , because , in the event of an injury to , 
is no longer capable  ( they believe ) of being the everyday 
 . 

since is as good against as he is against , 
the offense should actually improve with this move. 

toby 

from  ( david shapiro ) 
subject re tigers 
organization what , me organized 
lines 8 
distribution na 
nntp posting host cis . yale . edu . 
in reply to ryan 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 10 09 21 edt 


! 


david people can call it a , but i felt like 
i had a on my back all long .  .  .  .  . 
the is off my back .  . maybe a 
will be next .  . stan 

from genetic  ( david m. tate ) 
subject re young 
article i.d. blue . 
organization department of industrial engineering 
lines 115 

 ( mark singer ) said 

we know that very , very few at this age make much of an impact 
in the , especially when they have n't even played ball .  . 

yes. but this is irrelevant . you 're talking about , when we 
have lots of information about this in particular to base our 
decisions on. 

i might as well say we know that very , very few people are more than 7 feet 
, so chances are that is really only 6 foot 4. 

no. maybe i need to improve my writing skills. , who is very 
ordinary , is not likely to hit so well at age 22 
 ( having not played at level ) that it is probably not a good idea 
to rush him into the in 1993 .  . 

why is n't likely to hit that well he hit that well last year  ( after 
his for park and league and such ) he hit better  ( on an 
absolute scale ) than or did. by a lot. 

as for  .  .  . if there really is a qualitative difference between the 
and the that requires a period of  ( and i do n't 
believe there is) , then would n't you rather waste 's 22 year old good 
than his 23 year old very good or his 24 year old excellent 
the sooner you get him , the more of his prime you get to 
use. 

was hitting  . over 17 when he was cut from spring 
training .  . what does he have to do to a chance maybe not a full 
time job , but at least a couple starts and a few for him to prove 
his worth 

gee .  . i do n't know. 17 sounds pretty good to me ! about as good 
as your reasoning that the kid should play a back up role rather 
than start every day at  . talk about me as a  .  .  . 

the point was not that 17 is a significant , but rather that he 
had n't done anything in spring training to cause even a 
to question whether his minor league numbers were for real , or to send him 
down until he gets up . 

ok. most are not ready for the at age 22 

most are never ready for the  . what does this have to do 
with 

most 
benefit , rather than being or hurt , by playing at  . 

see above. 

most need to be solid to help their 
in the  . those are the arguments against for the 
for this year .  . 

but i could apply the same reasoning to frank thomas or bonds .  . most 
are n't that good , so they probably wo n't be that good this year 
either. 

now. the have two who have demonstrated solid 
abilities to call games , to work with the , to out 
 . 

and demonstrated to hit their way out of a  . 

not mind you , but solid , experienced veterans .  . 

not , not stars , not even good  . maybe average , if we 're 
being  . 

the have a very solid with two big in the 
, an excellent at first , a solid candidate 
at third and one of the better hitting  . 

 . justice is a very fine  . might have another big year 
in his , but he might also spend the in hell. is a 
big question mark. the is decent  ( not excellent ) and 
has or  ( depending on who 's  . is a very valuable 
 .  .  . for a  . 


the center 
field will probably hit  .  . however good  
might be  ( given the above) it wo n't be so much better than 
what they have to offset the in experience and 
ability .  . 

bet the difference between 's and could be 
20 or 30 runs over the course of the  . given a choice between a 
with experience and a who can play , i 'll take the latter every time. 

the kid will improve playing at , 

just like keith did 

i am just so surprised i have to all of this out. my 
goodness .  . do you believe the other poster who thinks 
is being held down because of his future potential 

that was me , and you so far your only counter proposal is that they 
really do n't understand how good is , or experience , 
or some combination of the two .  . i think my interpretation was more 
to the organization .  . 

are they idiots who have built this 

well argued but inflammatory reply deleted. 



david m. (i do not know what it is about you that closes 
as and only something in me 
e e  ( can the of your is deeper than rose 's ) 
dy ) nobody , not even tim , has such soft hands 

from  ( david lane ) 
subject re 's  ( was notes on indians ) 
organization wayne state university math department , 
distribution na 
lines 23 

in article  ( edward ouellette ) writes 
me , too .  .  .  . are a worthless stat .  . of course , so is stolen bases because 
sometimes are in front of a that would otherwise run. and of 
course pitch differently with different people on different bases , 
so average , and out , too. hmmm .  .  .  . i guess would 
not count then , either. 
my point might not be a perfect stat but nothing is. and no stat  ( or lack 
of ) can tell me there are no  . maybe no stat can tell me , 
either , but some people are .  .  .  . i just know it ! ! ! 8 ) 

but why would you want to use is an attempt to measure is some 
combination of hitting and power hitting .  . if you believe in 
hitting , then look at how the guy hit with  . if you want to 
see how good of a he is , then look at his average .  . 

in terms of evaluating , are better than nothing. but 
why use them when so many better are out there 


david 

go tigers , lions , , red wings and ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 


from  ( dale stephenson ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
distribution na 
lines 38 

in  ( bruce klopfenstein ) writes 

 ( edward kim ) writes 
... 

i would tend to call the offensive contributions even , but hands 
down in capabilities .  . i'm not just talking about the number of 
errors nobody  ( including ! ) has the range and at second base .  . 
i ca n't recall in the recent past anyone turning the double play better 
than  . 

well , why do n't you look up those may not be the best 
second in the league , but he 's damn good. check the for 
last year and see for yourself. 

according to the average posted by , had the 
highest percentage of turned in the league , while had the worst .  . 
however , had a higher average .  . so who would be better 

using 's opportunities  ( 469 , 73 possible double plays ) 
had and turned 18  . 
would have had  ( with same ) and 35  . 

using 's  ( 545 , possible double  . 
would have had  ( with the same ) and 25  . 
had and 47  . 

looks better , though it 's possible his would be lower with a 
different  . 

will turn twice as many double plays , however 
has established a high level of defense , has not. i would bet on 
to be better next year , but last year was just as good overall .  . 

j. student at large 

it is considered good to look wise , especially when not 
with information j. golden 

from  ( daniel zappala ) 
subject re first 3 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 18 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 


in article ,  ( cs106116 ) writes 

hey , 

i was watching the  game on tv yesterday  ( monday ) 
when a report came in to the that the first 3 runs came 
in on a three run single .  . did this really happen if it did , 
how they said that the man knocked them in. what 
exactly happened. thanks. 


just barely inside the right field line and into the 
corner , driving in santiago and  . these were the first two 
 . the third came later when was knocked in. 


daniel 

from 
subject re new uniforms 
distribution world 
organization university 
lines 10 

while i enjoy the trend towards the more classic style of uniform 
and i disagree with the person who wants a return to the non gray road 
uniforms it should be that one of the , if not the reason 
for the of uniforms , especially  ( re the new road all 
green a 's caps and the navy blue road cap ) , is the 
money to be made in sales of new merchandise .  . 

jeffrey 



from  ( eric roush ) 
subject re to 
organization biochemistry 
lines 35 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

in article  ( russell earnest ) 
writes 
in article ,  ( len reed ) 
writes 
in article  ( hanson loo ) writes 

did n't bob go straight from arizona state univ .  . 
to the i remember he had one great 
month hitting and then the next i heard 
he was in japan .  . 

a month well , he did have a short career compared to what one might 
have expected for such a highly due to being injury prone , 
, and having no work  . but he certainly did not 
suffer from being to the  . 


sorry , this is exactly how he suffered from being to the  . 
being and having no work , to being injury prone with 
nothing to loose , might have been in  .  ( did you intend a 
after your comment ) 


if i remember correctly  ( which is always in doubt ) , 's 
with the was on starting in  . i think 
he could have gone back to arizona st. for one more year if he had n't 
signed .  . anyhow , the did try to send him to once 
it lead to a week long  . had no work 
before he was , and minor league play would n't have helped. 
but his raw talent would have gotten him into the , and it did 
keep him there for a while , until he started falling on his  . 



eric  ( too lazy to update his sig ) 

from the  ( michael lurie ) 
subject re best lifetime record in baseball history 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization allegheny college 
lines 19 

in article writes 
speaking of the the 

based on lifetime percentage of games won , who has the second best 
record 
in baseball history  ( soon to be the best record again ) 


if i had to guess i would be forced to say the  . on the other 
hand 
the blue might be up there too. 

 .  .  .  . 

tony 

blue no way hell , but the probably do. remember , the 
had the best record of any team in the 80 's , and probably take the 20 's 
through 60 's as well. 

from  ( len reed ) 
subject re to 
organization software , inc. 
lines 15 

in article  ( hanson loo ) writes 
did n't bob go straight from arizona state univ .  . 
to the i remember he had one great 
month hitting and then the next i heard 
he was in japan .  . 

a month well , he did have a short career compared to what one might 
have expected for such a highly due to being injury prone , 
, and having no work  . but he certainly did not 
suffer from being to the  . 

reed 
software , inc. 
voice  ( 404 )  . 16 
domain uucp 

from 
subject re the worst 
organization state univ 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader s 1 . 3 . 2 . 

in article 
 ( brian r. landmann ) writes 


joe has to be the worst in baseball .  . 
brian , a very fan .  . 


no .  .  .  . is the worst in baseball .  . i 've never seen a guy who 
can waste talent like he can. one of the best raw talent in the league , 
and he 's still finding a way to lose .  . i 'll be surprised if he makes it through 
the next 2 weeks , unless improvement is made. 

an even more fan , 
darin j. 

from lurie ) the 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization allegheny college 

in article 
 ( pablo a iglesias ) writes 
in article 
 ( vb30 ) writes 

would have to be the most famous , because his jewish 
faith actually affected his play .  .  ( missing late or was it world 
series games because of kippur ) 



missed world series game because of the jewish day of  . 

from  ( steve tomassi ) 
subject dave for the hall of fame 
nntp posting host berkeley node . net . yale . edu . 
organization yale computing center 
lines 39 

hi , baseball ! so what do you say do n't you think he deserves it 
i 

mean , heck , if dave  ( ho hum ) is seriously being considered for it , 
as 

is smith  ( ha ) , then why do n't we give dave a chance or 

evans ! yeah , yeah ! after the hall of fame takes in them , it can take in 


and jeff  . 

well , in any case , i am sick and tired  ( mostly sick ) of everybody 
giving 

hall of fame consideration to that are by today 's standards , 
marginal .  . 

honestly , smith and do n't belong there. they 're both 

that just around for a long time. big deal. 

let 's be a little more selective , huh stop handing out these 
so 

 . save them for the guys who really it. face it , if 
something 

is n't done , there will be little in the hall of fame anymore. when 

certain individuals believe that steve or jack are potential 

, the absurdity is apparent .  . gee , can these guys even compare to 

the more likely future hall of like or ryan 


steve 

from  ( david demers ) 
subject re bb big cat 
distribution na 
organization dept. , san diego 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 


in article ,  ( ken kubey ) writes 
i do n't 
blame like , and when they swing at 
a strike and put the ball in play .  . 

well , no problem ! but i get pretty when they swing at non strikes 
and make  . especially ball four on the 3 2  .  .  . 

dave 

dave 
computer science engineering 
san diego ... ! ! cs ! 
la , ca  ( 619 ) , or , fax  ( 619 ) 

from 
subject re the worst 
lines 26 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university , des , iowa , usa 

in article ,  ( brian r. landmann ) writes 
joe has to be the worst in baseball .  . 

for anyone who did n't see sunday 's game , 

with a right he decides to , a left handed 
and play and , both right  . 

later , in the ninth with the bases loaded and two he puts 
, a with power in as a and uses luis 
, a 250 with no power as a  . what the hell 
is he thinking. 

yourself before you on this years of the year .  . 
injured himself in a previous game and was 
him. 

as far as the controversy .  . some more 
needed power , and if continues to hit the way he has been , 
will find himself in the starting soon enough. 



brian 
institute of technology 
internet 

from  ( dave  almost the  kirsch ) 
subject re young 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization l and the 
lines 60 

in article  ( mark singer ) writes 

at age 23 had a year .  . true , he was limited 
by in his sophomore , but his numbers both that 
and the year following were quite  . this the same 
bill james a of  . , ops of 675 .  . 

the same bill james why do you say that it sounds like you 're suggesting 
bill james had something to do with the kid to death. au 
he was fairly critical of him after his roy campaign , that he was n't 
all world as a or a  . he called him basically average when 
everyone else in the media was the next or roy 
 . 

both of these young men were highly , 
expected to be among the best ever in baseball .  . the reports i 
read indicate that is very ordinary  . 

which reports are those 

the options are and , and now only  . 
is 24 .  . as long as he continues with his very hot , 
they will keep him in the because they need the offensive 
production. when he off , look for the much better 
 ( only 25 ) to play more. 

i like a lot , but if can the ball , you 've gotta play 
him imho .  . he 's a much better , although is n't a bad  . 
right now , it sounds like will most of the time and 
will be 's since he can the  . as long as they 
play up to their abilities , the could have a very good catching 
 . 

the options are and  . i agree that is 
nothing special , but i do think is better than many 
people on believe. but both the  are very 
good  ( calling a game , blocking the , throwing ) 
and although they are somewhat weak , they play on a team 
that is not so much in need of another big  . 

i think both are  ( see  law of 
defense ) , but that 's something that 's difficult to prove or disprove from 
your viewpoint or mine. about the only thing we can look at is 
opponent 's , and that 's by how well your hold  . 
era is a possibility , but it 's subject to way too many  . 

as for them  playing on a team that is not so much in need of another big 
 , i disagree here too. about the only in the  is that 
they 're weak at several positions  ( cf , c , , if 
plays , unless and form another super platoon ) and very weak 
if plays .  . i 'd like to see the give at least one of 
mel , or jones a shot , but much like the talent rich 
of recent years they 'll be conservative and stick with what they have. 
i'm not saying that 's wrong , just conservative .  . 


dave like a jim blue do it again in  93 
new  .  .  . quotes out of context ! 
not to a dead horse , but it 's been a couple o  weeks  .  .  . this 
me .  . punishments .  .  .  .  . stephen lawrence 

from  ( dodger ) 
subject re question 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 31 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

the have been shopping harris to other teams in their 
quest for more left handed  . so far , no  . 
personally , i think harris is a , and he 
has also led the team in past years for hitting into double 
plays , or at least been among the leaders .  . 

showed last year that if given a chance to play 
every day , he can get the job done. if played just 
one base every day , say third , he 'd also improve  . 

has helped on defense , as has reed .  . 
the improved defense is quite and is having an 
effect on the  . both and 
were out in recent starts by great plays .  . 
into the ninth in a game that might 
have seen him lifted in the third in past years. 

lasted 7 the other day under similar circumstances .  . 
the are turning double plays , and keeping more 
in the than last year .  . and has also been great 
on defense .  . he has thrown out 10 of 14 trying to 
steal and has at least one pick off at first. 

, clearly , has contributed to the over all improvement on 
defense .  . but his offense is awful and he has cost the 
some runs .  . but i do n't think he is as bad as his current average .  . 
i suspect he will come out of this much as davis and straw 
seem to have come out of theirs .  . 




subject re best 
from  ( ian m. derby ) 
expires sun , 25 apr 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
organization virginia commonwealth university 
lines 14 


i personally will never forget mike 's home run against the 
in that decided the east .  . it was also his career high 
 . 

another home run that i thought was totally incredible was in the 
1986  . the ca had the boston red 1 strike away from 
the until hit a two strike pitch for a home run. 
that was the most incredible turn of events i have ever seen in 
baseball .  . the later took the away only to have the same 
thing done to them in the against the  . speaking of the , 
is n't it strange how the that year with the almost 
the with the the have been 
close twice i must admit .  . 

subject re young 
from  ( russ smith ) 
organization ca , usa 
lines 27 

in article  ( mark singer ) writes 
now , keith  . as i recall  ( no stat books surprise ! ) 
he from aa to in 1991. he did so well that he was 
returned to the , where he did n't do very well at all. now 
his career is in  . so how does he fit in with your 
point. good 's in aa .  . moved him right to the big club. now 
he 's one step away from being or moved out of baseball .  . 
 . 

you recall wrong. hit close to  . in and 
continued to walk alot after his  . he was then (i think) left 
off the , and started the next year in the where 
even the will tell you he because he was so mad 
at going back down. 

he last year , no doubt , but even the blamed part of it 
on the  . i 'd much rather have than say mark on 
the cards. 




smith 

i do n't know anything about x 's , but i know about some o .  . 
george on being an assistant 


from  ( greg spira ) 
subject re why 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 27 

 ( jon boone ) writes 

on mon , 12 apr 93 00 53 14 gmt in greg wrote 

does anybody in the pittsburgh area know why mike was released 
last year i kept saying that should get the of the playing time , 
that he was clearly the better at this point , but insisted on 
keeping a pretty strict  . and now he is released that does n't 
make any sense to me. 

greg , 

the story goes like this 

is too slow ! if he were quicker , he would still be here. 
but with and tom prince , they did n't want to lose prince in order 
to bring up that  . is about as good as and 
prince is coming along nicely ! 

well , my question still has n't been answered if was bad enough to 
release this year , why did he get so much playing time last year yes , i know 
he was part of a , and that 's why he got more playing time than 
, but that does n't answer the question. if was so obviously 
better this year , was n't this also obvious last year , and should n't he 
have been taking away some of 's playing time against 

greg 

from 
subject all time 
organization ball state university , , in univ .  . computing 's 
lines 

last week i posted the all time greatest  ( and 
several names sorry ! ) this week , it 's time for the greatest  . 
i evaluated the following on 4 which constituted 
their prime or years. (3 was too few 5 seemed to many so i 
for  . sources , as usual , include total baseball 1993 and my own  ( biased ) 
opinions. 
here goes , feel free to comment. 

1.  ( includes after war ) missed actual years 
2. ruth 
3. walter johnson 
4. 
5. mike  ( actual year by strike ) 
6. bonds  ( currently at peak ) 
7. 
8. cobb 
9. speaker 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13 .  . joe 
14 .  . ed 
15 .  . 
16. 
17. 
18 .  . cal jr. 
19 .  . 
20 .  . young 
21 .  . tim 
22 .  .  ( again , strike year  included ) 
23 .  . 
24 .  . 
25 .  . joe 
26 .  . 
27 .  . george 
28 .  . 
29 .  . aaron 
30 .  . stan 
31. joe 
32 .  . wade 
33 .  . charlie 
34 .  . ernie banks 
35 .  . bob gibson 
36 .  . 
37 .  . 
38 .  . 
39 .  . 
40 .  . 
41 .  . frank 
42 .  . tom 
43 .  . roger  ( arguably , still in peak ) 
44 .  . mel 
45 .  . frank baker 
46 .  .  ( peak came in suspect league ) 
47 .  . 
48 .  . george brett 
49 .  . brown 
50 .  . 


1 ) 
2 ) 
3) 
4 ) 
5 ) 
6 ) frank thomas  ( projected sorry ) 
7 ) dick allen 
8 ) 
9 )  ( yes , mr . consistency . had a peak ) 
10 ) bill 


1 ) 
2 ) j . 
3) 
4 ) 
5 ) 
6 )  ( treated as a , even though played 1b ) 
7 ) 
8 ) bobby 
9 ) 
10 ) bill ,  ( tough call ) 

3b ) 
1 ) 
2 ) 
3) f . baker . 
4 ) brett 
5 ) ed 
6 ) ron 
7 ) 
8 ) ken 
9 ) buddy bell 
10 ) evans 


1 ) 
2 ) 
3) banks 
4 ) 
5 ) john lloyd  ( estimated ) 
6 ) vaughan 
7 )  ( still in ) 
8 ) 
9 ) smith 
10 ) joe 


1 ) 
2 ) bonds . 
3) 
4 )  ( actually had 2 80 86 ) 
5 ) 
6 ) 
7 ) j . 
8 ) ralph 
9 ) al 
10 ) george foster 
11 ) 


1 ) 
2 ) cobb 
3) speaker 
4 ) 
5 ) 
6 )  ( again , estimated ) 
7 ) duke 
8 ) ken jr.  ( personal assumption ) 
9 ) 
10 ) 
11 )  ( strike ) 


1 ) ruth 
2 ) aaron 
3) 
4 ) f . 
5 ) 
6 ) 
7 ) tony 
8 ) dave 
9 ) 
10 ) 
11 ) jose 
12 ) 

c 
1 ) gibson  ( estimated ) 
2 ) 
3) 
4 ) 
5 ) roy 
6 ) 
7 ) bill 
8 ) 
9 ) 
10 ) 
11 ) joe 

p 
1 ) w . johnson . 
2 ) 
3) 
4 ) 
5 ) 
6 ) 
7 ) young 
8 ) gibson 
9 ) 
10 ) 
11 ) 
12 )  ( estimated ) 
13 ) d . 
14 ) 
15 ) brown 
16 ) joe wood 
17 ) dave 
18 ) jim 
19 ) bob 
20 ) jenkins 


1 ) who cares 


i hope there are some surprises here above above 
above banks bonds above 
check the numbers of each in comparison to the numbers of the rest 
of the that  ( year(s ) , and you 'll see that i'm fairly close with 
this system  ( which is primarily based on total rating ) for 
four years. 

enjoy , 
mike 

from lurie ) the 
subject re pleasant surprises 
organization allegheny college 
lines 7 

in article  ( alan 
sepinwall ) writes 



thanks , that was well thought out. 
even written in an entertaining style .  . 

from  ( randy palermo ) 
subject re my 1993 predictions 
article i.d. odin . 
organization silicon , inc. , view , ca 
lines 33 
nntp posting host sgi . com . 

in article writes 
i thought i 'd post my predicted since i find those posted by others 
to be interesting. sorry this is after day. i that these 
were before the first pitch .  . ) 


west the 2 best teams in baseball are in this division .  . 
1. awesome starters , but offense could be a concern 
2. would not surprise me if they won it all 
3. houston any team that signs wo n't  . closer to 4 than 2 
4. san diego could be the of 1993 
5. los better than the 
6. san francisco because the just stink 
7. will become the seattle of the  . 


montreal d.  ( braves , yes i'm probably contradicting 
what i said in my west comment . ) . 
new york d. minnesota 

world series new york d. montreal hating the will be 
again 

bonds , or maybe 

i that if bonds the the will finish higher 
than  . 



fax  ( 415)961 ) 
silicon computer systems , n .  . mt. view , ca 
play an , go to jail .  . that 's the law 

subject re florida ! 
from  ( ian m. derby ) 
expires sat , 1 may 1993 04 00 00 gmt 
organization virginia commonwealth university 
lines 8 


this talk about the the east is scary .  . very 
scary ! do n't get me wrong , im a fan but as late as last 
year they looked helpless .  . the funny thing was they did have a lot 
of in  spring training that basically killed their 
chances .  . of course , do n't forget the injury in the 
first or second game 


from  ( lyford beverage ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
distribution na 
organization data general corporation , research triangle park , nc 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( edward fischer ) writes 
in article  ( rudy wade ) writes 
in article  ( gord niguma ) writes 
reference to history because he certainly did n't have the best for 
second in history. he probably did n't even have as good a as 
last year .  . 

what do you have some measure  ( like popularity in does n't count ) 
that you are basing this statement on 

uh , yes. has a lot of , but was the better 
last year .  . 

g r h bb so cs e 
, c  .  .  . 32 1 20 35 76 10 2 19 
, r  . 310 .  .  . 27 8 8 76 87 52 49 9 5 


this is fascinating .  . you say that was the better last 
year , and immediately follow that up with numbers showing that 
had a better year .  . the only category that i see which shows an advantage 
for is  . 

from  ( dan peterik ) 
subject re notes 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 26 

in writes 

for those of you who know who is , he 's back .  . the 
team , if you will , was given his walking papers a few years 
ago , but the voted him back last and he will be 
in the his familiar home in the and will again slide down 
into a of beer when home runs are hit .  . 

that is great to hear i just may have to take a trip to this year and see that again. last time i saw was at the age of 10 and i am now 21 thanks for this post. 

one final note , bill is the with 13 's in 
play .  . looks like he 's back nicely from back 
problems. 

good to bill is getting better form the limited we get here in iowa 
i know that this will be a great for the ! ! 



fanning , computer operator leadership is action 
office of information technology  .  .  . not . position 
milwaukee area technical college d. h. 

email  ( internet ) 
or 


from  ( sean garrison ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host berkeley node . net . yale . edu . 
organization yale university 
lines 11 

in article ,  ( robert c 
hite ) wrote 
took two of your 
best sports too , and steve  . 


dude ! are you nuts is second to none. mac 's was quite a 
loss , but if you think on the fan was much of one , you 're pretty 
skewed .  . 



from  ( paul r krueger ) 
subject again .  .  .  . 
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

for the second straight game , california a of late runs to 
the  . it was runs in the for a 12 5 win monday and five in 
the and in the for a 12 2 win yesterday. 
seven strong , but , austin , and lloyd all took part 
in the of a yesterday. how 's this for numbers has 
three and 's era is 0 . 75 .  . the next lowest 
on the is at 5 . 14 .  . ! 

it does n't look much better for the  . is  . , while 
is hitting  . 458 . and has seven  . the next highest is three. the next 
best is at  . and then , who has the team 's only , at 
 .  . another  . looking at the , it 's not hard to see why the team 
is 2 5. in fact , 2 5 does n't sound bad when you 're three runs game 
and giving up 6 . 6 . game. 

still , it 's early and things will get better. the offense should 
come around , but the is a major worry .  . , and austin gave 
the great middle relief last year .  . lloyd , , , 
, austin and will have to pick up the for the team to be 
successful .  . milwaukee won a number of games last year when middle relief either 
held small leads or kept small deficits in place. the starters will be okay , 
the defense will be and the hitting will come around , but the 
is a big question mark. 

in other news , and were yesterday , while william 
was sent down and tim was picked up by montreal .  . today 's game 
with california was cancelled .  . 




from  ( austin jacobs ) 
subject bob was damn right ! 
nntp posting host berkeley node . net . yale . edu . 
organization university of 
lines 17 

do n't you guys think so i mean , c mon ! what the heck are women doing 
even thinking of getting into baseball .  . they cause so many problems. just 
look at  . remember that reporter that entered the new 
england patriots room she started like a little girl ! i 
just do n't think women belong in a man 's  . before you smart guys 
flame me for this , i know the given example was about football. who cares 
it still applies to other male sports .  . how can we have women 
! look at  . just because she 's a woman , everybody on the 
face of the earth thinks it 's great that she 's getting an opportunity to 
 . if you even watched the games and had an greater than that of 
beef , you 'd see that she is not nearly as good as most  . 
besides , she is probably more worried about cracking a with a 
foul off of wade   . or jose 's  . either way , there 
are too many  . 


austin  ( bob fan club member 12 ) 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject re 
distribution na 
lines 17 


last night bill to me in my dreams and this is what he said 







oh yeah , he added that is a idiot who shoulda 
stayed in where his heart is , but also added that fair 
all like to be together. i guess this is the reason is now 
a fan , bud man. note he never really left ,  . 

jim walker 

go , ! 

from  ( edward ouellette ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university , illinois .  . 
distribution na 
lines 41 

in article  ( david m. tate ) writes 
irony for brains ,  ( bruce klopfenstein ) said 

 ( david m. tate ) writes 

of course they left off we 're comparing the individual with 
the individual , so only individual count. 

i forgot .  . most runs are by home , so do n't 
count for anything. 

uh , right. you also forgot that you ca n't get an  ( barring a hr ) with 
nobody on base .  . what of all runs come on 

most runs are because there happened to be on base when the 
did something good. i use the phrase happened to be  . 
lots of people have tried to figure out who the are who have the 
most ability to turn it up a in whatever situations , and 
what they 've found is that there is no evidence that anyone has such an 
ability to any measurable extent .  . there are no  . people who 
tend to do things that would cause an if there were somebody on base 
end up getting proportional to how many of their by 
being in position. 

my mistake. 

i agree. 

me , too .  .  .  . are a worthless stat .  . of course , so is stolen bases because 
sometimes are in front of a that would otherwise run. and of 
course pitch differently with different people on different bases , 
so average , and out , too. hmmm .  .  .  . i guess would 
not count then , either. 
my point might not be a perfect stat but nothing is. and no stat  ( or lack 
of ) can tell me there are no  . maybe no stat can tell me , 
either , but some people are .  .  .  . i just know it ! ! ! 8 ) 

ed o .  . 




from state . edu .  ( christopher wamsley ) 
subject re new uniforms 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 19 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 

in article  ( br 
odom ) writes 
as far as i know , , pittsburgh , and new york  ( nl ) change their 
uniforms every year .  . every other year (e . g .  . , new york ) , it will say 
in , new york in , or new york in all caps .  . minor changes , 
but they do change them often. last year , i think they had new york in all 
caps .  . did have blue or last year what about 
pittsburgh 


it depends on which uniforms you are talking about. for the last 
couple of years i believe and pittsburgh has used the same uniforms , 
or at least very similar. the home had the team name 
 ( blue or pirates ) , but the road had the name of the city 
 ( toronto or  . i believe this is the way most teams design 
their uniforms .  . 


chris 

from  ( dale stephenson ) 
subject 1988 1992 , third base 
summary career at third 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 

compiled from the last five average reports , here are the career 
for the individual in the reports .  . are courtesy of 
 . are listed in order. 

third 


name 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 88 
, kevin  . 0 . 
,  . 0 . 
, scott  .  . 0 . 
,  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
,  .  .  . 0 . 
, tim  .  .  . 600 .  .  . 0 . 
, kelly  .  .  .  .  . 664 . 0 . 
, mike  .  .  . 0 . 
harris ,  . 642 .  . 0 . 
, jack  .  .  . 0 . 
, matt  .  .  . 0 . 
, ken  . 675 .  .  .  . 0 . 642 . 
, chris  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 642 . 
,  .  .  .  . 632 . 0 . 
, steve  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
, luis  .  .  . 0 . 632 . 
, bill  . 0 . 
, mike  . 0 . 
, ernie  . 627 . 0 . 627 . 
, wade  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
,  .  .  . 0 . 
, paul  .  . 0 . 
, tony  . 0 . 
average  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
, tom  . 0 . 
king , jeff  . 0 . 
, kevin  .  .  .  . 0 . 
al average  .  .  .  .  . 0 . 
,  .  .  . 600 .  . 0 . 
, dave  . 0 . 
law ,  .  . 0 . 
, dave  . 0 . 
, greg  . 0 . 
, mike  . 0 . 
,  .  . 0 . 
,  . 0 . 
, chris  .  .  .  . 0 . 
, scott  . 0 . 
, j.  .  . 0 . 
kelly ,  . 0 . 
, steve  . 0 . 
, ken  . 0 . 
johnson ,  .  .  .  . 0 . 
bell , buddy  . 0 . 
,  .  .  .  . 0 . 
, jim  .  .  . 0 . 
,  . 0 . 
, cal  .  . 0 . 
, dave  . 0 . 
,  .  . 0 . 
, jeff  . 0 . 
,  . 0 . 
, jim  . 0 . 
,  .  . 0 . 
, dean  . 0 . 

j. student at large 

it is considered good to look wise , especially when not 
with information j. golden 

from  ( charles rosen ) 
subject lots of runs 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization the university of , 
lines 4 

i have noticed that this year has had a lot of high games  ( at least the 
 . i believe one reason are the teams .  . any thoughts 

charles 

from  ( greg spira ) 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization public access internet unix , 
lines 12 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 

the of the is a team that has no talent and comes 
out of nowhere to  . the  and  89 are prime examples , 

uh , i do n't think you can call a team with tom , jerry , 
and ryan on the a team that has no talent .  . they 
did come out of nowhere , but some of the improvement was 
 . 

greg 


from  ( matthew bohnert ) 
subject re 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 26 


and michael , jack , and bill would n't be 
making near as much money if they were n't  . so what 's 
your point 

actually , i could care less what his is. it has something to do 
with the fact that we live in america , and everyone is entitled to 
whatever he can legally obtain .  . if and the family 
willingly negotiate a of 35 million per year with , i could n't 
care less. 

but what really gets my is the bullshit he spouted in spring training , 
about  .  .  . sometimes i may not play as hard , or might be hurt more 
often , in a place where i'm not  . this quote was in the 
about the second week of camp , and strongly suggests that he was going to 
dog it all year if the ownership did n't his butt and up some 
more money. for god 's sake , , you signed a contract 4 years ago , 
now honor it and play ! 

say all you want to about steve , and believe 
me , i him too , but at least when he put his signature on a piece 
of paper he shut his mouth and played hard until the contract was up. 

matt 



from  ( robert c hite ) 
subject re old predictions to laugh at .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 24 


in article  ( edward fischer ) writes 

oops ! i came across this file from last year .  . thought you might 
enjoy some of these thoughts. the predictions were made on the 
date indicated .  . they are largely out of order. 

much crap deleted 

3. to be fired this year  ( 1992 ) in order 
, , , 

three of them went , right is still around  ( and likely to 
stick , it  . 

dead wrong ! last time i checked , jim was still managing the 
, and doing quite a fine job thank you .  .  . best . record in 
baseball at 8 1 

my prediction for 1993 
jim will win of the year in the 

 ( do n't flame me .  . flame . the who thinks he got fired last year .  . 
pay attention ! ) 

from  ( cheryl marks ) 
subject re grand 
organization , 
lines 20 


do you think 's grand is the result of his new fan club last week 
a banner appeared in the 

older women for 





marks 
address marks 
1 ma bell  ( 206 ) 
marks 

hill road 
, 

too much of a good thing is wonderful .  . mae west 


from  ( marc j. stephenson ) 
subject re are back ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
distribution usa 
organization ibm , austin 
lines 63 

in article  ( schwam , david s . ) . writes 
in article ,  ( marc j. stephenson ) writes .  .  .  . 
2 ) relief corps holding together. if doug jones keeps his 
effective and can be effective , then it 's  . 
there 's no reasonable left handed help , and the middle relief is  . 
tom was expected to take over the joe setup man role , but 
he 's been injured , and he was an team anyway. 
houston thought that would demand too much money , so they let him 
go. doug jones can lose his touch he went from cleveland 's all star 
closer to the in a pretty short  . 

from what i understand , and were considered by the 

club. houston felt that their positions could be filled by a number of 
 .  . art doug jones is the key to houston 's success. he must have 
another great year for houston to challenge in the west .  . 
no argument at all with  . he scared the hell out of me when he came in 
last year .  . on the other hand , the club though enough of to put him into 
an awful lot of games  ( he may have led the league in he did at 
least at some  . he seemed to be a very viable setup guy but i guess 
that 's not considered that crucial by the club. i can just remember two years 
ago so well , though .  .  .  . 
... 
the strength of the lower part of the order has saved the 
club so far. and just are n't doing their job of getting 
on base .  . instead of filling his role as an man , has had to 
assume and 's job. concerns me , since he usually 
starts the very strong .  . 

i'm not that concerned. those guys have been relatively consistent over the 
years and they have no good reasons to decline  ( no , not old ,  .  .  . ) .  . 
i expect them to come through just fine. it 's those guys that have not 
been good that are the part , even if they are coming 
through right now. 


on a side note , are you at all concerned with the concerning 
next year 's uniform there is talk that their road uniform will be 
 . ) . traditional grey , with the word houston written across the 
 . if i'm not mistaken , their home uniforms may totally eliminate 
the color orange  . ) .  . 's favorite color is red , so .  .  .  . 

this sounds like their old road  . pretty dull .  . or 
i 'll check through my uniform book to see if they 've always had some orange .  . 

i'm really upset .  .  . the current are dull and the new ones sound 
horrible .  . i 'd like to see the uniform of the mid return. they 
may not have been pretty , but houston had established a long of 
wearing the uniforms in baseball and i liked it. 

well , we 'll see. i 've got a with the 
across the and i have trouble making myself wear it in public. i 
can see why they might want that to change .  . gee , if they eliminate the 
orange , will they the in the section  ( what 
used to be the gold and levels i do n't know those numbers they use 
 . 

i saw a version of an cap and i actually thought it looked 
good ! 

ibm  ( advanced workstations systems austin , tx ) 
disclaimer the content of this posting is independent of official ibm position. 
internet at ibm t l 

subject re , the have support 
from  ( greg franklin ) 
distribution world , local 
organization university of arizona 
nntp posting host 
nntp posting user 
lines 54 

in article ,  ( robert c hite ) writes 
in article writes 
i have written on the net about the possibility of a 
by the philadelphia , i have gotten ripped 
from everybody from pittsburgh to  . but if all the 
, care to look at this week 's baseball weekly , they will see 
that i'm not the only one who considers then as division the 
rest of the most respected baseball writers in the country do as well. 

and these guys certainly know what they 're talking about. every 
bozo from pittsburgh to will just have to sit up and take 
notice ! this team in an offensive which is going 
to score a lot of runs and put up a of on the  . 
you people out there are going to be sick of seeing 
all over every offensive league leaders category in the 
newspaper .  . these guys hit  . through spring training .  . well . before 
getting no hit yesterday. but they had a plane to 45 
after the game ended , so they 're minds were n't in it. 

up to this point , i really thought this had been written by a 
pro , anti poster with a certain talent for 
sarcasm and remarks .  . somebody like me , for instance .  . 
the were obviously intended to humiliate the 
original poster .  . 

now , on top of the great offense , they have a slightly above average 
which has a lot of youth and promise. if the 
do their part , and keeps blown saves to a minimum , 
look for another out in left field at the  .  .  . 

robert c. 

p.s. michael jack for 

but then the were lifted from my eyes. looks like robert is 
really being serious. oh , well. 

i compare the of the 1992 with the 1987 edition , 
which had outstanding run at every position except , yet 
finished at a frustrating sub  . level. the 1987 folks did n't 
ever amount to anything , and neither will the 1992 squad , imho .  . 

any other with previous years' teams for this year 's 
 ( in the style of 1993 1971 orioles ) 

greg franklin mixing encompasses a lot lot more 
than between races .  . 

things one wishes to see 
the moon , flowers , the face of a dear one. 
well performed no. 
the of a tea  . 
the real thoughts of one 's lover and her letter. 
all famous places. 

from  ( richard john rauser ) 
subject quick easy question ! 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 14 



here 's an easy question for someone who knows nothing about baseball .  .  .  . 

what city do the california angels play out of 




richard j. you have no idea what you 're doing. 
oh , do n't worry about that. we 're 
outlaws we do this for a living. 

remember , no matter where you go , there you are. dr . 

from  ( jeffery m rachford ) 
subject correction 
organization university engineering computer network 
distribution na 
lines 13 


i made a mistake on the posted article been fighting food 
poisoning for last 24 hours .  .  .  . 

the second paragraph should state the following .  .  .  . 

doctors cleared to swing a padded at a ball 
on a and to a ball in his hand. 

sorry for the error , did n't know it until after posting. 




from a . com .  ( ed dougherty ) 
subject re vs 
summary good baseball 
keywords , 04 . 16 . 
organization defense systems , great labs , , pa 
lines 9 
nntp posting host a 


as a fan as as a  . baseball fan , i'm anxious to see the 
 . series .  . anyone know when it starts and where the first games 
will be played 

this is (i think) always good baseball  ( to me ) and the are 
also off to a good start. 

ed doc 

from  ( joseph hernandez ) 
subject and scores for fri .  . , apr .  . 16th , 1993 
organization sports division  ( major league baseball dept . ) . 
lines 72 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
keywords , 04 . 16 . 

and scores for friday , april 16th , 1993 
 ( including yesterday 's games ) 

national west won lost  . gb last 10 home road 
san francisco 06 04  . 600 . 6 4 won 1 03 01 03 03 
houston 05 04  . 0 . 5 . 5 4 lost 1 00 03 05 01 
06 05  . 0 . 5 . 5 5 lost 2 03 03 03 02 
03 05  . 2.0 3 5 won 1 03 03 00 02 
los 03 07  . 3 . 0 . 3 7 lost 4 00 03 03 04 
san diego 02 07  . 3.5 2 7 lost 4 00 04 02 03 
02 07  . 3.5 2 7 lost 3 01 02 01 05 

national east 
philadelphia 08 01  . 8 1 won 5 05 01 03 00 
pittsburgh 07 02  . 1.0 7 2 won 4 03 02 04 00 
st. 07 02  . 1.0 7 2 won 3 04 02 03 00 
new york 04 04  . 3.5 4 4 lost 1 02 03 02 01 
chicago 04 05  . 4 . 0 . 4 5 won 1 01 02 03 03 
montreal 04 05  . 4 . 0 . 4 5 won 1 01 02 03 03 
florida 03 06  . 5 . 0 . 3 6 won 1 02 04 01 02 


american west won lost  . gb last 10 home road 
texas 06 02  . 750 . 6 2 lost 1 04 02 02 00 
california angels 05 02  . 0 . 5 . 5 2 won 3 03 02 02 00 
chicago white 04 04  . 2.0 4 4 won 1 02 03 02 01 
minnesota 04 04  . 2.0 4 4 lost 1 01 02 03 02 
04 04  . 2.0 4 4 lost 2 04 02 00 02 
seattle 04 04  . 2.0 4 4 lost 1 03 02 01 02 
kansas city 02 07  . 4 . 5 . 2 7 won 1 01 05 01 02 

american east 
boston red 07 02  . 7 2 won 3 03 00 04 02 
blue 05 03  . 1 . 5 . 5 3 won 1 04 02 01 01 
new york 05 04  . 2.0 5 4 lost 1 02 01 03 03 
tigers 04 04  . 2.5 4 4 won 2 02 00 02 04 
cleveland 03 06  . 4 . 0 . 3 6 lost 3 02 01 01 05 
milwaukee 02 05  . 4 . 0 . 2 5 lost 4 00 02 02 03 
baltimore 02 06  . 4 . 5 . 2 6 won 1 00 02 02 04 


yesterday s scores 
 ( idle teams listed in order ) 

national league american league 

houston 1 seattle 1 
montreal 2 blue 3 

new york 3 2 
5 tigers 3 

pittsburgh 5 kansas city 5 
san diego 4  ( 13 ) new york 4 

st. 4 cleveland 3 
los 2 boston red 4  ( 13 ) 

1 california angels 
san francisco 6 milwaukee rain 

chicago idle baltimore idle 
idle chicago white idle 

florida idle minnesota idle 
philadelphia texas idle 


joseph . 
kings 
angels 


from  ( dale stephenson ) 
subject re  is a genius ! 
article i.d. 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 17 

in  ( tom schroeder ) writes 

 ( nelson lu ) writes 

during the same time , the developed john , tom , 
steve , david justice , ron , and jeff , among others. 

, i believe , came from the  . jeff ! 

was the 2 overall pick by the , behind mark lewis (i think) in 
1988. john came over to the from the tigers , but was developed 
by the  . jeff is n't a bad  . 

j. baseball 

it is considered good to look wise , especially when not 
with information j. golden 

from  ( richard casares ) 
subject re jim is an idiot .  . 
nntp posting host corp . sgi . com . 
organization silicon , inc. 
lines 32 

in article , 
 ( driftwood ) writes 

i totally agree with each point you made. jose looked 
like a single a up there. who on 3 1 count with 
and your teams down by a run , and you have n't the ball 
all 
day. i also think too much is made of that thing. 
watching 
the games i get the feeling steve knows a lot more about 
what 
the should be doing than does. said it best when he 
stated after another terrible at we ca n't wait 
returns ! 

i tell you , steve is like a prophet .  . 
he must be making a in the because 
i ca n't understand why he 's not actually back in the game itself. 

the other day he called 's against the and 
claimed the game would be going into extra when the 
score was 8 3 in the  . 

so yesterday he that 's ahead in the count against 
and says , this is a situation and will be 
looking for it. but this is also the where throws 
the straight change .  . sure enough. gets ahead on it and pops 
it up to the  . 

for ! 



from  ( gary built like huckabay ) 
subject jose 's swing 1992 vs. 1986 .  . 
organization society 
distribution na 
lines 50 

was going over some last night .  .  .  .  .  . 

studying 1986 and 1992 of jose proved to be very 
interesting. and enlightening .  . 

here 's my analysis of jose ,  , and jose , 
june 1986 .  . 

1. he 's up too much. period. he needs to lose about 20 pounds , 
not gain more  . 

2. his speed has absolutely vanished .  . , i 'd say he 's 
lost 4 7 of his speed , and that 's a huge amount of speed .  . 

3. that open stance is killing him. note that he acts sort of like 
brian way open to start , then closes up as ball is 
released .  . could do this without significant head movement 
ca n't .  . also , note that does n't always close his 
stance the same way sometimes , his are open , sometimes , 
they 're fully closed. without a good starting point , it 's hard 
to make in your swing .  . 

what would i do , if i were jose 

aside from away a large sum of a cash that i could never touch , 
so that i 'd never have to work again , i 'd my entire swing .  . 

first , minimize movement before the swing .  . close and the stance , 
and severely cut down the i take on my swing .  . , this 
will cut down on the time i need to swing , and will allow me to move 
the more freely .  . 

second , drop 20 pounds .  . cut out the weight work. 

third , relax the  . will cost some power , but until i can find 
my 1988 , concentrate on keeping the back shoulder up , 
the through the strike , and hit line drives .  . his strength 
is more than enough so that some of those line drives will get out of 
the park .  . 

if 's open stance and resulting bad are a result of his back 
problems , he 'll be out of baseball in three years. if not , he could 
still hit 600  . 



you think that 's loud enough , a hole 
movie rights well , if you 're having trouble hearing it , sir , 
available thru i 'd be happy to turn it up for you. i did n't 
frank .  . know that many people your age liked king 's x. 

from  ( eric roush ) 
subject re young 
article i.d. news . 
organization biochemistry 
lines 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

since i was the one responsible for these threads of 
 . 40 posts  ( going back to the could be better off 
if an injury happens ) , i may as well a little more 
to the flame ! 

1 ) back at the beginning of spring training , i though 
would make the squad easily. was still 
from his late injury  ( knee , i believe ) , 
and there were questions as to whether he would be 
able to play before june .  . and then was up. 

i was looking forward to this , because i believe that 
can hit and field the position. before last , he was 
the , while brian was 
the offensive  . besides , 
and could n't hit their way out of a wet 
box , and do n't walk enough to be useful. 

but quickly , , and the went 
with the two  . i still say that if one of those two had been down 
at the start of the , he would n't have gotten his job back .  . 

2 ) there is a certain logic to keeping and around. 
after all , are in short supply and suffer from wear and 
tear .  . there are teams out there without one average 
 ( california and seattle come to  . certainly , trying to 
move or through would be unlikely to work. 
plus , you 'd have to eat that , which is n't huge , but is n't 
either (i think 's at about , 000 , 
at , 000 , but that 's only what i  . 

3) yes , i think may have a role to 
play in this also. what is it , that 5 6 of the 2 year 
are n't for only the 1 6 that were on the 
the longest are of course , the system may change , 
but the extent of that change is not yet known. from a business 
standpoint , it may make sense to keep down until june the 
first time go on the  . 

4 ) i am still that is n't on the team .  . 
i still prefer to think of myself as a fan when it comes to the , 
and the truth is that i 'd rather see our best team on the field , 
which , imo , includes  . 

of course , today we play the  . , we wo n't need him. ) 

as for the conversation , i imagine it went 
like this  ( remember , they 've both been 's ) 
 ( the following is not meant to be read by the humor impaired ) 

ok , we 've sent jones down. his could be a 
little  . besides , can hit ok and his 
is better than it used to be. 

well , we 'll have to send down too. 
just wo n't sign that baseball only contract .  . we ca n't count 
on him in october , so we have to keep nixon around for the 
defense .  . besides , 's not ready to give up on 
yet. once 's gone and signs , 
we can move nixon for  . that ought to 
give us some depth in  . 

yep , that 'll be nice. too bad wo n't sign .  . 
ok , i 'll look for when justice starts having 
 .  . er . , back problems again. now , what about 


well , we 've still got to out another 1 . 5 . 
for  . if we keep , we either lose the money 
or  . i keep in front of maxwell , 
but somehow he does n't seem to be the same  . first 
for jose , and now for clark ! if he 
gets rid of brian , then i 'd have to believe that he 
and switched bodies at the meetings ! 

ok , keep trying on , and i 'll wait the trading 
for my  . maybe i can get a few 
extra at for while we wait. try california .  .  .  . 
if starts , maybe will on  . 
and if that does n't work , then perhaps 's 
could be persuaded to act up. there 's always the 
15 day ! ha ha ha ha ! 

what about 

well , he 's not that much better than  . maybe if he starts 
in , he 'll start walking more. besides , if he 's going to be 
, better to stretch him out so that we actually 
get some value from him before he makes the big  . 

now , let 's see. that leaves  . 

! i gotta keep ! sure , i did n't think 
would this quickly .  . maybe i can talk into 
running into him again 

nope , has gotta go. you know that he 'll get 
3 million in  . may as well put it off that one 
extra year .  . besides , until 's shown his stuff a little 
bit , i ca n't trade him. besides , 's a left handed 
 . you know how rare that is 

do n't you mean a left handed pretty common , 
if you ask me. i mean , he made borders look good in 
the world series .  . borders ! ! ! 

hey , you 're the one who would n't write 
into the  . 

well , you 're the one who went out and got me jeff 
! besides , i thought would n't be used 
to our 's stuff. he got some time with 
them this spring .  .  . looked . pretty good. come on , surely 
we only need to keep one behind the 

yeah , but which one we keep 
will be hurt by may .  . 

ok , ok , you made your point. keep them both. surely 
one of them will be on the by june at the latest .  . then i 
can call up , and then we can win 110 games ! the ! 
the world series ! i 'll be up there with john ! 
! ! oh , they laughed at me in , 
but have you ever had to deal with george bell i 'll finally 
get my just reward ! ha ha ha ! 

easy , bobby .  . have you been taking those 
happy left around by why 'd you 
ever that guy anyhow 

do n't ask me ask  . 


eric duke . edu . 
i am a marxist , of the sort 
, , 

!  ( although the internet comes close . ) . 


from genetic  ( david m. tate ) 
subject re young 
article i.d. blue . 
organization department of industrial engineering 
lines 65 

 ( mark singer ) said 
in article genetic  ( david m. tate ) writes 

well , perhaps if the had no one else worth playing this year it 
would be in there. but they do have others worth playing , at 
least in their opinion. 

is their position , with the possible exception of second base .  . 
they have a chance to simultaneously replace their biggest offensive problem 
with a well above average offensive and a highly 
promising potential star with no pressure on him to carry the team , and they 
want to play and instead ! 

i disagree , in that i do n't think it is a , any more than 
leadership is. i do n't deny that it is a real , and that some 
may be much better than others at it , but i really do n't see any way that we 
could ever know who they are. 's law of defense is 
accurate far too often for me to take of very 
seriously. 

sorry. new. do n't know  law. 

a 's reputation will be inversely proportional to his 
recent offensive level of  . thus , goes  ( in 
the media ) from being a no hit to a finger 
in two short years. the rule does n't apply to perceived , who 
get the gold offensive effect instead. greg is probably 
considered to be a good precisely because he ca n't hit .  . 


do n't believe in  
era. but i am interested in  eras with different  . 

are n't they the same thing 

in other words , we know more than they do , so the only logic behind 
a different decision than we would make must be financial .  . 

either that or just stupidity .  . 

i presume 
we feel this way about other than , no 

of course. 

is it fair to the young no. does it make sense 
i think it does. 

well if it does make sense , one can hardly fault them 
for their decisions. i mean , please do n't tell me how to run my 
business. especially when i'm being successful .  . 

one could make the same sort of argument in other cases. rose , in 
cobb 's record , was a huge gate attraction  ( and national media 
 . the made a lot of money off that they also the prime 
of eric davis .  . that may be good business , but that does n't mean i do n't 
them for it. 




david m. (i do not know what it is about you that closes 
as and only something in me 
e e  ( can the of your is deeper than rose 's ) 
dy ) nobody , not even tim , has such soft hands 

from  ( michael timlin ) 
subject re expanded strike  ( was re a of offense ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 11 

 ( jay rogoff ) writes 

it was my impression watching the that were 
calling strikes above the belt , too , but not as far up as the letters. 
it would be nice if this were the case. 

the saw the , too. they knew the needed 
some help or they would be watching the  . ) 

mike 


from  ( gord niguma ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
distribution na 
lines 25 

in  ( bruce klopfenstein ) writes 

 ( david m. tate ) writes 
 ( bruce klopfenstein ) said 

i just love how the left off this list. 

of course they left off we 're comparing the individual with 
the individual , so only individual count. 

give me a break ! 


i forgot .  . most runs are by home , so do n't 
count for anything. 

my mistake. 


oh , oh , we all know what 's going to happen now do n't we ! 


 ( fav john olerud ) 



from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re  . source over case closed 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
distribution na 
lines 24 

in article  ( bruce klopfenstein ) writes 
 ( mike fester ) writes 

i 'd say you could make a good for them being about equal right now. t p 
rated higher , actually. 

finally , an objective source. 's a great , but so is  . 
nice to see the objective source cited rather than my 's bigger than 
your posts. 

i know. you have this up idea that anybody who prefers 
to must be a lover and  . sorry , you got that 
one wrong ! i hate the and do n't care one way or the other about 
the  . but objectively , had the better offensive year 
last year , so i have to pick him. 

you admit t p as a  ( reliable ) , objective source then you will note 
that they rated as the better offensive , 
over only because of his defense .  . 

that 's a joke !  ( alomar might not be a gold , but he 's certainly 
no worse than ) . 



from  ( paul andresen ) 
subject re a true story way to go 
keywords , grand , 
nntp posting host com . 
organization company , , usa 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( sandra vigil ) writes 
yesterday , april , a friend and i were discussing the theory put 
forth by a local sports radio station that the 
less baseball owners had a live ball into this years 
baseball games in an effort to increase home run numbers and attract 
 . 

it 's always possible , but if this is the case , i think that there is some 
blatant discrimination going on here. clearly is allowing the opposition 
to use pre against the  . 

well , guess who up to the for his first career grand 
last night against the none other than my boy .  . it was truly a 
sight to behold .  . 

and almost more impressive was that he also got an intentional walk .  . 

we will stretch no farm animal beyond its natural length 

paul (503) 750 

home , or (503) 
a member since 

from  ( greg spira ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 4 

you can add steve , one time white now in the 
system , to the list. 

greg 

from  ( david h. thornley ) 
subject re , keith miller 
article i.d. 
organization university of minnesota , , csci dept. 
lines 17 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 

in article  ( frank kim ) writes 

hi , 

i was just wondering if anyone knew when 
and keith miller are expected to come back and what 
exactly them. 

about miller .  . 

if you mean scott , currently the least consistent 
good , he a in the neighborhood of the cage that 
made it essentially impossible for him to pitch temporarily , and is 
expected back on the sunday .  . 

david 
with to see one of the scott pitch 

from  ( sherri nichols ) 
subject re 
organization systems incorporated 
lines 13 

in article writes 
or second  . it seems to me that when quality take the 
, the other teams score less runs .  . the team that scores the most 
runs  . this puts the team with the better at the advantage 
 ( providing they can stop the team from  . a low 
game would clearly benefit the  . 

not clear to me at all. i 'd certainly rather have a team who was 
4 1 games than 2 1 games. in the 2 1 game , luck is going to play a much 
bigger role than in the 4 1 game. 




from 
subject re , the have support 
lines 75 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

in article ,  ( robert c hite ) writes 
in article writes 

i have written on the net about the possibility of a 
by the philadelphia , i have gotten ripped 
from everybody from pittsburgh to  . but if all the 
, care to look at this week 's baseball weekly , they will see 

that i'm not the only one who considers then as division the 
rest of the most respected baseball writers in the country do as well. 


and what was the reasoning of this genius writer that , even though their 
is at best sound , they will win on the strength of their offense .  . 

 93 offense  offense  ( thompson incaviglia ) 

 offense 72 
 93 division  ( at least ) 88 

so , 
88 72  ( thompson incaviglia ) 

therefore , 
16 

what did you learn in school today 

if you take a math course and your teacher turns out to be rob , run , 
do n't walk , to drop add .  . 
p. 

you obviously do n't know what the hell you 're talking about. no , 
and do n't equal 16 , but i 'll take the two 
of them over stan and ( . , 
 . ab ) i 'd say this improvement should equate to 7 
at least. 

then , i 'll take who played 85 games last year and 
project his numbers ( . , , 18 's , 6 , , 30 sb ) 
over 150 games. , , 32 's , , , 54 sb ) 
okay , now we 'll put these numbers in the hole and thus 
i have to , , numbers up just a  .  .  . 
now  .  .  . they knocked in 70 , 93 , and 109 respectively .  . do n't 
you think it 's fair to add about 5 or 6 to each they managed 
to knock in a pretty nice amount of runs with a  .  . 
okay bozo , do you think it 's fair to add maybe 7 or 8 more 
now oh , and how can i forget chamberlain , 's 9 , 
41 even with a month and 1 2 in and a horrible first half .  . 
well project that over a full to get 18 and 80 or so. 
is that worth a win or two 

finally , take the worse in the last year , add 
the worse injury of 1992 .  . okay , now we add 
, some health , and a full for  .  .  . is that 
worth at least 3 

okay we 've been conservative and added about 18 so far. now 
we 're adding about 4 more thanks to the teams .  .  .  . 
okay , 22  . math , 72 22 94 
hmmm .  .  .  . i think good enough to win the worse division in 
baseball 

next time , before you say something foolish , get a clue first ! 



actually , i was simply the reasoning of this so called genius 
writer. i agree. the reasoning was foolish .  . 

next time , before you say something foolish , be aware what you are responding 
to. 

btw , 94  . very funny .  . 
p. 

from 
subject re ! ! rescue us from ! ! 
organization post office , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 17 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 

in my last message , i wrote 

12 ) big big zero .  . has yet to make a agreement 
in favor of  . 



i meant argument instead of agreement .  . 
also , i think i should add a of 's positive 
trade was good for the  . but i think could have gotten 
someone better than  . seems to be pretty good. 
the trade was excellent .  . but has it up now. 
this year 's draft seems to have gone well for the  . but then they 
lost 2 high in the bonds  . 

oh well , i should give up trying to prove that is not a total 
idiot .  . 

from  ( robert sapp ) 
subject re gets cheers in baltimore ! 
organization johns hopkins univ .  . welch medical library 
distribution na 
lines 41 

in article  ( jason miller ) writes 
vs. texas at , april 5 , day 

for texas , playing second base 

... 

the gave their favorite ex 2nd a 2 minute standing 
as , wearing shades , took the cheers smiling and 
waving .  . 

role  ( in the words of p . a .  . jon miller ) 
tim failed to receive similar cheers when  . mainly because 
he did n't have the courtesy to show up. 

was n't injured yesterday after being hit in the face with a ball 
while running bases i heard something about him and a 
possible broken nose .  . is he at the park 

was received , good to see that. 

let 's see how they feel when he 's 0 and 4 with a 4 . 9 . era. i have my 
about  . 

f . y . i . , when cal was , jon miller says 
it seems like yesterday when this young man .  .  . began . a 
game ... 10 time all star , 2 time , 2 time gold , our 
future hall of fame , 3rd , cal . the standing o 
lasted about 15 seconds .  . 1 45 less than  .  . 

well , when a fan favorite gets , he 's gonna get an outstanding 
on his first return. let 's add up the cal has recieved 
over the years during the game and compare that to  . 

btw , 's getting knocked around pretty good. up 5 1 in 
the bottom of the fourth .  . 

rob 




from  ( joseph hernandez ) 
subject and scores for thu .  . , apr .  . , 1993 
organization sports division  ( major league baseball dept . ) . 
lines 73 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 


and scores for thursday , april , 1993 
 ( including yesterday 's games ) 

national west won lost  . gb last 10 home road 
houston 05 03  . 5 3 won 5 00 03 05 00 
06 04  . 600 . 6 4 lost 1 03 03 03 01 
san francisco 05 04  . 0 . 5 . 5 4 lost 1 02 01 03 03 
los 03 06  . 2.5 3 6 lost 3 00 02 03 04 
02 05  . 2.5 2 5 lost 3 02 03 00 02 
san diego 02 06  . 250 . 3 . 0 . 2 6 lost 3 00 03 02 03 
02 07  . 3.5 2 7 lost 3 01 02 01 05 

national east 
philadelphia 08 01  . 8 1 won 5 05 01 03 00 
pittsburgh 06 02  . 750 . 1 . 5 . 6 2 won 3 03 02 03 00 
st. 06 02  . 750 . 1 . 5 . 6 2 won 2 04 02 02 00 
new york 04 03  . 3 . 0 . 4 3 won 2 02 03 02 00 
chicago 04 05  . 4 . 0 . 4 5 won 1 01 02 03 03 
montreal 03 05  . 4 . 5 . 3 5 lost 2 00 02 03 03 
florida 03 06  . 5 . 0 . 3 6 won 2 02 04 01 02 


american west won lost  . gb last 10 home road 
texas 06 02  . 750 . 6 2 lost 1 04 02 02 00 
california angels 05 02  . 0 . 5 . 5 2 won 3 03 02 02 00 
04 03  . 1 . 5 . 4 3 lost 1 04 02 00 01 
seattle 04 03  . 1 . 5 . 4 3 won 1 03 02 01 01 
chicago white 04 04  . 2.0 4 4 won 1 02 03 02 01 
minnesota 04 04  . 2.0 4 4 lost 1 01 02 03 02 
kansas city 01 07  . 5 . 0 . 1 7 lost 2 01 05 00 02 

american east 
boston red 06 02  . 750 . 6 2 won 2 02 00 04 02 
new york 05 03  . 1.0 5 3 won 2 02 00 03 03 
blue 04 03  . 1 . 5 . 4 3 lost 1 03 02 01 01 
tigers 03 04  . 2.5 3 4 won 1 01 00 02 04 
cleveland 03 05  . 3 . 0 . 3 5 lost 2 02 01 01 04 
milwaukee 02 05  . 3.5 2 5 lost 4 00 02 02 03 
baltimore 02 06  . 250 . 4 . 0 . 2 6 won 1 00 02 02 04 


yesterday s scores 
 ( idle teams listed in order ) 

national league american league 

houston 9 baltimore 6 
montreal 5 texas 5 

pittsburgh 11 seattle 10 
san diego 7 9  ( 10 ) 

chicago 6 cleveland 7 
0 boston 12 

2 california 12 
philadelphia 9 milwaukee 2 

new york 6 kansas city 5 
3 new york 6 

florida 6 minnesota 
san francisco 4 chicago rain 

st. 2 idle 
los 1  ( 15 ) idle 


joseph . 
kings 
angels 


organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re jewish baseball 

lines 10 

in article ,  ( mark bernstein ) 
says 

 ( which reminds me do they still serve hot dogs at the new ) 


yup .  . with , of all things. 

bob  . 


from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 39 

in article writes 
in article  ( pablo a iglesias ) writes 
in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 

would have to be the most famous , because his jewish 
faith actually affected his play .  .  ( missing late or was it world 
series games because of kippur ) 

the other jewish er is  ( who  . 

did he ever really convert he married a jewish woman , but i 've never 
heard him say he converted .  . , on the other hand .  .  .  . 

is jewish , as well as 's only representative to the 
major  . 

young award winner steve is jewish .  . between , 
, ken ( might have the wrong , i'm thinking of the 
one who threw a no in both the al and nl ) , and big ed , 
that 's quite a starting  . can  . , 
the in the chance  . 

yep ,  . won an era title in 1949 or so before blowing out 
the  . 

is jewish or is that just a dave cohen kinda 
whatever , does n't look like he stuck around the too long .  . 

i 'd be surprised .  . btw , they may just be shopping around to 
make room for as .  . 

roger 

from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re , runs ,  ( was re notes on vs. series ) 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
distribution na 
lines 36 

in article  ( john bratt ) writes 
in article ,  ( gord niguma ) writes 

left and runs off this list because they are 
on the team .  .  ( to a large  . if frank thomas hit first , he 'd lose a lot 
of 's and anyways how many 2nd place have you known to drive 
in 100 runs does n't happen that often .  .  .  .  . very . unlikely with white 's 
 . in front of you .  .  .  . 
i'm pretty sure that has done this at least once. (i know someone 
will correct me if i'm wrong . ) . 

and runs are the two most important offensive statistics .  . you 
can talk about and all you want , but the fact remains 

the team that scores more runs the game ! 


right. so who cares which gets , as long as the team 
gets more runs if a helps the team get more r and , but 
does n't score them all himself , who cares 

consider 

a single .  . 
b to short on the force at 2nd .  . 
c double , b to 3rd. 
d fly. 

b gets a run , d gets an  . are you sure they helped the team 
more than a and c think hard , now. 

flame away 

as you wish. 

roger 

subject re 
from  ( david grabiner ) 
organization etc organization 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 16 19 23 gmt 
lines 41 

in article , david robert walker writes 

in article  ( neal traven ) writes 

one also has to separate offense into and , with the 
split probably somewhere around 49 . 5 . and 0 . 5 . . 

i 'd give a little more credit than that , maybe 45 5 , or 
even 40 10. give a team of and a team of john 
identical  ( which would n't be that unreasonable ) , and 
even if you do n't let steal a single base , they 'll score a lot 
more than the by going first to third more often.  ( no offense , 
 . 

i would n't give that much value. 

the above effect is clear , but there are other effects as well. if 
a double , any on first will score if legs an 
extra base onto a hit in the gap , the on first may need to hold 
at third .  . thus 's have more value than 
's .  .  ( of course , is more likely to score after hitting a 
double . ) . 

another reason not to give too much extra value to is that 
the runs created work for very fast and very slow teams .  . no 
team in the 1950 's much , but some teams certainly had 
than others. still , the current runs created work just as well 
in the 1950 's for all teams .  . 

bill james gives the as an example. they used 
regularly as a , and in , stole 13 bases with 
38 times caught  . yet they slightly more runs than 
predicted by runs created. 




david , 
we are sorry , but the number you have is imaginary .  . 
please your phone 90 degrees and try again. 
disclaimer i speak for no one and no one speaks for me. 

from 
subject re questions 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization state university 
lines 13 

in article , writes 
today  ( 4 14 ) p mike from , whom did they move to make 
room for 
also , are john of the on the 
thanks for anyone who can give me more info ! 

ken 
cal , 


is on the effective march 26 or something like that. 



from a .  . binkley ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
lines 7 
nntp posting host let . 
organization der , , 

there was an article on jewish major in a recent issue of 
fields , what used to be the minnesota review of baseball . as i recall , 
it had an amazing amount of research , with a long list of and a 
large bibliography .  . 

peter 


from  ( charles m kozierok ) 
subject re jack 
organization institute of technology 
lines 59 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article  ( shawn luddington ) writes 
in article  ( edward fischer ) writes 
in article  ( greg spira ) writes 
 ( howard wong ) writes 

has jack lost a bit of his what is the worst start jack has had 

uh , jack lost his about 5 years ago , and has had only one above 
average year in the last 5. 

again goes to prove that it is better to be good than lucky .  . you can 
count on good tomorrow .  . lucky seems to be prone to bad starts  ( and a 
bad finish last year ) .  . 

 ( yes , i am every last run he gives up. who was it who said 
was a better than ) 

hey , i do n't see boston with any world series on their 
fingers .  . 

 . cheap shot .  . ) 

damn , now has three and probably the hall of fame in his 
future. 

who cares he had two of them before he came to and if the 
had signed instead of , it would have been frank who 
won 20 and got the  . and he would be on his way to 20 this year , too. 

therefore , i would have to say easily made the best 
 . 

your logic is curious , and  . 

there is no reason to believe that would n't have won as many games 
had he signed with  . when you compare their stupid w l records , 
be sure to compare their team 's offensive too. 


now , looking at anything like the a year later 
is basically hindsight .  . but there were plenty of reasons why it 
should have been apparent that was the better , based 
on previous recent years and also based on age  ( frank is almost 5 
years ! how many knew that ) .  . people got caught up in the  91 
world series , and then on  21 last year .  . are the , 
most statistic in baseball , far worse than or r. that he 
won 21 just means that the got him a lot of runs .  . 

the only really valid retort to is were n't the red trying 
to get too oh , sure , they said was their first choice 
afterwards , but what should we have expected they would say 

and do n't tell me boston will win this year .  . they wo n't 
even be in the top 4 in the division , more like  . 

if this is true , it wo n't be for lack of by , so who cares 


charles 

from  ( schwam , david s . ) . 
subject re for real 
organization university of houston 
lines 51 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( marc j. stephenson ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article z writes 
who thinks the are going places 
they re currently first place. 
they re 5 4 , 5 1 on the road ! 

i agree ,  ( except that they 're in 2nd ) ! they are going places 
san diego , los , san francisco , , denver , , miami , 
philadelphia , new york , montreal , pittsburgh , chicago , st.  .  . and . 
points in between .  . ) 

but , 
they re 0 3 at home ! 

but , 
they the a team that got off to an 8 1 start. 



i'm just not used to an overly enthusiastic houston fan .  . i really should n't 
discourage it , so in there , !  ( but , get of that shift 
key , will ) 

apparently the new owner  ( drayton (sp  ) does n't particularly 
like excuses .  . an item in our paper  ( the austin american if you 
read it here , it was somewhere else first ) said that he would n't take 
as an excuse for because that possibility should have been 
accounted for. uh , oh. i do n't want an owner that 'll keep everybody on 
i 'd never gotten that feeling about him , but who knows does 


to be honest , i think the city of houston loves the new owner. he has 
brought baseball back to houston with key that 
were from the houston area and wanted to play for the  . i do n't 
think that too many people are that will in the team 
as he has already admitted that he does n't know a whole lot about baseball .  . 
is a , and does n't like excuses .  . he makes a valid point 
that should n't be an excuse to this club. look at the depth of the 
this  .  . can play 7 positions bass and james are solid 
and can hit well too is nice to have as well .  .  . the 
has 6 legitimate starters .  . we 're dealing with a young 
houston team , so should n't play a big role .  . the only threat is 
the if goes out , we may be in trouble but with the 
type of starters we have this , there is less pressure on the pen. 


david s. 
university of houston 




from  ( jason lee ) 
subject re for 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 17 

and then  ( jimmy kuo ) 
does it strike anyone else how silly it is to impose a 3 game on 


let 's see .  .  .  . i expect to be back june  . how many games do we play 
before june take me off the 3 games before june  . 

it would be a lot more meaningful if the went into effect some 
number of games after he came back .  . 

well , either way , the have to play a man down for 3 days. 


jason 
e i 1 0 the most beautiful equation in mathematics .  . magic 
for all sad words of tongue and pen , the are these number 
it might have been. john 

from  ( robert c hite ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 39 

in article  ( steve tomassi ) writes 

honestly , smith and do n't belong there. they 're both 

that just around for a long time. big deal. 

are you for real how many gold does smith have if a 
guy around and hit 30 a year for 15 years , would n't he 
be a given for the hall is defense not just as important and if 
could n't hit , why would he have stuck around long enough 
to get 3 , 000 are you saying 3 , 000 is a fluke 3 , 000 
is no big deal 

let 's be a little more selective , huh stop handing out these 
so 

 . save them for the guys who really it. face it , if 
something 

is n't done , there will be little in the hall of fame anymore. when 

certain individuals believe that steve or jack are potential 

, the absurdity is apparent .  . gee , can these guys even compare to 
i agree , and do n't it. 

the more likely future hall of like or ryan 

well , based on your argument , ryan does n't the hall of 
fame .  . he is just a right who stuck around for a long time 
and could hard. very few 20 game , lots of 
, lots of walks .  . no young  . how does 
ryan compare to a guy like steve who dominated 5 or 6 major 
league , won 7 , 2 world series , and won half of his 
teams games in he does n't compare .  . not even close. 

has n't done it long enough for me. give me 5 more 
like he 's been having , then i 'll think about it. 


from  ( christopher taylor ) 
subject when is due back 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
distribution na 
lines 6 

when are the planning on his 15 days on 
the are up today , but are they bringing him back this 

thanks for any info .  . 



from  ( the machman ) 
subject re jim is an idiot .  . 
organization university of washington 
lines 19 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

writes 

i just wanted to let everyone know that i have lost what little respect i have 
for jim after seeing today 's game. first of all how could he 
etc. 
was  . face it has got to be the worst in 
baseball .  . 
a fan 

hey , he 's the only so far to lead the seattle to a 
, out of , what , give him some credit for that. 

dave 


    the david c 
c 
big science. 


from  ( hymie ! ) 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization creative dept , 's house of 
lines 23 

 ( orin roth ) writes 
well , it 's the  . at least up until they started 
it was. are they still , 
if so , why and how did they receive this label 

my understanding was that turner  ( owner of the braves ) started running 
his tv station , and started running all of his team 's games on 
his tv station , he his team   america 's team   that is , 
the only team  ( at least , at the time) all of whose games could be seen 
across america .  . 

now , is out of beautiful , but not all games 
are on  . chicago and boston are two other 
 ( at least , they are on the east  . i do n't know how many 
games they show. 



i 'll be when i'm dead.     al 

you get your , laid back attitude from the  . 
, about me 


from  ( jonathan king ) 
subject re deep drive  ( bbddd ) returns 
article i.d. network . 
distribution na 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 40 
nntp posting host edu . 

the gray writes 
 ( jonathan king ) writes 

even less than this , however , was that the , 000 
did n't come from the , but from an un named source , and that the 
money did n't go to the blue  . in , the money was diverted 
into a london bank account owned by a character named 
gray .  . 

i should be so lucky the account number must have been rejected ! ) 

oh , come on. everybody on the net has heard about plausible . 
you 're not anybody .  . 

soon after that , gray and sent word to ottawa that canada had 
achieved absolute superiority over the united states in the field of 
research , as she controlled both the 
pitch alike and the research institute .  . the prime 
 . 

i hope not. to think that i would give any pleasure to 
really ruins my day. 

note how quick was to make the inference that my post claimed 
that was smiling at the news. this sure looks 
like guilty knowledge to me .  .  .  . 

realizing the importance of this work , john and i 
concluded that we might be able to pool some resources .  . 

i.e. , the grand .  . 

who will be the stars this year can anyone hope to combat brad 
's record start to last year 

the early money has to be on tom tom , who contributed that 
in his first appearance. but i expect lots of 
strong this year , many of them right here in san diego .  . 



from  ( scott barman ) 
subject re 
organization american software development corp .  . , west , ny 
lines 29 

in article writes 
my question to you all is why does the media seem to embrace the theme of the 
death of baseball so strongly i have seen articles of a similar vein in 
the chicago and in sports on tv. 

maybe because baseball is the only business where those who are 
responsible for the aspects of the game preach and  . 
these allegedly intelligent people seem to bad times , 
money , at an rate , and there 's going to be an 
increased of the product they produce .  . could you imagine 
ibm , with all their problems , promoting themselves the way major league 
baseball does their stock would to depths  ( not 
that they are too far from it now ) .  . what would happen at where 
would be if they admitted to cutting and producing an 
inferior product because of alleged labor problems i think it shows a 
lack of for the people who run the game. 

anyway , it just me when the media says such things , because it 
inevitably leads to owners trying quick like increasing play to 
television or trying play to up interest .  . 

forget it. word has it three divisions with a wild card is just about 
a done deal. it has to be decided soon since with the 
also have to begin soon. 

scott mailing list  ( feed the following into your shell ) 
mail ! 
subscribe 
let 's go ! ! 

from  ( jonathan king ) 
subject re ! ! rescue us from ! ! 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 120 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 
summary oh please , it 's way too early to get upset .  . 

writes 
so far looks like a total idiot .  . 

whatever you say. i think it 's just 12 games into the myself , so 
i'm going to wait a bit before calling names. 

2 ) i am sure was ready to say i told you so after had an 
impressive win last week. now 's latest has  
reputation .  . now he looks like he is back in his  form when he had the 
al 's highest era among starters .  . four our  ( sake(not 's sake ) , i hope he 
with a 3.5 era for the rest of the  . yeah , right. 

i expect that dave will be a really bad , and i have no 
idea why ever wanted him. on the other hand , i expect him to 
release if he does n't turn things around pretty fast .  .  ( btw , 
's game score for that 0 was only 22 , which points out 
a problem with the method since 's was infinitely bad , 
and ) . 

3) and are a bit  . they are still doing  . 
but considering the amount of talent and they have 
shown their first , they seem to have actually gotten a little 
bit worse. 

i think 's year was a bit , but are n't you willing to 
give him some more at  ( and a few more starts ) before acting 
so 

4 ) walk well , he seems to be on the end  . but i still think 
that walk his contract .  . 

no he did n't .  . walk is a time bomb .  . he has no stuff whatsoever , and when 
the league finally this , it wo n't be pretty at all. 

8 ) the well , young has surprised me a bit with his 
instant impact .  . other than that , their excellent has n't 
been too much of a surprise .  . i think we should thank for that. 

do n't be so fast .  . is the guy who signed steve , which 
was a move that threatened to bury kevin young in the  . 
, i'm not sure whether or signed martin as a 
year free before the 1992  . 

9 ) worse than expected , especially  . 

twice through the , and you 've given up  . 

10 ) how come he was n't given a contract extension last year 
now his value has increased  . 

but so has his age , at least in baseball terms. the useful half life 
of a 34 year old injury prone ca n't be much longer than a year .  . 

11 ) smith ! ! well , eric davis was signed for a comparable amount .  . 

but he wanted to be a , and felt he had something to prove after his 
1992 .  . i do n't think there was any chance for the to sign 
him. 

let 's see. eric can hit better. he can run better. he can field better. 
now why the go after eric davis .  . an injured davis is better 
than a healthy smith .  . 

he certainly was n't last year .  . 

even if smith gets some big this year , he wo n't be an  . 
he has looked terrible on the bases and in the field .  . 

hey , that 's the smith deal. anybody who 
for his defense or base running  ( particularly at this stage ) is 
a real  . 

12 ) big big zero .  . has yet to make a argument 
in favor of  . he seems more concerned about that 
idiot by the team for a move to bay .  . 

if that 's the goal of the team ownership , than i do n't see why 
gets a zero for making his boss happy. i do n't know what he has or 
has n't said about , so i ca n't comment there. 

13 )  . 
stuff deleted 
, the biggest accomplishment of  was 
getting really cheap .  . too bad. that he gave him away in the 
draft .  . 

it 's , but since seems to have been pushing for them 
to jeff king , it was probably unavoidable .  . , i think 
bigger accomplishments of  were getting some value for 
john , not trading real for veterans down the stretch 
last year , well in 1992 , letting the show something 
in 1993 .  . , smith , and were acquired to be replacement 
parts , which means that even if fail it has n't done serious damage to 
the  future. 

14 ) draft for bonds forget it. the can rant 
and  . they will not get those  . as of now , the issue is still 
being  . 

does this mean that the lost the initial case i 
never heard the outcome of this. when will the final verdict be in on 
this 

now , if this convince anyone that and are idiots , 
nothing else will. 

i'm not sure who was the idiot in this case , so i do n't know who to 
blame .  . it might have been doug , after all. in fact , i 
seriously suspect it was doug , who has shown his 
to call the shots at exactly those when the gun is 
pointed at his feet. 

 ( btw i 've wondered whether my latest posts have been getting 
off site , so if somebody known to e . e .  . can see 
this , would he drop me a short note ) 






from  ( david j . ) . 
subject re why 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 37 

writes 
in article  ( jon boone ) 
writes 
is too slow ! if he were quicker , he would still be here. 
but with and tom prince , they did n't want to lose prince in order 
to bring up that  . is about as good as and 
prince is coming along nicely ! 

tom prince is a 28 year old no hit  . think of him as a young 
 . 

or a young  .  .  . 

i ca n't begin to why the have been so afraid of 
this guy , who 's been in most of the last 5  . the 
released gibson last year because prince was out of options , then 
eventually sent prince down anyway , and he cleared without a  . 
he 's another year older , and still ca n't hit why do they think he would n't 
clear now why would they care 

there 's a strong possibility that the have absolutely no other catching 
in the at this point at least nobody ready for any serious 
duty .  . the main reason they might have stayed with prince could be 
just age , especially if was his mid or something. 

all things considered , though , i 'd be a lot more comfortable with behind 
the than prince .  . is n't there decent out there looking 
for work 





david blue riddle 1993 
it 's on. 
the is an art is coming out on this time for real. 
e mail me for the  . 

from  ( joseph hernandez ) 
subject and scores for sat .  . , apr .  . 17th , 1993 
organization sports division  ( major league baseball dept . ) . 
lines 73 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
keywords , 04 . 17 . 


and scores for , april 17th , 1993 
 ( including yesterday 's games ) 

national west won lost  . gb last 10 home road 
san francisco 07 04  . 6 4 won 2 04 01 03 03 
houston 06 04  . 600 . 0 . 5 . 6 4 won 1 01 03 05 01 
06 06  . 1 . 5 . 5 5 lost 3 04 03 03 02 
los 04 07  . 3 . 0 . 4 6 won 1 01 03 03 04 
03 06  . 3 . 0 . 3 6 lost 1 03 03 00 03 
san diego 03 07  . 3.5 3 7 won 1 01 04 02 03 
02 08  . 200 . 4 . 5 . 2 8 lost 4 01 03 01 05 

national east 
philadelphia 08 02  . 8 2 lost 1 05 01 03 01 
pittsburgh 07 03  . 700 . 1.0 7 3 lost 1 03 02 04 01 
st. 07 03  . 700 . 1.0 7 3 lost 1 04 02 03 01 
new york 05 04  . 2.5 5 4 won 1 02 03 03 01 
chicago 05 05  . 3 . 0 . 5 5 won 2 02 02 03 03 
montreal 05 05  . 3 . 0 . 5 5 won 2 02 02 03 03 
florida 03 07  . 5 . 0 . 3 7 lost 1 02 04 01 03 


american west won lost  . gb last 10 home road 
texas 06 03  . 6 3 lost 2 04 02 02 01 
california angels 05 03  . 0 . 5 . 5 3 lost 1 03 02 02 01 
chicago white 05 04  . 1.0 5 4 won 2 02 03 03 01 
minnesota 05 04  . 1.0 5 4 won 1 02 02 03 02 
04 04  . 1 . 5 . 4 4 lost 2 04 02 00 02 
seattle 04 05  . 2.0 4 5 lost 2 03 02 01 03 
kansas city 02 08  . 200 . 4 . 5 . 2 8 lost 1 01 05 01 03 

american east 
boston red 07 03  . 700 . 7 3 lost 1 03 01 04 02 
new york 06 04  . 600 . 1.0 6 4 won 1 03 01 03 03 
tigers 05 04  . 1 . 5 . 5 4 won 3 03 00 02 04 
blue 05 04  . 1 . 5 . 5 4 lost 1 04 02 01 02 
cleveland 04 06  . 400 . 3 . 0 . 4 6 won 1 03 01 01 05 
baltimore 03 06  . 3.5 3 6 won 2 01 02 02 04 
milwaukee 02 05  . 3.5 2 5 lost 4 00 02 02 03 


yesterday s scores 
 ( idle teams listed in order ) 

national league american league 

new york 3 chicago white 9 
1 boston red 4 

florida 3 california angels 1 
houston 9 baltimore 4 

philadelphia 1 kansas city 3 
chicago 3 minnesota 4  ( 10 ) 

2 seattle 0 
montreal 3 tigers 5 

pittsburgh 4 blue 1 
los 7 cleveland 13 

0 texas 3 
san francisco 1 new york 5 

st. 1 
san diego 5 milwaukee rain 


joseph . 
kings 
angels 


subject re quick way to tell if your local writer is  . 
from  ( bobby davis ) 
organization university of 
nntp posting host ece . edu . 
lines 13 

bob writes 
(i that 's him ) fits perfectly in this category .  . 

anyone who writes dean has 2 at this , he 'll 
have home runs ! should be shot .  . 

bob , i think that does this sort of thing as a joke , not as a 
serious prediction .  . i do n't really see why we should shoot him for 
that. the guys who ought to be shot are the ones who keep claiming 
how great the  chances are in the al west , since all evidence 
indicates that they are n't and actually believe it. 

bob davis 

from  ( michael chen ) 
subject re mel hall 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( michael chen ) 
organization university 
lines 17 

in article  ( doug dolven ) writes 

has anyone heard anything about mel hall this i 'd heard he was n't 
with the any more. what happened to him 

doug 

doug 



mel hall signed with a japanese team .  . 


mike 



from  ( randall rhea ) 
subject 
organization software , inc. 
lines 14 


the are  . they are the of our time. 
when they play , descends upon the land like a cold front 
from canada .  . they are a to all who have lived and 
all who shall ever live. they are utterly and completely 
doomed .  . 

other than that , i guess they 're ok. 




software , inc. 
project , mis sales systems uunet ! pyramid ! ! 

from  ( gail a. fullman ) 
subject re sign mark davis 
organization university 
lines 19 


does that mean they have to pay his did n't they wait 
for him to clear if not , why not 

davis will be paid by three this year , i think the are 
for about 600 , 000 or so. they did n't wait for him to clear 
as three other were also very interested in him. a 
yes. 

oh , it will as a fan , i am skeptical .  . they say he well 
in ball .  . he also well at omaha while with  . he just 
did n't pitch well  ( or even acceptably ) when in the  . (i do n't have 
his , but he must not have impressed them very much either . ) . 

what about the year when he got 40 saves in san diego , did he pitch well 
then ok , i know he was awful the next year when he went to but still .  .  .  . 

won the young , too , for that year .  . 


from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re jewish  ( was jewish baseball ) 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 33 

in article  . daniel sokol ) writes 

roger wrote 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( mark bernstein ) writes 
for that matter , how many of the press box have been jewish the 
only jewish that comes to mind is steve ( ) , who had 
a show on in philadelphia in the  . 

is one who comes to mind. 

gee , d think 's jewish 


how about steve of who does the 

we already got him under , , jewish .  . 

or tony and  ( maury 's dad ) of the washington post 

probably .  . is p still alive just wondering .  . 

roger 











from  ( harold brooks ) 
subject re released 
keywords why ! ! 
organization needs the campaign 
lines 45 

in article  ( william pollak ) writes 
deletions 

is n't very good anymore , he 's an offensive , and , 
judging from his this after the failed to sign , 
he 's a jerk with his head in the sand .  . tommy prince , on the other hand , ca n't 
hit .  . in the paper , was the case of tom , who never hit 
in the or , but suddenly somehow learned how. 

, must have slipped something into 's drink sometime .  . comparing 
prince to is laughable .  . prince has never hit well in 
the and he 's now 27 years old , i think. was not a bad 
in the  . (i 'll bring in the numbers tomorrow assuming i do n't have 
another brain and forget . ) . he had a very good year at 
before coming up to the  . as i recall , the on coming up 
in the organization was good hit , decent  . when he got to the 
and did n't hit as well as expected  ( not as much playing time ) , he 
became exhibit in  law of defense and got the reputation 
as an outstanding  . it 's not clear he ever learned to 
hit .  . his four years with more than 100 

born 31 
year 
1988  .  . 320 .  . 
1990  .  .  . 
1991  .  .  . 
1992  .  .  . 290 . 

no power , less than league average walks , year when he turned 28 , 
now  . if is going to invoke as a model for prince , 
given that prince has in the , it 's not 
a picture .  . 

btw , i'm still unhappy with moving , who had the same reputation 
coming up in the organization as , except that he was 
a much , much better , to 3rd where he could be an average 
and a below average instead of a well above average 
as an average  ( or below average )  . 




national severe  ( norman , ok ) 
i used to work for a , too , but i did n't drink on the job. 
p. on 's view that florida can win the east in  93 

from  ( steve a. x6172 ) 
subject re 
organization 
lines 33 

in article ,  ( mark singer ) writes 


the media is beating the incident at on to 
death , but i have n't seen anything in yet. 

perry of the hit in the with two 
on and his club down by a run. he a line drive into the 
right field corner .  . the ball cleared the three foot high and 
went into the crowd. , over from right center , got to 
the in time to reach his up over the short , but he 
missed the ball .  . a fan sitting in the front row , wearing a , 
reached up and caught the ball .  . home run. 

now i 've seen the several times and i have concluded that 
missed the ball , and that the fan 's was essentially 
behind 's .  . several with in the immediate 
have claimed that the fan unquestionably with 
 . what cannot be disputed , however , is that the fan 
who caught the ball never took his eye off it he was 
to where the was playing .  . he was also quite as 
soon as he realized he had made the  . 

stuff about and tommy and everyone blaming fan for the loss deleted 

i saw the several times too. no question about it. missed 
the ball , then the fan caught it. is so that he had the 
first shot at the ball .  . 's just again. i think it shows a 
lack of class when tommy , and the blame a single fan for 
the game. what about the who threw up the ball 
what about the that gave up 6 runs up to that point sorry , tommy .  . 
if it were a 2 1 game and was 5 feet 2 , then maybe 
just maybe you 'd have an argument. 

from  ( david robert walker ) 
subject re young 
organization university of virginia 
lines 70 

most of this discussion has been between mark and david , 
with in on the same side as dave at various times. 
my opinion , , to all 

mark , age does n't matter ability does. i would rather have the 
with great minor league numbers than the who has proven 
himself to be average at best. i do n't care if he is 15 if he plays 
better than what i have , i want him out there. had decent 
minor league numbers , grossly by the in general and 
in particular he should have been as an average major 
league  ( which is good for a , i 'll  . santiago 's 
numbers would probably come out the same as 's , but i do n't have 
the league data from the mid to check it out. 

that being said , i agree with sending to , at least to 
start the  . as the box below shows , he has one minor league 
in which he hit well. he has two in which he hit very , very 
poorly .  . i want to see that the is real. and 
are not complete for , especially , 
they are essentially average , with equivalent around 
 .  . if he had hit well at prior levels , i would say he belongs on 
the but there is a reasonable chance that last year was 
just as much a fluke as in 90 or santiago in 87 .  . one year at 
any level , at any age , does n't my standards of evidence. 

1971 
1990 428 10 1 9 5 0 1  . 179 . 33  .  .  . 
1991 8 1 9 14 7 2  . 29  . 216 .  .  . 
1992 22 2 14 22 7 2  .  .  .  . 
1992 16 6 2 0 0 0 0 0  . 3  .  .  . 
16 6 2 0 0 0 0 0  . 3  .  .  . 
320 40 4 32 41 14 5  .  .  .  . 
42 4 32 41 14 5  .  .  .  . 
0 0 0 0 0 
20 2 16 20 7 2 
21 2 16 20 7 2 

on a similar note , i do n't understand why more people are not 
of  . granted , i thought his behavior with 
last year was completely bush .  . last year was the first time 
he ever got in one place , so his lines are hard to read. but he 
has a combined ops in minor league play with his speed is more 
valuable than the ops alone indicates and at a still young age  ( 24 ) , 
had a year with an ops .  . he has a total , major and minor , 
of  . above major league average , and above average for 
 ( which was about  . 240 . in the last  . he has shown at least the 
potential of going into the  . , which would make him one of the 15 
best in the league .  . he has two full before 
his prime of 27 .  . he should be considered as a legitimate 
, and not as a simple side show attraction .  . 


1988 21 8 2 0 0 1 1 0  . 4  .  .  . 
1988 20 3 1 0 0 1 1 1  . 0  . 150 .  .  . 200 . 
1989 123 35 1 2 2 9 15 4  . 19  .  .  . 
1989 47 11 1 0 2 3 1 0  . 6  .  .  . 
1989 70 11 4 6 18 15 6  . 37  .  .  . 
1990 21 2 2 3 13 8 2  . 9  .  .  . 
1990 85 26 7 1 1 14 8 1  . 18  .  .  . 
1991 110 20 2 1 4 12 10 3  . 12  .  .  . 
1991 129 30 5 2 4 7 11 3  . 230 . 17  .  . 272 .  . 
1992 10 12 11 22 24 9  . 60  .  .  . 
15 15 20 50 43 14  . 87  .  .  . 418 . 
172 27 9 13 50 51 15  . 252 .  .  .  . 
316 42 24 33 100 94 29  .  .  .  . 408 . 
600 145 15 15 20 50 43 14 
162 25 8 12 47 48 14 
154 20 12 16 49 46 14 

d. 

from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 32 

in article  ( pablo a iglesias ) writes 
in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 

would have to be the most famous , because his jewish 
faith actually affected his play .  .  ( missing late or was it world 
series games because of kippur ) 

the other jewish er is  ( who  . 

is jewish , as well as 's only representative to the 
major  . 

young award winner steve is jewish .  . between , 
, ken ( might have the wrong , i'm thinking of the 
one who threw a no in both the al and nl ) , and big ed , 
that 's quite a starting  . can  . , 
the in the chance  . 

is jewish or is that just a dave cohen kinda 
whatever , does n't look like he stuck around the too long .  . 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from  ( robert c hite ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
keywords hall of fame , , , , joe , ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
distribution na 
lines 15 

in article  ( mark singer ) writes 

i'm no fan .  . just thought i 'd point out that he 's the 
only in history to have five three games. joe 
has four. three. and also three. 
ruth , , and two each .  . 


did n't mike also do this at least three times i can 
remember twice in field alone .  .  . he . did it the same day 
did it in a 23 22 , and he four there one 
day in april  76  ( the month he set the april record with 11 's .  . 
anybody remember any of this (i was just a kid ) 



from 
subject , east not so weak 
distribution world 
organization university 
lines 16 

i love it how all of these people are blaming the success 
on a weak division .  . why do n't we look at the record of the teams in 
each division  ( read inter play ) , we 'll see that the east 
is really kicking the shit out of the west .  . i know it is early , but 
that is all we have to go on. is just so strong with their 
 . , is 2 7 coming off a at 's in 
philadelphia , and houston was swept in it 's first three games by the 
in the  . that , my western division friends , shows 
that the three best teams in your division may not be as strong as you 
think ! ! 

all the way in  93 
hit like a club 
need 

bob 

from  ( mike jones ) 
subject two 
reply to 
organization ibm aix development , ny 
lines 9 

well , the red have to a contract .  . 
larry signed him to a contract then released him from 
buffalo , allowing to the rule about not 
free until may 1. clearly , neither of these guys is bright 
enough to be  . 

mike jones aix high end development 

make it right before you make it  . 

from  ( richard detweiler ) 
subject re and 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 33 

in article  ( donnie trump ) writes 
i was watching peter on last night , and he 's got me a little 
confused .  . 

while talking about , he started mentioning people who might benefit 
from the fringe they 'll be facing hitting 50 home runs , 
getting 150 's , and 25 games. this was , 
of course , all in reference to what happened the other times that baseball 
has expanded  ( early 60 's , late 60 's , late 70  . 

what really confused me , though , was the mention of al who would 
do well next year .  . specifically , roger 25 games , and the 
likes of and hitting 50 home runs .  . 

my question is how in the hell will the help the al the 
last time i looked , there was n't a lot of talent jumping  . did i 
miss something 





i wondered the same thing. when he first mentioned it , i thought he was 
just making a mistake but then he said it over and over. and then in the 
examples from other years , he gave for from both even 
when only one league expanded .  . 

so  ( since never lie ) ) , i guess there is an effect on both 
because the draft takes talent from both equally making 
every team in both their major league talent by calling up 
that , normally , they would not have had there not been  . 

make sense 

from  ( david m. tate ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
distribution na 
organization department of industrial engineering 
lines 34 

irony for brains ,  ( bruce klopfenstein ) said 

 ( david m. tate ) writes 

of course they left off we 're comparing the individual with 
the individual , so only individual count. 

i forgot .  . most runs are by home , so do n't 
count for anything. 

uh , right. you also forgot that you ca n't get an  ( barring a hr ) with 
nobody on base .  . what of all runs come on 

most runs are because there happened to be on base when the 
did something good. i use the phrase happened to be  . 
lots of people have tried to figure out who the are who have the 
most ability to turn it up a in whatever situations , and 
what they 've found is that there is no evidence that anyone has such an 
ability to any measurable extent .  . there are no  . people who 
tend to do things that would cause an if there were somebody on base 
end up getting proportional to how many of their by 
being in position. 

my mistake. 

i agree. 




david m.  ( dtate , sir , with not quick 
member , , tims , hands not soft , eye not 
and in denver they call you a 
the big and compare you to my own ! 

from  ( mark singer ) 
subject re young 
keywords solid ! good 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 64 

in article  ( joseph sheehan ) writes 


most of the points you made about v. have been 
made by others , and realizing that must be the second coming of 
frank thomas , i have and the wisdom of 
his  . 


nope .  . they 're baseball , possible the most short 
collection of people in the nation .  . do you not believe this goes on , 
mark do you think frank thomas needed those three months in in 
1990 

see this is essentially what everyone was doing comparing 
to one of the best in the game. i'm really looking forward 
to seeing this ca n't miss now. as for thomas , i remember 
being an advocate of his being brought up in 1990 even though he was 
only 21 or 22  ( ca n't  . but who did the have at first 
the was there. the talent was 
there. sure , i say go for it. 

i am not convinced that is anywhere near as as thomas 
was after his aa in 1989 , and i am not convinced that 
are nearly as bad as were. 

btw , i do n't think thomas was hurt by those three months. 





or cal was n't really better than bones last year 

well , if we ca n't compare our guy to one of the best in the game , 
let 's compare our decision to one of the most , right 

cal was 24 when he came up , with a full at and a 
longer minor league career. frankly , i do n't know why he did n't 
make the club in 1992 .  . bones is a year with a lousy prior 
history , and just watching him makes me think that i missed a 
career as a big league  . no one i repeat no one 
laughed than i did at the trade .  .  ( though i guess 
has a future . ) . 

(i take it back .  . may have laughed ) . 



you 're mostly polite make defensible , if flawed cases have wit and 
have , in the past , admitted being wrong. that does qualify you on r . s . b .  . 
we 'll make an out of you , yet ) 


, gee ,  . thanks guy. except i missed the part where 's 
admit they 're wrong. 



the 


mark 


from  ( jonathan king ) 
subject a move we wo n't see  ( was why the  ( can(but wo n't ) win .  .  .  .  . ) . 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 14 
nntp posting host edu . 
summary it would be tragic if were to pick up 

 ( steve twombly ) writes 
1. can hit  . 400 . in the spring .  . 
 . can only hit  . 230 . during the  . 

excellent point. i hope to god that does n't get the 
idea of trading for the guy. and if he does , he had better not 
include jeff king in the deal. oh god what if he smith 
and jeff king for and greg it would be worse than the 
curse ! 

hmm , i guess that does n't sound sincere enough. oh well , at least i 
tried .  .  .  . 



from 
subject re , the have support 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 

the were picked to be in first. 
someone replied that the people who picked them were the same people who 
picked the last year .  . 

my reply yeah , that may be true , but this is the  . 



from  ( david h. thornley ) 
subject re minnesota 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of minnesota , , csci dept. 
lines 37 

in article  ( scott r. nelson ) writes 
the has changed due to a strange injury to scott  . he 
developed a in the stomach area and has been taken out of the 
 . new  ( to the best of my mind 's knowledge ) is 
kevin , jim , , banks .  . 

add mike in there somewhere , since they need five people. mark 
will remain in the as the long  . 

as to and 
short will be played by scott who played short for much of his career 
before the  . at third mike and jeff will  . 

and will at third , with as the 
 . looked pretty miserable yesterday for a guy who 
lead the league in in 1991 , what should be 
 ( heck , a i would probably have gotten to) .  . 
did nothing exceptional that i noticed. missed a ball i think 
would have reached we will certainly miss gag 's this  . 

has during  . sunday against the 
he went 2 for 3 with 2 and once. 

he looked pretty good there. contrary to what the have been saying , 
he looked reasonable at first. he is n't mid , but then neither is 
the pretty big guy himself any more  ( note i'm used to seeing the 
looking kinda big on the field , but not that big ! ) .  . if he 
like last year , he 's a perfectly good first  . 

note much of this posting is from personal observation yesterday in a game 
where the were mostly after several  . may 
have big holes in his game that did n't show up  ( he did n't have to 
pick any bad throws , for example) , but i 'll take what i saw so far. 

david 
have , will travel to 


from  ( dark ! ! ) 
subject win again !  ( the team record is 9 3) 
organization clark university  ( worcester , ma ) 
lines 8 

today , frank and rest of of boston red chicago 
white 4 0. it is red win of this  . 

so far , red won all the games roger and frank v.  ( 6 0 ) and 3 3 
when other three starters were  . tomorrow , will pitch again 
 ( have a good first start and second  . i wonder that can 
play over ball without roger and frank v. 


from the  ( michael lurie ) 
subject re 1 game closer 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization allegheny college 
lines 29 

in article 
 ( jason walter works ) writes 
the n . y . , are now one game closer to the a . l . east .  . 
they 
cleveland , 9 1 , on a fine by key , and two 
by  ( tartabull(first m . l . baseball . to go out this season ) , and a 
three 
run by  . for all of you who did n't pick in your pools , 
tough break , he had a couple , and in a couple  ( runs(with many 
more 
to  . the an up and coming team of youngsters in the 
 . the only need to win more games to get the 
division .  . 
go  . , for g . , and , and for young. 

jason .  . 

jason , i am going to a game wed night at cleveland  . i am so 
happy. 


but cleveland is a very bad team who lost  . they were an up and 
coming team , now they are just a sad excuse for a better average .  . 



will not win the  . ! ! ! ! ! ! will. as bold a prediction 
as they come. , well be in last place by the end of the  . mike 
speaks , and the world  . 

from  ( warren usui ) 
subject re quick way to tell if your local writer is  . 
organization computing corporation , los , california 
lines 14 

in article  ( bob hobokenite ) writes 
anyone who writes dean has 2 at this , he 'll 
have home runs ! should be shot .  . 

the after one of play have committed one error. at this rate 
they 'll have 1 , errors this ! 

well maybe i'm right this time .  .  .  . 


warren 

i'm one with the universe on a scale from 1 to 10. 


from  ( edward fischer ) 
subject re old predictions to laugh at .  .  .  . 
organization univ .  . cs dept , ny 
lines 12 

in article  ( robert c hite ) writes 

dead wrong ! last time i checked , jim was still managing the 
, and doing quite a fine job thank you .  .  . best . record in 
baseball at 8 1 

look , , i got him confused with somebody else. i did n't flame 
you , and i would appreciate it if you extended me the same courtesy .  . 

no , i do n't know everything in the world. does that surprise you 



from  ( christopher l. cox ) 
subject re 
article i.d. news . 1993apr6 . 
organization dept of math , univ 
lines 13 
nntp posting host math . edu . 


here 's one i remember  ( sort of ) 
's in a room late at night and gets a call from someone .  . 
after he answers the phone the person at the other end asks if he 
up. answered , no , the phone did. 

kevin 

one of my came back in the when two 
a game was at , across the 
field  . later someone who was n't present asked 
if they were men or women. he replied , i could n't tell , 
they had over their heads .  . 

from  ( alan sepinwall ) 
subject re  . 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 26 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 


i would e mail this to you , but my does n't recognize you or 
something. 

anyway , the worst on the  . if you mean currently on the team , 
then i have to go with scott i'm a schizophrenic .  .  . no . , i'm not ! 
 . sure , the guy can pitch well for 5 or 6 , 
but then he starts to go insane .  . a sure sign that he 's his stuff 
 ( and his mind ) is when he starts to around the between 
and at himself. 

the worst all time gotta go with ed new york i have to 
pitch in new york  .  said ! 


i'm outta here like ! 



what 's this this is ice .  . this is what happens to water when it gets 
too cold .  . this this is kent .  . this is what happens to people when 
they get too  . 
, real genius 




from  ( david wood ) 
subject need some relief 
nntp posting host bruno . cs . edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 13 

once again , the apart. andy  ( somewhat 
shaky ) giving up just one run. then game the relief .  . three 
combined to give up 3 runs  ( one each i believe ) in the 7th 
and blew the save opportunity .  .  ( final was 4 2 vs  . 

despite their problems in the pen , i think the are a team that wont 
be taken lightly .  . going into today 's game , the had the league 's 
and man  ( galarraga ) , two of the leaders in stolen bases  ( young 
and cole ) and strong starting  . 


david wood university of at boulder 


from  ( scott barman ) 
subject re best 
organization american software development corp .  . , west , ny 
distribution na 
lines 22 

's moon shots were fun ! he can hit those high and far 
home runs that if he actually them out he 'd be second base 
by the time they  . we used to say that he should have to file a 
plan at for some of them. then bull came out 
and that was changed. ) 

on he that did n't go high , they were home runs .  . 
, as in they got outta there in a ! in a game in 1988 , he 
came off the with the flu and on the second pitch send a rocket 
down the right field line that did n't even allow bob the 
of a home run call .  . the story went he stayed in the , the with 
the down by two and two on johnson sent for him to hit .  . 
he came out of the saying one swing and we go home. he hit 
the , the bases , then went straight for the to shower 
and go home. 

those were the days .  .  .  .  . 

scott mailing list  ( feed the following into your shell ) 
mail ! 
subscribe 
let 's go ! ! 

subject 
from  ( bobby davis ) 
organization university of 
nntp posting host ece . edu . 
lines 18 

writes 
no .  .  .  . is the worst in baseball .  . 

i have n't seen enough  games to judge his , so you may have 
a point here. but 

i 've never seen a guy who can waste talent like he can. one of the best 
raw talent in the league , and he 's still finding a way to lose .  . 

imo , the do n't have a chance to win the even if 
suddenly began for john  . ok , they have some decent 
 . but when your offense consists of like and 
and and and an over the hill brett , you 're not going 
to finish  . unless brings back with him. 

i 'd say it is hard to a when all of his  . 

bob davis 

from  ( gail a. fullman ) 
subject re florida ! 
organization university 
lines 12 

in article ,  ( ian 
m. derby ) writes 

this talk about the the east is scary .  . very 
scary ! do n't get me wrong , im a fan but as late as last 
year they looked helpless .  . the funny thing was they did have a lot 
of in  spring training that basically killed their 
chances .  . of course , do n't forget the injury in the 
first or second game 

first game , first at  . 


organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( mark singer ) says 

his against the friday night , and from 
the results one might conclude that he will stick with the changes 
for a while. 

, probably for the whole 
davis wants to get his speed into play .  . 4 for 4 last night 
the kid is doing everything well. very well. 
the insists on 

how do you know this did say , before the game , here 's the 
i'm using .  . i'm strawman fourth because the 
insists on 

if this is true  ( note that i do n't think it is) , should be 
fired for at least two reasons 

1 ) publicly humiliating his 
2 ) under to his wishes .  . 

however , i think that the more likely explanation is that 
wanted to fourth , and that you hate  . 

bob  . 


from  ( mike jones ) 
subject re jack 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host aix . ibm . com . 
organization ibm aix development , ny 
lines 

 ( roger maynard ) writes 
in  ( edward fischer ) writes 
in article  ( shawn luddington ) writes 
hey , i do n't see boston with any world series on their 
fingers .  . 
 . so 
damn , now has three and probably the hall of fame in his 
future. 
he certainly did n't his last one. how many games did he blow 
in the world series all of the ones he started 
he certainly did it ! he was a valuable member of the blue team .  . 

not particularly in the world series .  . during the , he was probably 
more valuable than , say , putting out there to pitch , but yeah , he 
was valuable in getting them there. in the , he 
water through a straw .  . the won in spite of much more 
than because of him. 

therefore , i would have to say easily made the best  . 
oh , yes. definitely .  . therefore is better than  . 
your definition of better refers to some measurement on a scale that 
has nothing to do with  . 

umm , roger return with us to those days of a few postings ago , 
where the poster was replying to used of as a measure 
of better. the concept is called context , and you should really become 
familiar with it someday .  . 

the facts are that 
has shown us that he has what it takes to play on a club. 
has n't .  . 

unless this to has n't gone into 's office with 
a large and refused to come out until he 'd been to 
the , i'm at a complete loss as to any possible meaning for it. 

you can go on about what has done in the 
past and claim that he is better than if you want to. but 
the facts are that has shown us that he can win and 
has n't .  . 

what on earth does this mean over their , has won of 
the games he 's started , . per year , has nearly 17 
, just under 15 .  . would you grant the proposition that preventing 
the other team from increases your chances of a game if 
so , then consider that allows 2 . 8 . runs 9  . 
allows nearly a run more per  . in fact , jack has never in 
his career had an era for a single year as good as  career era. but 
i forget , in the there was obviously some mystical significance 
to missing that in 1986 had been on the , it 
would have been a , right 

whether or not is better by your standard of measurement 
is totally meaningless .  . the object of the game is not to 
high in statistics that you have chosen to feel are important. 
the object of the game is to contribute to  . but this 
has been explained to you many , many times and you are 
either too stupid or too to grasp it. 

speaking of stupid , it has been  ( and not so patiently ) explained to 
you many times that greatness to based on the 
accomplishments of their teams makes about as much sense as claiming that 
a has the most attractive job because it won the race .  . your 
continued failure to not only understand but even to reply to 
any of the arguments presented leads me to the conclusion that you must have 
spent a few too many games in goal without a  . 

do n't give me that shit. if boston had , , , and 
ward while had , jack clark , jeff , things would 
have looked a little different last fall .  . give credit where credit is 
due .  . this of praise on makes me sick .  . 
yes and the dog would have caught the too .  .  . forget . about what 
did n't happen and open your eyes , for once , and look out there and 
see what is really happening. forget about how should n't 
have won 21 with an era over 4. 
when , last year , the won .  . stop about it and 
get on with life. 

no one is the won , and as a team they certainly deserved to win 
at least the al east .  . they performed well in two short series and won the 
world series , and i congratulate them for it. as a red fan , i hope they 
keep  . i was happy when they picked up , and when they 
for  . you see , unless you believe in some mystical link 
between and the offense , you can hardly help but believe that the man 
was with so many last year because he got lucky .  . luck runs 
out , just like it did in when he 50 odd more than 1992 , 
gave up exactly one earned run more than in 1992 , and went 17 16. 

seriously , roger , i 'd really like to hear your explanation of the difference 
between the and the 1992  . which one was a better , 
and why did somehow learn how to win in the ten years 
if so , then why did he go 18 12 in 1991 with minnesota with an era over half 
a run lower than 1992 

mike jones aix high end development 

do n't be humble , you 're not that great .  . 

from ( ) 
subject new uniforms 
organization university of virginia 
lines 22 

usually one or two teams changes their logo or a minor 
uniform change per , but the past few have been 
incredible .  . 
any thoughts on the new  ( old ) uniforms .  . i 
remember seeing a rose card , and unless i miss my 
guess he was wearing the exact same  . 
the  ( how about doc s today ! ! ! ! ! ) have 
the patch on the shoulder , and changed the 
on the front of the jersey .  . to my knowledge it is the 
first time that has been changed since , and it reminds me 
a little of the logo .  . 
many teams have for a return to a previous style 
of uniform , or at least uniforms that look more traditional .  . 
 ( phillies , , , white , , etc . ) . and the once 
bright have been altered to gray .  . the trend has also 
seen the newer baseball fields the parks of the 
early years , as opposed to the 
throughout the sixties .  . 
with now , no one 
in the 's office , and inter league play on the 
, it 's nice to see that baseball at least looks like it 
was meant to be. 

from  ( mark singer ) 
subject re take 2 straight from 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 25 

in article  ( dodger ) writes 


davis and attributed their turn to smith , 
the who flew in from florida three days 
ago and gave them a talk and some  . davis was 
4 5 yesterday and had a couple more today. 
had two yesterday and i believe he had two more today , with 
two home runs .  . 


foolish me. and here i thought it had something to do with the 
fact that they were hitting against , who had no 
to his ball that day , and , who has no stuff. i wonder if 
gave the same talk and to the rest of the 
, who also suddenly came alive those two games. 



the 



mark 


from  ( neal traven ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
lines 21 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

ma wrote 
i believe that was also a jewish ball 
also , brown back in the early 20th century. he was a whose 
nickname was 3 fingers brown .  .  .  . for . obvious reasons .  .  .  . he . had 3 fingers .  . 

0 for 2 , ma  . 

daniel patrick is a catholic school kid from , 
brown a farm kid  ( probably protestant ) from somewhere in the  . 
he lost those fingers in a farm machinery accident. 

jim is n't jewish himself , but mr. 's 
parents are. 

also , i'm not absolutely certain that actually converted .  . his 
wife and children certainly are jewish .  . 



you 're only young once , but you can be 
forever. larry 

from  ( schwam , david s . ) . 
subject re are back ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
organization university of houston 
lines 80 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( marc j. stephenson ) writes .  .  .  . 
keeping in line with the on the net , i 'll hold off on the 
being all the way back .  . they could indeed , but that would count on 
1 ) some problems , such as or keeping 
up their early hitting .  . 

while has the undisputed best starting , i feel that their 
relief may be suspect .  . they do n't have a real closer although 
mike  ( 4 saves ) has been used in that role .  . did n't start off 
great last year and then despite this , your point is well taken .  . 
does n't seem to have the same as a ny team , thus is 
unlikely to self destruct .  . for houston to take 'em , needs to 
suffer some , particularly to their starting  . 


2 ) relief corps holding together. if doug jones keeps his 
effective and can be effective , then it 's  . 
there 's no reasonable left handed help , and the middle relief is  . 
tom was expected to take over the joe setup man role , but 
he 's been injured , and he was an team anyway. 
houston thought that would demand too much money , so they let him 
go. doug jones can lose his touch he went from cleveland 's all star 
closer to the in a pretty short  . 

from what i understand , and were considered by the 
club. houston felt that their positions could be filled by a number of 
 .  . art doug jones is the key to houston 's success. he must have 
another great year for houston to challenge in the west .  . 

spring .  . 
closer to the in a pretty short  . 


right ! a strong will take the pressure off of the 
 . 


bit of at the  ( but that 's basically  . 
4 ) , anthony , , and fulfilling some hitting potential. 
anthony appears to be about there , 's swing looks a lot better 
this year  ( solid knock against last night ) , is showing 
some early power , and still has the swing this side of 
tim  . 

the strength of the lower part of the order has saved the 
club so far. and just are n't doing their job of getting 
on base .  . instead of filling his role as an man , has had to 
assume and 's job. concerns me , since he usually 
starts the very strong .  . 




on a side note , are you at all concerned with the concerning 
next year 's uniform there is talk that their road uniform will be 
 . ) . traditional grey , with the word houston written across the 
 . if i'm not mistaken , their home uniforms may totally eliminate 
the color orange  . ) .  . 's favorite color is red , so .  .  .  . 
i'm really upset .  .  . the current are dull and the new ones sound 
horrible .  . i 'd like to see the uniform of the mid return. they 
may not have been pretty , but houston had established a long of 
wearing the uniforms in baseball and i liked it. 

end of the bargain  ( remember two years ago a little relief goes a long way ) , 
then they could win 90 games. but , i doubt it. i 'll project them at 85  . 

fan since the days of , , , , , ... 

ibm  ( advanced workstations systems austin , tx ) 
disclaimer the content of this posting is independent of official ibm position. 
internet at ibm t l 

fan since the days of ryan , scott , smith , , davis , bass ,  .  .  . 


david s. 
university of houston 




from ( ) 
subject 
organization university of virginia 
lines 14 

does any one out there listen to for those of you who do 
not know what i am talking about , it is an all sports radio 
in new york .  . on a clear night the signal up and 
down the east coast .  . in particular , i want to know how 
and mike 's show is. i go to school in virginia 
so i ca n't listen when there are on during the day. just 
wondering .  . 

jonathan 


ps .  . did any one see steve on 48 hours last night. the 
chief was on too , doing round up. it was pretty neat 
s p o r t s on tv. 

from  ( donald p boell ) 
subject re feed game to 
organization the notes server 
lines 8 

is it just me , or does look totally lost in the he 
out into a double against the , 
's single into a  ( alou out at 3rd after over 
the bag ) and now he another out into a 3 run  .  . add . in his 
wonderful average and we have one heck of a ! 




from edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
subject re my  93  ( with only one comment ) 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 53 
distribution na 
reply to edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
nntp posting host 1 . rose . edu . 

in article  ( jackie f. 
russell ) writes 
 ( paul s galvanek ) writes 
since i did so well last year , here 's another shot at picking the 
and  . i 'll the commentary on why i picked who to finish where 
due to lack of time for flame wars 8 ) 


kansas city 25 . 0 . 

i think has a much better shot at being in the top division than 
the bottom .  . one  ( word(cone ) should help things  . i think 
you are way off the mark here. 

another word  ( offense ) makes them my pick for last too. 
 ( well , there 's also my policy of never picking a  team for last ) 

florida 12 . 0 . 
chicago 20 . 0 . 

i dont know if an team has ever finished not last but i think 
this year might be a first if it ever happened. the are worse 

the angels were 1 2 game out of 7th .  . the and 
finished for last .  . 
the colt 45 's ahead of the  ( the were  . 
the 4th ahead of the white  ( the in  . 
the 1977 finished ahead of the  ( athletics(in  . 

apparently being an team with a poor a 's or chicago 
team around is a thing  

national league west 


houston 5 . 0 . 
8 . 0 . 
! here is where you are obviously dead wrong. not since the of 
the 20 's and 30 's has a team been so nicely setup as this  ( years(and years 
to come )  . i do n't think that the all star team will be able to 

this may be an appropriate comparison .  . 
the 31 2nd , 3rd and 2nd 
18 , 16 and 13 1 2 games out of first. 
in 1933 ,  34 and  35 they also finished second ( though they were only 
7 , 7 and 3 games  . 
even great teams can lose that 's why they play the  . 
 ( on the other hand .  .  .  . i'm still picking the to go all the way ) 

john 

predictions for  93 70 , 50 
and .  .  .  . will claim that the offense is adequate .  . 

from  ( scotty tissue ) 
subject 15 day , 30 day , 60 day list questions 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 20 


i 've a curiousity 

whenever a person is put on the 15 day , 30 day or 60 day , 
the person is on the list longer than the time 

i 've seen a person on the 15 day for maybe 4 months last year , i do n't 
remember what .  .  .  . 

i just need a little clarification on the list  . 




scott allen 
go cleveland ! ! finals  93 ! ! ! ! ! ! 
netcom go cleveland ! ! ! ! world series  93 ! ! ! ! 
go cleveland browns ! ! ! ! ! super bowl  94 ! ! ! ! ! ! 



from  ( john bratt ) 
subject , runs ,  ( was re notes on vs. series ) 
distribution na 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research tx 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( gord niguma ) writes 

left and runs off this list because they are 
on the team .  .  ( to a large  . if frank thomas hit first , he 'd lose a lot 
of 's and anyways how many 2nd place have you known to drive 
in 100 runs does n't happen that often .  .  .  .  . very . unlikely with white 's 
 . in front of you .  .  .  . 
i'm pretty sure that has done this at least once. (i know someone 
will correct me if i'm wrong . ) . 

and runs are the two most important offensive statistics .  . you 
can talk about and all you want , but the fact remains 

the team that scores more runs the game ! 


flame away 

john 





 ( fav john olerud ) 


from  ( mark singer ) 
subject re young 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 

in article genetic  ( david m. tate ) writes 
 ( mark singer ) said 

i meant that one should not let the exception make the rule. 

it 's not an exception. good come up young most who come 
up young will be good. this has always been the rule. 


are most who come up young always good when they 're young , or 
later 

worse it 's not a shift . this is the way it has always been. several 
detailed studies of this have been done , and they 've all shown that 
are n't coming up any or older than in the past , and they are n't 
playing any more or less in the than they used to. the only thing 
that shifts is our of the good old days ) .  . 

damn .  . i was afraid you would say that ! 


but all after the fact , which makes it not applicable to the current 
discussion , which is about how you decide whether to play the who 
has n't established himself in the over the  . the 
played santiago that year because they clearly had nobody else worth 
playing .  . 

well , perhaps if the had no one else worth playing this year it 
would be in there. but they do have others worth playing , at 
least in their opinion. and i happen to agree. 


both of these young men were highly , 
expected to be among the best ever in baseball .  . 

not by rec . baseball . consensus .  . that may sound like an incredibly 
arrogant comment , but i 've found that the consensus  ( when one exists ) 
is right far more often than the media consensus or the opinions of baseball 
people with  . 

i can believe that. i'm a newbie here , so i 'll take your word. but 
is a fine , which was my statement above. 
that is a solid reason for bringing him up at a tender age , as long 
as they feel he can also hit a bit. does not have such a 
consensus about his , and imho that is enough to 
give him that . 


i do n't know who knows . i suppose the same people  ( or similar ) who 
know he will be better than some other  . these are , of 
course , just opinions. i read that his is not that 
strong (i suppose somewhere there is some measurement of ratios ) 
and that he is still learning to call a game. that latter may 
be difficult to project on someone without an intimate knowledge of 
his , but it is a  . 

i disagree , in that i do n't think it is a , any more than 
leadership is. i do n't deny that it is a real , and that some 
may be much better than others at it , but i really do n't see any way that we 
could ever know who they are. 's law of defense is 
accurate far too often for me to take of very 
seriously. 

sorry. new. do n't know  law. do n't believe in  
era. but i am interested in  eras with different  . 
any info on that 



absolutely .  . the evidence is up , year after year .  . the only other 
alternative is that the really do n't know that their young 
are , on average , better than their current starters .  . i'm not ruling out that 
kind of gross , but i think the explanation is 
more  . 

in other words , we know more than they do , so the only logic behind 
a different decision than we would make must be financial .  . i presume 
we feel this way about other than , no 


consider we know that the are about the strongest team in baseball 
right now , even with and and nixon and in the  . they 
have as good a chance of repeating as this year as any team ever has .  . 
it actually makes some sense to say rather than making our team 
better this year by bringing up the young and dumping the , let 's 
go ahead and this year with what we have , and then bring up the 
only as we have to , so that we 'll still have them under reserve three years 
from now and beyond when the current team will be  . 

is it fair to the young no. does it make sense 
i think it does. 

well if it does make sense , one can hardly fault them 
for their decisions. i mean , please do n't tell me how to run my 
business. especially when i'm being successful .  . 


c i could make it or if you let me bring up  . 

s listen , bobby .  . i 'd like to. but the way i see it , if he 
the big club this year we 'll be paying 
down the road in a couple of years and there 's no way i want 
to do that. 

 .  .  . and . continues with 

we can win without him , and then keep next year with him. 
how 's that 

i'm sure you could be right. you could also be some illegal 
substance .  . 

 . that 's a joke. do n't get offended .  . please . ) . 


hey , i 'd love to be wrong about this. if you think it 's unlikely , i 'd love 
to know why. do n't cite anybody 's ethical , though , unless 
you know them personally. 


well , i ca n't cite anyone 's ethical because i do n't know 
what it means. ) 

but again , if it makes sense , then so be it. baseball 
is a business , and if there is a solid business reason for keeping 
on the farm then that 's what the should do. 

i happen to believe that it 's a baseball decision. while you from 
your may , i do n't .  . i think there is a lot of 
evidence to suggest the decision they made. i predicted it among 
large from several at the start of spring training .  . i 
think it is a very normal decision to have made. it is certainly 
more than to have started in the and have 
released one of their  . sure , it may be conservative .  . it 
may also be logical .  . i do n't know what ethics have to do with it. 
seems like pretty good common sense to me. 

the 



mark 


from  ( eric roush ) 
subject re my  93  ( with only one comment ) 
article i.d. news . 
organization biochemistry 
lines 50 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

in article edu . 
edu .  ( john h. rickert ) writes 
in article  ( jackie f. 
russell ) writes 
 ( paul s galvanek ) writes 



national league west 


houston 5 . 0 . 
8 . 0 . 
! here is where you are obviously dead wrong. not since the of 
the 20 's and 30 's has a team been so nicely setup as this  ( years(and years 
to come )  . i do n't think that the all star team will be able to 

this may be an appropriate comparison .  . 
the 31 2nd , 3rd and 2nd 
18 , 16 and 13 1 2 games out of first. 
in 1933 ,  34 and  35 they also finished second ( though they were only 
7 , 7 and 3 games  . 
even great teams can lose that 's why they play the  . 
 ( on the other hand .  .  .  . i'm still picking the to go all the way ) 


, surely you did n't intend to compare the  93 with the 
29 a 's .  . the were 2nd to 
a team that was as good as the 26 28 , while the 
had some from their years. ruth and 
could n't play every position simultaneously .  . 

imo , given the various ages of the and this , 
that the will be closer to their , while the 
have slightly passed their  . 

also , if you 're going to compare and , a more appropriate 
comparison to the  93 might be the  23  . 
after falling short two years in a row in world series , 
both teams won will win the series this year , despite the 
of some old on the other team .  . 
 ( casey dave ) 


eric duke . edu . 
i am a marxist , of the sort 
, , 

!  ( although the internet comes close . ) . 


from  ( david nieporent ) 
subject re rule 
originator 
nntp posting host phoenix . princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 17 

in  ( david coons ) writes 
in writes 

i am doing a paper on the rule. any information 
or even opinions would be greatly  . magic 

should be  . the rules say baseball is a game between two teams of 
each .  . let 's keep it that way. 

not any more the rules do n't say that. so that 's a pretty argument. 



david m. only one thing wrong with theory .  .  .  . 
is stupid ! is theory i ever heard ! 
princeton . edu . 
baltimore 93 who 's the dangerous cult the or the 

from  ( gary built like huckabay ) 
subject vs. i was to stay out of this. 
organization society 
distribution na 
lines 37 

 ( lyford beverage ) writes 
uh , yes. has a lot of , but was the better 
last year .  . 

g r h bb so cs e 
, c  .  .  . 32 1 20 35 76 10 2 19 
, r  . 310 .  .  . 27 8 8 76 87 52 49 9 5 


this is fascinating .  . you say that was the better last 
year , and immediately follow that up with numbers showing that 
had a better year .  . the only category that i see which shows an advantage 
for is  . 

well , is the most important offensive statistic , and by a big margin .  . 
50 points of is worth more than 50 points of  . 
that being said , i still think was very slightly better last year , 
but i think this is as close to a as you 're likely to find .  . 

i personally do n't care much for 's defense .  . i do n't think he 's 
nearly as good as people make him out to be , and he ca n't turn the 
to save his life. he comes across the improperly , and his release 
is slow .  . considering the high of the , this is a 
i ca n't overlook .  . in the long term , i 'd move to another position. 

if the could trade a hot white for something , i 'll be 
could be a hell of a  . in the long run , i think i 'd rather have jeff 
kent at and in than white. 





you think that 's loud enough , a hole 
movie rights well , if you 're having trouble hearing it , sir , 
available thru i 'd be happy to turn it up for you. i did n't 
frank .  . know that many people your age liked king 's x. 

from  ( doug bank ) 
subject re info needed for cleveland 
reply to 
organization motorola land products 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 35 . 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( matthew bohnert ) writes 

i'm going to be in cleveland thursday , april 15 to sunday , april 18 .  . 
does anybody know if the tribe will be in town on those dates , and 
if so , who 're they playing and if are available 

the tribe will be in town from april 16 to the  . 
there are always available !  ( though they are playing , 
and many make the trip to cleveland as it is easier to 
get in cleveland than in  . either way , i seriously 
doubt they will sell out until the end of the ) . 


doug bank private systems division 
motorola communications 
, illinois 


from  ( michael feszczyszyn ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host its . edu . 
reply to 
organization polytechnic institute , , ny .  . 
lines 12 

in article , writes 
i was wondering if anyone had any kind of park  . 
i would appreciate it if someone could send me one. 
thanks in advance. 

dan 

me too ! and any as well , please. 

thanx in advance , 

mike 

from  ( lloyd nebres ) 
subject re win ! win ! 
article i.d. 128 . lloyd . 
distribution world 
organization berkeley 
lines 14 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

 ( look at all that ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) 

indeed , if the color on a team 's uniforms is any indication of the 
future , the are in trouble ! refer to the san jose for 
proof .  .  .  . but i have hope for the  . i was a sometime member of the 
fan club at the , and have a deep respect 
for the guy. he 's a gem .  . and , of course , gives that 
class .  . but yeah .  .  .  . whoever designed those uniforms was guilty of a 
of style and imagination. ! 

lloyd r. , berkeley 
internet 
 ( 510 ) or 
never the bandwidth of a carrying a of  .  .  . 

from  ( david robert walker ) 
subject re was a good , you  ( plus idiots ) 
organization university of virginia 
lines 35 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( roger lustig ) writes 
in article writes 


1988 16 4 23 28 29 7  . 67  .  .  . 
1989 19 5 33 41 27 10  . 274 .  .  .  . 
1990 110 17 1 27 44 16 9  .  . 272 .  .  . 
1991 16 3 0 3 12 0 1  . 240 . 10  .  .  . 
55 10 86 72 27  .  . 256 .  . 316 .  . 
23 4 36 52 30 11 

this is what looked like in 88 91 , with everything converted 
to a neutral park , on the basis of run production. his equivalent 
average started at  . in 88 , was up to  . 274 . in 89 and in 90 .  . so 
let us say he had established , in his last two , a  . level 
of play .  . 

that is good. very good , in fact. but it probably does n't make the top 
ten in the league .  . the best in the al in 1992 was dave 
's  . thomas was first at  .  . first in the was bonds , 
an  . tenth was ,  .  . but  . is better 
than any in the past five years by joe it is about what 
had in 1988 ( . what jose had the last two years 
just ahead of time  five year average better than ryan 
's  . 

he got more attention from the media than was from his 
baseball playing , though his was a lot better than his hitting .  . 
that is the basis for the net . comments . about him being  . the 
media would have you beleive he was a great  . i think he was a 
good , maybe very good  . he was imo , something like the best 
in the  . 

d. 

subject re jewish baseball 
from  ( bobby davis ) 
organization university of 
nntp posting host ece . edu . 
lines 5 

was probably the greatest ever. he was also subject to a 
lot of from bigots on the teams and in the stands , but 
it never seemed to affect his  . 

bob davis 

from  ( bighelmet ) 
subject re best  .  .  . 
keywords 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 21 

 ( ian m. derby ) writes 


since someone brought up sports radio , 

i happen to be a big fan of  . he is a baseball writer for the 
philadelphia  . every tuesday he writes a week in review  . 
he writes about unusual situations that occured during the week. unusual 
 . he has a section called of the week which are stupid 
lines by ralph  . every year he has the  . 
that stands for last guy to get a hit .  . he also writes for baseball 
america .  . that is sort of a of week in review .  . if you 
can , check his out sometime .  . he might make you laugh. 

rob 



you live day to day and 
dream about tomorrow 


subject is  ( re the worst ) 
from  ( scott d. davis ) 
reply to  ( scott d. davis ) 
organization the pattern co .  . , manhattan , ks , usa 
nntp posting host 
nntp posting user scott 
lines 18 


in article , writes 
 ( brian r. landmann ) writes 
joe has to be the worst in baseball .  . 
brian , a very fan .  . 
no .  .  .  . is the worst in baseball .  . i 've never seen a guy who 
can waste talent like he can. one of the best raw talent in the league , 
and he 's still finding a way to lose .  . i 'll be surprised if he makes it through 
the next 2 weeks , unless improvement is made. 

 ( kc ) news was doing a report on that. they said that is 
really a and not a  . but for some reason 
he took the job. whatever the reason , the need a new 
now .  .  . while . it is too late. 

scott d. davis the pattern company 
 ( uucp ... ! ! ! ! scott ) road 
 ( 800)255 ) , in kansas  ( 913)776 ) manhattan , ks , usa 

from  ( bruce kleinman ) 
subject re when did move from ny to la 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization corporation , a of the ask group , inc. 
lines 6 

in article  ( tom parker ) writes 
i have a bet with my buddy on when the moved from ny to la .  . does 
anyone know what year they moved 


the  first year in la was  . 

from  ( anthony michael jivoin ) 
subject re win again !  ( the team record is 9 3) 
organization national center for research 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( dark ! ! ) writes 
today , frank and rest of of boston red chicago 
white 4 0. it is red win of this  . 

so far , red won all the games roger and frank v.  ( 6 0 ) and 3 3 
when other three starters were  . tomorrow , will pitch again 
 ( have a good first start and second  . i wonder that can 
play over ball without roger and frank v. 


as long as the are in the same division the red will 
play better than  . baseball .  . 

or the red can former east german swimming to 
train them at the fine art of body building . the red 
can use chinese women as a reference. 

with the , the red definitely have a chance for the 
east this year .  . he brings class , work and leadership to 
the park each day. and he has a burning desire to play in the 
world series .  . 

future hall of , will kick butt in boston ! 

from country , 

anthony m. 
national center for research 

p.o. box 3000 
boulder , co 

subject re gets win 2000 , tigers a 's 
from  ( tim snyder ) 
distribution world 
organization university , washington 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
lines 33 

in article  ( randy a. graca ) writes 
tigers  gets his 2 , career win as ago , 
the tigers a two game over the a 's at tiger 
by beating the a 's 3 2. here are the 
r h e 
2 9 0 
3 7 1 

game description deleted 

in the post game  ( on radio in detroit ) , said 
its one of the few times he 's gotten emotional in his managing career. it 
was a big moment for him , and i'm sure all of us tiger are 
very happy for him. and what a way to get number 2 , 000 ! . 

deleted 



in another post game , claimed that was the 
best in , explaining that to be part of the history 
of the blow of  . 

go tigers ! ! ! 
tim 

timothy law 
department of computer science 

university 
washington , 



from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re all time best 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 40 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( roger lustig ) writes 

in article , 
writes .  .  .  . 

i 've recently been working on project to determine the greatest 
at their respective  . 

career 

what about u. , the greatest 2nd in cleveland 
history in , over  .  . a great , great second  . 

, the said career. managed about 3000 pa in his 
years in the  . 

as for his over  . , make that three years in a row , 
by a part time year , plus his last year , with boston .  . 
only qualified for the title five times. 

was he injured he right around his birthday .  . 

anyway , put up numbers the year everybody put up 
numbers. that was his only really good year with a 
his other  . years were by a lack of power and an inability 
to draw walks .  . only of those 3000 pa were bases on , which 
does not describe a  . 

on the other hand , he was part of the long line of famous cleveland 
, , etc. 

roger 

jon 






from  ( brendan dunn ) 
subject re 1988 1992 , third base 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 34 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

in article  ( craig stelter ) writes 
,  .  .  .  . 632 . 0 . 

apologies if i do n't know what i'm talking about ) , but as a fan , 
i like to think they have good in any park .  . not sure if i remember 
completely or not , but i think played with the in '87 for the 
world series , and again in '88  ( note that 's his lowest of the  . i believe 
the next 3  ( or at least the last two ) were played with the angels .  . lots 
of factors make a  .  .  . i hate it when so many use the  . 
it may not be ideal , but nice to enjoy baseball and 
even when it 's and raining .  . 

craig 

i'm sure the company for which i work does not have all the same opinions 
that i do .  .  .  . 

the event that had the most impact on 's career was his injury 
in 1988. his dropped from 1988 to 1989. he was 
still with the in 1989 and 1990 , but if you look at his  ( both 
offensive and defensive ) , he never has come back to his pre injury level. 

brendan 












from  ( michael timlin ) 
subject re best 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 17 

 ( dan swartzendruber ) writes 

in article  ( donald p boell ) writes 
i 'd have to say the most impressive hrs i 've ever see came from dave 
and his infamous moon drives .  .  .  . 

i remember one he hit at field that went across 
the street  ( in dead center field ) and hit a house on the roof .  . he 
a lot , but when he did connect , watch out ! 

my favorite was the foote that on and through 
a second across the street. second though , would be the 
drive that was last seen down the street that dead ends to the 
park at  . 

mike 


from lurie ) the 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization allegheny college 

in article  ( joshua 
lawrence roffman ) writes 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 



john is definately not jewish .  . many in baltimore thought he 
was .  .  .  . 
especially after he told the baltimore jewish times so .  .  . but . later he 
admitted that it was a joke. 


is not jewish , at least , i doubt it. a lot of jewish people do n't 
have jewish names. 

from  ( sanjeev punjabi ) 
subject when does fred of the become a free 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 1 



from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re seeking reference info 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
distribution na 
lines 29 

in article  ( lance smith ) writes 
in article writes 
david writes 

also , in particular , a of mine is looking for any information he 
can find on , linguist of ww2 .  . any references  ( or 
, for that matter ) would be appreciated. 

, my hero ! we were just talking about him on monday at the 
game. well , there 's a book about him that 's just been 
i think the title is , scholar , , by tom 
and two other people whose names i forget .  . wrote the chapter 
on in 's book cult baseball this is a good 
source for some of the more famous about  . also excellent 
is the section on him in bill 's book they also served , about 
baseball during wwii .  . i'm told 's activities are mentioned in 
the recent book heisenberg 's war . 

his sister also wrote a book about that she self published .  . the 
title is something like my brother , . it 's mainly some of 
her and page after page of copies of pictures and letters 
that had saved .  . copies are kinda hard to find , but the smith baseball 
library has one for those in  .  .  . 

we have one here , at 's  ( class of  . it 's kind of 
a sour thing she of the job that et al had done. 


roger 

from  ( mike jones ) 
subject re so far , so good  ( the red sox ) 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host aix . ibm . com . 
organization ibm aix development , ny 
lines 

 ( wizard ) writes 
i have posted two new postings on the net , since i discovered how to use it , 
and both times i received for the red as high as 
third in the al east .  . id like to hear why it is people dont think the 
can be as high as third this year .  . here are some of my observations 

well , had you been a bit less in both the tone and substance of 
your predictions , the responses would probably have been a bit more 
measured .  . be that as it may .  .  .  .  . 

1. roger and frank are in form , and the are to them. 
is always in this form , and is n't really beyond 
what might reasonably have been expected .  . how do you know that the are 
responding to them , and not to al , , or  ( my most likely 
suspect ) new hitting mike i certainly am more likely to give 
credit for 's hot start than or  . 

2. is hitting as he did before his  . 
this was the scenario , but not so. he has n't shown 
much power yet , though. 

3. is providing the leadership and some hitting they need from him. 
how can you tell that is providing the leadership perhaps it 's 
perhaps it 's and maybe is finally showing 
those people he was supposed to have when they him. or maybe 
it 's all a myth .  . and has been hitting reasonably well , but not as 
well as , , cooper , or  . 

4. russell is well. 
in three games. why do n't we look at this one again in , say , 

5. is hitting well as a  . 
a bit better than could reasonably have been expected .  . but do n't forget that 
looked like wade for about 75 's last year .  . beware of 
small sizes .  . still , if as well as he did last year he 'd 
be a great improvement over any from last year .  . be aware 
that his career numbers seem to indicate that he puts up good numbers as 
long as he does n't have to make more than or so in a year .  . 

6. cooper is hitting well (i think he 'll be better then in the field 
and just as good at the plate ) 
 .  . sorry . , no. i can buy the in the field part , and i think he 'll be 
better at the than the 1992 , but in general cooper , while he 'll 
be a pretty good , could n't carry   . with a little 
luck , he could be the fourth or best in the al  ( martinez , , 
, and will all be  . 

if the pitch like last year  ( they have a better , now ) 
and hit like they are so far , they run away with thee division .  . but 
since i think that their hitting and may not be up to the challenge 
of running away with the division , i think that they win be over  . and at 
least third if not second or first. 

see , here is where you make that quick left turn off into the  .  . 
is plausible , third is not unlikely , but phrases like could run away with 
the division are likely to get you a visit from the men in the white 
 . it 's not really clear that their is better than last year .  . if 
russell does well , darwin does n't go on the , and does n't pitch 
just barely well enough to avoid his in the , they could 
be better. on the other hand , if miserably and they 're too 
stupid to move him to the pen and bring up or somebody , 
continues to pitch but they keep giving him he 's a 
, and russell they could be pretty bad. 

mike jones aix high end development 

god is a playing to an audience that is afraid to laugh. 
mark 

from  ( steve twombly ) 
subject red win 1st 
organization computer science 
lines 8 

3 1 

 ( 1 0 ) 
 ( 0 1 ) 

key hit mike 's 2 out with bases loaded .  . 



from 
subject newsletter 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization college 
lines 3 

could somebody please tell me if there is a newsletter on the net , 
and if so how to subscribe thanks , 
joel 

from  ( edward hui ) 
subject re bonds vs. 
organization university of houston 
lines 55 
reply to 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 

in article ,  ( joe loos ) writes 
i 've been following the closely over the off newspapers , 
, etc but i had my first up close and personal last night at 
the stick. 

after watching struggle last year , 's swing was 
very impressive he 's very quick and his swing seems , even 
compared to clark  ( particularly clark as of  . 

it was interesting to see bonds hit so well. i'm not sure if 
was after revenge against the or what but he 
three very pretty  ( 1b , , hr ) for 5 's .  . 

the always hit well , but it was interesting that 
did not pitch around bonds to get to clayton last night. he threw 2 straight 
over the to bonds in the 1st last night , got away with the 
first one , but bonds hit the second one out of the park .  . then in the 3rd , 
when clark was at third base with one out , did not intentionally 
walk bonds , and bonds dropped a single to left center .  . 


the as a team are doing a lot of surprising things this year in 
addition to bonds .  . there has been some good and some 
seem to be much better. clayton 's defense has been  . 
seems to like off this year .  . is driving the ball .  . 
so on so forth .  . 

the pointed out that as a has 
not a run yet. he will always hit around  . , but i'm concerning 
about his on base percentage .  . the key in the is matt , he 
has to stay hot so that bonds can hit with on base .  . 


i hope it continues .  .  . i . think they need to continue well into june before 
people are really sold that they are for real particularly the  . 

the gets a set back as bud black is placed on the  . 
has done a job filling in so far , he looks like a different 
from last year .  . however , is terrible in both of his starts .  . with 
moving into the , mike is the only right handed 
aside from , he 'll get a lot of actions .  . i also hope that 
dusty can his better than roger craig , especially on  . 
i was concerned when was used for 3 straight days earlier this week. 


for myself , i think the start of baker etc has really 
out a lot of from the last few years and will be a real factor 
in helping them improve over last year .  . 

so far so good ! 


edward 



from  ( mark singer ) 
subject re jose 's swing 1992 vs. 1986 .  . 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution na 
lines 62 

in article  ( gary built like huckabay ) writes 
was going over some last night .  .  .  .  .  . 


and you wrote an excellent report about it. 


1. he 's up too much. period. he needs to lose about 20 pounds , 
not gain more  . 

2. his speed has absolutely vanished .  . , i 'd say he 's 
lost 4 7 of his speed , and that 's a huge amount of speed .  . 

3. that open stance is killing him. note that he acts sort of like 
brian way open to start , then closes up as ball is 
released .  . could do this without significant head movement 
ca n't .  . also , note that does n't always close his 
stance the same way sometimes , his are open , sometimes , 
they 're fully closed. without a good starting point , it 's hard 
to make in your swing .  . 


i understand  ( from an unreliable source ) that was considered 
by the a 's when he refused to accept any about 
his stance .  . the a 's brain trust came to believe that his 
back problems were , if not caused , by having a wide open 
stance , it quickly and then with a lot of 
 ( that 's a paraphrase of what i  . 

in any event , took the road that he and he alone would decide 
his stance , and the a 's began to believe that he would either 
himself or begin to lose his ability to hit for both average and power. 



aside from away a large sum of a cash that i could never touch , 
so that i 'd never have to work again , i 'd my entire swing .  . 

apparently , you sound like  . 

second , drop 20 pounds .  . cut out the weight work. 

the a 's also about this. 


if 's open stance and resulting bad are a result of his back 
problems , he 'll be out of baseball in three years. if not , he could 
still hit 600  . 

again , i'm just repeating something i heard. but possibly the cause 
and effect is the reverse of that. 





the 



mark 


organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re vs. al 

lines 23 

in article ,  ( sean garrison ) says 

in article , 
wrote 

who are doing well are 
more likely to be taken out of the game in the than they are in the al , 
so it seems to me that the al , not the , promotes   . 

bob  . 


on what basis do you make this statement 

q 

are you serious are hit for in the  . they are not in the 
 . if a is in the al , he will stay in the game. if he 
is in the , he may not especially if it 's a  , 
and his team needs an extra run. 

bob  . 


from  ( forrest smith ) 
subject re 
organization duke university , n . c .  . 
lines 19 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 


amazingly , , no matter how good their mechanics , are 
not machines .  . young do n't pitch in a , 
of how their offenses are doing. 

the  is already showing signs of 
cracking under the of knowing they 're not going to get many 
 ( if any) runs .  . unfortunately , the  were so bad for so 
long that the organization put so much  ( and i mean ) 
on that they completely ignored hitting .  . 

the right now are looking similar to the of 
the mid  . heaven help us. 



s to my correspondents my email has been changed. e 
l my new address is d 
f if mail , try u 

from  ( philip allen ) 
subject ryan  .  .  . 
article i.d. 
organization university 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 

this just in .  .  .  . 

ryan hurt his right knee in the 4th of the 
game last night. he 'll be having that will , at best , 
keep him on the for two to five weeks. 

just when i had almost convinced myself that the  would 
stay healthy this year .  .  .  . 


allen 


from  ( pablo a iglesias ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
lines 24 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 

in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 
maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 

thanks. 
bobby 



would have to be the most famous , because his jewish 
faith actually affected his play .  .  ( missing late or was it world 
series games because of kippur ) 








from 
subject re vs 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

m 
monday , 5 10 at philadelphia  ( 5 35 pm ) 
tuesday , 5 11 at philadelphia  ( 5 35 pm ) 
, 5 12 at philadelphia  ( 5 35 pm ) 
friday , 6 25 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 
saturday , 6 26 philadelphia at  ( 5 05 pm ) 
sunday , 6 27 philadelphia at  ( 11 35 am ) 
friday , 7 30 at philadelphia  ( 5 35 pm ) 
saturday , 7 31 at philadelphia  ( 5 05 pm ) 
sunday , 8 1 at philadelphia  ( 11 35 am ) 
monday , 9 27 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 
tuesday , 9 28 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 
, 9 29 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 
thursday , 9 30 philadelphia at  ( 5 35 pm ) 


are these times correct 

they seem as if they are 2 hrs ahead of the usual 
for these two teams .  . 


the origin of that first message was , which is on central time. 

p. 

! i meant time. 
p. 

from  ( steve c liu) 
subject day of 1990 
organization academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa 
lines 30 
distribution usa 
expires 5 9 93 
nntp posting host jhu . edu . 
summary baltimore o 's not looking 

the o 's just lost to the a few ago i was not too happy about 
the of  ( 6 runs in 6 , 5 in the 3 ) this puts 
me in remembering the 1990 o 's  . after  89 we did n't do much over 
and we wound up in  . now i know that , , and 
are better than and but are any other 
scared out there 

steve c. 

p.s. other scores as of now. 
over montreal , 2 1 i think 
florida is la 6 3 in the ! 
vs. , 1 0 in the  . of them. 
the tribe i believe. 

steve c. internet address 
in chief of the security division of the club earth chapter 
president of the earth chapter of the club founded april 1990 
1993 world baltimore why not series in the 
1992 1993 cup washington capitals 
for the liberation and of 
and their rehabilitation into society , the only problem is that the 
is  . from the of red 
the are the greatest female that ever existed ! 
this sig has been brought to you by .  .  .  . ! the of kings ! 
my god man , holes through his head is not the answer ! dr. mccoy 
you know , has a really nice ass. comment by m. 
the club creating the largest  . for the past months 



from  ( scott reeve ) 
subject re  . 
nntp posting host steam . com . 
reply to  ( scott reeve ) 
organization , inc. , ma , usa 
lines 1 



from  ( greg spira ) 
subject re notes on vs. series 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
distribution na 
lines 30 


something else to consider 

's h r were  .  . ,  .  . ! 's was  .  . 
and  .  .  . pretty clearly , got a huge boost from his home park .  . 

not necessarily .  . it could mean that , or it could mean that he just hit 
a lot better at home than he did on the road  ( see frank thomas  home road 
in  91 for an example) .  . i would guess that some of 's split 
is due to the , but most of it is probably due just to coincidence .  . 
there 's no way to be sure , of course , but the only the 
seems to regularly help a lot are right handed home run , and 
is not a home run  . 

i 'd say you could make a good for them being about equal right now. t p 
rated higher , actually. 

only because of t p 's bogus , which rate as the worst 
second in the league .  . on a career basis , i think t p 's 
may mean something , but on a basis it comes up 
with ridiculous results like this. may not be the god of 
the media says he is , but he sure is n't the worst in baseball .  . 

, t p rate much higher last year .  . 

regarding the a vs. b argument , i 'll just say they 're both very good 
with different and a bright future. 


greg 

from  ( forrest smith ) 
subject 
organization duke university , n . c .  . 
lines 22 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 


the term is generally used to refer to a , one 
who can be counted on to pitch a strong game to keep his team from going 
on a  . 

the have plenty of to fit this description , 
although right now i 'd expect or to take the  . 

what the lack , however , is an offensive , 
somebody they can look to to bring them out of their hitting  . 
there 's just no one there. the got rid of their best pure 
, smith , and only on the current 
has ever shown more than a ability to hit .  . 

oh , and another thing that me. ron seems to have 
down a step. that 's scary .  . a slow ron does n't have much going 
for him. 


s to my correspondents my email has been changed. e 
l my new address is d 
f if mail , try u 

from  ( eric roush ) 
subject without sleeves  ( was re new uniforms ) 
article i.d. news . 
organization biochemistry 
lines 13 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 



am i the only person who thinks the uniforms are 
yet another reason why they wo n't win the west ! ) 



eric duke . edu . 
i am a marxist , of the sort 
, , 

!  ( although the internet comes close . ) . 


from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 59 

 ( steve tomassi ) writes 

hi , baseball ! so what do you say do n't you think he deserves it 
i 

mean , heck , if dave  ( ho hum ) is seriously being considered for it , 
as 

is smith  ( ha ) , then why do n't we give dave a chance or 

evans ! yeah , yeah ! after the hall of fame takes in them , it can take in 


and jeff  . 

well , in any case , i am sick and tired  ( mostly sick ) of everybody 
giving 

hall of fame consideration to that are by today 's standards , 
marginal .  . 

honestly , smith and do n't belong there. they 're both 

that just around for a long time. big deal. 

let 's be a little more selective , huh stop handing out these 
so 

 . save them for the guys who really it. face it , if 
something 

is n't done , there will be little in the hall of fame anymore. when 

certain individuals believe that steve or jack are potential 

, the absurdity is apparent .  . gee , can these guys even compare to 

the more likely future hall of like or ryan 



q steve 

what 's the difference between ryan and both have 
around for years , and continue to post great  . why should n't dave 
get into the hall or , , , and others what the hell do 
you have to do ask an whether he thinks that should 
be in the hall .  .  .  . god. pretty soon you 'll be saying that cal does n't 
to be in the hall .  . then , i 'll flame you. ) 






the university of illinois mail 
neil ,  ( c)1981 ) 
quick to judge , quick to , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice 
and fear walk hand in hand 

from  ( kevin schmidt ) 
subject al through first week 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

here is the  ( offensive index ) for all al with at 
least 10 at  . 

it is early in the so there are some very high numbers. last years 
leader was frank thomas at 0 .  . 

teams are denoted by an as the first character of the name and each 
has his team his name. 

the used are found at the end of the post. 

comments and suggestions are welcome. 

kevin 

league 0 . 
league 0 . 
league 0 . 
league 0 . 

rank 

1 , 2 . 0 . 1 . 0 . 
2 cle , 1 . 0 . 1 . 0 . 
3 , 1 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
4 oak , 1 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 632 . 
5 , white 1 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
6 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
7 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
8 oak , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
9 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
10 oak , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
11 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
11 , gibson 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
13 cle , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
14 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
15 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
15 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
17 bos , 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 0 . 
18 sea , felder 0 . 0 . 357 . 0 . 0 . 
19 oak , 0 . 722 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
20 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
21 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 458 . 
22 cle , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
23 sea , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
24 , 0 . 0 . 458 . 0 . 458 . 0 . 
25 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
26 , 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 0 . 
27 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 750 . 0 . 
28 , 0 . 646 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 458 . 
29 , 0 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 750 . 0 . 
30 , kelly 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
31 bos , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
32 sea , 0 . 0 . 0 . 632 . 0 . 
32 cal , 0 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 
34 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
35 cal , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 
36 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
37 cleveland 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
38 cle , 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 0 . 273 . 
39 sea , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
39 bos , cooper 0 . 0 . 0 . 458 . 0 . 
41 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
42 cal , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
43 bos , 0 . 0 . 316 . 0 . 0 . 
44 oak , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
45 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
46 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
47 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 
48 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
49 bos , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
50 oak , 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 0 . 
51 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 
52 , mercedes 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
53 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
54 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
55 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
56 oak , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
57 cle , 0 . 0 . 346 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 357 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 
59 bos , 0 . 0 . 0 . 458 . 0 . 
60 cle , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 
61 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
62 cal , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 320 . 
63 california 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
64 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 357 . 
65 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
66 cal , 0 . 473 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
67 cal , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
70 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 400 . 0 . 
sea , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
72 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
73 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
74 , 0 . 458 . 0 . 240 . 0 . 0 . 
75 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
75 seattle 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
cal , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
78 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
0 . 0 . 0 . 430 . 0 . 
texas 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 316 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
85 , thomas 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
86 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 345 . 
87 boston 0 . 0 . 0 . 365 . 0 . 
88 cle , hill 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
89 , 0 . 400 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
90 baltimore 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
91 , 0 . 0 . 316 . 0 . 316 . 0 . 
91 minnesota 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
93 , 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 0 . 273 . 
94 cle , jefferson 0 . 0 . 0 . 316 . 0 . 
oak , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
cal , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 250 . 
bos , 0 . 0 . 217 . 0 . 0 . 
milwaukee 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 0 . 
100 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 316 . 0 . 
0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
102 oak , 0 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 
103 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
sea , 0 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 
, brett 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
109 , bell 0 . 310 . 0 . 0 . 310 . 0 . 
110 cle , 0 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 0 . 
114 , 0 . 290 . 0 . 250 . 0 . 0 . 
115 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
117 cle , 0 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 
bos , 0 . 276 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
119 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
120 , 0 . 0 . 208 . 0 . 208 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 154 . 0 . 0 . 
123 sea , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
124 sea , 0 . 0 . 100 . 0 . 100 . 0 . 
124 , 0 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 273 . 0 . 
oak , 0 . 256 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 240 . 0 . 
, jose 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
128 bos , 0 . 252 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
129 sea , 0 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 273 . 
130 , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 310 . 
130 , 0 . 0 . 130 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 250 . 
, mayne 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
cal , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 150 . 0 . 0 . 150 . 
bos , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
bos , 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
138 , 0 . 0 . 150 . 0 . 200 . 0 . 
, deer 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 179 . 0 . 0 . 154 . 0 . 
, borders 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 100 . 0 . 100 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 128 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
145 , 0 . 115 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 154 . 
145 , 0 . 115 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 154 . 
, 0 . 114 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, gill 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 
, 0 . 0 . 0 . 0 . 

0 . 74 . 1 . 28 . 1 . 64 . 2 . 25 . 0 . 53 . bb 0 . 34 .  ( sb 2 cs ) 

h 

h 

 ( h 2 3 hr ) 

 ( h bb )  ( ab bb ) 


oak dr. 
m s 
pasadena , ca 

from  ( king banaian ) 
subject re 15 day , 30 day , 60 day list questions 
article i.d. bernard . 
organization college 
lines 25 

in article  ( scotty tissue ) writes 

whenever a person is put on the 15 day , 30 day or 60 day , 
the person is on the list longer than the time 

i 've seen a person on the 15 day for maybe 4 months last year , i do n't 
remember what .  .  .  . 

i just need a little clarification on the list  . 

i believe we are down to two the 15 day and the 60 day. (i do n't remember 
a 30 day , but rather a 21 day. anyways , it 's gone now . ) . the period length 
is a minimum , not a  . you can keep a guy on the 15 day for as long 
as you want , if he 's still as injured .  . the must be 
periodically re evaluated to determine if he 's still injured  ( thus you 
cannot park a on the who maybe is out of options and you do not 
wish to to  . if you get someone qualified for the 60 day 
that reduces the of re  . there is no longer , i 
believe , any limit to the number of you can place on the  . when 
there was , you often had to choose and your injured between 
the lists .  . 
king no taxes no new taxes , 
no old taxes , we are 
dept. of economics , college enough.  . 
latest 1993 2 . 4 .  ( please run , ! ) 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re and america 's team is .  .  .  . but . why 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 43 

 ( orin roth ) writes 

well , it 's the  . at least up until they started 
it was. are they still , 
if so , why and how did they receive this label 

, but without a doubt , america 's team is the  . why 
well , my guess is because america loves  . every year , no matter 
the  talent or the predictions , they never  ( as close to never as 
possible ) win anything. over the years , as the has mounted , america 
has fallen in love with these  . the have more 
in chicago then some teams do  . the have more 
than most of the teams in their division combined .  . 
an of the at the beginning of the 
like no one else.  ( including the champs ) it must be that eternal hope. 
this is the year .  . they 've got the talent .  . they 're off to a good start. 
they 've got the  ( or hitting , or whatever their strong point is 
at the time) .  . it 's that that the will eventually 
win the again. when only god knows. since it 's been so long , it 
could come at any time , or it could be another 85 years. but until they 
do finally win , and start , the will remain 
america 's  . the are .  .  . team .  . 
 . 
u 

the of the is a team that has no talent and comes 
out of nowhere to  . the  and  89 are prime examples , 
not the  . i root for the , because i feel sorry for them , but 
basically they are dogs .  . the today are a great example of an  . 
if the and , they will be  . the north stars 
trip to the cup finals was a good example of an 's journey .  . 
the have a good team this year , and play in a weak division , they are much 
less than america 's team .  . 




i'm really a in ! 

the university of illinois mail 
neil ,  ( c)1981 ) 
quick to judge , quick to , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice 
and fear walk hand in hand 

from  ( james bragg ) 
subject re 
organization memorial university of 
lines 9 


doug , those are great ! they help  . i tried to e mail 
you with some comments on them but my mail server does not recognize 
your address. could you e mail me with some info on how to get e mail 
to you thanks ! 

jim 



from  ( alan sepinwall ) 
subject re 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 27 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 

in article  ( ian m. derby ) writes 
on the serious side maybe we should have a sub for sports radio tv. 

as much as people complain about one station or another , the 
information you hear is a lot more in depth than what you can get on 
the ap wire or usa today. so , to benefit those who have favorite 
teams outside of their , this would do wonders .  . people can 
get on and talk about what said about the or what 
said of the incident etc. this can be for any station 
across the country. anyone agree 


i agree , although i would have no idea how to go about doing it. but 
you 've got my vote .  . 


i'm outta here like 



what 's this this is ice .  . this is what happens to water when it gets 
too cold .  . this this is kent .  . this is what happens to people when 
they get too  . 
, real genius 




from  ( gord niguma ) 
subject g. sent down win al east 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
distribution na 
lines 17 

well , it really is n't this cut and , but as a fan the thing i 
worst has happened. the sent down g and are going to start 
b in  . 
i also believe they kept and in their , which is 
much than that and mike i thought they 'd 
out their to the because of their experience . granted , 
might be good , but i think that they used rationale to keep the youngsters 
up and not given the job to because he was a good and has 
experience. 
the are showing that they are taking positive the 
with the loss of dave are looking at holes in their 
 . 
the should also be there in the end .  .  .  .  .  . 


 ( to the , 
let win mvp ) 

from g . 
subject re without sleeves  ( was re new uniforms ) 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization at t 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( sherri nichols ) writes 
in article  ( eric roush ) writes 


am i the only person who thinks the uniforms are 
yet another reason why they wo n't win the west ! ) 


if uniforms really were a factor in races , the  
would have never won anything those have to be the uniforms i 've 
ever seen , particular the all set .  . 





my vote goes for the  ( '75 ) with their all red uniforms .  . 
once said he felt like a big red blood  . 

rich 


from  ( darren reiniger ) 
subject part 3 
summary national league east posted 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
lines 10 

i have posted the of the east teams to alt . pictures . misc . 
, i 'll finish the series up next week with the west .  . 





centre for , university , , n . s .  . , canada 
people who wonder where this generation is going should themselves 
where it came from in the first place. 

from  ( dale stephenson ) 
subject re , east not so weak 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 10 

in writes 
... 

hit like a club 
should n't this read are at the club 

j. baseball 

it is considered good to look wise , especially when not 
with information j. golden 

from  ( richard l. trionfo ) 
subject re 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i hope that this comes off as a somewhat unbiased 
of and  ( wip(i go to school in philadelphia , and i listen to 
both on a basis . ) . now that the fan has mike 
on from 10 to noon , they have a person who can get the 
big name for , and not just of local importance 
he did have dave and fred on his show , but he 
had bob and magic johnson on too. 
now here are my opinions of the two competing talent 
morning show 
in my opinion , i think is much better than bruno , , 
and , even though i would feel different if 
had a better of people to work with. to me , tries 
to copy but make it all sports as a theme. in terms of 
sports , lacks the blanketing of the , but he 
humor and politics into his show. 
10 am to 12 noon 
i think and are equal in their 
abilities to host a radio show , but i think has the 
advantage over in terms of dealing with the 
who is asking about who the local team is going to draft 
in the sixth round. and the other hosts on fan get 
better , but i heard the of say that 
they were not interested in with unless 
it was a major story. 
i would consider this even because they are two different 
of host. 

12 noon to 2 
at this point , i would have to give a big advantage to 
over because has only been 
on for a couple of weeks. i just think has the ability 
to the of the philadelphia fan 
base .  . this is most evident when the  ( iggles(philadelphia 
spelling ) play the because is a huge fan .  . 
where else can you have people call up and a 93 0 
score without the of the  ( hosts(re morning 'guys' ) 
i do agree that was great on the fan overnight 
and i miss hearing him over the current of 
hosts .  . i feel that is the best host on 
either station by a good margin .  . if you are in ny and 
you ca n't get , does fill in on the weekends sometimes. 

to 
this is the time when goes up against and 
 ( russo(fatso and loops ) and i become the most divided 
in my  . mike and the dog are very entertaining , 
but they often go an hour or so without calls or even 10 
to 20 without talking about sports .  . do 
get great and that is the basis for their show , so 
it is like the 10 to 12 debate. another plus is the 
by mike and chris on in the morning , which 
are often hilarious .  . 

4 to 7 
go up against and  . i like 
mike but i just ca n't stomach steve  . 
i know that sf came from originally , but when he 
was at the fan , he was a ny as much as he is a 
now. i do n't listen to much after 4 unless there 
is a game on that night , but you will see later for the 
reason. that is why i give the advantage to fan .  . 

7 to 
s m are on until 8 and then it is the man who makes 
that calls all the time seem like a on 
charges of racism , g cobb .  . this man is so grating on my 
that if i listen to him for a few i go 
nuts . (i . know that is biased , but listen to his show ) 
on fan , there is usually a game on , , , 
, or st. john 's  . if the game is on the 
west coast , then it is usually rose .  . of course 
i think dead air would be better than g cobb on , but 
does air and flyers games during the  . 
 ( if this is the sports station , why did they lose the 
to  ( wysp(home of stern in 
during the summer , it 
is all talk on  . 


overall , i would have to give the advantage to , with 
the exception of 10 to 12 , and 2 to 4 where it is even , and 
12 to 2 where has the advantage .  . 



rich 

you 've read the hat , now see the movie .  . 
in the morning 
a blurb you 're a blurb ! 


from  ( kevin day ) 
subject re lots of runs 
reply to  ( kevin day ) 
organization division , , , md 
lines 18 

in rec . baseball . ,  ( charles rosen ) writes 
i have noticed that this year has had a lot of high games  ( at least the 
 . i believe one reason are the teams .  . any thoughts 


except for the fact that there seems to be a lot of high al 
games also and i do n't think the teams directly affect them. 

k. scott day 
division , surface warfare center 
code 
, maryland 


the point to remember is that what the government gives 
it must first take away. 
john s. 


from  ( jay rogoff ) 
subject re rule 
organization college , ny 
lines 16 

one last question that has always me and has n't 
yet been addressed .  . i believe the rule also does not deal with this 
situation 

if is declared and the ball is caught , can up 
and advance at their own risk , as on any ball .  . 

however , if the is not caught , at what point can a 
legally leave his base w o fear of being off for 
too early when the 
ball the ground when a first the ball after it 
the ground 

enlightenment would be appreciated. 



from lurie ) the 
subject re pleasant surprises 
organization allegheny college 
lines 22 

in article  ( alan 
sepinwall ) writes 

some pleasant  ( and then some not so pleasant ) surprises about the 1993 
edition of the bronx bombers so far. 

 . a friend made a comparison between and jack 
they never have impressive but they always 
find some way to win  ( although seems to be that 
 . i that would be the least important 
part of the steve trade  ( best trade since we got that ruth 
guy ) , maybe up as a good middle  . but i like 
what 
i 've seen so far. he does n't pitch pretty , but he gets the job 
done. 




actually , i kind of liked the trade .  . we did trade the of 
the year , , but with at first for another 8 years , why 
bother .  . 

from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re the 
keywords 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 12 

com .  ( gerald lanza ) writes 

p.s. in , a single team out of 8 won the no divisions .  . 

make that ten , not eight .  . the and joined the n . l .  . in  . 


eric smith 


, 


from  ( greg spira ) 
subject re 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 28 

 ( david grabiner ) writes 

in article , david robert walker writes 

in article  ( neal traven ) writes 

one also has to separate offense into and , with the 
split probably somewhere around 49 . 5 . and 0 . 5 . . 

i 'd give a little more credit than that , maybe 45 5 , or 
even 40 10. give a team of and a team of john 
identical  ( which would n't be that unreasonable ) , and 
even if you do n't let steal a single base , they 'll score a lot 
more than the by going first to third more often.  ( no offense , 
 . 

i would n't give that much value. 

i meant to comment on this at the time. 

there 's just no way could be that important if it was , 
runs created would n't be nearly as accurate as it is. 

runs created is usually about 90 accurate on a team level , and 
there 's a lot more than that has to account for the 
remaining percent .  . 

greg 

from edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
subject high runs 
article i.d. master . 
reply to edu .  ( john h. rickert ) 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 35 
nntp posting host 1 . rose . edu . 

how many runs will be in denver 
i do n't know. 

but some idea can be gotten by looking at the runs in 
high during the last few years of the bears 
in the american association .  . 

here 's the total runs per game in games , 
all league games and the ratio .  . i found the same for  . 

year ratio ratio 
1992 10 . 22 . 9 . 10 . 1 . 12 . 1 . 65 . 1 . 1 . 04 . 
1991 9 . 53 . 8 . 87 . 1 . 07 . 1.41 1 . 26 . 1 . 12 . 
1990 10 . 8 . 72 . 1 . 23 . 1 . 49 . 1.24 1 . 20 . 
1989 9 . 07 . 8 . 34 . 1 . 09 . 1 . 27 . 1 . 11 . 1 . 14 . 
1988 9 . 90 . 8 . 37 . 1 . 18 . 1 . 29 . 1 . 08 . 1 . 19 . 
1987 12 . 55 . 10 . 70 . 1 . 17 . 2 . 39 . 1 . 1.24 
1986 9 . 45 . 9 . 33 . 1 . 01 . 1 . 35 . 1 . 38 .  . 
1985 9 . 50 . 8 . 54 . 1 . 11 . 1 . 53 . 1 . 34 . 1 . 14 . 
1984 9 . 9 . 10 . 1 . 10 . 1 . 55 . 1 . 59 .  . 
10 . 60 . 9 . 1 . 06 . 2 . 03 . 1 . 74 . 1 . 17 . 
11 . 29 . 10 . 35 . 1 . 09 . 2 . 24 . 1 . 91 . 1 . 17 . 
10 . 29 . 9 . 25 . 1 . 11 . 1 . 43 . 1 . 49 .  . 
10 . 59 . 9 . 43 . 1 . 12 . 1 . 63 . 1 . 46 . 1 . 12 . 
13 1 . 11 . 13 1 . 11 . 

it seems pretty clear that denver will have a large effect 
on runs (i 'll stick with my prediction from last year 
that it 'll be one of the top 3 in the this year ) 
and a fairly large effect on though apparently not as large as 
, , and san diego .  . 
still it ought to be a pretty decent home run park .  . 

john 
edu . 

from  ( christopher andrew campbell ) 
subject re 
summary never 
organization rice university 
distribution na 
lines 12 

in article  ( richard izzo ) writes 
b . s .  . about deleted. 
oh , up. what me is that they might actually 
finish last , which i believe has n't happened since their second in 
 . 
nope the are the only team in the that have not 
finished in last place. of course this does n't include 
the and the but they have a good chance at 
last also. 
rich. 



from  ( james kahn ) 
subject re david 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester  ( rochester , ny ) 
lines 9 

in article writes 
has david with a team yet i 'd think the tigers with their 
would this guy ! 

they did. for  . 

jim 



organization university of notre dame office of univ .  . computing 
from 
subject re  ( was re yards ) 

lines 9 

in article , mark b. says 

was he better than 


this borders on  . 

bob  . 


from  ( ken kubey ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
organization silicon , inc. , view , ca 
lines 16 
nntp posting host summit . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article  ( roger lustig ) writes 

as for ryan , is his w l better than  that 's what a lot of voters 
tend to look at. and was awfully good for a , and does n't 
lead history in walks allowed , either. 

despite walks and loses , ryan deserves to be in the hall of fame  ( imho ) 
based only on his ho  . the strike out records are an extra .  . 

what do people think about 400 for the 


name ken or reading , editing or printing of this text 
address without the express written consent of 
disclaimer the usual major league baseball is  . 


from  ( alan sepinwall ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
article i.d. netnews . 
organization university of , school of arts and sciences 
lines 18 
nntp posting host mail . sas . edu . 

in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
baseball , past and present. we were n't able to come up 
with much , except for ,  ( somebody ) , and 

it 's , not , and he 's not jewish he 's 
 ( by the way , the correct according to himself , 
is . all the get it wrong) 

maybe john  . can anyone come up with any more. i know 
it sounds pretty to be our brains over this , but 
humor us. thanks for your help. 

the only other jewish i can think of is ron , who is 
best known as being the first to appear in a major league  . 



from lurie ) the 
subject re the all time team 
organization allegheny college 
lines 33 

in article 
writes 


dave 's name does not go 
in the same sentence. as aaron , , and  . 



in terms of , and i repeat years , has done it 
all. he has in the 's for a , in 100 and more runs 
many times in a row before his injury .  . hit at or near 
while knocking in 35 home runs .  . have you even looked at dave 's 
percentage for three or 4 of his best  . i still think that 
dave was one of the better of all time , but obviously not the best. he was 
one of the best to play baseball .  . he hit line drives that hit 
the in left center field , a feat one has done in the new 
 . heck , only 2 or 3 other people have hit it over that green 
since it has been  . he could field , had a bullet , and his 
hitting was comparable in many to , and bonds 
of last  . he is older now , and slowing down , takes more of an 
to lift the ball out of the park , but he will always be my hero , 
and my  . there is nothing that could make me than george 
dave back to the bronx to play his last year of ball with the 
 . of course , he will most likely refuse the offer , but who knows 
for 3 million dollars , he 'll play .  . heck they are giving 2.5 
million this year , having dave as their , while leaving him time to play 
the field when is injured , or and mass are , should 
give the the inspiration and leadership that will in a new age 
of  . 


michael 

from  ( david demers ) 
subject runs .  . was re notes on vs. series 
distribution na 
organization dept. , san diego 
lines 23 
nntp posting host edu . 


in article ,  ( david m. tate ) writes 

uh , right. you also forgot that you ca n't get an  ( barring a hr ) with 
nobody on base .  . what of all runs come on 

actually , for the this year so far it 's 23 . they are in 
the league in hrs , and all have been shots .  . 

puts them at  . percentage 
or  . need some help , fast ! 

good news , though , is that has been throwing 
w o any pain. threw 80 yesterday. should be back 
in a couple of weeks. maybe we can trade him to the 
for  . 

dave 

dave 
computer science engineering 
san diego ... ! ! cs ! 
la , ca  ( 619 ) , or , fax  ( 619 ) 

from  ( barry mednick ) 
subject re jewish baseball 
summary a few names 
organization software , inc. 
lines 9 

in article  ( vb30 ) writes 
just wondering .  . a friend and i were talking the other day , and 
we were  ( for some reason ) trying to come up with names of jewish 
maybe john  . 
is not jewish .  . however , there is a long list including 
, , (a convert ) , the brothers , 
art , and ron  . 



from  . bose ) 
subject re tigers 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 9 
nntp posting host carina . unm . edu . 



 ( see  . 


kurt  ( as in , not rose ) 
help r . s . b . of all ! whenever someone at your site posts 
an article with a subject of the form my team ! ! ! ! ! ! , simply look him up 
in the directory , hunt him down , and him ! easy , fun , ! 

from  ( forrest smith ) 
subject re 
distribution usa 
organization duke university , n . c .  . 
lines 14 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

in article writes 

if the 
continue to average 3 runs a game , then 3 is where they will finish .  . 
p. 
so , if the run falls to 1 per game , which is 
certainly where it 's headed  ( if they 're lucky ) , does that mean they 'll finish 
first 



s to my correspondents my email has been changed. e 
l my new address is d 
f if mail , try u 

from z 
subject for real 
organization stephen f. austin state university 
lines 6 




who thinks the are going places 
they re currently first place. 
they re 5 4 , 5 1 on the road ! 

from  ( roger lustig ) 
subject re dave for the hall of fame 
originator 
nntp posting host crux . princeton . edu . 
reply to  ( roger lustig ) 
organization princeton university 
lines 85 

in article  ( steve tomassi ) writes 
hi , baseball ! so what do you say do n't you think he deserves it 
i 

mean , heck , if dave  ( ho hum ) is seriously being considered for it , 
as 

is smith  ( ha ) , then why do n't we give dave a chance or 

evans ! yeah , yeah ! after the hall of fame takes in them , it can take in 


and jeff  . 

, what was a first for a long time. 

as produced for 20 years , and 
on several  . 

dave 's best year was like 's typical 
year with the  . 

evans , too , did a whole lot more than just hit , which 
is all that did. 

well , in any case , i am sick and tired  ( mostly sick ) of everybody 
giving 

hall of fame consideration to that are by today 's standards , 
marginal .  . 

whom are you talking about yes , is marginal , but that 's 
because he 's 38 years old .  . he was n't marginal for a long time. 

honestly , smith and do n't belong there. they 're both 

that just around for a long time. big deal. 

not. 

smith has around for a long time and the position better 
than anyone else ever has .  . 

stopped being a about a ago , in case you had n't 
noticed. 

one of his two was as a  . 

let 's be a little more selective , huh stop handing out these 
so 

 . save them for the guys who really it. face it , if 

like whom there are many in the hall who are n't anywhere near 
as as the guys you 're running down. 

something 
is n't done , there will be little in the hall of fame anymore. when 

that 's already the case , by some standards. but the bad in the 
hall are all from the 20 's and 30 's .  . recent have generally been 
excellent .  . 

certain individuals believe that steve or jack are potential 
, the absurdity is apparent .  . gee , can these guys even compare to 
the more likely future hall of like or ryan 

no , but who cares was stan anywhere near as good as ruth 
not really. but he obviously belongs there. 

the hall has generally had about the top 1 of major  . as 
more come through the game , more will be in that top 1 . 

and , yes , it 's pretty easy to argue that smith , . , evans , , 
etc. are in the top 1 . dave on the other hand , was a 
throughout most of his career. 

of course , has n't gotten a lot of press , so i do n't know 
what you mean. 

as for ryan , is his w l better than  that 's what a lot of voters 
tend to look at. and was awfully good for a , and does n't 
lead history in walks allowed , either. 

roger 

from  ( david j . ) . 
subject win ! win ! 
article i.d. usenet . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 8 
nntp posting host edu . 

i only caught the tail end of this one on  . does anyone have a report 
 ( look at all that ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) 


david blue riddle 1993 
it 's on. 
the is an art is coming out on this time for real. 
e mail me for the  . 

from  ( randy a. graca ) 
subject gets win 2000 , tigers a 's 
organization university , rochester , michigan , u . s . a .  . 
lines 36 
nntp posting host edu . 

tigers  gets his 2 , career win as ago , 
the tigers a two game over the a 's at tiger 
by beating the a 's 3 2. here are the 


r h e 
2 9 0 
3 7 1 

from 1st with an double in the 
bottom of the ninth against none other than to give the 
tigers the victory .  . also had an single to score to 
tie the score in the ninth , also off (sp ) .  . 

the a 's got their runs on an single by in the 1st and a 
by in the  . deer home gibson in the 
7th for the other tiger run. 

john another strong game for the tigers , once again lasting 
through the seventh  . he was by and then david 
in the , and got the win .  . bobby started for the a 's , and was 
replaced by in the , followed by goose in the , and 
finally in the  . gave up both of the a 's runs , while 
gave up the first tiger run and gave up the last two .  . 

in the post game  ( on radio in detroit ) , said 
its one of the few times he 's gotten emotional in his managing career. it 
was a big moment for him , and i'm sure all of us tiger are 
very happy for him. and what a way to get number 2 , 000 ! . 

considering the circumstances , i think it might be appropriate to say 

! go tigers ! 




from  ( mike west ) 
subject re dean hurt 
nntp posting host com . 
organization engineering and support division , america , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 14 

edward wrote 
i think dean got hit by a ball the other night .  .  .  . he got hit for 
and did n't play against baltimore  .  .  . up with that is he hurt 
please tell me he 's not .  .  .  . 

he got hit in the by a pitch .  . his 
from the to the  ( or something like  . they took x rays 
of the and there is nothing  . he missed the last game with the 
, but he is suppose to be ready for the next game. 

hope this helps .  . 

mike west 


from  ( sean garrison ) 
subject re what s with all these scores 
nntp posting host berkeley node . net . yale . edu . 
organization yale university 
lines 23 

in article , 
 ( joseph hernandez ) wrote 

if people on usenet really do n't want to see the postings i do to 
rec . baseball . on a daily basis , please just let me know. if the response 
is overwhelming against the posts , i wo n't do it anymore. 

thanks for your time. 

joseph 



mr. 

i apologize for the misunderstanding .  . i explained that i know that it 
is essential for some to get scores here , for they cannot get them 
elsewhere. i have no problem with what you do , posting scores after the 
games have been  . however , like i said earlier , i do n't think it 
is a necessity to post scores during the middle of games , like some others 
have come to practice. 



from  ( patricia keenan ) 
subject re quick easy question ! 
organization department of psychology 
lines 16 

 ( richard john rauser ) writes 



here 's an easy question for someone who knows nothing about baseball .  .  .  . 

what city do the california angels play out of 

 . 


richard j. you have no idea what you 're doing. 
oh , do n't worry about that. we 're 
outlaws we do this for a living. 

remember , no matter where you go , there you are. dr . 

from ma 
subject re jewish baseball 
organization college at , , ny 
lines 3 

i believe that was also a jewish ball 
also , brown back in the early 20th century. he was a whose 
nickname was 3 fingers brown .  .  .  . for . obvious reasons .  .  .  . he . had 3 fingers .  . 

from  ( mark singer ) 
subject 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 64 



the media is beating the incident at on to 
death , but i have n't seen anything in yet. 

perry of the hit in the with two 
on and his club down by a run. he a line drive into the 
right field corner .  . the ball cleared the three foot high and 
went into the crowd. , over from right center , got to 
the in time to reach his up over the short , but he 
missed the ball .  . a fan sitting in the front row , wearing a , 
reached up and caught the ball .  . home run. 

now i 've seen the several times and i have concluded that 
missed the ball , and that the fan 's was essentially 
behind 's .  . several with in the immediate 
have claimed that the fan unquestionably with 
 . what cannot be disputed , however , is that the fan 
who caught the ball never took his eye off it he was 
to where the was playing .  . he was also quite as 
soon as he realized he had made the  . 

that disappeared immediately , however , when 
went into a at the man. all reports indicate he used a lot 
of and accused the man of interference , and therefore of 
costing the a game. shortly afterwards other 
food and the man who made the  . 
started to remove him from the park , but then and 
just him to another area. in an after the game , 
blamed the fan for the loss. also went into a 
about how the are stupid and they do n't care about 
 . l . a .  . times similarly blasted the man who made 
the  . 

before each game the public address makes a speech 
wherein he says that are welcome to the of that 
are hit into the stands as long as they do not interfere with any 
that are in the field of play .  . was the fan wrong should he have 
been more aware of the situation and acted to avoid any possibility 
of interference or was he human and just by the way , he 
is a and on his request the have 
his to another area of the where future interference is 
impossible. 

others have questioned why should be so concerned with what 
the fan did when he has a grand total of 1 through the first 
games. 

i question what he was doing in right center with a left handed pull 
up and the game on the line. had he been closer to the play , 
he certainly would have had a much better chance of catching the ball .  . 

but i guess the big debate continues as to what are the 
of the fan .  . 



the 




mark 





