from  ( aamir qazi ) 
subject re difference between lexus series 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 18 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

from article , by  ( eric lorenzo ) 
what is the difference between the , and seems 
lexus ca n't stop out new models .  . 

let me put it like this. the only similarity between the three models 
is the , or 3 engine  . actually , the  ( the 
coupe ) and the  ( the looking new sedan ) share the same 3 . 0 . 
, and the  ( popular small sedan ) uses 3 . 0 . shared 
with the  . the is a sports , the is the new 
, and the is the base  . all three look 
completely different. 






why should i care i 'd rather watch  . 

from  ( lawrence c smith ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 25 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 

in article ,  ( lawrence b. keys ) writes 
i know that this is n't the group for it , but since you brought it up , 
does anyone have any idea why they have n't bombed the cult 

perhaps it is because witnesses who have left the compound have all 
that the shot first , they they did not identify themselves 
before in  ( not that anyone inside could have 
heard such after being near a grenade ) and 
the announcement from the that they have the warrant under 
which they were operating which was a search warrant , by the way , 
not an arrest warrant .  . in short , perhaps because the is 
out of control and perhaps heads have realized that bombing a 
compound full of woman and children will not improve their position. 
there is a real chance that koresh will be able to prove self defense 
in court. that will leave what four officers dead and no one to 
blame but the  . 

followups directed to alt . , where the discussion has nearly 
as long as the , and which shows every sign of not giving up nearly 
as soon. 

larry smith no , i do n't speak for  . need you ask 

liberty is not the freedom to do whatever we want , 
it is the freedom to do whatever we are able .  . 

from  ( joe staudt ) 
subject re trading in a car that 's not paid for .  .  . please 
organization corporation 
distribution usa 
lines 35 

in article  ( rhonda gaines ) writes 

i'm planning on a new car and will be trading in my  90 
6  . i 've still got 2 more years to pay on it. how does 
that get taken into account when i my new car does the 
pay off my car and add on the amount they had to pay to 
the price of the new car someone please explain this to 
me. 

if you do n't already know it , you should call the bank credit union 
company that holds the loan on your present car and get the 
current cost .  . 

if you are trading in your current car on the new car , subtract the 
amount from the trade in the is giving you.  ( if this 
turns out to be a negative number , you need to reconsider the deal . ) . 
subtract this difference from the price of the new car. this is the 
size of the loan you will need for the new car. 

the will take care of paying off the loan on your old car out 
of the money you give them when you pick up your new car. 

at least that 's how it worked for me 5 years ago in ohio .  .  .  . 


thanks 





joseph , corp .  . 
p.o. box usenet is like for people who still 
, oh remember how to read. 
 ( 216 ) j. 

from  ( craig deforest ) 
subject re , , or 
article i.d. 
organization stanford center for space science and 
lines 37 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 
in reply to brad 's message of fri , 02 apr 93 21 41 53 cst 

in article brad writes 
well , there is a difference. 

i do n't happen to have my manual , but oil in general 
with  . the numbers are based on a  
curve that used to all have , running from  ( say ) the of a 
room 90 weight at , down to  ( say ) that of a room 
5 weight at , for a typical 40 weight oil .  . 

that are designed for operation in  just have 
a weight  . that are designed for operation in 
cold have a  on the end , so in in a cold 
place , you 'd stick in your car in the and 40 in it in the summer , 
to approximate the appropriate throughout the year .  . 

modern change much less with  . 
as a result , their cross over several  . a 
the curve at two , a  operating 
and a  one  ( though i ca n't remember the numbers .  .  . ) .  . 

in any event , the do indicate a significant difference. remember 
that your engine is  ( by the and 
or air fins ) most of the time unless you it or 
something. 

any weight of oil is better than no oil , or than very old , 
oil .  . thin oil wo n't  ( in general ) as well at , 
oil will  ( like a 20w50 ) will better at , 
but not as well during , when most engine wear occurs .  . 

if you 're planning on making long drives , the is probably fine 
(esp .  . in the summer ) in your car. but if you 're making short drives , 
stick to the  . 



t drink ! ! ok ! 

from  ( scott borders ) 
subject clear coat . . . 
summary any way to remove fine in clear coat 
keywords clear coat 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 27 

is clear coat really worth it yes , on the , the cars 
have this deep , that just ca n't be found on jobs 
that are n't clear  . on the other hand , it seems that every clear 
car that i 've seen on the road  ( in a lot , etc . ) . has 
fine throughout the job. as does , , my 1992 laser .  . 

several weeks ago i had my car professionally polished and  . 
when i picked it up , it had that same that i remember 
from a year ago when i bought it. several days ago i took my car 
to the for some work. as an added , they washed my 
car. unfortunately , whoever washed it either did n't get the roof 
 ( which is black , the rest of the car is red ) completely clean before 
he dried it , or he used a  . now my is a 
of fine that are n't really until the light 
the roof at a particular angle .  . 

i am , to put it , somewhat about this. do i have any 
chance of getting the to do something about this 
my guess is  . is there any product on the market that provides 
a solution to this problem or am i with the of 
having the car professionally polished again to hide the 
information , , and sympathy all greatly . . . 

scott the will never my car again borders 

borders 


from ee . edu .  ( bijan mobasseri ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
article i.d. 
organization university 
lines 17 

my  66 has operated by a crank , just like a 
 ( only it opened out , like a normal  . my  70 , my 
's  , and pretty much every i 've seen that 's 
worth riding in has  . 

does that mean that i'm not a young anymore ) 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

i do n't understand the with  . they create a 
and that makes even a simple impossible at 
above  . the current , if designed right , 
are far more superior .  . 



from  ( greg lewis ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
keywords , , danger 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization 
lines 33 

in article  ( brian larose ) writes 
this just a warning to everybody on the net. watch out for 
folks standing next to the road or on  . they can 
cause serious harm to you and your car. 

 ( just a notes version of my story follows ) 

last night , i was travelling on the here in 
, i was taking an to another 
and my wife suddenly and something large hit the side 
of my  . we down , but after looking back to see the 
standing there , we on to the police station .  . 

she did get a good look at the guy and saw him his with 
something the size of a , but i never saw him. we are 
very lucky the up high on the road if it would have hit 
her , it would have killed her. 

the police are looking for the guy , but in all he is gone. 
stuff deleted .  .  .  . 

i am sorry to report that in southern california it was a sick 
for a while to drop concrete blocks from the onto the 
 . several persons were killed when said blocks came through 
their  . many are now , and they 
have made it illegal to on such  ( as if that would stop 
such  . yet many are not  . i always look up at a 
while i still have time to take action even though this 
has not reached us here in  . 

greg 
sequence , department of 
, , ca 

from  ( scott dexter ) 
subject opinions wanted .  .  .  .  . 
organization inc. 
lines 27 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 



is there anyone out there in that has has had one of these 


can someone give me a non consumer reports review  ( or point me to a source ) 


thanks 
scott 



computer science , 
university of california , 
internet 138 . 23 . 21 . 


facilities engineer , 
, inc. , technology network 
internet 75 . 61 . 2 . 

you say its gonna happen now 
what exactly do you mean 
you see i 've already waited too long , 
and all my hope is gone 
the 

from  ( jeff perry ) 
subject re wife wants 
organization private site in san , california 
lines 35 

 ( andrew a. spencer ) writes 


in a previous article ,  ( diane x2617 ) says 

 ( keith p7625 ) writes 
help ! ! ! 
my wife has informed me that she wants a for her next car. 
 ( jeff perry ) writes 
, just last week the show week gave the results of what they 
thought were the best cars for  . in the category , the 

del achieved this honor .  . 
i own a del and i must for the  . i really looks 
the top is off. i looks a lot better in person than on the television .  . (i 
that as well. to say i was smiling a bit by the time it 
was over  .  .  . ) . ) 

watch out for that tan tho .  .  .  . 


i simply must , how can people honestly consider this car 
a does have a on the name 
i mean , to me means top down , which the del certainly 
does not do. it has the center that out. this is what i would 
term a  ( targa(unless was gonna me for doing  . i know 
the rolls down , but i still can hardly consider this car 
to be a  . 


yes , however , with the top off and the down this car is more 
like a than a  . think of it as a with an 
integrated roll bar like addition .  . 



from  ( mark monninger ) 
subject re no deals .  .  . save . 
nntp posting host 250 . 10 . 7 . 
reply to 
organization sps 
distribution usa 
lines 3 

you can be sure they would n't do it if it was n't to their advantage .  . 

mark 

from  ( jim warford ) 
subject re electronic  ( was used question ..... ) 
reply to  ( jim warford ) 
organization technology , santa , ca usa 
lines 32 

in article  ( kim greer ) writes 

i was wondering if anyone can shed any light on just how it is that these 
electronic remember the total mileage what kind of 
memory is stable reliable enough , non enough and independent enough 
 ( of outside power ) to last say , 10 years or more , in the life of a 
i'm amazed that anything like this could be expected to work for 
this length of time  ( especially in light of all the gizmos i work with that 
are doing good to work for 2 months without breaking down  . 

from  . it has a  ( clock ) and of which 
has a  . the has a life of 10 years of 
operation. in a car it could be left on continuously and not 
draw much current .  . the would only be used when your was 
dead or had been removed. 

side question how about the legal ramifications of selling a used car with 
a replaced that starts over at 0 , after say 100 200 
actual  . looks like fraud would be fairly easy for the price of a 
new , you can say it has however many you want to tell the 
it has .  . 

in california they have a line on the of ownership form which states 
that the mileage is correct. if incorrect you are required to 
fill in what you know  ( or guesstimate ) to be the correct mileage .  . if you 
lie on this form and are caught you can be and the can 
you for the value of the mileage  . 

horses 
women 
older 
more money ! 

from  ( steven b syck ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
article i.d. 
organization university of wisconsin , milwaukee 
lines 39 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 9 . 13 . 

in article  ( robert neilson ) writes 
sorry for the 0 content , but ... 

that is why low citizens should have the power to protect themselves 
and their property using force if necessary anywhere a threat is 
imminent .  . 

steve 

you do have the power steve .  . you can do it. why do n't you why do n't you 
go shoot some kids who are onto cars make sure you do a good 
job though do n't miss  cause like they have big and take it from 
me those kids are mean. 

as a self defense advocate , you 're  statement  , does 
but me. of course shooting someone because they a at your 
car is out of the question , but what if they your car with their 
and then wanted to come kill rape rob or otherwise harm you , 
your wife , kids 
i think you would like the power to defend yourself in this situation , 
would n't you or is it that you value the lives of such 
more than your own or those of your family 
do n't think it could n't happen to you. from the sounds of it here 
it has happened to a few people. 

please do not misunderstand .  . the only justification for using 
force on someone , is that if you do n't , it will mean your own 
death or grave bodily harm .  . i am far far away from supporting 
justice or anything like that .  .  . 

oh , and if you mean to be funny , please add the appropriate ) 

followups to talk . politics . guns . please .  .  .  . we 're getting a bit off track 
here .  .  .  .  . 

steve 




from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re do trains have 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 32 

in article  ( rick  open vms  colombo ) writes 

i do n't know about trains , but i 've saw a sign on the back of a 
that you that your may be set off. 
it does n't explain why , but it does set off my  . 

because has apparently gotten around to their 
system. they use to how close 
other are and how fast their relative are , and 
a warning to the if they 're coming up on something too fast 
or are getting too close. 

this is all i remember from the news reports a few months back at 
the time , they were only talking about the possibility of 
the system.  ( they did n't mention how it worked in bumper to bumper 
traffic , or how it between a at 
and support in the being approached 
at on a curve . ) . 

i do recall something about progressive stages of warnings , from 
to warnings ie , it goes from a red too 
close light to screaming we re all going to die ! ! ! ! ) 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( thornwall ) 
subject q in the on my ( 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
organization workstations at maryland , university of maryland , college park 
distribution usa 
lines 21 


, 

i have a and in the last few weeks i have been getting quite 
a few ( in the on the from and off of the 
road. i have never had any major problems with other car in the past 
 ( maybe a once in a  . i went to the and he said that it 
happens all of the time and he putting a bug on the 
 . he said that the , for some unknown reason , seem to have this 
problem more than some cars .  . 

it seems to me that either my luck is really bad or there might be a problem 
with the  ( painted on a monday morning perhaps ) .  . 

how well do these bug work for small road on 

if anyone has any experiences suggestions please let me know , thanks. 

greg 



from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re owners 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 31 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( darren gibbons ) writes 

i'm looking for information on cars .  . now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two , 
with roll over , hard top , and really looking .  . my 
friend has one sitting in his in really nice condition , 
body wise , but he has up on him , so it has n't run 
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars the engine 
looks really to work on , but it is in fine shape and 
i am quite interested in it. 
thanks ! 



this would be the , would it not sold through in the mid  70 's as the price leader 

sounds a lot more like an to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same 
as the , rather than the bigger but i could easily 
be wrong. i think the later 's were sold here as  . 

craig 





the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 



from  ( jim frost ) 
subject re too fast 
article i.d. 
organization software , inc. 
lines 56 
nntp posting host 3 . 

 ( wharfie ) writes 
compare either to the and you tell me which was designed 

oh , right. only 120 , 000 dollar cars should be driven fast .  . 
they drive at 120 in europe , , and i reckon 
a is at least as capable as a  . 

my whole point was not to say that the cars could n't go that fast , 
but that they should n't go that fast .  . a family designed to be 
at does n't suddenly become at because 
you added some plastic effects , slightly , and a much 
larger engine. that 's what the is a slightly modified family 
with a powerful engine. they did n't even bother improving the 
 . 

the is essentially the same deal as the a big power 
plant stuck in a mid size , with almost no other  . 
i have real life experience with the it handles like a 
 ( except when you 're , of course , something i 
personally avoid doing on the highway ) and stopping power is 
even from  . lots of but the rest of 
the car is not up to par .  . 

i picked the example because they are designed with speed in 
mind. it did n't have to be the it could have been the much 
or one of several mercedes or models .  . all of these 
cars are fairly expensive but so are the parts that make them 
at high speed .  . this should be elementary .  . 

there are a few things to keep in mind about europe , since you brought 
it up. my knowledge is admittedly second hand , but i believe 
the following to be true 

1. drivers are much better in europe than they are here. 
2. the roads the are much better designed than 
they are here , and usually include animal  . this makes them 
far more than most us  . 
3. not all of europe is the  . most places in europe have 
speed limits that are n't out of line with what we used to have in 
the us if my friends were n't lying to me they 're typically not 
much higher than h. 

i strongly suspect you wo n't find a lot of owners doing 
 ( nearly h ) on the , but i could be wrong. some people 
have no respect for their own lives. 

you certainly have n't convinced me. 

of course not. speeding is bad. speeding is illegal .  . 
i will not speed .  . i love big brother .  . you had your mind made up 
already. 

if you think so you sure do n't pay attention to my postings .  . 

jim 


from  ( mihir shah ) 
subject re new argument 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization washington university , st. 
lines 78 
nntp posting host 

in article  ( robert j. wade ) writes 

ok , how about this to argue about. why does the have a much lower base 
price than the it 's over  ( cheaper(i forget the exact  . 
does n't it cost more to have the extra doors etc. that 
are in the 4 door perhaps it is just a deal .  .  .  . people . want the 
, so they will pay the extra 1 . 

ok , here 's what i understand 

the was meant to with the following cars 


 ( sl , sl1 ) 
 ( sl1 , sl2 ) 

 






dodge colt 


their core competition is the , , and  . most of the other 
models are in the same class , but are n't the first cars you would think of. 
i threw in the because it has a good amount of japanese 
technology and has similar reliability  . i did n't include domestic small 
cars such as the , , , , , and , since i 
think is going after cars that have at least some degree of japanese 
roots .  . 

the was meant to against the following cars 


del 

3 

storm 



if you look at the of these cars , they 're more expensive than they 're 
4 door  . the is good reason for this. it is a more and 
trend driven market .  . even though many of these models are based on 
, their , etc. is good enough to warrant slightly higher 
 . here are some of the i can think of 



del 
3  ( not sure on this one) 
storm 

to illustrate , a starts at around , while the starts at 
around 11 , 000 .  . even a 4 door will cost less than a 2 door  . now , 
you might be saying that the does n't offer the power that some 4 doors 
offer .  . what i mean is that there is no 4 dr with a comparable 
as its  . let 's take another example the 
and storm  . both have the same (a 
1 . engine ) , but the smaller 2 dr are generally more expensive .  . 
again , this is because the two door market is a more 
fashion oriented and trend setting segment .  . people are willing to pay more 
money for this type of car. 


in short , even though the may be smaller , hence less car , it 's market 
orientation a slightly higher price than its mechanically equivalent 
 ( sl1 sl2 ) version. 

i hope this things up a bit .  .  .  .  .  .  . 





from  ( theodore chen ) 
subject re are 's worth the price 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 19 

in article  ( gary w. mahan ) writes 
road and track  ( 2 88 ) 0 60 7 . , 1 4 15 . 
 ( road test 
1993 ) 0 60 8 . , 1 4 16 . 


those are the numbers i was quoting , i have driven the older model but not the 
newer .  . 


sure sounds like they got a  . the i was definitely 
than that. if you want to quote numbers , my shows 
0 60 in 7 . 4 . , 1 4 in 15 . 9 .  . it quotes car and 's 
of 6.9 and 15 . 3 .  . oh , btw , these numbers are for the  . 

i do n't know how the addition of for 1993 it. 
but do n't take my word for it. go drive it. 



from  ( mubashir cheema ) 
subject 1st time , 400 off really 
summary 400 off 
keywords 400 off 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university 
lines 13 


world , 
just bought a new stealth two weeks ago. got a student 
 . someone told me that there 's another 400 for 1st time 
 . true if yes can i still get it or am i too late 



communications  ( 601 ) 
fax  ( 601 ) 
russell street , 20 email 
, 


from  ( dave duff ) 
subject re did us drive on the left 
article i.d. 
organization division 
lines 2 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

's first year of manufacture was , so this may indeed have been 
an special , as left hand were standard here by then. 

from  ( alan peterman ) 
subject re electronic 
organization research laboratories of ,  . 
lines 24 

in article  ( aaron lung ) writes 
if i'm not mistaken , altering the is illegal . furthermore , 
i it 'll be tough to alter 's if you got at it. 
some of the newer 's have electronic making it even 
more  . 

on the cars mentioned 3 series from the late 80 's the electronic 
is really a type , that is driven 
by from a speed on the  . these are 
converted into that turn the and  . 
no way changing or an is going to change the mileage 
reading. it also means the is just as easy  ( or hard ) to 
change as any other  . 

on the other hand it is a bit easier to the speed 
and run the car with no or reading .  .  . a . simple 
switch will do the job. it also will the speed , 
which will the car to reach it 's full speed .  . ) 



l. (503) 1984 work 

it 's odd how as i get older , the days are longer , but the years are ! 

from  ( jarmo ahonen ) 
subject re what is 
nntp posting host cc . fi . 
organization university of technology , finland 
lines 64 

 ( ian boyle ) writes 


740 in uk was good for  . useful for blowing away , though i 
believe the better. 

i can say without any doubt that i have never been blown away by any , ever. 
i 've been into a few car parks though by shit head owners who  only thought they 'd be a few  . this does not happen with the owners of any other makes of car. 

not sure how long the small shit box volvos last too damn long .  . the worst car i ever was a  . in power , handling and ride it was of something 
from the , without the character. the only ceased a couple of years back .  . i 've only been a in the big volvos , but that was enough. i ought to go 
for a test drive because they offer some neat  . 


oh , well .  .  .  . i have to admit that the most disgusting feature of 
's is their  . it looks like uses something like 
do you dare to risk your family in any car attitude , which is quite 
in the long run. 

but now has produced a new good car , the  . front drive , 
2 . 4 . l 20 , completely new etc. even the british magazine 
car liked it  ( and believe me , that is quite much for a  . and 
the american magazine road track said that this is not your 
's car , and in a positive sense. 

but in any case , i 'd still like to own the  . strong , like 
, 3 . , drive .  . ) ) 

btw , the only car drivers who have me are land or 
drivers .  .  .  . ) ) ) ) 

what you mean what i drive a japanese (a toyota ) of course , 
i do not have money for a car .  ( like , , , , 
 ( or 960 ) , etc ) 
if i had the money , i would have bad problems which one 
to buy ) ) ) .  . 





























from  ( paul hovnanian ) 
subject re re land worth it 
organization group 
lines 30 

in response to a post about 's , i got several to 
check out the land , despite its price .  . 
the told me it 's a cult car . 
if a car is good enough to create a and loyal following , there 
must be something really extraordinary about it. 
so , all you land here is your chance to convert me. 


jonathan 
, 

based on my experience with a  ( the hard top style model ) i 
would definitely give a new model consideration if i were in the market .  . the 
older models are very well built .  . unless lost its mind , i would 
assume , until proven otherwise , that the newer models have inherited some 
if not all of the qualities of their ancestors .  . 

two major differences in the running gear  ( that i'm aware of ) need study .  . 
my  has a solid front housing whereas the newer models have 
independant front  . the solid is theoretically stronger and 
more reliable than the newer model , but only experience will tell. the 
independant front is , no doubt , a compromise made to 
the typical user , who will never need a real utility  . the second 
difference is the type of case used on the newer models .  . i'm 
not sure , but i think went to a full time or all wheel drive 
system. the older have a lock up type .  . both have their 
and  . 

paul 
disclaimers apply 

from  ( john steczkowski ) 
subject re for damage a record 
reply to 
distribution usa 
organization software 
lines 22 

in article  ( craig boyle ) 
writes 


my 90 was hit hard in the 3 25 in austin , tx .  . 
the company cut me a check for ( 100 deductible ) 
last week. is this a record anybody else had from 
the same yet 

craig 


has it that a guy at computer had his , so that would 
be about  . 




john 
the constitution grants you the right to life , liberty , and the 
pursuit of happiness. it does not attempt to that 
everyone will be happy. 

from  ( michael j. edelman ) 
subject manual shift bigots 
organization wayne state university 
lines 17 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host pass . wayne . edu . 

now , my ego with regards to my shifting ability is as big as anyone else 's , but 
i just ordered my first car with an trans. i was n't planning on it but 
after driving a few i was convinced things have changed since the days of 
slip  n  slide . they shift better than i do , there 's no 
to wear out  ( honda wanted for my last year ! got it done 
for 500 ) , it only costs about 5 in gas on the and it makes it 
easier to concentrate on all the in my car ) 

 ( oddly enough , while two of my best friends both in the industry here in the 
city have switched to , their wives insist on 
manual .  . shift ) 

aside , given today 's technology and the they 're handing 
out the seemed like an excellent choice. call me a convert .  . 

mike 


from  ( pat t maloney ) 
subject e mail car 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization north dakota higher education computing network 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 8 


i am interested to know if there is any e mail car out 
there has anyone started one , or is anybody thinking about starting one. 
thanks for any info you can give me 





from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re looking to buy dodge stealth , have questions 
keywords questions 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 88 

in article m . writes 
in article ,  ( craig boyle ) writes 
in article m . writes 

i found a this 


model 
stealth 
stealth es 
stealth 
stealth 

okay , i 'll take their word for it. 

these numbers i have been stating in the past 5 10 messages. it 
really me that you insisted you were right , and that you had 
no clue what your own car weighed .  . why did n't you check when i first 
told you that your were 





i am giving every chance to retract widely known. the is 
rated at  . is 17. you have a advantage over a 

seems that the 1993 5 . 0 . is rated at only because 
changed its  . under the older , it still 
closer to  . that means that the has 3 more. 

i 'd like to hear a better of how you come to that 
conclusion from the above data .  . 


big threat .  . you are 'd by a , to c d 

yeah , sure , in your wet dreams .  . and that 's probably where you got 
no , sorry your wrong again. you quoted the del as doing 0 60 in 
8.1 according to c d. interestingly , the stealth es , which is 
than your does the in 8 . 5 . seconds according to 
c d. kind of is n't it why did n't you check the 

before posting it only makes you look stupid when you are caught out 
twice with your own  . 

that 11 . 2 . second 0 60 for the stealth .  . 


i 'll check c d 's 5 91 issue. strange that you claim to have that 

you really should have checked .  . 


go ahead and check , you 'll realize what an idiot you are for not 
checking data  . car drive , may 91 .  . stealth es , , 
automatic .  . 

for 3 posts now you 've been on this may 1991 issue of car 
2 
without posting any numbers. why not because they prove me right and you 
ai n't got the to admit it yeah , thought so. 

if you insist , i gave you every chance to retract , but 

dodge stealth es does an 8 . 5 . 16 . 4 . wonder why you could n't find it 

do you realize that a (c d ) will run a 16 . 7 . , that a r or 
will run in the 15 's do n't you think it is kind of strange that your 
sports car is so easily  . 

a 5 . 0 . , which about the same  ( according to your numbers ) , 
has less power and is much quicker care to explain. do n't be abusive , 
just try and come up with a rational explanation of where those 
went to , its a mystery to me. 

the r really is alot quicker than the sports car. 
you are close to the e. go look up the numbers in c d and 
report please. 

no , i'm going to play your game 


no way , 's are slow ! i took a test drive and it took 
21 . 7 . to go 0 50 ! why , even the it doors 

i guess you a 5 speed and could n't shift 
craig 

from  ( tyson f nuss ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 37 
reply to 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

from article , by  ( john r. daker ) 

cup  ( driving is an enough undertaking ) 
 ( smokers seem to think it 's just fine to use the road ) 

oh , sure sorry , but the absence of a is not gonna 
discourage anyone from eating drinking in the car let 's just put one 
in anyway , so at least they do n't have the further distraction of trying 
not to it. 
furthermore , you are obviously not a on a cold day , it 
takes a certain to toss a butt out of a without having 
it wind into the back  . also , just  cause some use 
the , does n't mean all of us do. 
this reminds me of one pleasant feature in the otherwise 
of the you could 
your without even removing your hand from the wheel the  
was right there . 

fake and  . 
any gold trim .  . 

these , i will agree , are , right along with the fake 
spare it 's sad watching those little old 
try to load their into the with that huge 
in the way. 
most fake top on a , with 
all the door trim still not anyone . 
of course , there was that i once saw .  .  .  . 


a 
and 
v little 's of fine 
o 0 brands 55 import , 17 

these opinions are not necessarily mine  ( or mine , either) .  . 
can anyone me a  . sig . 

from 
subject , , or what 
distribution rec 
organization university 
lines 14 

a friend of mine is buying a new car , and is considering the 
or the right now. which of these two cars 
would you recommend .  . we definately want an and , and room for 
people and long legs. 

if you have other suggestions for cars under after dealing i 'd be 
interested 
in you opinions as well. 

please send replies to , no address. 

thanks ! 
scott 


from  ( aviad sheinfeld ) 
subject re lo jack 
organization motorola 
keywords n 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 172 . 11 . 
lines 9 

according to a representative i saw recently , must be by 
an , and is placed in one of  ( roughly ) 30 in the 
car .  .  .  . 

thanks , 
steve m. com . ! ! 

sure , 


from  ( charles parr ) 
subject options that would be great to have .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization the university of , 
lines 26 




a list of options that would be useful. they can be existing 
options on a car , or things you 'd like to have .  .  .  . 

1 ) , great little  . lets you keep rough track of 
mileage , makes a good second for your gas  .  .  . 

2 ) full size spare 

3) built in and power systems for  . 

4 ) a fitting that allows you to generate current with 
the engine running , and plug in the , engine 
and  . 

feel free to add on .  .  .  . 

regards , charles 
x 

within the of the last few weeks i have heard elements of 
separate threads which , in that they have been in time , 
together to form a new within my and 
 . unknown net . person . 

from  ( terry quinn ) 
subject a new car 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 18 
reply to 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 



i have just taken on a new car  ( firebird ) with a 
finish .  . i assume that it is probably since the 
industry has moved in that direction in  . 

in years past , it used to be recommended that owners wait up to 
60 days before you a car , for the to  . the 
said this also , but i'm not sure that he was n't just 
basing it on past tradition .  . does anyone know if this is still a 
recommended practice , or is it better to go ahead and right 
away  ( non new car wax ) with the newer 



, il 

from compuserve . . . internet 

from  ( robert bell ) 
subject re info opinions wanted on cars in this article 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization north dakota higher education computing network 
lines 45 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) writes 
in article  ( rhonda gaines ) writes 

i'm in the market for a new car. currently i own a  90 6 
which has served me just fine. however , i 'd like to get 
a 4 door car since i do n't the thought of moving a 
around in a 2 door car. my are 4 door , a c , am , 
quick , cruise control , decent  ( my 
husband is a 6  . it must also be under 
closer to the 11 range  ( which will probably rule out 
the  . the  93 cars that have caught my eye are , 
, , grand am , grand , 
,  ( and if it 's enough and still comes in a 
4 door model ) , , and maybe even a small , 
although not the  . all opinions , , 
, etc. are welcome. 

i really would n't consider the grand am  ( all the same) 
since they are very bad in frontal and do n't have any 
other really outstanding qualities .  . 

john 


i really must object to that last statement. having a lot of experience 
with a  grand am , i can firmly state that they do have a lot of 
outstanding qualities .  . very reliable throughout. great of 
and components .  . very considering the size of the car. they 
look inside and out. the that i drive has exceptional power and 
compared to other similar cars that i have driven .  . 

all in all , it 's a fun to drive , , and reasonably  . 
please do n't knock it with a statement like that unless you back it up with 
specific reasons why you feel that way. 

rob 



john 
to you , the was just 
something that happened to other people , 
was n't it the black 



from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re too fast 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 66 

in article  ( andrew a. spencer ) writes 
in a previous article ,  ( james p. callison ) says 
in article  ( andrew a. spencer ) writes 
in a previous article ,  ( wharfie ) says 

that shows how much you know about anything. the on the 
are very different 9  ( or 9 . 5 . i forget ) all around , 
in front .  . the normal setup is  ( smaller ) front , 
drums  . 

one i saw had too .  .  . it . was on a lot. 
of course , the sales man was a fool .  .  .  .  .  . yeah . , right .  .  . 
then later told me they were  .  . more . , but still 
crap , since al is so m , and just as good .  .  .  .  . 

i tend to agree , tho that this still does n't take the up to standard 
for running 130 on a regular basis. the should be bigger , like 
11 or so .  .  . take . a look at the ones on the they have 
 . 

well , let 's see .  .  . my . t has a computer controlled 
, 4 wheel  ( 11 front , 10 ( ) rear ) , 3 point 

also 

, , good enough for 
without too much change , 310 3 . , 
4 wheel independent  ( plus limited slip differential ) , with 
a top speed in excess of , and rides on v rated (i have yet 
to find 60 in any other speed  . 

is that up to standard if not , why not 

james , i really hate to do this , but try reading the damn posts ! 

then you should n't 've done it. try answering the damn question. 
i am well aware of the fact that there was no mention of the 
in there. 

never was a t mentioned. the discussion was about 's and 
 not being up to  . i do not know about  . i 
only know that the quoted for the by previous poster 
a little for me to say that it was up to  . this does not 
any way me from wishing to own one , nor does it make it 
a bad car. it merely means that i think could have added that extra 
bit of safety and in larger , as the are plenty large 
enough for them to fit  ( if memory serves right , which it may very well not ) 
and the plenty powerful enough to need it. 

well , my point was that the and the both have very similar 
characteristics  ( front and  ( abs on the ) , high output 
, 4 wheel independent , very good , 3 point 
, fat , and top  . if one of them is 
up to standard  ( and i think the is) , but the other is n't , then 
why is that no flamage , just curiousity .  . 


james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re basics about 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 30 

in article  ( joe staudt ) writes 
in article  ( hung  ( hubert ) chang ) writes 

hi ! being new to a car owner , i would pretty much like to know more about 
some basics of maintaining the cars .  . 

i know the following 

1. oil has to be changed every 3000  . 

change the oil filter , too. 

2. check before going on the high way. and fill up the  . 

make that monthly , or more often if you know one or more of your 
has a slow leak .  . 

if the has a leak you should fix it. 


what others thank you. 


4. check all fluids regularly  ( every month ) , check the oil every time you 
fill up with gas .  . 

does n't work too well if the engine is hot , its more accurate to check the 
oil when the engine is cool , i.e. not when you are at a gas station .  . 

craig 

from  ( issa hazin ) 
subject re or 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
lines 20 

 ( danny phornprapha ) writes 

hi everyone , 

i'm getting a car in the near future. i 've narrow it down to and  . 
which might be a better choice 

thanks for your , 



i 've been asking myself this same question for the past year , so , if when 
you find out , would you please share the answer with me .  .  . 

the way i see it right now , work twice as hard so you can have both. 

cheers ) 




from  ( trevor paquette ) 
subject my day in court results 
nntp posting host com . 
organization 
lines 36 


a while back i asked for help in defending a traffic i received .  . 
in short 
the was for not stopping at a stop sign .  . given the conditions 
i could not stop in time and decided instead of right through the 
, i would complete my right turn and avoid a possible accident. 
a police happened to be the from my left 
and gave me the  . 
the said the only reason that you even down in the first 
place was that you saw me , otherwise you would have bombed right 
through 


i would like to thank all those who responded to my request for 
help. to all of those who told me to the bullet and pay the fine 
 .  . 

the judge with me and decided that in this case not stopping was the 
thing to do and found me not guilty .  . 

the 's statement and my account of the conditions at the time  ( very 
slippery , backed by conditions ) were the factors what made 
the judge decide on his verdict .  . 


moral if you have never been to court before and you think you have a case , 
go for it. it is a very interesting process , and it is there for 
your benefit .  . exercise your rights. 




name 
email , , canada 
from  ( 403 ) 
of virtual reality include disclaimer . h . o o 

from edu .  ( paul park ) 
subject re  ( really about other cars ) 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 21 

in article 
 ( doug  ( stardog champion ) writes 

it 's great that all these other cars can out handle , out corner , and 
out 
an  . 

but , you 've got to ask yourself one question do all these other cars 
have 
a with a no pop up or power 
that are  . a that can be opened to the 
air , 
closed to let just light in , or so that nothing comes in. 

you 've just got to know what 's important ) .  . 

doug 
 93 
... my sentiments exactly. 



from  ( dan day ) 
subject re car buying story , was christ , another service  .  .  . 
nntp posting host houston . com . 
organization system , inc. houston 
distribution usa 
lines 57 

in article writes 

their problem , i was n't giving them any more money. the guy then 
brought in the on duty who proceeded to give me a hard time. i 
reminded him that i was the customer and i did n't think i should be 
treated like that and that if he did n't back off he could forget the whole 
deal. he made some smart remark so i told him where he could stick it , 
back my check and left. to say , they were not pleased by 
the turn of events. 

that 's nothing. when a friend of mine went shopping for a small 
a few years ago , she brought me along as a male so 
the would n't give her the treatment .  . 
her first choice was a , and second choice was a 
 . we went to a and described what we 
wanted .  . we started on the price , and the 
kept playing the let me run this price by the sales . after 
playing the good , bad game , we finally told him 
that if he did n't have the authority to negotiate a price , perhaps 
we should be speaking directly to someone who did. he brought in 
the sales who proceeded to dick us around with every trick 
in the book.  ( read 's do n't get taken every time for a 
list . ) . finally , after playing a few more of you 'll have to 
work with us on this price , also known as each time you come up a 
thousand dollars we 'll come down ten , the gave a signal to 
his two sales , stood up , and said well , we ca n't come down any 
more so i guess we ca n't help you and they out of the room , 
leaving us sitting in the 's office all by ourselves. hmm .  . 
i 'd read that sometimes bug their own offices so they 
can leave and listen in on discussing the sales offer , and 
i mentioned this aloud to my friend while we were sitting there wondering 
why they would leave us in the office instead of showing us to the 
door .  . for lack of anything better to do , i picked up the phone on 
the and called another , asked for a , 
and began discussing what kind of price they would consider .  . a few 
sentences into the conversation , mr. broke into the line 
( ! ) and began telling me how rude he thought it was that i would call 
another from his phone ! i said that since he 'd 
that our business was over , he should n't care , and every time i tried 
to talk to the other sales guy the sales would out our 
with his own.  ( how did he know that i was using the phone , 
anyway ) finally , i up and we headed out of the  . 
sales and come out of a little room and he 
begins to us again. we say that we wo n't bother him anymore , 
we 're going next door to the  . 

then comes the part i wish i could have  . as we go out 
the front door , the sales across the entire , 
and all , go ahead ! you to buy a ! 
so my friend bought a  . 

just so the guilty wo n't go , i 'll mention that the 
sales 's name was  . from his manner , his 
refusal to come down to a reasonable price , and his at the 
end , my guess is that he had bet our original  ( who was 
a young novice ) that he 'd be able to get at least x dollars out of 
us , and he was that we would n't fall for his slimy  . 

from  ( jason hanson ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university department 
lines 14 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article l . writes 
from article , by ( ) 
this happened about a year ago on the washington  . 
kids decided it would be really cool to 
huge down on cars from an  . four or five 
cars were hit .  . there were several serious , and sadly 

about a year ago , some kids a off an on i 94 near eau 
claire , wisconsin and it killed the below. (i believe he was a 
from minnesota . ) . 

jason w. wisconsin  ( 414 ) 
university milwaukee , wi ham radio 
ca . usa . na . 

from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 42 

in article  ( franklinkl ) writes 
in article ,  ( james p. callison ) writes 
in article  ( dan day ) writes 
in article news . com . writes 

it 's a big business. almost no cars come from the with 
any more , and any fake job definitely came from some 
place. what amazes me is how much people are willing to pay for 
bad taste 

how about those really fake wheel stuck onto the 
or side  ( or both sides ! ) of some cars 

some of 'em are n't fake  ( if you 're talking about the , 
named after the lincoln , the first car to one) .  . i 
personally would love to have a  56 t with a 
 ( and the v 8 ) that is one of the most beautiful 
cars ever built , imho .  . 

james 


the may have been the first modern era to mount the 
spare on the of the car but it was hardly the first car to one. 
various techniques for the spare were quite common 
in early , both us and foreign .  . 

the 1941 lincoln was the first car to the 
 . the is not to be confused with outside 
a is a very specific 
 .  ( the 1941 has a neat it looks rather 
like a , imho .  . ) 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( eric lucas ) 
subject delta car 
organization  ( srsd mid ) 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
lines 9 


just found a great deal on a delta car ,  . 
comes with glass break , motion , and  . does 
anyone have one of these are they any good from the looks of it , its 
about the best on the market for the price .  . it 's also on sale , so that 's 
another reason to get it. i think i 'll be saving almost 200. any opinions 

eric 


from  ( richard welty ) 
subject rec . frequently asked consumer questions 
keywords monthly posting 
reply to 
organization new york state institute for studies 
expires thu , 20 may 1993 04 04 03 gmt 
lines 

archive name rec 

this article is one of a pair of articles containing commonly 
asked questions the other article contains questions 
more to the , and so is not 
to misc .  . 

changes as of 14 april 1993 revised fluid section , as 
non 5 fluids are now apparently available 

commonly asked questions 


questions 

q what do the funny numbers on the sides of my mean 

a typically , you will see something like  . the is the 
overall of the in , the is usually 
 . the 60 is the ratio  it indicates the of the 
of the relative to the overall  . our example 
has a of 0 . 60 . 117  . the 14 is the wheel 
in there are also some special called  
which have three wheel , like 
, which is in  . the r means , and the h is a speed 
indicating the highest speed at which the , when properly 
and carrying an appropriate load , may safely operate .  . common 
speed are s  ( 112mph ) , t  ( 118mph ) , h  ( 130mph ) , and v  ( up to 
) . 

recent changes to the method for specifying sizes move the speed 
to a different part of the you may therefore find 
like the 85 indicates the per load 
associated with the speed this load in continuous 
operation at the rated speed is dangerous practice. what follows is 
a table showing a number of  and 
per loads 

load index 50 51 88 89 145 
load  ( kg ) 

note that the usual mass vs. weight confusion occurs in this table .  . 

in some cases , the letters p or may be found in front of a 
size the indicates light , and the p 
indicates car. if no letter is given , then the application 
of the is car usage .  . as far as i know , these letters 
only appear in the us market .  . the is of 
interest to owners of light and other utility  . for 
the owner of a , there is no meaningful difference 
between a with a p and one with no at 
all. 

if the aspect ratio is , it is probably 80 , but may be 78 .  . 

with an  ( mud snow ) may have their speed 
reduced by 20 h  ( about ) . 

there is an additional set of on for , 
, and  . and are 
a , b , and c  ( with a the best and c the worst ) is 
a  . these values are of limited value , as they 
are somewhat arbitrarily by and are 
thus not useful in comparing different brands of  . 

q my car has with a funny size can i put 
normal on the car 

a your are called they were by  . 
because of a somewhat different design , they are incompatible 
with normal used a different wheel for them 
so that they could not be mounted on the wrong type wheel  ( and so that 
more conventional could not be mounted on type ) . 
you will need to different to put a normal on your 
car it is barely possible to fit normal on , and horribly 
dangerous to do so  ( the may simply off the in a corner , 
or possibly blow out at high speed . ) . type are becoming hard 
to find in addition to , makes suitable  . 
has apparently their line of  . 

q can i from side to side , or them only on one side 
of my car 

a car and have views on this subject many 
say that between the left and right hand sides of a 
car is now ok  ( this group includes and goodyear ) others 
 ( for example , and nokia ) will if such 
is done. the best advice is to read your manual carefully before 
your , and stick to the 's  . 

q how many should i buy , and if i buy 2 , which end of the 
car should i put them on 

a in short , 4 , and both ends. to explain , many drivers in areas that do n't 
get excessive or who do n't drive  ( or at all ) in 
conditions get away with only two on the drive , but there 
are circumstances where this can be dangerous practice. with a 
wheel drive car , you can choose between being able to start the car 
going (a function of the axle ) or stopping and turning the car 
(a function of the front ) . in a front wheel drive car , you start , 
stop , and turn with the front end. the primary risk of putting the 
on the front only is that if you have to put on the 
while going , you run a serious risk of going backwards. 

and speed limits 

q why are n't there any comments on and speed limits 
in this q a posting 

a because questions about and speed limits between 
misc . and rec .  . always start long , tedious , and pointless 
flame wars .  . if you want to talk about either of these , please 
subscribe to rec . or alt . flame . and keep it there. 

safety equipment 

q do really work 

a preliminary statistics suggest the following work much 
better than no good 3 point alone work much better than 
alone , and 3 point work slightly better than 
3 point alone. the con to is that some designs tend 
to burn the 's hands when the of the 
that occurs inside the , and that some designs  ( but 
not all ) may knock the 's hands from the wheel , making 
of control of the after the more difficult. 

questions 

q do i always need to get the on my turned 
always wants to do this. 

a no. there are specific conditions that turning or replacing 
some try and make a little extra money by replacing 
more often than is strictly necessary. if the are not 
, and only lightly , then there is no need to replace or 
to turn them. note also that some  ( the on many 
are a good example) are so narrow to begin with that it is not practical 
to turn them they must be replaced when they become too thin , , 
or  . 

q they tell me i should when to slow my car down. is 
this really a good idea 

a it used to be a very good idea , back in the days of , 
prone  . in modern cars , use of 
to slow the car is not really necessary , except in cases 
of long , runs .  . otherwise , modern are more 
than adequate to stop a car in all circumstances , and they 
are much to than  . 

on the other hand , many standard 's license in the usa 
still that the being tested under i 
suggest that before taking a us 's test , you either 1 ) learn to 
do this  ( which takes some time and practice ) or 2 ) borrow a 
car with an automatic to take the test. 

q how often should i replace my fluid 

a probably more often than you do. traditional fluids tend to 
absorb water this water can internal parts of the 
system and also lower the point of the fluid .  . 3 type 
are older fluids 4 and 5 are newer  . the 
principal differences are in wet and points the 
point is important in fluid , but the wet 
point is important in older fluid .  . 3 fluids have the lowest 
wet and point requirements 4 fluids have better 
point requirements and 5 fluids have the best 
point requirements  ( but 5 fluids are not clearly superior see 
the next q a for more details . ) . while the requirements imply that 
4 fluids are better than 3 fluids , there may be specific 
cases where a 3 fluid is preferable , but these are mostly 
competition applications .  . otherwise , 4 type fluids offer much 
improved feel .  . replacement once a year is recommended for 
4 fluids , although agressive drivers may profit by changing out 
fluid more frequently , or at least a amount of fluid 
out of the fairly regularly. 

q what about 5 fluids 

a this breaks down in to two parts. the 5 looks 
excellent for , but the first 5 fluids were 
based .  . fluids are a tricky proposition .  . unlike 3 and 
4 fluids , they do not absorb water at all. while this may sound 
like a feature , the problem is that any water present pools up in 
such systems , interfering with and any 
at the where the is  . the water will tend 
to in the system to the , where 
most of the occurs .  . 

because of this phenomenon , it is essential when converting to 
to empty the entire system and it throughly 
some even recommend replacing all parts in the 
system when converting to fluids .  . 

two other issues that come up with fluids 1 ) they are 
difficult to pour  ( that is , without air bubbles ) , which 
with getting a good feel , and 2 ) while they 
generally have much higher points than 4 fluids , they 
do have high failure modes which are 
in effect from 4 fluids .  . fluids may make sense 
in some street car applications , but they are certainly not 
recommended for high driving applications , and the 
economics are questionable for street use. 

i have recently become aware of new fluids that meet the 5 standard 
that do not contain these fluids appear to be reasonably 
compatible with the older 3 and 4 fluids , but i have little 
information at this time. 

q is available on some of the cars i'm looking at , but it costs 
more. is it worth it 

a this does not have a cut and dried answer therefore , this answer will 
be quite long in order to cover the pros and cons .  . the short answer 
is that costs more , both initially , and to maintain , will generally 
work better for the   ( that is to say , a who does 
not have extensive experience in high driving techniques ) , 
and may require the  of some techniques 
like which should be in any case. 

now for the long answer. works by the of the 
car , looking for signs of locked  . it may or may not be able 
be able to distinguish between the different  ( there are several 
systems on the market . ) . it cannot detect  ( which is 
what you would really want in an ideal world ) , but only the existence 
of  . the used vary some of the less well designed 
are sensitive to size , and to material , and 
may cease to function properly if the owner deviates from original 
equipment or equivalent components .  . 

when the detect , the system responds by 
the  ( either individually , or all at once , depending on the 
system . ) . if the keeps their foot firmly planted , the 
will end up between the locked and states  ( if a 
existed that could detect , then we could 
sit right at that point , which is where effect is 
achieved . ) . this can often be felt in the , as 
the system  . the percentage of the time that the are 
truly engaged is called the cycle  typically in an system 
this is about 40 on , a trained can this 
duty cycle quite using a called 
on wet , is so that will 
nearly every time. unfortunately , on mud and on 
, often effect can be acheived with the 
locked only , of the producing cars , 
has seen fit to provide a switch for the system for this 
 . 

a particularly important feature of is that it preserves 
control. this is the case simply because , if you are 
near the limit and turn the wheel , the will release 
the if it sees , and back off 
on the percentage of the time that the are applied .  . 
will accordingly. 

an important cannot the 
force in any given situation if you start on 
ice , do n't expect an system to help you out very much. 
the of is not changed by the presence of an 
system in your car. 

as far as goes , in addition to the potential 
restrictions i 've listed above , you have to worry about the 
following 1 ) parts costs are much higher the master 
for my obscure european lists for , but the master 
for the version of the same car lists for 
over 1000 .  . most explicitly forbid use of 5 
 ( silicone ) fluids in  . because of 
the potential cost of replacement of system 
components , regular (i suggest annual ) replacement of fluid 
becomes very important. 

q what about this business 

a normally , i 'd not put this in the q a , but recent 
about a number of accidents involving police drivers 
in suggests that this section is 
needed here 

is a practiced by all serious high 
drivers if made a habit , it the 
the and lock 'em up  panic habit entirely , and is much 
to be  . basically , the premise is that generate 
force when they have just started to slide , but 
just before the lock up entirely .  . drivers who 
learn to feel what this  like , and learn 
to search for it and hit it on the application of the 
 . in many cars , you can feel that you are near the 
when the starts to firm up as you it. 
in any case , if you ca n't hear the just a bit , you 're 
not very near the  . 

in a car with , often there is a in the just 
before the system starts if the backs off on 
the just a when the is felt , then they are very 
close to the and they 'll probably achieve better 
stopping than if they just it and let the 
take over. 

recently , there has been a of over a number of 
accidents , and one death , involving police cars with 
systems. the police in question quickly blamed 
the new systems , but according to magazine , it now 
seems clear that the problem was a lack of training none of the 
involved officers had any recent driving training .  . 
there is reason to believe that the drivers to the 
by  , an old and discredited 
of and the , the goal being to 
try and get back with a failing system. if you 
think about it for a minute , you 'll realize that must 
cut the effective operation of a working system by at least 
1 2 , so if you cut the 40 duty cycle of an system by that 
much , you are giving up most of your for the wrong reason. 
has the advantage in that it is an effective 
and useful regardless of whether your car has if 
you do fear a failed system , then one or two at 
the will be sufficient .  . 

gas questions 

q does high help 

a maybe , maybe not. some cars have knock , and can the 
engine or boost to suit the being used. 
on most cars , however , you should use the gas that makes your 
car run well. check your owner 's manual for details on what your car 
needs. 

q my car was made for  . will gas hurt it 

a it is possible that gas may slightly increase wear , 
although the oil company argues otherwise. the actual increase 
in wear will be almost , however , as modern 
actually contain very little lead .  . you should , however , 
check your owner 's manual many cars from the early do not 
actually require  . 

q do help what kind should i use 

a some do and some do n't .  . during the , it is a good idea to use 
gas however , some may be harmful to injection systems. 
never use an containing  ( sometimes called 
alcohol ) such may damage systems in cars with 
and almost certainly will damage cars with injection .  . 

's opinions vary on containing  ( sometimes 
called alcohol ) if your car has injection , check the owner 's 
manual on your car before using these. most consider 
10 acceptable in  . with 
 ( isopropanol ) , and are fine in 
cars .  . 

an occasional bottle of is helpful in cars with 
, although many contain that 
do the same job. some off brands of contain 
or always check the before putting anything 
in your gas  . 

there are a small number of particularly good these are 
more expensive that the run of the mill ones , but work 
much , much better. among these are , 1 , 
 , and  . a bottle of one of these , 
once every months , is highly recommended .  . 

q what about 

a the quality of in varies somewhat 
has instituted a program , and brands which pass this 
test may that fact. stickers indicating passage of the test 
are now beginning to appear on at gas  . if such 
are used , then are probably optional .  . 
that while use of approved will keep a clean 
engine clean , they may not clean a with bad deposits .  . 

questions 

q what do the numbers and letters in a oil mean 

a there are several different items  . there is a two letter 
code indicating the type of that the 
uses in the oil this looks like , sf , or such. the s codes are 
for engine applications the c codes are for engine 
applications .  . the second letter is in sequence as new levels 
of protection are developed thus sf is considered better than , 
is considered better than , and so forth .  . 

the more is the oil weight. this is either 
a single number (e . g .  . , 30 weight ) or a pair of numbers separated by 
the letter w (e . g .  . , ) . the latter type is much more commonly 
used these days , and are the only type that most automobile 
in operators  . the first number in the 
 ( 10w ) is the apparent of the oil when it is cold 
the w stands for  . the second number  ( 30 ) is the 
of the oil when hot. there is a trick here the oil does n't actually 
get  ( turn from 10 weight to 30 weight ) as it gets  . what 
is actually happening is that when the oil is cold , it has the 
of a cold 10 weight oil .  . as it gets , it does n't get thin as fast 
as a oil would by the time it is up to , it has the 
of a hot 30 weight oil .  . 

note that these numbers actually ranges of not 
all have exactly the same when cold , and not all 
30 weight have the same when hot. note also that the 
novel behaviour of grade is caused by , and it has 
been reported that with the sole exception of , 
do not their grade characteristics well over time. , 
, and work very well , though. 

q are  places any good 

a some do adequate work , but there are quite a few incompetent ones out 
there. let the beware , watch them while they work , make sure 
that they do n't the oil plug , and keep your hand on 
your at all times. 

q are oil like slick 50 or any good 

a slick 50 and are based  . many of these have 
come onto the market recently they are different from the based 
that have been around since the early 50 's .  . is the 
chemical name for  ( teflon(tm ) , a owned by  . in general , 
do not recommend use of these products. most usenet 
responses to questions on these are  ( slight 
increase of after application , revving ) but long term 
results  ( whether are effective after miles ) are 
 . some  ( such as saab ) claim that either the 
product or the engine that application causes 
of the oil seals and eventual  . some owners 
have reported death of seals shortly after the addition of 
slick 50 to their cars .  . this writer has been by a slick 50 
( ! ) that slick 50 should not be used in japanese , as 
it may the oil return passages in the engine. otherwise , there are 
no known reports of damage caused by  . 

on the other hand , there are slick 50 in the world. 

q do really work 

a yes , but .  . more specifically , most accept , 
but disagree with the extremely long oil change claimed by 
oil  . recommend that you continue to 
change oil at the recommended in the owners manual for your 
car. even if you decide to try the longer , at least change 
the oil filter at regular , as get just as 
as conventional  . 

gear for manual transmissions are another matter 
entirely , , and are very highly regarded and very 
effective. 1 gear gets , however. 

q are specifying longer and longer oil change  . 
how often should i change my oil 

a it depends on how you drive .  . if your car always  ( or nearly always ) 
gets up , and you do n't drive it very hard and keep the 
down , the 's is probably fine. if , however , 
you drive it hard , drive it at high , or , if you 
only drive it to and from the supermarket so that it does n't get up 
to , then you may wish to change oil much more often , 
perhaps at 3000  ( given that most are 
now specifying ) . if you do n't drive your car 
much at all  ( say a year ) , then you probably want to change 
oil every months anyway. if you are a car during the , 
then change oil before it and change oil when you bring it out 
of  . 

misc .  . questions 

q my car has a belt .  . i hear that bad things happen when they 
break .  . what 's the story 

a it depends on the internal design of the  . early , 
for example , will suffer severe damage if the belt breaks , but 
the newer cars will just require a and of a new belt .  . 
some will not be , but others will be. 

if no replacement is for your car , then change the 
belt at least every 60 , 000 some cars may require more frequent 
replacement .  . ask your or independent mechanic .  . also , ask if 
there are any related that should take place at the same time 
 ( for example , the same that suffer damage also have 
a belt driven water , which has been known to , 
destroying the belt , and which then causes major damage 
as a side effect. replacing the belt while ignoring the water 
can be a mistake . ) . 

q why would anyone be stupid enough to design a so that it 
self when the belt breaks 

a for reasons. compromising design so that the 
and will not requires that the 
ratio of the engine be reduced this is why you are 
more likely to avoid damage in economy cars than in 
oriented  . 

q what causes 

a the final report of the national , transportation , and safety 
concluded that could not be 
caused by any failure of the in question and at the 
same time be consistent with the physical evidence. the report 
goes on to conclude that  by the operator 
is probably the cause. 

richard 
good has ever been reported about the full of 
a race car about either its pitch or roll   smith 

from  ( thomas redmond ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
originator 
keywords , , danger , gun , violent , 
organization corp .  . 
distribution us 
lines 19 


in article ,  ( brian harvey ) writes 
 ( robbie felix ) writes 
how about the thousands of kind who at local 
to help children , , the homeless 

hear , hear ! thanks ,  . 

you also do n't read that much about violence against , such as 
george bush alive tens of thousands of unarmed iraqi 17 year , 
who were trying to surrender , with  . 


on the other hand , i think it is true , without out 
for blame , that violence is more socially acceptable than it used to be. 
those of us who 'd like to discourage violence have plenty of work to do 
with people of all ages. 

i did n't know george could drive a ! 

from  ( mark monninger ) 
subject re car buying story , was christ , another service  .  .  . 
nntp posting host 250 . 10 . 7 . 
reply to 
organization sps 
distribution usa 
lines 28 

in article 
 ( dan day ) writes 
 .  .  . an experience similar to mine ) ... 
then comes the part i wish i could have  . as we go out 
the front door , the sales across the entire , 
and all , go ahead ! you to buy a ! 
so my friend bought a  . 
... 

this kind of behavior is what i was shocked by in my  . for 
out loud , how do these think they can talk to 
this way and still stay in business again , i do n't expect sales people to 
bow , , and in my presence but i sure do n't expect to be 
either. i was very surprised by the way the sales people talked to 
me and in other   i in sales 
 . evidently , their success rate is high enough that they continue 
to do business this way. there must be a lot of people out there who are 
easy to intimidate .  . 

on the other hand , i'm not sure about the  one price , no  
approach that and other are starting to use. i guess if their fixed 
price is fair it 's ok. maybe the best approach is to do your homework 
before you go in. find out the of the car , add a reasonable 
profit for the ( 200 ) , offer them that price and stick to 
it. if they get abusive , just leave .  . then , do n't let them try to you 
after the deal is agreed on. 

mark 

from  ( brent moss ) 
subject re do trains have 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 200 . 5 . 
organization evans computer corp .  . , salt city , 
lines 34 

in article x ! ,  ( john de armond ) writes 
m . writes 


while taking an extended easter , i was going north on i 45 
somewhere between , tx and , tx and i came upon a 
train on a with its sitting directly over 
the  . there appeared to be movement within the 
and out of curiosity i to 85 to get a better look. just as i 
passed from the , my went into full 
alert all and all chirps , , and going strong .  . 
i thought i had been nailed good but no police  . 

some , but not all , have  . the head is 
mounted looking down at the ground  ( to minimize sent and 
received ) but looking at a wheel .  . these are low power units 
and typically wo n't unless an unusual situation 
such as yours  . 

john 


john de , interested in high 
engineering  ( magazine(tm ) interested in high tech and computers 
, send mail address to 
for a free 
need usenet public access in write me for info on com .  . 


this makes  ( sense(radar pointed down ) , because almost every train i pass head on that 
my does so more just after i have passed the front of the engine. 
i get a little of the as i am and the instant i get to 
the side of the first engine the a fairly strong signal for 
a short time. it happens with just about every train i see. 

from  ( john r. daker ) 
subject re license plates 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 12 
reply to  ( john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


in a previous article , () says 

hi , i'm interested in getting the list for license numbers. if anyone 
has a listing i 'd appreciate getting a copy of it. thanks ! 

you must be incredibly bored. have you considered reading the phone book 


the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal 

from  ( ron bean ) 
subject re art of shifting 
organization software 
lines 30 

 ( barking weasel ) writes 

writes 

my is to back off the and at the same time 
back on the shift  . if for some reason i miss the shift , 
i lightly press the try  . i 've found that 
shifting is quicker at high  ( 4000  . i also some 
times using 1 3 5 , 1 2 4 5. 

sounds about right. i usually slip it out during down 
and then the and wait until it like things are right 
 ( usually about a second ) and then slip it into gear .  .  .  . 

so , how did you guys learn this is it something you were 
born with , or did you make horrible the first few 
times  ( how many times ) 

i would think you 'd have to have a certain amount of feel 
for it to begin with. some people would never get it , and others 
 ( like me ) would never have the to try it , unless maybe you 
were planning to buy a new anyway .  .  .  . 

 ( btw , i 've heard that quite a few and race car 
drivers shift this  . 


 ( ron bean ) 
! ! ! ! zaphod 


from  ( name ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
reply to 
organization university , 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( kevinh ) writes 

in article ,  ( wes fujii ) writes 
brian wrote 

i never saw the guy. the police said they thought the motive was to 
hit the car , have us stop to check out the damage , and then jump us , 
and take the  . 

please be aware of folks .  . and for your own good , please t stop ! ! ! ! 

sad .  . this sort of thing is on the rise across the country. south florida 
is getting a lot of national tv on the subject where 
are being attacked  ( and some killed ) in similar to this. 

make that  . i know numerous people who were planning 
to the florida , and have now chosen another  ( non us ) 
 . you expect this sort of thing , perhaps , in third world 
countries but not the us ! 

in response to this and other articles that have been written on this 
subject , i would like to say that it is not just a us problem. in southern 
ontario last summer there were several instances along the where people 
 ( mainly truckers ) were shot at from  . there are many sick people 
out there and it makes you wonder what the worlds coming to. 


from  ( brian donnell ) 
subject for sale  91 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
organization nasa information sciences division 
lines 12 

two volume soft cover 
for all models of  91  . 
 ( probably good for  models as well . ) . 
like new condition. 
these are the used by the 
 mechanics they normally 
cost over 80 new. 

50 

brian 


from  ( tim heckel ) 
subject re instead of a , what 
organization it center 
lines 7 
distribution na 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

for those that are interested i got my fully  ( air , , 
sunroof )  r in september 1991 for 13 , in , ca .  . it 
was one of the 1st  sold , few of the had any , no local 
had an r. i went straight to the 
at the i liked , told him what i wanted , made him aware that i 
knew what his price should be. he called me back with exactly what i 
wanted from a away , i took the next day. 

from 
subject says car is  . 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization data services 
lines 26 




on morning , another decided to 
turn left in front of me , doing great damage to my car 
 ( honda  . 
i have yet to pay off the car , and the body says the 
company wants to total the car. i have n't 
been able to get in touch with the person handling my claim , 
so i checked on some things 

1 ) my is 00 . 
2 ) blue book is 00 . 
3) loan value is 00 . 
4 ) trade in value is 00 . 

could anyone give me any advice on what i should could do 
if the company does not give me a reasonable 
amount for the loss of the car. 

thanks , 
james baker 





from a  ( roland , crab ) 
subject re concepts of all tim 
reply to 
organization computer services 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( bob smith ) writes 
in article , () writes 
imho , the thing we ever did in copying the japanese was moving the 
switch from the to the controlling the turn signal cruise 
control , etc. 

well , my had the on the turn signal  . guess those 
germans were copying the japanese too. ) 

rest deleted 


not to mention my friend 's  54 with the light switch and 
integrated in a single off the ! those french 
were apparently copying the japanese before the germans ! ) 





from  ( jim frost ) 
subject re is car important 
organization software , inc. 
lines 14 
nntp posting host 3 . 

 ( trevor corkum ) writes 
is it only me , or is 
safety not one of the most important factors when buying a car 

it depends on your  . a lot of people put higher 
on gas mileage and cost than on safety , buying 
instead of volvos .  . i personally take a middle ground the only 
thing i really look for is a three point and 5  . 
i figure that into walls are n't common enough 
for me to spend that much extra money for protection , but there are 
lots of low speed that do worry me. 

jim 


from  ( steven a. morris ) 
subject re wife wants 
organization studies program , seattle university 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 

if you hold off , there are a number of interesting coming 
to market in the next few years. 

the new will be based on the , which should 
be an improvement over the current model .  . 

the new will have a option  ( also a 
product ) 

, makers of the is planning a larger  . 

steve , m . a .  . internet 
studies uucp , uunet ! ! ! ! 
seattle university phone  ( 206 )  ( dept ) or  ( direct ) 
seattle , 

from  ( ryan kim ) 
subject new break after  ( 60k mi ) on  90 
organization , university of 
lines 43 


hi , maybe someone can help me here .  .  .  . 
i am looking to buy this 1990 for right now. 
the car has  ( or about miles ) on it. 
a typical mileage for 1990 cars seem to be about  ( or about  . 
the just informed me that when he brought the car in for 
he was told that the front break and the had to be replaced 
to meet the legal standards.  ( he said he will replace the components before 
selling the car to me . ) . 

being ignorant to the technical stuff on cars , i do n't know 
what this could mean .  .  .  . 
is about the time typical for replacing the above mentioned items 
or is this an indication that the car was 
would other things break down or have to be replaced soon 
the told me that he used the car on the a lot , but , 
i do n't know how to verify this .  .  .  . i 've seen the away 
in tiny in the front of the , though. 

although the is an excellent car and the car is very clean and 
well kept , it 's currently out of 
(a similarly  90 with will have 2 years or 
worth of left ) and i do n't want to worry about paying for 
any  .  .  . 
but , i also need a car for 5 people .  .  .  . 

when will the new come out , by the way 

i would very much appreciate your in this. 
please reply by e mail  ( preferred ) or post in this newsgroup .  . 
thanks ! 

ryan 




ryan kim 
university of , , computer 
do not between traffic at road works. 
from the new british code 
 ( toronto star april 3 , 1993 ) 


from  ( kenneth finnegan ) 
subject re , , or 
article i.d. cs . 1993apr6 . 
reply to 
organization data systems 
lines 9 
nntp posting host navy . 

as an additional data point , i have run exclusively 
in the following cars 75 , 78 , 76 , 78 , 
70 , 76 , 86  . i 've never had an oil related 
problem. 

disclaimer it gets mighty hot down here. 




from  ( andrew j. huang ) 
subject re update  ( tm ) 11 
organization university 
lines 17 

in article  ( andrew j. huang ) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( brian j queiser ) writes 
 ( glen d. powell ) writes 

the kind of apparently by is  . 

agreed. however , the particular had been working with for 
many years and had left europe to go to  . with their 
andy 

i was out of date. is directly from , 
independent of  .  . 

andy 




from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re question  ( grinding ) 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 9 

in article  ( james yuhn ) writes 
that 's not the you 're hearing , its the  . early have 
a lot of what is referred to as  gear   . you can generally 

i have one of the first built , and mine does n't make 
this  . 




from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re too fast 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 24 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
larger engine. that 's what the is a slightly modified family 
with a powerful engine. they did n't even bother improving the 
 . 

that shows how much you know about anything. the on the 
are very different 9  ( or 9 . 5 . i forget ) all around , 
in front .  . the normal setup is  ( smaller ) front , 
drums  . 

your argument still boils down to an should n't be driven 
fast because i , jim , say it is n't designed to go fast .  . 

 . 

if you think so you sure do n't pay attention to my postings .  . 

damn straight .  . you 're one of those people who makes stuff 
up and tries to it off as god 's own truth. if i want lies i can 
go listen to television .  . 

the rat 



from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 38 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , tu . de .  ( christian huebner ) says 

 ( bradford kellogg ) writes 

i think he 's talking about a different form of rush .  . evidently , it 's fun to be 
 . but hey , if you want that kind of rush , try  . you may 
only get up to 80 or so , but it makes 130 in a car feel like a stroll in the 
park .  . 

why should a good be at the only thing i fear 
going at 130 are drivers , who switch to the left without using 
either view or  . doing 130 to 150 ai n't a rush 
for me , but it 's fun and i get where i want to go much  . 

but in one point you are quite right. if you are at 130 you 
should better not drive that fast , or you 'll be a hazard to others. 

btw , before you flame me , read my e mail address. i know what i'm 
talking about , as i live in germany .  . 



chris tu . de . 

not a flame , just a point i 'd be scared at 130 here , not because i feel 
i or my car could n't handle it , but because of exactly what you said 
drivers who are stupid. like the ones who are doing 130 also , and so 
they pull in right behind you at maybe 1 2 car lengths .  .  .  . oh . yeah , real 
smart .  .  .  . this me in cities at 50 .  . when i ca n't see enough of 
the car to make it , they are following too close. and 
when i see them doing this and reading a newspaper .  .  .  .  .  . sigh  .  .  . this . 
is why america has 55 65 speed limits our drivers are too to realise 
that reading the paper should be done at , or work , not in their 
car. 

my thoughts .  .  . 


subject after market cruise specific questions 
from d .  .  ( mike ) wieda ) 
organization 
nntp posting host 128 . 187 . 203 . 40 . 
lines 

, 

i'm a little new to this newsgroup , but i would like to some of the 
knowledge and expertise available here. 

the subject after market cruise 

the background 
i recently broke my in a road accident  ( 4 places , five 
, ! ( ) .  . in two weeks i will be returning to texas  ( my 
home ) from my school  ( byu ) in , utah .  . as you can imagine , trying to 
drive nearly 1300 with a broken right is n't just the of 
a good time. my car does not have a cruise control , so i would have to do 
all the  ( ha ha ) with my up  . 

my question 
what is the general opinion of after market cruise control units i 
realize that a cheap cc  ( cruise control ) from , say , , is n't going to 
be as good as a or professionally  ( if there is such a 
 . and i that i probably ca n't expect much in the way of 
accuracy , looks and that sort of thing but anything 's gotta be better than 
trying to drive with a  . 

i have a 1984 , 4 speed , standard , 4 4 , 2 . engine with 
 ( kettering(sp )  ( y'know , cap , , that set up not 
electronic .  . maybe you could 've guessed it being an  , but i'm just trying 
to give information as as i  . 

i found a cc for 80  . it seems to use the system 
instead of an electric  . is this good or bad if i did buy 
this cc , which should i 

it has two speed one magnetic , and one that gets a signal from the 
negative side of the , kinda like a pick up , or so i 
understand. i can use either one. which is best the manual says (i read 
it in the today ) that the magnetic set up is more accurate , but 
harder to  . is there really a big difference 

it has a for the , just like other , but does not have a 
for the  . so if i was n't paying real close attention i 
might push the in while the cruise is trying to get the speed up. which 
would wind the engine up kinda high until i got my about me and turned 
the thing off. i'm pretty , so this does n't bother me , if it 
were for my car , then it would bother me , but i'm ok with it. 

the also calls for an to a on signal 
and a switched on signal .  . i think i can get a switched signal 
from the correct side of the light  . am i right but i'm 
not sure where to get the on signal , or , for that matter , what 
exactly it is any ideas as to what the wants and where to get 
it 

i think i can figure the other things out. like how to up the negative 
side type sensing and the control , and the ground and 
all that business. but i need a little help with 

1. is it worth the money and safety risk  ( if any) for such a 
device 
2. is there any particularly good after market cc 
3. are professionally better and 
worth the 
4. if the i saw  ( sorry , no or model number , just 
that it is at boy and its 80 ) is sufficient for my simple 
needs , how do i get the thing properly  ( specifically , 
the questions above) 

my father and i built a  ( volkswagen 2a ) when i was in 
high school , so i consider myself fairly good with tools , , and 
cars .  . so the does n't me. i just want to be certain that 
i get the thing correctly as my is just a bit more 
complicated than my  . ) 

i appreciate your time in reading my post , and i would appreciate any 
expertise or opinion anybody has on the subject. if you would like to share 
some of your wisdom , please email as i do n't get over this group very often 
 ( but i check my mail all the time) .  . 

again , thanks for any help anyone may have. 

mike 



from  ( eliot ) 
subject re in automatic transmissions 
keywords , , manual , automatic 
article i.d. engr . 
organization clearer than 
lines 40 
nntp posting host engr . washington . edu . 


an excellent automatic can be found in the  . it to 
mode when the figure it , not when the sets 
the switch .  .  . which is the proper way to do it , imo. so what does 
mode several things 

1 ) to red line  ( or to the rev in the case of the legacy ) 

2 )  . (i . e .  . if you lift off , it will remain in the 
low gear .  . this is if you are charging through and 
would like to do without the distraction of when there 's 
another curve approaching ) 

3) part , based on the speed at which the is 
depressed , rather than the position of the  . modern 
can measure this very easily and switch to mode .  . 
this is wonderful if you want to charge through a green light about 
to turn red. my senses this very well and can on as 
little as half if my right foot is fast enough. 

also , i think that a smart automatic can deliver better gas mileage 
than a with a stick , all else being equal .  .  . remember that 
the idea of a stick being more economical than an automatic makes a 
big assumption that the is smart enough to know what gear to 
use for each situation .  .  . how many times have you ridden with an 
on the at 55 65 in 4th gear  ( of a 
5 speed ) 

how many of people who drive really know what the best 
gear to use is for every conceivable situation i'm sure there will 
be some who know , but i suspect that a chip controlled automatic with 
all possible scenario ratio combinations in is likely to do 
better. i can also say that all my previous assumptions were proved 
wrong after i got a car with  .  .  . high gear , 
low and wide open is more economical than low gear , high 
and small  . the explanation is quite simple if 
one down to think about it , but not that obvious at first sight. 




from  ( theodore chen ) 
subject re 1993 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 14 

in article f writes 
2 ) there is a special deal where i can get an infinity , fully 
loaded , at cost (i have check this out and the numbers match 
 . they are doing this because they are and update mid 1993 
version  ( includes dual air bags ) and want to get rid of their old 1993 's .  . 

is this really the 's cost did you get the 's cost by 
looking at the there may be to  . 
i 'd check this out , since i have trouble believing that a would 
sell a car to me at his cost .  . 

is not necessarily the cost .  . 



from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 33 

 ( allen tobias ) writes 

in article ( ) writes 
this happened about a year ago on the washington  . 
kids decided it would be really cool to 
huge down on cars from an  . four or five 
cars were hit .  . there were several serious , and sadly 
a small girl sitting in the front of one of them was 
in the head by one of the larger  . i do n't recall if she 
made it , but i think she was for a month or so and 
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live. 

the girl 's ok , actually , and she well enough to go home. i 
do n't know if she has any permanent damage , though. just in case anybody was 
concerned .  .  .  . 


what the hell is happening to this great country of ours i 
can see of off of and such , but 
20 ! has our society really this low 



if people start forcing others to take responsibility for their actions 
things like this would n't happen. we stop blaming outside causes , and 
start blaming the criminals , we will continue to let things like this happen. 



the university of illinois mail 
neil ,  ( c)1981 ) 
quick to judge , quick to , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice 
and fear walk hand in hand 

from  ( gary w. mahan ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
organization software 
lines 12 

why should a good be at the only thing i fear 
going at 130 are drivers , who switch to the left without using 
either view or  . doing 130 to 150 ai n't a rush 
for me , but it 's fun and i get where i want to go much  . 

in defense of the drivers , who are in the right  . here in the states , people simply do not expect when they are driving to be at a speed of 50  . i do n't think this is because they are stupid  ( of course , there are exceptions ) , they are just programmed because of the limit .  . do you  ( in the states ) when you look in the view always future positions of cars based on a 50 speed  . 

dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left fast but when i 
cars who are on the right , i slow down a bit. if i were to rely on the judgement of the other car , to recognize the speed , i would be the stupid one. 

btw , if no one else is around , then go for it ! . 


from 
subject re for damage a record 
organization college of medicine , houston , tx 
lines 8 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 128 . 27 . 

i was in the great storm .  .  .  .  . my . was so bad they are 
going to replace the top , doors and  . it is black so they will 
the entire  .  . cost around and time  . 3 
to 4 weeks. 





from 
subject re ultimate 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( eliot ) writes 
in article writes 
do n't sell that well , although the percentage of purchased 
with is probably relatively high. 

56 of all sold are  . 

is backing down on the number 
of models it with  . before , one could an 80 or 90 with 
, but now it is strictly for the top line model the same goes 
for the 100 200. 

the 80 has been eliminated from the us , but the 90 is still 
available in version , though it is hardly cheap .  . they are 
still true to their pledge of making an option on their entire 
line of cars .  . now , if only they will bring in the  .  . 



before the became the it was called the 200  . 
this model did come in a , a very quick  . very rare also. 

mike 


from  ( barking weasel ) 
subject re art of shifting 
organization inc.  ( 206 ) 
lines 36 

writes 

i'm wondering if anybody else out there is a i 've been 
doing it my self over 200 , 000 , on my current i 've got 
over  . i 've heard people talk about how doing this can damage a 
 . my experiences suggest otherwise. what techniques do you use 

yeah. i do n't use the all the time either. i 've done it 
with , , , and and it works fine. i ca n't think of 
any reason that it would damage the tranny .  . essentially you are just 
doing what the do anyhow match the engine speed with the 
tranny speed and slip it into gear .  . 


on some old pieces of junk i , the was so 
that the was the only way to shift , except  . 
to date i 've driven , , , a  . some where 
harder than others to shift but generally the higher the the 
quicker easier they where to shift .  . 

my is to back off the and at the same time 
back on the shift  . if for some reason i miss the shift , 
i lightly press the try  . i 've found that 
shifting is quicker at high  ( 4000  . i also some 
times using 1 3 5 , 1 2 4 5. 

sounds about right. i usually slip it out during down 
and then the and wait until it like things are right 
 ( usually about a second ) and then slip it into gear .  .  .  . 




jon you obviously do n't know who you 're dealing with gross 



from  ( zakir sahul ) 
subject inflation in car 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 5 


anyone have or to references about 
how fast much car have gone up in the last 

thanks. 

from  ( jeff hagen ) 
subject re 
organization wake university 
lines 22 
nntp posting host ac . edu . 



the brothers were respected test drivers for the 
co .  . when was there. 

when the kicked out of in he took and 
others with him. as mentioned before , they founded the successful 
company .  . 

a little known fact is that the co .  . actually took over ! 
that was how got back in charge of legally his new company 
co .  . did the buying , and was a division of ! 

after and into the era , things so that the 
board was superior , but there was always a degree of given 
the division , presumably because of the initial structure .  . 
 ( if you look at the organization for in 's book , 
division reports directly to , not through the 
car division which covers , , , and pontiac ) 

jeff  ( minor deity of worthless trivia ) 


subject re and the real world 
from  ( derek tearne ) 
organization new software development center 
lines 20 

in article writes 

oh yeah , i had a , and even before i did anything 
to it , it could leave an standing anywhere except , perhaps , on a long straight 
run at 90 . 

people who bought bought them because they were an open 
and embodied what people thought they should for an old traditional 
 . not because they were great at anything. 

pretty much like the people who buy the 5  ( miata ) today. small 
fun and you can fool yourself  ( and a lot of other people ) that you have the 
of many far superior  ( and much more expensive ) cars .  . 



 . new 
some of the more aware were worried about the environmental 
consequences of an accident with the new enriched fusion reactor .  . 
if it goes off only the and will survive .  .  .  . they said. 

from  ( jim mckay ) 
subject re water in of 89 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 37 

 ( tommy szeto ) writes 

water gradually up in the of my friend 's 89  . every 
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and out the water 
under the cover on the  . i would guess this usually happens 
after a good storm .  . a few 

1 ) is this a common problem 

yes this is a common problem. the occur through the of the 
 . unfortunately , has this with most and does 
not have a recall for it. very to say the least. 

2 ) where are the holes for the 

there is no holes that i know of. i used a to it 
i waited three months as i was short cash and they would n't fix it 
under  . then i paid as it up my electrical system 
including a motion which is near the in 
the  . this resulted in my passive they would 
not retract .  . so i ended up paying about 200 to have the replaced 
90 to have the tail  ( they replaced the 
which i insisted was not the problem so they did not charge me for that 
when i proved to be right . ) . not to mention the water damage to the 
covers to the spare com and in the  . 

very annoying. do n't let the water problem go get it fixed or you 'll pay 
more later. considering how common a problem it is i hope every one 
complains to  . 

thanks for any info .  . 
tom 


tom no ! not those ! the ones on the 
bottom .  .  .  . 
include disclaimer . h . 

from  ( steve wall ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization anonymous 
lines 22 
nntp posting host army . 

in article ,  ( allen 
tobias ) wrote 


society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the ! the basic reason 
is that human life has been to the point were killing someone is 
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on acts on tv , we can abort 
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised 
when some kids drop 20 and kill people. they do n't care because the 
message they hear is life is cheap ! 

i think this is getting a little  . robbers have been a 
part of life since the middle ages at least. it 's human nature to look 
at history through rose , but random acts of violence have 
been a part of our  . overall , life is better now than it 
ever was then. it 's just that random individual acts of violence have 
never 
been historically significant , and record keeping in the past was never 
good 
enough to them all. 

steve 

from  ( brian c. kensing ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
nntp posting host its . edu . 
reply to 
organization polytechnic institute , , ny .  . 
lines 10 

i prefer a manual to an automatic as it should be. i believe that 
should only be for people with physical disabilities who otherwise 
would not be able to drive .  . automatic transmissions allow drivers to be lazy .  . 
more time is available to with the radio or to look at the 
instead of concentrating on the road. the manual keeps the drive 
always doing something , granted it is n't a large movement .  . plus , driving should 
be fun ! driving a manual is fun , driving an automatic is a  . 
in the case of shift speed , can be made to shift far 
that any human could move a stick. if i was , i 'd want and automatic .  . for 
normal driving go with the manual .  . 

from  ( john r. daker ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 13 
reply to  ( john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


cup  ( driving is an enough undertaking ) 
and fax machines  ( see above) 
on the 's side. 
 ( smokers seem to think it 's just fine to use the road ) 
fake and  . 
any gold trim .  . 



the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal 

from  ( kevinh ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
originator 
reply to 
organization ag 
lines 20 


in article ,  ( wes fujii ) writes 
brian wrote 

i never saw the guy. the police said they thought the motive was to 
hit the car , have us stop to check out the damage , and then jump us , 
and take the  . 

please be aware of folks .  . and for your own good , please t stop ! ! ! ! 

sad .  . this sort of thing is on the rise across the country. south florida 
is getting a lot of national tv on the subject where 
are being attacked  ( and some killed ) in similar to this. 

make that  . i know numerous people who were planning 
to the florida , and have now chosen another  ( non us ) 
 . you expect this sort of thing , perhaps , in third world 
countries but not the us ! 



from  ( tom vervaeke ) 
subject re land worth it 
organization division 
lines 20 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

my wife and i looked at , and one last fall .  . this was a 1992 model .  . 
it was  . i could not imagine driving it in the 
mountains here in at anything  . i 
have read that the new 1993 models have a newer , improved engine. 

i'm quite serious that i laughed in the face when he said once 
it 's broken in it will feel more powerful . i had been used to driving a 
4 . engine. i believe the 's land  ( land yachts ) 
were 3 . , the as the , which is also  ( in my 
own personal  . 

they are big cars , very , but nothing  . 


( ) ( ) 
tom email 
co .  . phone 

i love animals .  . they taste  . 
( ) ( ) 

from  ( wilbur comm ) 
subject heard of these south bay 
originator 
nntp posting host coast 
organization 
distribution 
lines 13 

i need to bring on my for body work (i got  . i was 
wondering if anyone has heard of any of these south bay body 

center of santa on reed 
west in san jose 
los 
body in 

thanks ! 

w 



from  ( jwg ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
in reply to 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 20 35 23 gmt 
organization u  . organization . 
lines 16 

in article ,  ( barak h. tulin ) gives forth 
i just started reading this thread today , so forgive me if it has already been 
mentioned. but .  .  . what . was the deal with 's putting the on the 
left hand turn signal it was a on the end , where the 
would be on the  . could the not figure 
out the through the wheel , or what 

had an  alliance for a long time. it was a comfortable but 
car. i got very used to the on the , after a couple months worth 
of getting used to it. after i bought my next car , a , it took me 
for ever to get used to the on the wheel again ! 

jim grey 


up the ! 

from  ( michael s. wiggs ) 
subject 
organization space science institute 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 7 


the answer to your question is .  .  . sort . of. had a 
much less version of this army out in the 
early  70 's  ( or  . it was called the 
thing , and was , of course , a  . i seen 
many around then or now. good luck .  .  .  . 


from  ( mark wayne blunier ) 
subject re , , or 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 12 

 ( craig deforest ) writes 

if you 're planning on making long drives , the is probably fine 
(esp .  . in the summer ) in your car. but if you 're making short drives , 
stick to the  . 

several years ago was having trouble with the on the 
5.7  . they a cause to the use of 40 oil .  . they would 
not honor work if 40 was used  ( if my memory serves  . 
5 30 , 10 30 or 20 50 was ok 'd though. 

mark b. 

from  ( lawrence b. keys ) 
subject re systems are they worthwhile 
organization national institute of standards technology 
distribution usa 
lines 50 

in article  ( dave dodson ) writes 
is it worthwhile to get an system on a new car 


although , others have in the past and will continue to disagree 
i think that it is worthwhile to get an  . 


what features are important 

i think that it is important to protect your , engine bay , all 
doors. i 'd get , led 's mounted on the drivers and 
door and a relay to engine operation. toss in 
a glass break , and  . door lock and , 
two and panic feature are also nice to have. 

most important is where you have the done ! some places 
may cost a little more , but a poorly  ( no matter how 
much it cost ) will be a major burden .  . 


what features are 

imo , things like engine starters , voice , open 
and close , and most other  . 




dave 
computer corporation , texas  ( 214 ) 

. 

larry 







1990 2.0 


forever ! 
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates 
that you probably would n't understand anyway ! 



from  ( john r. daker ) 
subject re changing oil by self . , another service  .  .  . 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 21 
reply to  ( john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( brent moss ) says 



i was worried about someone my oil once also. i finally 
decided to just have my plug shut .  . it works great ! 
i figure that when i add three or four when the oil light 
comes on every month or so that it 's just as good or better than 
the old wives tale of changing the oil and filter every 3000  . 
works for me , i must say. 


i did the same thing to my plug for the same reasons. i was wondering 
how you filled your though as i my shut also out of fear 
that somebody might steal my air filter .  . 


the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal 

from  ( gregg l. kasten ) 
subject differences in  
keywords 
organization cs department , stanford university , california , usa 
distribution ca 
lines 23 

i am considering buying an new car , so i called three 
in california to get estimates .  . i asked for the same 
and same  . most of the charge you 
according to your zip code. others charge according to your city. 
anyhow , i gave the same zip code and city to all three places. here 's 
what i found  ( for a  93 gs ) 

2000  . 
state farm  . 
 . 

is non profit , so they said i could also expect to receive about 
200 back at the end of the year .  . 

still , there is a huge gap between all of these  . state farm 
wants more than twice as much as  . i think i should be 
suspicious , but i 've never heard anybody else complain. 

any comments 

thanks , 
gregg l. 


from  ( ken lui ) 
subject re license plates 
organization company 
lines 16 
distribution na 
nntp posting host corp . com . 

in article writes 
hi , i'm interested in getting the list for license numbers. if anyone 
has a listing i 'd appreciate getting a copy of it. thanks ! 

you can go to the and ask for their listing .  . although i 
do n't know where you may actually buy a copy , you can use theirs 
for your  . in california , the listing of 
license plates run 3 volumes , each about 1 . 5 . thick .  . i hope this 
is what you 're asking for. 


ken 

k . f .  . , 3000 street 
administrative information systems , ca usa 
core application  ( 1(415)857 ) fax  ( 1(415)852 ) 

from  ( ken koellner ) 
subject lock on 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host sw . stratus . com . 



my 1988 has a with a 
switch .  . it on me. yesterday it was tough to get the 
key to work and it also happened to stick on in the up direction 
so the was all night killing the  . 

i 'd like to try to the lock switch .  . what should i 
the lock with 

email please , 

thanx , ken .  . 


do n't drink american  . support you local  . me 


from  ( ari ollikainen ) 
subject re , , or 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 20 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 

in article  ( grungy john f. gladu ) writes 
in article , 
 ( kenneth finnegan ) wrote 

as an additional data point , i have run exclusively 
in the following cars 75 , 78 , 76 , 78 , 
70 , 76 , 86  . i 've never had an oil related 
problem. 

add mine to that list  ,  72  ,   61 
 ( cringe ) '87  ( it 's my wife 's car , honest ) .  . i'm still 
about running it in the  90 that 's got in 
it. 

i do n't understand this last statement about the  .  . our .  
owner 's manual ! ! 

 ( ollikainen(former , , 64 . , 
stick , , , , 2.0 , 
, ,  .  . and . now only 90vanagoncarat ) 

from  ( les bartel ) 
subject fast idle on 88 
reply to 
organization corporation 
lines 21 

it did it again. this morning , my 88 was at 10 , 000  . 
ok , so i exaggerated a little , but it was very fast .  . it has a 2 
engine in it , and no of the would 
cause the idle to drop back to normal (i do n't think the is  . 
what can i do to fix this problem this has been a problem from time to 
time , but has itself out until now. i do n't have a , 
but by by the sound of the engine , it is about twice as fast 
as it should be. this is down from what it was at when i up 
at a stop light. 

many thanks for any suggestions .  . 




i'm going to live forever 
corporation ... or die trying 
division 

or 
 ( 205 ) 

from  ( andrew klossner ) 
subject re car order delay 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization tektronix color , , 
lines 13 



i read an article in the 3 25 chicago stating that 
is having problems addressing the demand for the 3 . 
engine for it 's cars .  . can anyone post how long they are 
waiting for an ordered car or how long they have been told 
they 'll have to wait 

ordered mine december 30 , got it weeks later. but the said 
that new orders were being held up he did n't expect to see any 
more 3 . engine for  . 

andrew 

from  ( mike zampiceni ) 
subject re just does not feel right 
organization the notes server 
lines 2 

the car might also need a front end , particularly if you 're 
describing  . 

from 
subject 1990 ls for sale 
organization at t bell laboratories 
distribution nj 
keywords for sale 
lines 15 



1990 ls for sale 

5 speed , , , new 
59 . 

or best offer .  . 

call 


email ! ! 



from  ( malcolm g. costello ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
reply to  ( malcolm g. costello ) 
distribution usa 
organization division , , , md 
lines 25 

x 
x fake and  . 
x any gold trim .  . 
x 
x these , i will agree , are , right along with the fake 
x spare it 's sad watching those little old 
x try to load their into the with that huge 
x in the way. 
x most fake top on a , with 
x all the door trim still not anyone . 
x of course , there was that i once saw .  .  .  . 
x 
least you think bad taste is something new 
back in the early i saw a couple of cars with jobs .  . 
not a  . i think they on some kind of glue then blew 
on tiny pieces of  . it comes out looking like felt .  . can you picture 
a huge iii in dark blue felt i think i can even remember 
one guy who did it in red to a early 1960s  . that was after he had 
turned it into a station  . 

code 65 . 1 .  ( formerly 
david model , division  . 
, md phone  ( 301 ) ( 



from  ( eliot ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
organization clearer than 
lines 34 
nntp posting host engr . washington . edu . 

in article w o email  ( eric youngblood ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael j. edelman ) writes 
the big of is the 10 they that never 
gets to the  . in this respect they are at a to a manual .  . 

only when the is not locked up. there are out there 
with lock up in 2nd , 3rd and 4th  . 

dont forget that now that new 6 speed manual are available the drive 
train is more to get the most out of the engine. 

rare .  .  . so are 5 speed  .  . but very real. 

bottom line is both and have improved .  . 

i think that have advanced far more than  . 
especially in shift intelligence .  . i say that a smart automatic is 
better than the majority of drivers in terms of being in the right 
gear at the right time , which to me is more important than 
losses .  . 

i prefer the stick for fun and the for traffic .  . 

who says you ca n't have your cake and eat it too a well designed 
will easily facilitate manual , shifts .  . i am 
referring to the much copied mercedes gate .  . the only 
department where you lose out is in the number of available , 
and of course the losses .  .  . 

if can drive a with fully automatic , 
it ca n't be half bad .  .  . ) 




from  ( michael j. cta ) 
subject parts 
organization technical center , , nj 
lines 10 
distribution world 
nntp posting host gov . 
summary parts 
keywords parts 

i have a and i am interested in buying 
a , , and for it. does anybody 
know of a company who makes parts for 


thanks in advance , 


mike 


from  ( robert j. wade ) 
subject re in automatic transmissions 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 36 

in article  ( jeff hagen ) writes 

thanx to all those who responded , particularly those never driven an 
but here 's what it 's like guys .  .  .  . 

ok , we all know that new age at 's are great in traffic , and do a 
job in when you keep your foot buried in the  . 

my question regards  . not to pass  ( at 's are 
good at this now ) , but moving the to 3 , 2 , or 1 at a point 
where you would a manual e.g. a red light , or a 
curve , or just around a lot in 1st or 2nd w o shifting .  . 
this is why i'm still a manual bigot the for 
seems so natural. when i try this in an automatic , the 
tranny does n't seem to understand what i want. 

addendum is n't it great , after while that 
red light , when the light goes green , and you 're already on 
 ( or the 's already up ! ) ! 

 . 


i have a grand am with and  . around the gear there is a 
plastic strip which covers the space so you ca n't see inside. anyway .  .  . i . took 
the cover off and cut the end of this long strip to a specific length , the 
strip curls up into a at one end inside. anyway , by doing this the 
strip ca n't feed into the that circles it , , , , so .  .  . i . can push , pull 
down and the gear will only go back to 2 from drive , , , no accidental 
hitting first. i drive around town in 2 to keep the up. shift to drive 
above 50 and pull down to 2 when coming up to  . if . i want. if i am 
eating food .  .  . i . drive in drive .  . there are probably shift 
that will the same thing. 's automatic can be 
driven like an  .  . or . put into mode .  . up .  .  .  .  . down .  .  .  . 
 . of course there is an so you do n't the engine. 


from  ( stefan m. gorsch ) 
subject 
x posted from 
organization college , , nh 
lines 11 

well , i'm afraid the time has come my rice has finally died. 
i 'd always promised my wife that we would do a when 
my car died and pick up a in , drive it around and then 
import it home. 

can anyone give me 1 ) advice on and relative costs 2 ) 
references where i might learn more 3) personal experience 

please email 

thanks 

from state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 22 


in article  ( za 
uberer ) writes 
in article ,  ( yik 
lam ) writes 
, 
does anyone know how to take out the under the engine 
should i turn or counter i tried any kind 
of , 40 , etc , but i still failed ! 
do you think i can use a electric  ( drill change to a suitable 
bit ) to turn it out if i can succeed , can i re it not too 
, is it safe without oil leak 
thank you very much in advance 

do n't worry about  . do n't worry about which way to turn the damn thing. 
take a good hammer and it straight out. now , you 'll notice , after 
all the oil out , that there are no where there used to be. 

why   were invented .  . yes , buy a few of these , and 
the hole a little larger each time you change the oil .  . 
when the hole gets too big for any you can buy , its time to trade in 
the car .  .  .  . 

subject traffic rules at 
from  ( julian visch ) 
organization department of mathematics , university of 
nntp posting host ac . 
lines 20 

i am presently doing a masters thesis to do with traffic in 
new but a lot of the books i am researching from , are from america or 
australia and so i was wondering if anyone could please tell me what the road 
rules are in either country with regard to  . 

thanks 




, 


i , 
. 






from  ( robert william fusi ) 
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions. 
organization university 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( d 
phornprapha ) writes 
i have 30 , 000 as my  . i'm looking for a sports or car. 

what do you think would be the best buy  ( i'm looking for specific models ) 

thanks , 



i 'd say an 7 would be right up there. you could easily deal down to 30 .  . 
it has some of the most impressive around , and 
eat it up. one car to seriously consider in that price range .  . 

rob 





from  ( rebelheart ) 
subject car show 
news software vax vms 1 . 41 . 
keywords car show , , , 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization r . e . b . e . l . h . e . a . r . t .  . 
lines 32 

third 

what car show  ( for any and all types of including cars ) 
where , , 
when may 14 , 15 , 16 , 1993 
who car club , ,  ( 907 4979 ) 
why proceeds of this event to benefit the cooper landing corps .  . 

general this car show is open to all types of cars , , , 
and modified , mild to wild , , special interests , 
race , , , hi po , or just plain ) 

this is a fun event , intended for the gear head to the most 
serious gear  . we would like to have as many as possible , 
but please contact us for space ( first come first serve ) 

p.s. all out of town can stay right next door at the 
for a special rate of 60 a night 
 ( single or double occupancy ) call the merit @ 


if you d like any further information , you can contact me at the 
addresses below. 

mel drive 55 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! , a 90 
remember  .  .  .  . 55 . saves lives , 110 saves twice as many ) 


too old for some things .  .  .  . 
define bitnet too young to know 
define e mail which things. 


from  ( balaji v. ramanathan ) 
subject re dodge experiences 
nntp posting host its . edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 23 
distribution usa 

in article (i we are gaia ) writes 
just stopped putting money into it. i must have put at least 
worth of over it 's lifetime. i am sorry but can 
me. bullshit , whoever backs em best , is just afraid the stupid things area 
the part about spending on reminds me 
of an article i read in a magazine comparing the 5 year ownership costs 
of a and a or something like that. the result , 
which they with great flourish was that it cost the same at the 
end of the period. that was their argument to prove that you do n't go 
wrong buying the over the  . 

now , if i remember correctly , the costs about or so more 
in initial costs .  . essentially , it means that you spend about extra 
on on the  . that is ridiculous .  . every time your car 
needs , it is extra hassles , loss of time and a dozen other things. 
i would much rather spend more in initial costs than spend more 
in costs .  . 


8 cut here for signature ! 8 
, 
institute of transportation studies , i do n't believe in luck ! 
university of california ,  . i rely on it ! ! 

from  ( joel ) 
subject cleaning 
organization 
lines 15 
nntp posting host buffalo . edu . 

i have the in white and had to away the first pair 
since i found no way of cleaning them after they looked almost black .  . now 
i have my second pair of white ones and once again they are  . i need 
a way to clean them w o removing them since i had to cut them to remove 
them , is there a way or should i just buy black ones 
thanks 
joel 


joel 
university at buffalo 

it 's not a black white thing , it 's a thing 
it takes a big man to cry , and an even bigger man to laugh at that man 
jack 

from  ( gerrit conradie ) 
subject re me with wrong reading. need help ! 
organization university of , sa 
distribution usa 
lines 26 

in article  ( yong lim ) writes 
subject me with wrong reading. need help ! 

here is a story. i bought a car about two weeks ago. i finally can 
get hold of the previous owner of the car and got all 
history of the car. in between  91 and  , the instrument 
of the car has been replaced and the also has been 
to zero .  . therefore , the true reading is the reading before 
replacement plus current mileage .  . that shows difference 
comparing to the mileage on the from. the 
never told me anything about that important story. 

i hope that i can return the car with full  . do u think this 
is possible does anyone have similar experiences any comments 
will be appreciated. thanks. 

something that happened in south africa about a year ago a sold a 
mercedes with an reading of to a  . turned out 
that the actual reading should have been  . court case followed because 
said she would n't have bought a car with that much 's .  . found 
, fined and had to take back the car. 

i think you have a case if you can get a statement from the previous 
owner. take the car back to the and threaten him or something. 



from tu . de .  ( christian huebner ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
organization technical university of , germany 
lines 33 

in rec . you write 

if can drive a with fully automatic , 
it ca n't be half bad .  .  . ) 

this (i still think it 's only half , 
but you may be right ) has nothing to do with your , , , 
or whatever  . it 's a normal manual 
with and all , but there are , which do 
the shifting .  . 

that means , there is no power loss in the  ( if you take out 
minimal friction ) , and the sami transmissions 
 ( ferrari , ,  ( mclaren ) ,  .  .  . ) . do n't tell you , when to shift , 
either. however , these transmissions share an important 
with your stock they are expensive .  . 

as long as these are n't available on 
 normal  cars i'm gonna stick with my manual .  . i just ca n't see an 
advantage to make up for two grand i lose in this deal and the 
loss in mileage and power  ( except maybe in real heavy  . but 
then i drive mostly on the and country roads anyway. 

there 's no point in making a religion out of this , i just wanted to 
point out a few technical facts and my own opinion , so there 's 
no need for a flame war. 



have a safe ride 

chris 


from  ( robert william fusi ) 
subject re most bang for 
organization university 
lines 41 

in article ,  ( r 
william fusi ) writes 
in article ,  ( d 
a 
bonds ) writes 
in rec . ,  ( kevin parker ) writes 
i 'd like to get some on a car with most bang for the in the 
to 16 , 000 price range .  . i'm looking for a car with enough to b 
e 
driven every day , or even on long trips , but when i hit the gas , i want to 
e 
l 

take a look at a  91 they can be found for , and are the 
ultimate in 4 door sports cars .  . similar to a , but 
quite civil and comfortable .  .  .  . try to get a late model 91 for the better 
 . 




the cutting bbs tx . a 14 . system 
houston , texas , usa 1 . running 

well , you could always go with a 5 . 0 . with a pleasant , but the 
star cars  ( talon laser ) put out in the models , 
and in the models , these cars also have handling to match 
the , and are civil in regular driving conditions , rather than having a 
harsh , ride .  .  .  . the . is clearly the better choice of the two 
 ( because of all that on the front drive model ) , but you may have 
to go with a or slightly used model for that price range .  .  .  . tough . 
decision .  .  .  . 

rob 



car and did a test with the same basic idea and chose the 
 ( 5sp of course) 



from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 30 

in article writes 
i just visited the ny show , and saw two cars on the eagle 
vision and dodge  . 

really nice i must say. very attractive , lots of features and room , 
at a price .  . 

unfortunately , the is quite  . on both cars , 
the seals around the and door off. it turns out 
the seals are just big  . it goes on just by 
the against the tongue on the door frame .  . surely it would come 
off easily. 

lack of build quality was the thing i on the first 2 's i 
saw months back .  . the were large and non uniform between 
the 2 cars i saw the kind of thing you expect and accept on a 
but not from 's savior .  . i one of the low 
end cars , and thought it was more than adequate .  . i 'd prefer 
an to a from my brief experience. 

craig 


i am not sure how many of this kind of engineering assembly 
problems that will show up later. 

i may still consider buying it , but only when it a good 
track record .  . 

jason 

from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re too fast 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 7 

in article writes 
so is cocaine .  . what 's your point 

that neither is harmful when used carefully 




from  ( theodore chen ) 
subject re and 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 16 

in article  ( james p. callison ) writes 
why anyone would order an with an automatic is 
beyond me if you ca n't handle a stick , you should stick with a 
regular and leave the to real drivers .  . that is not to 
say that there are n't real drivers who ca n't use the stick  ( eg 
persons ) , but they are n't in any position to use an 
anyway. 

actually , persons have been known to drive in 
races .  . i 'd be careful about making sweeping here. 

i 'd prefer a manual , but the early had an 
awful that felt like it came out of a or something. 
it was almost enough to make me want an automatic .  . 



from  ( doug  ( stardog champion ) 
subject re  ( really about other cars ) 
reply to  ( doug  ( stardog champion ) 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 13 


it 's great that all these other cars can out handle , out corner , and out 
an  . 

but , you 've got to ask yourself one question do all these other cars have 
a with a no pop up or power 
that are  . a that can be opened to the air , 
closed to let just light in , or so that nothing comes in. 

you 've just got to know what 's important ) .  . 

doug 
 93 

from  ( demosthenis a. zeppos ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
organization university 
lines 67 

in article , (j 
on cochran ) writes 
i 'd like to add the as a car which will kick r butt 
, and it 's a lot to 

i will take this one with a grain of salt .  . data shows a 

if this poster has some  ( proof(other than my friend blew one away last week 


want proof here is some data on and handling from 
trend  ( apr  . 

r 

0 60 7 . 7 . 7 . 7 . 
1 4 16 . 0 . 88 . 1 . 16 . 1 . 87 . 8 . 
l  ( g 's )  .  . 86 . 
63 . 7 . 4 . 
wrong 
why do n't you look again at trend 's , times , they are 67 . 9 . , right 
along with the , and the car does that with small 14 that 
are all , not to mention that the rides alot better than 
a  . 
your times also vary , magazine to magazine 
road track and car have the r at 6 . 8 . to 8 . 0 . for road and track .  . 
also times vary from 15 . 4 . to 16 . 1 . 
you ca n't tell exactly by the numbers. furthermore , the will 
definately the on the high end. car and road track 
have the r doing to , and it gets there fast .  . 


so , the can out handle the and it can certainly keep 
up with it in  . and the probably has a higher top 
speed due to the advantage  ( 160 117  ( hp torque ) for the 
vs. for the  . 
you always believe those exact numbers , why do n't you drive a r , and see 
for your self , while the r has a low 117 , its high over a 
make up for the difference  ( still would n't call it a though ! ) 

the biggest advantage would have to be the price .  . the costs 
19 ,  ( as tested trend ) , the costs 16 ,  ( as  . the 
also has standard and and  . an 
is not available on the and lower models do not have  . 
considering you save almost 3 , 000 dollars for the , and the 
is a reliable engine , it does n't make sense to get the as a 
, which is what people have been trying to make it out 
to be. 


quad 4 reliable , yeah , what 's your definition of reliable if that 's reliable , 
then its safe to say that in general are near perfect 
 ( not to mention , a hell of alot and the . has the engine 
the hands down. you can rev that car all day , everyday , 
and you 'll never blow a , or crack the block , or anything else. (i speak 
from ! ) 
i'm not saying the quad 4 is a bad engine , but do n't reliability when you 
comparing it to a engine. and while the costs alot more , it is a 
better investment since it will hold its value much better. and 
does a nice job at being a car and practical at the same time. 

note this is n't a flame on the , or other quad 4 products. the 
is a nice car , and puts out respectable and a very reasonable 
price not to mention , it has an  . but to start quoting from one 
source , is n't too reliable .  . read other sources , and drive both cars .  . while i 
have n't driven a , i have driven , and grand with quad 4 , 
 ( so they are ) . 

from  ( ernest smith ) 
subject re a c units 
originator 
lines 34 
nntp posting host com . 
organization research , inc. 
distribution usa 


in article andrew brandt writes 
i looked into getting a c on my 1987  . 
the is plus , is like 5 1 2 hours on 
top of that. this is a of change .  . 

does anyone know any place that does a c 
 ( not with a a c , but some third party  . 

i cannot seem to find anyone who can put a third party a c in a 
 . i am in no , so i would prefer some place nearby , but 
any references would be  . 

, andy 

's comments 
sorry i ca n't help you with your question , but i do have a comment to 
make concerning a c units. i have a king or 
 ( forget which ) on my , and am quite unhappy with 
it. the fan is , and does n't put out much air. i will never have 
an a c in any of my again. i just ca n't 
trust the quality and after this experience. 




i'm going to live forever 

let me add my  . 02 . in. i had a a c by the and it did not 
work as well as the a c that was by the in 
identical to mine. i have talked to other people that have had the same 
result. do n't know if this is just a probable with or what 

ernie smith 

from  ( daniel adams ) 
subject re 3 series for 94 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization corporation 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( aamir qazi ) writes 
from article , by  ( alvin ) 

is there going to be a in 

could be. is n't the 2.5 supposed to be to 2 . 8 . 
in the not too distant future 


makes sense , since the new mercedes go from 2 . 4 to a 2 . 6. 
nothing in between .  . btw , i beleive the numbers on those are 
and respectively .  . the one in might 
to create a larger  . also , the 2 . 6 . has behind the 3 er 
2.5 for some time wrt  . i am sure the would n't want to be 
shown up by the  . 

ps those have n't been released over here yet. 

daniel 

from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization university of 
distribution usa 
lines 8 

options well here in the uk , offer a  no  option .  .  .  . 
it just means they take the out .  .  .  .  . big deal .  .  .  .  . 

btw i just bought a  .  .  .  .  . its neat .  .  .  . did consider an , 
 ( you guys call it ) .  .  .  .  . but that just one my heart with that 
body and 8  .  .  .  . 

ps is richard out there somewhere 

from  ( brian harvey ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 15 
nntp posting host cs . berkeley . edu . 
keywords , , danger , gun , violent , 

 ( robbie felix ) writes 
how about the thousands of kind who at local 
to help children , , the homeless 

hear , hear ! thanks ,  . 

you also do n't read that much about violence against , such as 
george bush alive tens of thousands of unarmed iraqi 17 year , 
who were trying to surrender , with  . 


on the other hand , i think it is true , without out 
for blame , that violence is more socially acceptable than it used to be. 
those of us who 'd like to discourage violence have plenty of work to do 
with people of all ages. 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject re top 10 reasons why i love  ( not for the humor impaired ) 
article i.d. engr . 
distribution na 
organization clearer than 
lines 15 
nntp posting host 42 . 145 . 4 . 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) writes 

blah blah blah 

ok if you are so right , name a few good examples that were brought up. 


let 's create a new group rec . is right no its not yes it is oh yeah 
my father can your father  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


) 




from  ( matthew at the national university of senegal ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization national university of singapore 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 9 

 ( james p. callison ) writes 

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if 
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your 
i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there 
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun. 

i think people have a right to kill to defend their property .  . why not be 
honest do you really care more about scum than about your car 

from  ( john r. daker ) 
subject re license plates 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 16 
reply to  ( john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host edu . 




in a previous article , () says 

hi , i'm interested in getting the list for license numbers. if anyone 
has a listing i 'd appreciate getting a copy of it. thanks ! 

you must be incredibly bored. have you considered reading the phone book 




the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal 

from  ( dick grady ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 10 

in article  ( dan reed ) writes 
fact is , i just leave the key in my for whenever 
i need it .  .  .  . 

that will make it easy for a car  . 
saves him her the trouble of your ! 


dick salem , nh , usa 
so many newsgroups , so little time ! 

from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re options list 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 21 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( charles parr ) says 

the idea here is to list pointless options .  . you know , stuff you 
 ( can ) get on a car that has no earthly use 

1 ) a fitting that allows you to generate current with 
the engine running , and plug in the , engine 
and  . 

feel free to add on .  .  .  . 

regards , charles 
x 

within the of the last few weeks i have heard elements of 
separate threads which , in that they have been in time , 
together to form a new within my and 
 . unknown net . person . 

) 

from  ( kris a. kugel ) 
subject a car long term 
keywords cars 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization high country software 
lines 16 

i bought a car with a engine , to use for parts 
for my old but still running version of the same car. 

the car i bought has good  . 

is there anything in particular that i should do to 
the car long term i 'd hate to have 
parts of it go bad. someone has told me it 's bad 
for the to not move the car once in a while. 
is this true do i need some to take the 
weight of the 

best to reply by mail , i am getting news  . 

a. 
! 

from  ( tim ) 
subject re air without 
distribution usa 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 9 

in article  ( max lu ) writes 
we are working on gas solid air con system for applications .  . 
in this kind of system , the energy for the is from 
the gas .  . anyone interested in this mail email me or follow up this 
thread , we may have a discussion on of this technology. 

ok , i 'll  . how is this supposed to work 

tim .  . 

from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 32 

in article  ( matthew at the national university of senegal ) writes 
 ( james p. callison ) writes 

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if 
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your 
i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there 
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun. 

i think people have a right to kill to defend their property .  . why not be 
honest do you really care more about scum than about your car 

yo ! watch the attributions i did n't say that ! 

again , this is n't an appropriate forum for discussions on whether you 
should shoot someone for property damage theft , but every 
responsible gun owner that there are limits , and the punishment 
must fit the crime .  . i mean , think about it is a  ( really ) harmless 
worth killing over 

as i said , the situation described  ( punks setting off and 
people to come out ) could turn very very quickly , and 
it is worth being prepared when your life is on the line. 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( gary w. mahan ) 
subject re are 's worth the price 
organization software 
lines 18 

sure sounds like they got a  . the i was definitely 
than that. if you want to quote numbers , my shows 
0 60 in 7 . 4 . , 1 4 in 15 . 9 .  . it quotes car and 's 
of 6.9 and 15 . 3 .  . oh , btw , these numbers are for the  . 

car and rated the  ( 1988 ) at 7 . 2 . 0 60 , 1 4 at 15 . 2 .  ( after miles ) last time i checked 8 . 

automobile magazine rated new 1 4 

gee , than the ! 

sounds like we need a race .  . i 'll let you have the newer version. can someone out there lend me a 1988 for a day 8 . i wont hurt it , i promise. 

i do n't know how the addition of for 1993 it. 
but do n't take my word for it. go drive it. 

actually i will take your word on it. i refuse to test it  ( new 325is ) because 
i love 's and would probably want to buy it. problem is , my just does n't support that. 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject re engine. 
organization clearer than 
lines 20 
nntp posting host engr . washington . edu . 

in article  ( thunderbirds are go ! ! ! ) writes 
are there any owners or head out there , that know why 
my 's engine sounds the 's engine is at the best of times , 
but not even a nice nose it 's one of those very  . 

assuming yours is a non , the is characteristic of 
a large 4 that does n't have  . i guess 
did n't care about little details like that when they can about 
the mid engine and the  . 

myself , i automatically cross out any car from consideration  ( or 
recommendation ) which has an 4 larger than 2 and no 
 .  . it is a good rule of to keep in mind if you 
ever want a decent engine. 

if the really you , there is nothing else that you can do 
except to sell it and get a  . 




from  ( laurie mann ) 
subject clothing  ( was re male female mystery re  .  .  . ) 
lines 41 

in article ,  ( wen king su ) writes 
this has me thinking. is there a biological reason why women ca n't put 
their in their pants like men do i have two on the 
back of each of my pants .  . i put my in one and in another. 
many of the even have a on them so i can close them securely .  . 
everything is that much simpler for me. why ca n't women do the same 
is is biological  ( ie , not enough room for a bigger bottom plus and 
a wallet ) or is it the way they are raised by the parents 

oh ! 

it 's not biology at all , it 's clothing design. women 's clothing is 
generally designed to be as non functional as possible. it 's only been 
in the last five years or so that you could buy women 's pants with 
deep enough to carry anything in. previously , deep were 
virtually unknown in women 's clothing .  . generally have better 
now , too. dresses , fancy dresses , are still pretty 
hopeless .  . i often hand my 's license over to my husband if we 're 
dressed up to go out somewhere , so i do n't have to be by a 
purse .  . 

if women bought functional clothing , and the 
who refuse to make functional women 's clothing , i think 
would tend to bow to market  . there 's 
an interesting chapter in 's backlash that described 
what happened the last time clothing ignored the 
need for functional women 's clothing .  . the industry 
lost millions .  . 

from a woman who would rather buy men 's clothing with decent and 
long legs and high than women 's clothing without .  .  .  .  . 







 ( internet )  ( genie ) 
claiming that sex education leads to sex is like 
claiming that education leads to car accidents .  . 

from  ( hiroki kimata ) 
subject re open letter to 
distribution na 
nntp posting host com . 
organization engineering , computer corp .  . , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 43 

in  ( steven a. morris ) writes 

hey , , why are n't you guys making any station you used 
to make a on every  ( sentra , stanza , maxima ) and now 
none at all. 

in fact , they make some , but they just do n't sell them here in u.s. 

california is a 1 . based on  . 
is a 2 .  . looks like infinity 
but actually it 's independently designed to be a i . mean , it 's 
not based on any ) . 

had better consider to sell them here. 

after buying my r and really loving it , i would like to buy another 
product for my wife but prefer a (i 've owned 
and do n't prefer them . ) . 

how about an or a would do .  .  .  . 

sounds nice. but i doubt they have a plan .  . was introduced 
to replace any based  . 

or , here 's an even better suggestion , why do n't you guys go ahead and 
buy the rest of heavy  ( subaru ) and put either an 
in line 4 or v 6 into the  . i 'd buy the in a 
minute if it had a engine instead of the 4 that they 
seem attached to. 

with all the , , , and out there 
it 's got to be a market segment that would be worthwhile ! 

i can wait a year or two but if you do n't have something to 
by the model i may have to go elsewhere. 

thanks. 


steve , m . a .  . internet 
studies uucp , uunet ! ! ! ! 
seattle university phone  ( 206 )  ( dept ) or  ( direct ) 
seattle , 

from  ( roy matthew thigpen ) 
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions. 
organization university of virginia 
lines 2 

good luck. 


from  ( robert william fusi ) 
subject re best 
organization university 
lines 38 

in article , writes 
in article ,  ( deepak s. 
nchandani ) writes 


do n't buy one , that is the best way to avoid , 
i used to have one and whenever a cop would pull me over , see 
the thing , give me a  . one time my sister was driving , 
and had it in the , it was broken , and she 
got a  . in 1987 , i had received 4 because of 
it , one for my sister  ( so a total of  . 

that was five years ago , now i do n't have one and have not 
gotten a  . my driving have not changed 
drastically .  . only two days ago i was going on 
with 55 limit , cop saw me , i break a little , nothing 
happened (i was driving a van , with my family in it) .  . 
otherwise , i have supreme , which i do 70 most of the 
times on the  . 

so basically my is not to get one , if you do get 
over , the cop will hear your excuse , but if you have a 
, he will not.  ( again , this has been my 


just get a remote model that is not to the cop .  . but , be sure to get 
front and  .  .  . 

you can also just put the off to the side on the so the cop 
does n't see it right away .  .  . is the best by far  ( as stated 
by car and driver ) and even tells you what direction the is coming from. 
it also gives the amount of threats it is picking up , so if you go through 
the same place everyday , and it always goes off there , you can at the 
number of threats the is to see if it is a genuine cop .  . 
it 's about and you can only get it direct .  . one . problem. 
rob 



from  ( matthew at the national university of senegal ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization national university of singapore 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 12 

 ( michael t chaffee ) writes 
less than the value of many  . and for those who will 
argue that the animals out there cars and everything else  ( not to 
mention committing completely acts of violence , such as rape ) cannot 
be valued in terms of money because they are human beings , i submit that they 
are not human beings .  . jim , i think , is on the right track .  . and 

absolutely .  . a on my car bothers me more than the death of any 
number of scum .  . all of you feel the same way you just wo n't admit it. 
when are people going to realise that the mere fact that a piece of flesh 
and has the approximate shape of a human being does not in itself 
mean that it has rights 

from  ( brent moss ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
keywords n 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 200 . 5 . 
organization evans computer corp .  . , salt city , 
distribution usa 
lines 26 

in article state . edu . , state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) writes 

in article 
j .  . writes 

you can avoid these problems entirely by an oil in 
place of the  . i have one on both of my cars .  . there have been no 
in , 000  ( combined on both  . 

yes , but then someone would have no problem your oil in a lot. 

all they have to do is reach , turn a , and forget the trip 
home. 
but there is less they have a with them. 

i personally recommend , a  special  locking plug to keep 
away. ) 

steve 

i was worried about someone my oil once also. i finally 
decided to just have my plug shut .  . it works great ! 
i figure that when i add three or four when the oil light 
comes on every month or so that it 's just as good or better than 
the old wives tale of changing the oil and filter every 3000  . 
works for me , i must say. 

from  ( michael t chaffee ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 35 

 ( matthew at the national university of senegal ) writes 

 ( james p. callison ) writes 

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if 
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your 
i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there 
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun. 

i think people have a right to kill to defend their property .  . why not be 
honest do you really care more about scum than about your car 

i ca n't tell if matt is being here or not , but to be honest , many 
are worth far more to their owners  ( in value and investment ) 
than the people that would take them. i do n't have on average property 
tax in the u.s. or how much of it is for housing , inferior 
public schools , , or the like , but i have a feeling that the amount the 
government from an honest , citizen to this trash is 
less than the value of many  . and for those who will 
argue that the animals out there cars and everything else  ( not to 
mention committing completely acts of violence , such as rape ) cannot 
be valued in terms of money because they are human beings , i submit that they 
are not human beings .  . jim , i think , is on the right track .  . and 
earlier that we cannot blame environment for the actions 
of a single criminal .  . i could n't agree more. one could trace any crime back 
to the environment upbringing of the criminal should we let all of them out , 
from to rapists to inside traders , because what they did was n't 
their fault where does one draw the line 

0 . 02 . 

michael t. 
email 

 . sig . under construction. excuse 

from  ( john grabowski ) 
subject re recall 
organization temple university 
lines 23 
nntp posting host temple . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

l.  ( save the wails ) wrote 

from 
subject recall 

my  with only on the also has  . 
apparently they haven t fixed the problem yet. but try convincing the 
service person to fix it for free .  .  . right . ! ! ! 

tony 


, i have heard so many stories with and cars ! i thought 
these were american  . the way they sell , you 'd think so. 
is really no better than in the late '70s when it was turning out tin 
like the and the which would you get , a or 
a or 


john 




from  ( michael j. edelman ) 
subject re 's policy 
organization wayne state university 
lines 21 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host pass . wayne . edu . 

i just ordered a after considering a few  . frankly , the 
way of doing business and service was a very big plus .  . i had n't bought a new 
car since i bought my back in  85 , and i was offended by 
most i met .  . 

was indeed very different. i made three different to the where 
i bought my car , and was never  . also had the best after sales 
support , and the fixed made it very easy for me to decide exactly what 
i wanted to buy .  . another big selling point was running into my mechanic at the 
 . he 's been fixing for 20 years .  .  . and . bought a , based on 
what he 's seen and heard from his  . 

also has a good extended program 675 for 6 year , 
fully if you do n't use it. that works out to an actual cost of or 
so , based on the 6 year treasury rates. using savings account it 's more 
like 120 .  . in the first three years it also buys you free during any 
work , without counting against the  . 

mike 



from  ( richard welty ) 
subject rec . mailing lists 
keywords monthly posting 
reply to 
organization new york state institute for studies 
expires thu , 20 may 1993 04 01 03 gmt 
lines 

archive name rec 

mailing lists  ( electronic mail , that is) 

last updated 3 17 93 new , cars list info 
added , or list , list , list 

there are a number of electronic mailing lists on the network devoted to 
various special topics. 

to the best of my knowledge , all the lists here have open 
membership policies .  . it is my policy not to list  mailing lists 
here. 

most mailing lists provide separate addresses for administrative 
and for general mail where separate administrative 
addresses exist , i have listed those below , as the general addresses 
are not appropriate for and requests .  . 


 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 
both regular and digest forms available ) 

british cars 
 ( send requests to british cars 

grand national 
 ( send requests to 

 ( gm f body ) 
 ( send requests to f body 


 ( send requests to 


there are two lists the first is more of a competition oriented 
list , and the second is more general in nature  ( or so i am told ) 

competition 
 ( send requests to 
general 
 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 

dodge stealth 
 ( send requests to stealth 

laser 
 ( send requests to ! 

electric 
 ( send requests to info 

cars 
 ( send requests to cars 

 ( race cars ) 
 ( send requests to 

international  ( discussion of scouts , , etc . ) . 
 ( send requests to 

italian cars 
 ( send requests to italian cars 
both regular and digest forms available ) 


use standard 
procedure the mail message body to should be 
sub l your real name with no subject line in the 

hot 
 ( send requests to 

land 
 ( send requests to land owner 


 ( send requests to cars 


 ( send requests to list 


use standard 
procedure the mail message body to should be 
sub your real name with no subject line in the 


 ( send requests to 


 ( mostly high , dodge , products. 
send requests to 


 ( send requests to interest 


there are two lists , the first is for through , 
the second for from on. nobody cares about 
the ii , so do n't ask. 

classic 
 ( send requests to classic 
modern 
 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 

, activities 
 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 

school  ( high driving schools ) 
 ( send requests to school 

r , , 
 ( send requests to r 


 ( send requests to 


 ( send requests to 

, 
 ( send requests to 

volvos 
 ( requests to 

wheel to wheel 
 ( forum for race drivers , workers , , and 
send requests to 

z cars  ( nissan datsun ) 
 ( send requests to z car 

richard 
good has ever been reported about the full of 
a race car about either its pitch or roll   smith 

from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re changing oil by self . , another service  .  .  . 
organization corporation 
lines 25 

in article  ( john r. daker ) writes 

i was worried about someone my oil once also. i finally 
decided to just have my plug shut .  . it works great ! 
i figure that when i add three or four when the oil light 
comes on every month or so that it 's just as good or better than 
the old wives tale of changing the oil and filter every 3000  . 
works for me , i must say. 


i did the same thing to my plug for the same reasons. i was wondering 
how you filled your though as i my shut also out of fear 
that somebody might steal my air filter .  . 

oh come on , silly , all you have to do is cut a hole in your and 
put a there so you can get to the oil fill hole .  . what do you 
think all those big air things are for on those hot cars 
they 're just for looks only .  .  . little . does anyone know , they provide 
access to the oil fill hole .  . 

well , over where we live , we have problems with 
people 's  . those locking nuts did n't stop them. so to be 
safe and sure , i the nuts to my together. it 
works , serious ! i have n't had my stolen yet ! 
. 

from h . 
subject re drivers who do n't look ahead 
organization chicago home for the morally challenged 
distribution usa 
keywords bad drivers 
lines 27 


i agree that if traffic is all up and you want to pass , you might 
not feel like moving over for someone behind you because you do n't want to 
give them that one car length , when they should just wait like you are. 
but , if you 're one of those people that just sit 's behind the person , and 
does n't them with the high , or pull left and them , or 
ride their bumper , or otherwise tell them that you do in fact want to 
go by , and you 're not just them , then get the hell out of the 
way of someone who will ! i especially hate it when you someone at 
the back of a line and they do n't  pass it  . 
and there 's also the issue of some cars being more intimidating to get 
people out of the way than others .  .  .  .  ( for instance  85  86 look 
pretty mean in a at night with the on .  .  .  . ) 
there have been plenty of times when i 've broken up a pack that a 
second in line has been behind for  .  .  . you just need to 
know how to get their attention .  .  .  . 


i 'd like to see you use this method on a couple of semi drivers .  . if they see you , 
they usually acknowledge by their hand out the with their middle 
finger extended .  . because it is also obvious to them that there is no clear 
ahead. 



h . h . m .  . 


from  ( drew eckhardt ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
keywords n 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of at boulder 
distribution usa 
lines 27 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) writes 

in article 
j .  . writes 

you can avoid these problems entirely by an oil in 
place of the  . i have one on both of my cars .  . there have been no 
in , 000  ( combined on both  . 

yes , but then someone would have no problem your oil in a lot. 

all they have to do is reach , turn a , and forget the trip 
home. 

most cars have in the , and i 've never 
seen nor heard of a one. i imagine that there 
would be an even lower risk with an oil plug because you have 
to under the car to open it. 

car are usually real traditional in their methods , and do things 
that do n't get them , like your car , dumping sand , sugar 
or in the gas , it , etc. 


boycott for their absurd anti lawsuit .  . 
condemn for amendment two .  . 
use , the fast , , and free unix 

from state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 17 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 

in article  ( craig boyle ) writes 
, a rare up by  . 
both the and are flawed cars .  . the would take 
the and the would be the  . 



the would be the  . 

john 



john 
to you , the was just 
something that happened to other people , 
was n't it the black 

from state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
keywords n 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 16 

in article ( 
eckhardt ) writes 

most cars have in the , and i 've never 
seen nor heard of a one. i imagine that there 
would be an even lower risk with an oil plug because you have 
to under the car to open it. 

car are usually real traditional in their methods , and do things 
that do n't get them , like your car , dumping sand , sugar 
or in the gas , it , etc. 

usually .  .  .  . go . enough places and you 'll see stuff happen you did n't think did. 


steve 

from  ( don eilenberger ) 
subject re do trains have 
organization , , nj 
lines 30 

in article , m . writes 


while taking an extended easter , i was going north on i 45 
somewhere between , tx and , tx and i came upon a 
train on a with its sitting directly over 
the  . there appeared to be movement within the 
and out of curiosity i to 85 to get a better look. just as i 
passed from the , my went into full 
alert all and all chirps , , and going strong .  . 
i thought i had been nailed good but no police  . 

could this have been caused by the train 's radio or what 




boy ,  .  . 

were you lucky ! !  .  .  . you went under the new texas 
stealth car ! good thing you down ! 

newsgroups rec . 
distribution world 
references 
from  ( don eilenberger ) 
organization 
subject re do trains have 
keywords 

from  ( tom haapanen ) 
subject re top 10 reasons why i love  ( not for the humor impaired ) 
organization software inc. 
distribution na 
lines 19 

writes 
here are another ten reasons why we should all love 
10. car love their new car buying service 
... 
7. car rec . readers turned into expert statistics 
... 
5. lucky owners of unreliable cars who say mine never had a problem 
4. those same owners the a few months later 
3. and later to and taking it seriously 
2. and later on buying a family 

and my number 1 

1. the of the religious of the true believers . 


tom software , 
stick your index fingers into both of your mouth. now pull 
up. that 's how the makes you feel .  . car ,  93 

from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re too fast 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 22 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
they light the in texas funny , everywhere else i 've been 
they only light 'em at  . 

and  . 

texas is pretty much an case you ca n't assume that everywhere 
has roads in such good condition , such flat , and such 
wide open  . it just ai n't so. 

well , let 's see , in just my own personal experience there 's 
, new mexico , texas , , utah , south dakota , nebraska , 
minnesota , , florida , and parts of  . 

nobody said let 's go into town and drive 130 on main st. 
and you could n't go that fast on the that passes 
for in some parts. but that only really expensive cars should 
be driven fast crap , is , well , crap .  .  .  . 





from  ( donna martz ) 
subject re drivers who do n't look ahead 
keywords bad drivers 
organization 
distribution usa 
lines 53 

h . writes 

so , i block the would be  . not only for my own good , 

but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it. 
! ! ! ! ! ! 
as a rule of philosophy , i do n't feel particularly sorry when somebody gets 
by his own stupidity , but it does worry me when some idiot is in a 
position to cash in my , too. 
h . h .  . mayo 

 ( donna martz ) writes 
well , are n't we just mr. himself ! ! just what the world needs , 
another self traffic cop .  . 

h . writes 
well , if you want to stick the nose of your car up the ass of a 50 foot semi , 
i suppose it 's your , however , i'm not going to let you kill me in the 
bargain .  . if you get by somebody your inevitable death 
due to less that wise driving practices , then tough ! ! ! 

well , i never wrote that i would act as you described .  . i stated that i 
would not block a would be  . i would not block a would be 
for their own good or for any reason other than i was prevented from 
doing so due to the traffic  . i fail to see how a 
under these would in any way your chances 
of being involved in an accident , fatal or otherwise. in fact , i could 
imagine how blocking a would be would actually increase your 
chances of being or involved in an accident , especially if 
this is riding your bumper .  . intentionally blocking a person 
riding your bumper is certainly not a wise driving practice , it 
only causes the to become more  . 

i do n't mess with and i actually watch the road ahead and the 
road behind ! if i perceive that i am rapidly on a pack 
of , i try to avoid getting caught up in situation such as you 
 . usually either traffic is just building and i have to deal 
with this fact of life , or i wait to a slow to complete their 
pass and make way for the pack to clear. if someone decides then to 
pull up on my bumper , i signal my intention to move to the right , and 
do so at the first opportunity ( hope they will open the  . i 
feel this is not only courteous driving , but alot safer than the 
actions you advocate ! ! ! there are actually many courteous drivers 
on the road who do not intentionally others. 

if someone in front of me seems to be to the fact that they 
are blocking traffic i use my or my , or , if all 
else fails , will speed up slow down so they might get the 
message that i am a trying to pass .  . i feel it is never 
safe to ride anyone 's bumper .  . if someone is intentionally blocking 
traffic , because they feel that it is civil duty or philosophic duty 
or for some unfathomable reason , i feel they , at the very least , 
 .  ( sorry this is long . ) . 

from daniel u. 
subject re did us drive on the left 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 28 
distribution world 

nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

rob 

and their  . initially , all cars were built with the 's 
on the right because that 's the way people , so the 

this is just not so many of the earliest cars had their 
in the center of the , and there is no 
pattern of left or right hand until a few years into 
the 20th century , when , in america at least , left hand became the 
pattern. the team  ( or horses , i imagine ) explanation , however , 
seems to have some merit .  . 

dan 

carnegie mellon university 
applied history 

this coffee into the stomach .  .  . the . mind is , and 
ideas pour forth like the of the grand army on the field 
of battle .  .  .  .  . charge at full  .  . the . light 
of comparisons itself the of logic 
in with their train of ammunition of wit pop up like 
 . 
de , 30 cups day. 





from  ( wen king su ) 
subject male female mystery re concepts of all time 
organization california institute of technology 
lines 16 
nntp posting host cs . caltech . edu . 

in article  ( sharen a. rund ) writes 

apparently you 're not a woman my husband hates the door 
features , but that besides families with children , a woman 
safer in a car that easily  ( in addition to watching around 
checking out if anyone 's near me when i get to my car never park 
in a , etc have my ready to open the door so i'm 
not in my purse looking for them .... 

this has me thinking. is there a biological reason why women ca n't put 
their in their pants like men do i have two on the 
back of each of my pants .  . i put my in one and in another. 
many of the even have a on them so i can close them securely .  . 
everything is that much simpler for me. why ca n't women do the same 
is is biological  ( ie , not enough room for a bigger bottom plus and 
a wallet ) or is it the way they are raised by the parents 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re instead of a , what 
distribution na 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 39 

 ( srihari shoroff ) writes 

in  ( jason m. roth ) writes 

r t had an article on cars of the ilk and they liked the ex , 
the and the 3 best of all , and the was way down the 
list except for  . 

i just looked at that article first of all , this summary is 
of 10 cars , the was , right behind these mentioned and the 
( ! ) .  . as has been pointed out , it was a semi silly comparison the 
was at least than the 3 and  ( admittedly 
negligible , but an issue ) , and ( ! less ) than the  . the stated 
goal was a base under the was over , while the at 
the same price was excluded .  . in other words , they let the best 
play , but not the best  . note that the did the 

i dont know about the car comparison but as far as the price goes rest 
assured that the street for the 3 and and  ( maybe ) even 
the will be lesser than that of the you 're talking about. 
all price comparisons i 've seen are based on and of course the 
will sell the car for price whereas the others 
will do it way below  . 



i 'd hate to an old thread , but .  .  .  . would someone quote 
a that a quotes for a ex , and  . also , i'm a 
assuming that the 3 was the v 6 , so go ahead and look that up , too. if 
someone has one of those  that give a low quote price , 
please quote them , too. then find the the base price .  . 

thanks. 


the university of illinois mail 
neil ,  ( c)1981 ) 
quick to judge , quick to , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice 
and fear walk hand in hand 

from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re do they work  ( performance ) 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 34 

in article  ( dan day ) writes 
in article  ( doug schaffer ) writes 

how hard is a for experienced mechanic 
i 've done my and little engine  . 

the part is usually getting the thing off the 
 . a is fun , if you 're into things with 
lots of little parts. i used to them for all my friends  
cars in high school , so it does n't take a  . buy a 
from an supply  . buy a of the best cleaning 
you can find  ( do they still make ) as a rule of , 
buy the one with the warning  . put it into a  ( metal ! ) 
 . make yourself a can by holes in the bottom of 
a coffee can and attaching a wire handle to it. if the 
does n't strip the right off the coffee can , you 're not 
using the right stuff. use the can to the little stuff , and 
just the big parts from a coat  . them off with a 
garden , wipe off excess water with paper , and air  . 
then remember where all the little parts go. follow the 
's instructions concerning , , etc. 
it back on the engine and admire the super clean on the 
engine. 

this man 's warnings ! if you get this strong on 
your hands , your hands will be away. not pretty .  . hence the 
can method. 

later , 

chris 114 h d wide 's red 
baby 
disclaimer now why would 1991 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild dogs .  . 

from  ( dan day ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host houston . com . 
organization system , inc. houston 
lines 16 

in article  ( james p. callison ) writes 

if i hear someone screwing with my car  ( ie , setting off the alarm ) and 
me to come out , you can be damn sure that my colt delta 
will also be coming with me. it 's not the screwing with the car that 'd 
get them shot , it 's the potential physical danger .  . if they 're 
like that , it 's very possible that they also intend to rob 
me and or do other physically harmful things. 

here in houston last year a woman heard the sound of someone in her 
, so she went to investigate with a gun in her hand. she 
found a guy in the process of her bicycle .  . she quite 
reasonably asked him to stop .  . he refused , began her , and 
as the woman was quoted in the police report , he told me to go 
ahead and shoot him , so i did. the survived , and no 
charges were filed against the woman. 

from  ( thomas redmond ) 
subject re for damage a record 
originator 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 34 


in article ,  ( craig boyle ) writes 
in article writes 
in article  ( craig boyle ) 
writes 


my 90 was hit hard in the 3 25 in austin , tx .  . 
the company cut me a check for ( 100 deductible ) 
last week. is this a record anybody else had from 
the same yet 

craig 


has it that a guy at computer had his , so that would 
be about  . 

i guess it either had the top down , or the ripped through the top , as 
you could not do worth of damage to a body. 

craig 




john 
the constitution grants you the right to life , liberty , and the 
pursuit of happiness. it does not attempt to that 
everyone will be happy. 


there was a owner that had 3000 dollars worth of to the 
looks of the car by ) .  . 

from m  ( tim tsai ) 
subject 
lines 11 
x received by usenet . pa . dec . com . id mon , 5 apr 93 23 06 31 
x received by 2 . pa . dec . com . id mon , 5 apr 93 23 06 30 
x received by doc . cs . edu . 61 . 1 . 
id tue , 6 apr 93 02 07 00 
x to rec . usenet . 
x mailer version 2 . 3 . 


any truth to the of an 3 series for  94 i believe 
this info was published in either popular science or 
a couple of months ago. 

also , a friend told me that used to make an called 
the  . i 'd appreciate any info about this car too. thanks .  .  . 

thanks. 

tim 

from  ( jeff hagen ) 
subject in automatic transmissions 
organization wake university 
lines 18 
nntp posting host ac . edu . 
summary 
keywords , , manual , automatic 


the biggest for  ( imho ) is not shifting speed 
per , but rather the 's reaction speed when you 
try to force it to shift  . 

this was the biggest fault with the it took 
for the tranny to find the right ratio .  . 

the sales propaganda says the automatic is effectively an 
manual .  . might this mean that has 
conquered the problem (i , only driven 5 speeds ) 

, please ! 

another question any plans for a manual 
does anyone else out there fall at night of this 



from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re too fast 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 43 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
it 's a bit hard to prove a point like this , but i can compare the 

i was for something like the x 
degrees of when to forces of more than y units. 
forces of more than y units begin to at z per hour .  . 

not well , gee , it was n't designed to go fast because , , 
well , gee , it was n't designed to go fast .  . it 's not a , you 
know . 

come with better , more , a stronger 
cage , better , a , 
different , and a body design that takes advantage of 
effects to keep the car on the ground. what do they come with 

well , as compared to the normal , the comes 
with more , better , a , 
different , and a body design that takes advantage of 
effects to keep the car on the ground  ( or at least i think that 's 
what all that boy plastic is  . you 're kidding yourself if 
you think any car on the road has a made to 
130  . 

compare either to the and you tell me which was designed 

oh , right. only 120 , 000 dollar cars should be driven fast .  . 
they drive at 120 in europe , , and i reckon 
a is at least as capable as a  . 

certainly have n't convinced me. 

of course not. speeding is bad. speeding is illegal .  . 
i will not speed .  . i love big brother .  . you had your mind made up 
already. 

it 's interesting that lots of the roads out west had no 
speed limits until  . 






from  ( robbie felix ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
keywords , , danger , gun , violent , 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 56 

in article  ( fred w. bach ) writes 
in article ,  ( janet rowell ) 
writes .  .  .  . 
could we cease this discussion. i fail to see why people feel the need 
to upon this issue for days and days on end. these areas are not 
meant for this type of discussion. if you feel the need to do such things , 
please take your thought elsewhere. thanks. 

exactly my point. there is a lot of hostility to , and from ,  . 

if you follow the news for the usa , you will have heard that a 
group of 20 year old  ( barely out of the , certainly their 
was developed during their teens ) just shot and killed an innocent little 
girl riding in a car in the seattle area when her mother  ( who was driving ) 
her at the car with the in it. this is really upsetting 
and makes my stomach turn as it would any parent 's .  . does n't your heart 
just go out to that poor mother 
both drive cars and are involved in and 
crime .  . maybe someone on this newsgroup has had specific experience in 
dealing with violent offenders like these kids are. at the same 

it seems sad that people lose all perspective when they here about a 
case of violence by  .  .  . 

for a little perspective 

how about the thousands of kind who at local 
to help children , , the homeless 

did you read about all the kids at stanford who spent their spring 
breaks helping out in inner city areas what about the hundreds of 
( and others ) who worked to clean up the mess 
after the rodney king riots in la 

have you gone to your local high school play recently attended the 
school have you seen how many kids 
to pick up trash , plant trees , do walk a how many kids have 
tried to sell you stuff to benefit organizations they belong to how 
many girl scout cookies have you bought how many for 
good causes 

the media up on all the , the  .  .  . 

what about the wonderful all over the place who work hard at 
school , get good grades , go to college  ( or to work ) and make a real 
to our society 

all humans are at some time in their lives ! mother 
was a and so was dahmer .  . 

it is really sad to see so many people who buy the 
reporting of the media as some kind of reflection of the world today ! 
it is a reflection of what is happening on the outer fringes of our 
society and nothing more .  .  .  . 



from  ( hyunki hong ) 
subject advice sought 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 8 


i am currently in the car market and would like opinions on a 
 . how does it compare to a i thought the car 
looked very solid , stable and european .  . only so far is 
that that it does n't offer an my next question is , why is n't 
offering with should i pay the extra three 
thousand for a is even though it is smaller and less powerful 
than than the 

from  ( antonio l.  ( save the wails ) 
subject re needed in buying automobile 
reply to  ( antonio l.  ( save the wails ) 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 20 


from  ( tommy hwang ) 
subject needed in buying automobile 

i am in search of a automobile to  . below 
are its requirements 
5. or above 

most of the cars you mentioned are below  ( smaller than ) engine. 

tony 



name l. 
company digital equipment corp .  . 
, mass .  . 
work  ( 508 ) 
e mail 


from  ( aamir qazi ) 
subject re instead of a , what 
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 22 
distribution na 
reply to 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

from article com . , by  ( tim heckel ) 
for those that are interested i got my fully  ( air , , 
sunroof )  r in september 1991 for 13 , in , ca .  . it 
was one of the 1st  sold , few of the had any , no local 
had an r. i went straight to the 
at the i liked , told him what i wanted , made him aware that i 
knew what his price should be. he called me back with exactly what i 
wanted from a away , i took the next day. 

when i was selling last summer , i sold a  r in early august 
when its supply was getting quite  . the car was black with , 
value option , and power  . i sold it for 12 , plus tax .  . 
naturally , my did n't really care to sell one of the most desirable 
r 's for virtually no profit  ( to the best of my  .  .  .  .  . 







why should i care i 'd rather watch  . 

from  ( erich lim ) 
subject re 
distribution world 
organization bbs houston , tx 
reply to  ( erich lim ) 
lines 22 

 ( jason chen ) writes 

i saw an interesting product in ny show , and would like to hear 
your comments .  . 

 ( militech(tm ) is yet another oil  . but the of 
this product really impressive , if it did n't cheat .  . 

well , i heard that stuff works pretty good too .  .  . one of my 
friends who races in events and all that stuff got the 
stuff early as a trial thing , and he put it in his  .  . he 
says it worked great , but i did n't ask him for any details. 







bbs 
houston , texas com . home of alt . 


from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re too fast 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 

stuff about and safety of at speed deleted 
the is essentially the same deal as the a big power 

the is a much worse case of design than the 
 . 
plant stuck in a mid size , with almost no other  . 
i have real life experience with the it handles like a 
 ( except when you 're , of course , something i 

its hard to a stock because 
of the  . 

personally avoid doing on the highway ) and stopping power is 
even from  . lots of but the rest of 
the car is not up to par .  . 

yes. when i think , i think school  . in 
my mind the should be with a speed at 80 90 
or so. it just is n't safe , check out your local , 
other cars by a way in excess of sales in 
 . 

i find it the or has not on the 
for poor in relation to power. should at least 
on the for all 5 . 0 . 's .  . 




i picked the example because they are designed with speed in 
mind. it did n't have to be the it could have been the much 
or one of several mercedes or models .  . all of these 
cars are fairly expensive but so are the parts that make them 
at high speed .  . this should be elementary .  . 

there are a few things to keep in mind about europe , since you brought 
it up. my knowledge is admittedly second hand , but i believe 
the following to be true 

1. drivers are much better in europe than they are here. 

true of northern europe , countries are something else. 

2. the roads the are much better designed than 
true. remember they were build by adolf in the  30 's .  . 

they are here , and usually include animal  . this makes them 
far more than most us  . 

yes. 

3. not all of europe is the  . most places in europe have 

is the german word for  . other countries have 
different names for loose , , 
etc. 

speed limits that are n't out of line with what we used to have in 
the us if my friends were n't lying to me they 're typically not 
much higher than h. 

europe did seem on the of a limit .  . it has n't passed as 
far as i know. typical in western europe are much higher than 
the us. law enforcement is negligible in my experience  ( comapred 
to the us ) as there is no motivation .  . the things 
you really notice are the higher speed , and the more 
attitude to driving. you just never see two cars 
running parallel at 55 . 1 . to all around them. 


i strongly suspect you wo n't find a lot of owners doing 
 ( nearly h ) on the , but i could be wrong. some people 

you 're wrong. 's go this fast .  . just kind of , not the ideal 

car. a lot of times you see cars being driven with the drivers 
foot on the  . how do i know when you 're not making any ground 
on the identical car in front of you ! 

have no respect for their own lives. 

if something happens at 130 150 you 're dead , but the same goes for much 
over 35 .  . driving at high speed forces you to concentrate .  . i feel much 
safer driving 130 on the than 60 80 in typical us traffic 
because most people seem to be  . i 've never seen any reading 
a book on an , i see it all too often in the us. 

craig 

it just does n't seem fast after 30 or so of  . everybody 
drives that fast , no big deal. 

craig 

you certainly have n't convinced me. 

of course not. speeding is bad. speeding is illegal .  . 
i will not speed .  . i love big brother .  . you had your mind made up 
already. 

if you think so you sure do n't pay attention to my postings .  . 

jim 




from  . david higgins ) 
subject  93 engine problems 
organization harris ,  . , 
lines 21 
distribution world 
nntp posting host harris . com . 

one of the local has a used  ( 7k miles )  93 
on the lot with a of a document taped to the 
saying the bought the car back from 
the previous owner because of engine , but that 
the district had ok ed the car saying those 
were normal . i thought it was worth looking 
into  ( the car seems otherwise clean ) and mentioned this 
to a co , who proceeded to tell me a story 
about her son 's  93 , which had several problems , 
ending with engine which she said was something 
with the heads , that acknowledged the , said 
they were working on it , but did n't have a as of 
yet. her son the car in  ( and i checked not 
the same  . so i have some evidence of a 
problem with the in the 's , and by extension 
with the and 6. 

anything to this i 'd love to consider buying the  ( i'm 
turning 40 time for my scheduled mid life crisis ) 
but i 'd hate to find out i just became the proud owner 
of a  . 

from  ( boyd johnson ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization corporation 
lines 31 

in article  ( lawrence b. keys ) writes 

this is n't anything new. back in 1985 i was driving under a high 
at night on i in san diego when i caught a of 
someone on the  . as i passed under a against the 
metal between the and right front  . my was 
in the next to it. i called the police from the next , but i 
doubt if they were found. 

about five years ago in san diego someone was put into a coma from a 
being thrown through his as he was driving and 
subsequently  . i do n't think he ever came out of the coma , and i 
have n't heard anything about it for a couple years. 

i know that this is n't the group for it , but since you brought it up , 
does anyone have any idea why they have n't bombed the cult 

probably because there are many children there. also the minor fact 
that other than defending themselves from 100 some people attacking them 
they have n't threatened or attacked anyone outside the compound in 
years. being a religious does not constitute grounds 
for a mass murder of koresh and his followers. 

sorry for posting this to this group , but i thought the previous post 
needed a  . if you follow up to this portion please cross post 
and direct follow to a more appropriate newsgroup .  . 


boyd johnson ! com . ! johnson san diego , california 
at best and only to groups. 
my opinions certainly do n't match those of my employer .  . 

from  ( david g. wonnacott ) 
subject questions about (esp .  . geico ) 
distribution usa 
organization u of maryland , dept. of computer science , coll. pk. , md 20742 
lines 13 

i'm considering switching to , but have heard that 
they do not assign a specific for each policy or claim .  . i was 
worried that this might be a real pain when you make a claim .  . i have 
also heard that they try to get rid of you if you have an accident. 

i'm in determining whether or not these things are true. 
has anyone out there with made a claim i 'd be interested in 
hearing whether or not you were satisfied with the service and whether 
you then had trouble your policy. 

i'm also interested in any good or bad stories about liberty or 
state farm .  . 


from state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) 
subject re opinions  ( centered around the gt ) 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 21 

in article  ( chuck kesler ) writes 
has no on when up. i'm waiting for the day when 
i my head on the corner .  . 
behind air in and not in center  ( personal preference ) 

the latter is probably because of the air  . it 's pretty much takes up 
all the space where you 'd expect to find the  . 


all have with a real  . come on , how hard can it 
be to put a little pressure there. i hope does n't follow 
everyone else and make the horns little that i would n't want 
to for. 

john 


john 
to you , the was just 
something that happened to other people , 
was n't it the black 

from  ( tommy reingold ) 
subject re where can i get a new york 
reply to 
organization at t bell labs , , nj , usa 
distribution na 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 18 

 ( wharfie ) writes 

... 
actually , you want a special if you can find one. 

good luck. i'm sorry i let mine go .  .  .  . 

i grew up in new york city so i in many  . the jump 
were fun as a kid .  . although the cars were a good trait 
for a they had a design flaw that i do n't understand they never 
fixed the passengers tended to fall out of their when the 
 . i would n't want to take a long ride in the back of 
one of these  . why did you like yours i never one , so 
i have to ask. 

tommy 
at t bell labs , , nj 
or ! ! tommy 

from  ( mart molle ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
distribution 
lines 26 

 ( bob lagesse ) writes 

long silly discussion deleted .  .  .  . 

and while you 're at it , why bother with removing 
the plug when you could remove the instead and it out from 
there with your mouth and then it out 

this suggestion is n't as far fetched as it sounds .  . years ago in another 
time and place , i used to do oil changes in by 
 . in many cases , there was no way to get any sort of a under 
the oil because it was in by the bottom of the and various 
on each side. and if you did get something there , you 'd 
all the oil out of it for sure trying to get it back out again. 

so we used a small by an electric to the oil out 
the hole .  . there was a long thin on the side designed 
to fit down the , and another , on the 
side that you put into any convenient container .  . i'm sure these 
are still available from hardware if you want one. 

l. 
computer systems research institute 
university of 
, canada 
 ( 416)978 ) 

from  ( tyson f nuss ) 
subject re concepts of all tim 
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 23 
reply to 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

in article , 
wrote 

8. is on ! ! 

actually , this started as a great idea. before 
became popular , a lock put the car 
in reverse , remove the key , and the car in reverse ! 
also , suppose you get into your car , and a thug comes up and 
demands your at  . you hand them over , he gets in , and 
has no idea where to put the key ! at this , he will run away  ( or perhaps 
shoot you anyway ) .  . i heard this actually happened somewhere .  .  .  . 
btw , i hear that the 's new will have the 
on the , between the , where it belongs .  . 


a 
and 
v little 's of fine 
o 0 brands 55 import , 17 

these opinions are not necessarily mine  ( or mine , either) .  . 
can anyone me a  . sig . 

subject apology  ( was re did us drive on the left ) 
from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 
lines 54 


in a previous article , ( daniel u. ) says 

i'm , but i believe in the we probably mostly down 
and in  . i am fairly sure that of the 
wheel was pretty much arbitrary to the company at that time .  .  .  .  .  . 

by the , there was a very active good roads movement , which had 
its origins actually in the during the bicycle , picked up 
steam in the  ( witness the association , or so , 
and the us support act  ( real name something different ) in 
that first federal aid to states and to build decent 
roads .  . also , the experience of widespread use of for domestic 
transport during 1 convinced the government that good were 
crucial to our national defense .  . anyway , by the there were plenty 
of good roads , at least around areas , and they were rapidly 
expanding into the  . this was the era , after all , of the 
first , the , the camp ground , etc. two good 
books on the subject spring to mind warren america on the 
road  ( title may not be exact author is) and another called the devil 
in god 's country author i forget .  . also , any of john 's or 
john bell 's histories .  . 

i'm sorry , as i have never heard of any of this. guess they do n't think 
it 's important enough for a , and i was going on what i 've seen 
in real nice there , huh ) i just always 
recall thinking that good roads of did n't come around the 
act , or whatever they called  ( it(60 's ) , and that wood and 
roads were fairly rare up through the depression , except in 
overpopulated places like england and us cities .  . obviously 
says i am wrong. 

as to of the wheel being arbitrary , by the early 
there were virtually no american cars that did not have the wheel 
on the left. in the early days , cars had the wheel on the left , on the 
right , and even in the middle , as well as sometimes having a 
instead of a wheel .  . this was fairly early on , though i 
do n't know why. 

i knew it was almost always done , but i knew of no reason that it might not 
be done the other way by for their car. seems like they had some 
other deviations from the norm too , at times ) 

dan 

carnegie mellon university 
applied history 

world history on from to , whether we 
can comprehend and prove it or not. 


thanx for me , and again , i for post. 


from  ( zingale , thomas j ) 
subject re 86 
organization texas a m university , academic computing services 
lines 51 
distribution world 
nntp posting host zeus . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 
i have a 86 with a c and  . it 's turned 
and the light started  . i went to the and he said 
it was a light saying i need to change the oxygen  . he 
said , it is to be changed every , but since i bought the car when it 
had , i do n't know if the same thing happened at and  . he 
quoted for the part and 50 to it. the part cost 30 
outside , but the mechanic i went to could not fix it saying the 
is placed too deep in the engine parts. he suggested i wait till it 
before i do anything. if anyone out there owns a 
, i want to know how they got their oxygen changed. also , 
did you face any problem with fixing it without the 's help. also , 
what are the results of the oxygen  . 
any help would be greatly 
thanks 


i have owned my from the beginning and that light comes on every 
to let you know it 's time for a check up. when that light goes on , i just 
take it to the tell them it 's that time and they work on it for 4 
and you pay 5 for parts and 100 for labor .  .  .  . what . they get for labor ) 
i currently have about on my and of all the times i took it in for 
service , i never say on the anything about the replacement of the 
oxygen  . what the heck is an oxygen as far an i know of , i have 
never had that thing replaced in my car and the car is like a  . 
now , i do n't have a c  ( mother nature does that for me ) ) and that might have 
something to do with it , but i still never heard of an oxygen  . the only 
major service job i have had on my car  ( besides getting the replaced 
if you want to call that a service job ) was getting the , and 
replaced .  . and that was all done within the past 2 months. 

what i do at is have a good tune up , let them replace what ever they need 
to , pay the bill  ( about 125 ) and go home and do n't worry about the car for 
another  . oh , i just something. if that little light 
bothers you , in the box right below the turn signal up against 
the , there is a on the right side. flip that switch and the light 
will go off. i do that so that little light wo n't annoy me. if you ca n't 
find it , look it up in the car  . i hope that i have helped a little 
and good luck with the oxygen 

thomas 


e mail address give me an an army of west point , 
and i 'll win a battle .  .  .  . 
give me a of texas , 
creator of mot power ! and i 'll win a war. 
gen .  . george s. 




from state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 18 


in article  ( grays 
on walker ) writes 
why under the car at all i have a machine i got for my that 
the oil out under through the stick  . it does an 
excellent job and by moving the around , you can get more 
old oil out than by using the plug .  . i think i paid 25 at e b  . 
the oil goes into a 3 can wait until it and into 
your favorite device. i use soft drink  . easy to take them down to 
the local oil center .  . 


yeah i suppose you could do that. but then you do n't get the broken , 
the in your eyes , the oil , and the from the  . 

i mean come on ! ... 

steve 

from  ( john fox ir ) 
subject re grand vs. 4 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 54 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( jonathan edwards ) writes 
i am considering buying one of these two  . 
i want a fun to drive family that can go through anything. 
the is very popular , and has the features .  . all wheel drive , 4 wheel 
anti lock ,  ( but limited with an internal  . 
the is an design with only part time 4 wheel and only 
anti lock  ( and no anti lock in ! ) .  . it also has a very 
gate , not to mention to the  . 


any reason you are limited to the two mentioned they are n't really at 
the same point along the spectrum not to mention price range .  . 
how about the , , , , and if the 
allows , the land 
bear in mind that 90 of all 's purchased never venture off road. 
carefully the trade off between comfort and off road 
when choosing one , and decide whether you 'll actually 
make enough use of the off road ability to sacrifice  ( some of ) the 
on road comfort .  . 



john 










john 





















from  ( theodore chen ) 
subject re dodge experiences 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 19 

in article  ( balaji v. ramanathan ) writes 
the part about spending on reminds me 
of an article i read in a magazine comparing the 5 year ownership costs 
of a and a or something like that. the result , 
which they with great flourish was that it cost the same at the 
end of the period. that was their argument to prove that you do n't go 
wrong buying the over the  . 

now , if i remember correctly , the costs about or so more 
in initial costs .  . essentially , it means that you spend about extra 
on on the  . that is ridiculous .  . every time your car 
needs , it is extra hassles , loss of time and a dozen other things. 
i would much rather spend more in initial costs than spend more 
in costs .  . 

did you account for i seriously doubt that a 
would up an extra in costs over 5 years. 



from  ( graham e. thomas ) 
subject re to the past ! 
organization institute of technology 
lines 17 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( alois m. himsl ) writes 
be worthwhile or how about something like the old with new technology 
just think about it the old style with safety features and perhaps a 
natural gas operated engine for less than  . i think it would go over well. 
what is your opinion 
al h 

well , the is currently in for the english market , built 
by  . it now has a , improved , and a slightly 
updated body. too bad it 's only available in gb and would set one 
of us back about 42 , 000 . 



graham e. thomas blah blah blah blah blah 
institute of technology blah blah blah blah blah 
internet blah blah blah blah blah 

from  ( stephen d'amelio ) 
subject re and the automobile 
nntp posting host 
organization progress software corp .  . 
lines 19 

 ( russel wong ) writes 

, my name is russell and i am doing a research project on henry 
and his automobile .  . i need information on whether is 
responsible for all of the car accidents 

, he cut me off on 128 the other day , he drives like a crazy person. 
i 'd have to say he 's responsible for most accidents , they really should 
pull his  . 

steve 


7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 
1992 cup 
1993 
7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 



from 
subject art of shifting 
lines 18 
nntp posting host 
organization super 

i'm wondering if anybody else out there is a i 've been 
doing it my self over 200 , 000 , on my current i 've got 
over  . i 've heard people talk about how doing this can damage a 
 . my experiences suggest otherwise. what techniques do you use 

on some old pieces of junk i , the was so 
that the was the only way to shift , except  . 
to date i 've driven , , , a  . some where 
harder than others to shift but generally the higher the the 
quicker easier they where to shift .  . 

my is to back off the and at the same time 
back on the shift  . if for some reason i miss the shift , 
i lightly press the try  . i 've found that 
shifting is quicker at high  ( 4000  . i also some 
times using 1 3 5 , 1 2 4 5. 



from  ( stephen d'amelio ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
nntp posting host 
organization progress software corp .  . 
lines 34 

 ( ha nguyen ) writes 

in article  ( stephen d'amelio ) writes 
 ( brent moss ) writes 

you could take a and hammer and start holes in 
various and when some black slippery stuff starts 
out then you would know that the oil plug is nearby  ( within a foot 
or two  . close the holes with toilet paper before with oil 
though. 

you have to the engine with oil ! wow , no wonder i ca n't get 
an engine to last more than my first oil change .  . do n't forget to 
holes in the too , it will nice water 

on the engine and keep it nice cool. ) 

steve 

gee , you really make me confused .  . what is where is it 
what does it look like will it release any radiation  ( since it sounds 
like tor ) when you holes 


of course it radiation ! why your car goes when 
you the holes in it. all that radiation gets on your engine 
and gives it  ( scientific  . you get more 
too ! if you do n't know what are , you can read 
long threads on the subject , but they are all wrong. 
is how much power a horse can make a , and is 
a name invented by for a  . 

steve 


from de .  ( stefan dalibor ) 
subject re too fast 
organization  . , university of 
reply to de . 
nntp posting host uni . de . 
lines 85 

 ( jim frost ) writes 

there are a few things to keep in mind about europe , since you brought 
it up. my knowledge is admittedly second hand , but i believe 
the following to be true 

my knowledge about driving in the u.s. is also second hand , but i think i can 
correct your statements about our 

1. drivers are much better in europe than they are here. 

oh yeah , that would be paradise .  .  .  . in fact , you can forget it. from all i 've 
heard from my u.s. relatives , drivers esp. here in germany are much more 
, but not  . one of my relatives , a l . a .  . resident , a car 
at the airport and went about 18 to our home. he said then that 
he grew about 1 year older during this ride and he 'd never drive a car in 
germany again  ( this was in and he kept his promise the situation now is 
even worse as effect of the increased volume of  . 
what you mean by  should perhaps be considered due 
to fear  
when driving around here , you always have to take into consideration that the 
majority of the other drivers absolutely relies on you they expect that nobody 
fails or many of them this by driving as fast as their car can 
go  ( of course only where that is allowed , you might think dream on ) .  . 
so any mistake you make is a very high risk to your health and if you 're ex 
posed to such a situation from your very first day as a , you learn to 
handle it or you lose .  .  .  . 
that 's the way i and most people i know experience our traffic situation 
whether you think this is pleasant or efficient is up to you i think we handle 
a very high volume of traffic and that at high with  ( compared to 
the volume ) and decreasing of lethal accidents , more and more 
people (esp .  . women ) dislike driving  ( because they feel and threatened ) 
and each accident is one accident too much. 

2. the roads the are much better designed than 
they are here , and usually include animal  . this makes them 
far more than most us  . 

better designed and , may be but animal are very rare .  . 
and many other streets have guard (i hope that 's the right word 
a made from thick fixed on it 's about 2 feet high ) 
those guard are designed for keeping on the road. smaller animals 
can under the , bigger ones can easily jump over it. the point is 
that esp. larger animals are very rare in germany they tend also to be very 
 . accidents caused by animals are a danger .  . 

3. not all of europe is the  . most places in europe have 
speed limits that are n't out of line with what we used to have in 
the us if my friends were n't lying to me they 're typically not 
much higher than h. 

you 're right  ( there are speed even on the major part of the autobahn ) 
but the attitude towards driving  ( see above) seems to be very similar to that 
in germany (i 've been in france , , , austria , spain , , 
the netherlands ) besides that , you really ca n't rely on the residents 
the local speed limits .  . i 've got quite a lot of practise ( miles ) and i'm 
used to travel at 130  ( fyi , with a car even smaller than a rabbit ) , but i 
consider driving on the round or really a  .  .  . 

i strongly suspect you wo n't find a lot of owners doing 
 ( nearly h ) on the , but i could be wrong. ... 

sorry , but you 'll find quite a lot class car  ( or even smaller , mine is a 
205 ) owners going that fast small cars with much are very  over 
here and most people buying such cars are n't afraid to let them run. 

... some people 
have no respect for their own lives. 

i disagree the size or weight of a car is rather irrelevant .  . 1 cars 
less than 700 and the drivers have a chance to survive accidents at 
130 or higher when against a solid object at 130 , 
it makes no difference whether you sit in a , a mercedes , a or on 
a bicycle your 're dead. 

bye , 


de) . 

 .  .  . and . now for the next case in court , i accuse you of being the 
of adolf hitler .  . i do n't think that mere denials will be 
sufficient you will have to submit to by a 
that i personally select .  .  .  . 
perry in article in news . admin . policy . 

from  ( chad andrew kauffman ) 
subject car info .  .  ( ungo box ) 
organization university 
lines 12 




i want to get a car and i am thinking about getting an box .  . 
does anyone out there have any knowledge or experience with any of 
these how about price ranges for the different models 
are these good car please email me any  . 






from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re action 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution usa 
lines 41 

in  ( mark wayne blunier ) writes 

 ( jim frost ) writes 

i wish i had the with me to back me up , but i recall 
statistics showing that women tended to have more accidents than men 
but the damage was generally quite minor .  . men had but far more 
expensive accidents .  . the rate of total destruction was 
higher for men than women , particularly in the 
male age groups. 

imho social are probably the strongest influence here , 
possibly more so than any difference between the  . social 
influences often affect the type of car that 's bought and the 
situations the car is used in , and the type of car and driving 
situations have a major effect on accident risk. thus if society 
expects you to buy a and race it on the street you 're more 
likely to do it , and our society expects that of males more than 
 . 

i agree with some of your social influences , such as driving conditions , 
but lets get real here. guys do n't race becuase there expected too , 
we do it becuase its fun !  ( and we find out whose car is  . 
guys drive different than women becuase there men. when a is 
driving  unusually  , i can usually figure out if it is a male or female 
without looking at the  . 
social influences may give a person more reason to buy a that 
has a certain amount of character which he or she would like associated 
with. do you change your driving when no one is around 

! i do n't know what kind of women they have where you guys live , 
but there are some here who will blow your doors off. or at least 
they will try to , but we just ca n't let the youngsters get too 
with us old folks ) .  . 
my  . 02 .  . 
mark b. 

jim 

bob 


from  ( trevor corkum ) 
subject is car important 
nntp posting host 47 . 0 . 88 . 
reply to  ( trevor corkum ) 
organization bell northern research ltd .  . 
lines 11 

i was recently through the 1993 aid new 
car guide .  . what i found was a car would be given a  recommended  
under the picture while a few sentences later how a 
and were virtually guaranteed to be killed 
in a front end  . the most highly recommended small 
car  ( the civic ) has the worst crash of all of the small 
cars listed .  . there were many such cases of  great  
where you would n't survive an accident. is it only me , or is 
safety not one of the most important factors when buying a car 



from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re drivers who do n't look ahead 
keywords bad drivers 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution usa 
lines 52 

in  ( bob pitas ) writes 

in article  ( donna martz ) writes 

stuff deleted 


excuse me , but i understood what mr. smith meant. and , i have often observed 
when traffic is solid , that if a few people to the 
who is riding , the at the front of the pack will 
wake up , change , and ! no more  . granted the 
situation here does not apply to rush hour in a crowded city. but i have 
observed this situation regularly on your average , or 
eight sets of cars , side by side , up in a pack with open 
and as far as you can see. the people who refuse to 
as a point of honor are just as as the in the front .  . 

i agree that if traffic is all up and you want to pass , you might 
not feel like moving over for someone behind you because you do n't want to 
give them that one car length , when they should just wait like you are. 
but , if you 're one of those people that just sit 's behind the person , and 
does n't them with the high , or pull left and them , or 
ride their bumper , or otherwise tell them that you do in fact want to 
go by , and you 're not just them , then get the hell out of the 
way of someone who will ! i especially hate it when you someone at 
the back of a line and they do n't  pass it  . 

so after i 've my at the in front and he does n't 
 pass it on   ( and few if any do ) , what next on major , 3 or more 
in each direction , keeping to the extreme right blocks folks who 
are entering .  . also , as someone posted in this thread , here in the d . c .  . 
area we have a few left  ( sounds like  . if you wait until 
the last minute to get in the left you wo n't , cause these 
wo n't make room. 

we have a particularly bad here in just over the 
john  . there are two very long entry which all the up 
into cause they want to get ahead. when we get to the point 
where these , all hell breaks lose .  . the result is that traffic 
which was moving at 55 on the va side of the , on t other 
side. if these had stayed in , allowed the folks coming up 
the two to , we would still be doing 55 .  . instead we do start 
stop for 4  . dave 's idea of a laser car would be 
real useful here. 

bob 

ps if you drive the and want to , look for a brown 
with a silver , then use your i do n't read minds , 
but i do try to be courteous .  . they told me courtesy was , but 
i guess the folks around here have had their shots 


from  ( zauberer ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
organization university 
distribution usa 
lines 28 

remember roads in america are not designed for above 80 meaning they 
would be safe at 55 65 .  . roads like the are , , 
and slightly  . 

example a few months back i was late at night ( 3 00 am or so ) 
and i was changing at a  . it off to the south 
east becoming hidden by trees after about 1 , 000 and continued to the 
left north .  . i wanted to turn north , checked the south , rolled 
into the and checked the north  . nevertheless there was n't 
a car in sight , so i took one last look and into the left hand  . 
now my car is n't a 5 0 60 but i was in the and 
over 40 in decent time , even at 3 00 i was n't wasting time. it was then 
that i checked my and saw a in my fast , he 
had just turned the corner and was just me. he saw me and 
changed in time , i he was moving in excess of 90 or so. 
i was just a by , i had no chance of from him , or moving out 
of his way. i'm glad he saw my in time. i shudder to 
think of what would have happened had i to pull out and not 
left the time he needed to dodge me. 

rule just because your car can do 100 , and your way is clear , 
do n't assume it will stay that way. 


the ideas expressed above are in fact the same as 
my employer , since i have none ) 
e mail , flame , at 


from ee . edu .  ( bijan mobasseri ) 
subject re from 
organization university 
lines 14 

 cause a friend a car last year and it turned out he needed a lot more 
than what 's included in the base price .  . but on the other hand he 
did n't it from  . 

probability that i 'll be more 

unless you have an accident , you wo n't need more. 

joe 


let me see , unless you have an accident , you wo n't need more ,  . 



from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re air without 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 33 

in article  ( alois m. himsl ) writes 
yes , i have the same questions. what makes me upset is that costs are 
and in fact ca n't be bought anymore in my area. also this is yet 
another way mechanics and can off  . also i was reading 
that the new is not compatible with the system and that it 
would cost a 1000 to a car with the old system. 
although it is important to consider the environment i think the sudden ban is 
a in the face for the consumer .  . why is it that the consumer should have 
to pay for the the should have seen this coming also 
why is it that the governments of the world were so quick in banning use 
and yet so slow in banning  . in my opinion is just as 
as anything else. why ca n't they start proposing on this and 
switch to natural gas or electric the technology is there. some 
will come up with another alternative that will be compatible 
with the old system. 
al h. 

several already have come up with several for 
 . you do n't hear about them because the air society 
 ( macs ) , that is , the people who stand to in that to 1000 per 
per automobile , have mounted an organized campaign to those 
out of existence if not ban them  ( on very shaky 
technical grounds , at best , on outright lies at  . 

does this you off yes write a letter to your , to 
your , to the president , to the , and to the and complain. 

later , 

chris 114 h d wide 's red 
baby 
disclaimer now why would 1991 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild dogs .  . 

from  ( nill toulme ) 
subject used 
article i.d. 274 . 
reply to  ( nill toulme ) 
distribution world 
organization the data dimension , 
lines 31 

quoting jeffrey j. 's article 
of 04 06 93 , in pertinent part 

i am considering buying a used  90  . the car in 
question has  . i took it for a test drive the other day 
and a few questions came up. 

. . . 
second , is there anything i should specifically look for in an 
of this anything i should specifically ask 
 ( brakes , , etc . ) . i noticed on the drive the 
point seemed a little high since all my other cars are 
i'm not sure this point. i had my foot firmly planted on the 
when i started it up. there was a bit of a pop in the 
soon after the engine started .  . this also occured on a few t  
i test  . was this the self test 

and the are the main things. there has been a 
replacement program you might check to see if the car is still , 
as it is a change well worth making. you can also the 
for the newer , also a change worth making , but that 'll 
cost you some . 

my usually do one on , so that is probably 
normal .  . did n't know they had a self test , that 's interesting. 

what kind of does the car have on it 


2 . 131 for a good time on your  . 


from 
subject re systems are they worthwhile 
distribution usa 
organization state university 
lines 27 

in article , dave writes 
is it worthwhile to get an system on a new car 

what features are important 

what features are 

that is a question that can only be answered by yourself and where you live. 
if you live in a place where crime is apparent , then it might be a good idea to 
get one simply as a deterrent .  . however , if a wants your 
, its as good as gone no matter what you do. but to slow down any 
thieves it would be a good idea to get the basic options .  . that would be 

1 ) kill or cut off 
2 ) a red led 

these two are basic to a decent system. 
to slow down the criminal some more , get a wheel lock .  . 
that should be sufficient to persuade the to find an easier target. 
but , then there 's always car  . 
why is life so confusing 
i hope i helped somewhat .  . 


jason human factors psychology program 
state university , , oh e mail 


from  ( john denune ) 
subject re car buying story , was christ , another service  .  .  . 
organization san diego state university , college of sciences 
lines 40 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

mark wrote 
while not exactly a service incident , i had a similar experience recently 
when i bought a new  . 
i had picked out the i wanted and after a little we 
agreed on a price .  . i wrote them a check for the down plus tax 
and license and told them i 'd be back that evening to pick up the  . 
when i returned , i had to wait about an hour before the guy could 
get to me. when i finally got in there , everything went until he 
started adding up the numbers. he then discovered that they had 
the tax license by about 150 .  . he then said he needed 
another 150 from me. i said we had already agreed on a price and it was 
their problem , i was n't giving them any more money. the guy then 

a similar thing to me a year ago. i bought a used 
 ( which has since been stolen .  .  .  . ( ) and few weeks after i paid 
and took , they sent a letter telling me they and 
the license by and that i need to send 
in a check to avoid further delay in the of my  . 
the thing is , i had already received the pink slip from the , so 
i ignored it. i received another letter and then the phone calls 
started coming .  . first from the guy and then from the general 
, both me for the extra money. they left me alone 
once i told them i already had the paperwork and pointed out the clause 
in the contract that stated that the final price was just that final .  . 
, they would n't if i had told them i wanted another 
off after the deal had been signed , right i told them not 
to call again and that i would not do business with them in the future. 
they did n't seem to have a problem with that. this , after all , was a 
used at a  . 

i had a much better experience buying a new about a month 
ago. it certainly to buy a car on the last sunday of the month .  . 
it was even raining too , so they had done very little business that 
and were really willing to deal. i kept telling them i would 
think about it , and they kept dropping the price .  . got a very good 
deal and so far have been very please with the service .  . 

john 



from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 39 

 ( charles parr ) writes 

in article  ( jim hart ) writes 
in article 
writes 
my top 10 list of concepts ever 

10. 1984 dodge colt only avail. with automatic trans. 
9. back up on they 're on the sides of the car ! 

sure would be interested to know what  ( year(s ) this was ! 
i do n't seem to recall any car with back up on the sides , much 
less any  . i suppose i could be mis interpreting what you are 
trying to say here .  .  .  .  .  . 

just a quick comment. mounted on the side 
would actually be extremely useful for people backing out of 
 .  .  . 

regards , charles 

within the of the last few weeks i have heard elements of 
separate threads which , in that they have been in time , 
together to form a new within my and 
 . unknown net . person . 

was n't the original intent of the reverse for the , so he 
could see where he was backing up although reverse on the sides 
are useful for telling whether cars are backing up out to the 
path of the car , i do n't think warnings were their original , since they 
are white. 




the university of illinois mail 
neil ,  ( c)1981 ) 
quick to judge , quick to , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice 
and fear walk hand in hand 

from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re did us drive on the left 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 14 

in article daniel u. writes 


stuff about 's deleted 

well and australia , and lord knows wherever else used to drive on 
still do drive on the wrong side of the road. i believe 
changed in  . the way i heard it was that they 
all the traffic signs around one sunday .  .  .  .  . 

the wrong side of the road , so the market might have been 
larger then than just the uk .  . 

craig 

from  ( yong lim ) 
subject me with wrong reading. need help ! 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 14 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

here is a story. i bought a car about two weeks ago. i finally can 
get hold of the previous owner of the car and got all 
history of the car. in between  91 and  , the instrument 
of the car has been replaced and the also has been 
to zero .  . therefore , the true reading is the reading before 
replacement plus current mileage .  . that shows difference 
comparing to the mileage on the from. the 
never told me anything about that important story. 

i hope that i can return the car with full  . do u think this 
is possible does anyone have similar experiences any comments 
will be appreciated. thanks. 



from  ( mike brookbank ) 
subject and the real world 
organization systems inc. , , ontario , canada 
lines 14 

my sister has an  . she has one from the last year they were produced 
 ( 1978 ) .  . its in very good shape .  . i 've been bugging her for years 
about selling it. i 've said over and over that she should sell it 
before the car is worthless while she that the car may 
actually be increasing in value as a result of its limited  . 

which one of us is right are there out there who are 
still willing to pay to for an old are there a lot out in the 
market 


mike , 35 king st. north 
director , sales , , ontario  ( 519)884 ) 
systems inc. canada , fax  ( 519)884 ) 

from  ( neeraj tulsian ) 
subject re parts jc 
lines 5 
reply to 
organization , al 

their number is 1 541 
they are based in chicago , il in case 
you need to call assistance .  . 

their are more down to earth than 
any other source for car  . 

they will send you a free catalog .  . 



from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re 
organization sun 
lines 35 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host central . sun . com . 

in article ee . edu . , ee . edu .  ( bijan mobasseri ) writes 
how do i square this with a respectable value easy if it 's expensive 
to buy new , it 's gonna be expensive to buy used. 

a patently false statement. try this logic on an  . in fact , 
has a mechanism to the value of the cars that 
are by the  . if it is expensive to buy new it is not 
necessarily to buy used. in fact , it could be real cheap to buy 
used , depending what that car is of course. note that i do not question your 
statements on the reliability of  . i have never owned one , driven one 
or been in one (i do love to have one though ! ) .  . 


what i do n't understand is why 
this apparent of quality for so many years has not filtered down into 
the used market . is . so , so and so as 
to make its a fatal attraction . 





yep .  . they are popular  . you do n't see a lot of previous model year 
ones sitting on 's lots for any of time after the new ones are 
out. the things sell , they are popular .  . 

because they are popular , and high new , they are high price used , very 
simple. 

i knew they were when i bought it .  .  .  . i knew they had a terrible 
reliability record when i bought it. but i did n't expect anything like i 
got , especially with a network unable to it. personal experience 
has quickly cured me of my with the machine .  . 

dave 

from  ( theodore chen ) 
subject re open letter to  ( really station wagon ) 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
distribution na 
lines 10 

in article  ( eliot ) writes 

this week 's talks about how are getting back in  . 
i would n't mind an  ( great stealth value ) but you 'll 
never me dead in a ! 

even a based on running gear 


p.s. i think the gets a 4 . 2 . v 8 next year .  . 

from  ( jason chen ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
organization 
lines 28 

in article  ( daryl biberdorf ) writes 
in article writes 
i just visited the ny show , and saw two cars on the eagle 
vision and dodge  . 
at a price .  . ... 

unfortunately , the is quite  . on both cars , 
the seals around the and door off. it turns out 
the seals are just big  . it goes on just by 


through a single data point , you can draw any line you want. 
dr. s. , professor , texas a m dept. of computer science 

wrong. i got two points , which were the 100 space on the show 
 . by the previous quote , i guess i may a line 

both my 's late model and my father 's 1987 stanza 
have demonstrated the falling door seals problem. 

as unfair as it may seem , the difference between and is 
that needs to prove that it can build quality cars .  . can 
afford make a few small mistakes without the image. 

after all , door failing on a 6 year old stanza is not comparable to 
the same problem on a brand new  . 

jason 

from  ( karl elvis macrae ) 
subject utility comparisons any opinions 
organization love 
lines 36 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 



i just read on this in road and track and car and 
 ( is that one or two b ) , and i was wondering if people out 
there have any opinions that from what these have to 
say .  .  .  . 


i'm looking at the following three 's anyone who 's driven all 
three have any strong opinions 







currently i'm the ,  cause i 've had big success 
with in the past , and  cause i think it 's the best 
looking of the three. but i thought i 'd see if anyone has any strong 
opinions .  .  .  .  . 



thanks ! 


karl 



karl elvis software release support systems 
or 

and and of destruction 


from 
subject parts 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 4 

does anyone know of a dead first generation i need body parts , 
, and a few minor pieces .  . i was about to buy a parts car , but the owner 
backed out after 3 month of my  .  . 
mike . s . 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 56 

in  ( james p. callison ) writes 

in article  ( dan day ) writes 
in article  ( charles parr ) writes 
as a long time , i have never understood what 
to put , which must 
be used with and , like and , 
on the  . 

why not hand control it 's much much easier. 

in the early days , neither of these functions had power assist , so 
only legs had enough strength to them. since then , it 's 
been traditional and people would have a hard time getting 
used to anything else. 

well , where , exactly , would you put a hand and on 
a , it 's easy the have a very limited 
range of turning .  . , on the other hand , turn around 
and around and around .  .  . which . is fine for electrical  ( like 
your cruise control and airbag ) but how many of you want to 
lose your and or due to a short 

shades of the ! they had in the wheel 
that controlled the tranny .  . it was very to shift 
into reverse when turning a corner and the  . 

there are , but there 's really no reason to use hand 
power on a car 's or , and them to the 
point that they are suitable for hand use 
would the complexity  ( look at 
power and non power for an example) .  . 

i saw an experimental car that had a instead of a 
wheel .  .  .  . 

that 's about useless , imho .  . 

another is separate for , doors , and 
 . why on earth would you want this 

i know i do n't .  . 

i want a separate key for security reasons it gives me a totally 
separate , container .  . for door and  .  .  . , the same key 's 
ok , i guess. 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( dick grady ) 
subject re car buying story , was christ , another service  .  .  . 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
distribution usa 
lines 15 

in article writes 
mark states in his post to know the price and offer 200 
above. my husband and i are in the market to buy our first car 
together , and neither of us know how to go about it. how do 
you find out the price are their books to look in do 
you send away somewhere for it 

several company publish (3 or 4 times a year ) which list the 
and the of all the cars and their 
options .  . edmund 's is the name of one such price guide .  . you can find 
these price at most places which sell  . 


dick salem , nh , usa 
so many newsgroups , so little time ! 

from  ( michael j. edelman ) 
subject re 91 manual problem 
organization wayne state university 
lines 17 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host pass . wayne . edu . 

in article , writes 
. 

after many trips to the , who has admittedly been patient with me , 
they are admittedly going to do nothing about it .  .  .  .  . 
the did however follow the and review proper 
with the owner .... 
my next attempt at in the customer number but from the first 
round it does n't sound too  . 


i'm surprised .  . i know of a local case where a guy took his back five 
times to complain they had n't properly eliminated a  .  . so . 
gave him a new car. 

call that 1 number .  . 


from  ( theodore chen ) 
subject re and the real world 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 11 

in article  ( scott fisher ) writes 
have you driven a converted 
now they are starting to perform ! i 've often thought a 
would go well in the too .  .  .  . anyone . done it 

no , but somebody 's dropped a v 8 into the , somewhat 
of the  . the car 's obviously not as 
as before , but it 's supposed to have a near 50 50 weight distribution 
and handle very well. i 'd sure love to drive one. 



from  ( brent moss ) 
subject re water in of 89 
nntp posting host 130 . 187 . 200 . 5 . 
organization evans computer corp .  . , salt city , 
lines 4 

the under my in my 
like the ones are doing under your spare in the  . 
i them out and put some on them 
and put them back in. 

from eric  ( eric thomas ) 
subject 
organization mind link ! british , canada 
lines 4 

i just bought a t and would like any info on a club 
in and around the the b.c. coast .  . 
eric thomas 


from  ( daryl biberdorf ) 
subject dodge experiences 
organization texas a m university , college station 
lines 9 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 

another user recently requested info about the 
cars , but i have n't seen any public responses. 

what are people 's experiences with these cars 



d 


from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re for damage a record 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

in article writes 
in article  ( craig boyle ) 
writes 


my 90 was hit hard in the 3 25 in austin , tx .  . 
the company cut me a check for ( 100 deductible ) 
last week. is this a record anybody else had from 
the same yet 

craig 


has it that a guy at computer had his , so that would 
be about  . 

i guess it either had the top down , or the ripped through the top , as 
you could not do worth of damage to a body. 

craig 




john 
the constitution grants you the right to life , liberty , and the 
pursuit of happiness. it does not attempt to that 
everyone will be happy. 



from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re too fast 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 35 

in  ( craig boyle ) writes 

in article  ( mark hartman ) writes 

i do n't know why you are complaining about 130 .  . alot of us have cars that 
can easily top that. most that go 130 are built to do it also and can handle 
the speed .  . why complain and just join in on the fast fun can i ask. 
have any of you been at the speed of 130 its a rush .  . 

driving 130 in a straight line is fine , you very soon become 
to it. it 's only a rush when there are that you do n't 
think you can make. 

on a clear , 130 is nothing. in the u.s. of people and 
all judges would label you insane and it is difficult to persuade 
people otherwise. 

sure , but the surface condition of most good is far better 
than most of the roads here. a in the that you test your 
shocks on at 60 will kill you at 130 .  . do n't get me wrong , i love to 
drive quickly and they say my will do 130 , but that 's 30 more 
than i 've ever tried in it cause there is n't a decent enough piece 
of road  . 

craig 


mark 
, mi 
i'm in the school ! 


bob 



from  ( aamir qazi ) 
subject re 3 series for 94 
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 14 
reply to 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

from article , by  ( alvin ) 

is there going to be a in 

could be. is n't the 2.5 supposed to be to 2 . 8 . 
in the not too distant future 







why should i care i 'd rather watch  . 

from  ( donald wan ) 
subject just 
organization university of 
lines 3 





from george .  ( george howell ) 
subject re going into 
distribution world 
organization college , , md 
reply to george .  ( george howell ) 
lines 9 

does that mean that they 're gonna bring back the and 
air 

or how about the 

george . 

george 


from 
subject monthly posting grand national t type mailing list 
lines 16 
organization company , st. , 


monthly posting regarding the grand national t type mailing list. 

this list is for owners and other parties interested in the 87 grand 
, t types , , and other  . discussions 
include technical information and parts sources. particular emphasis is given 
to and  . 

to join , or ask , about the mailing list , contact 




scott 1 the group of company 
packet 
keeper of the grand national t type mailing list 

from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re electronic  ( was used question ..... ) 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 32 

i with someone working on an electronic  . the 
design was to use a based system to write a somewhat 
pattern into an  . the idea was to make the 
difficult to program arbitrary values into the  . the 
secondary purpose , acutally the primary purpose from the standpoint 
of practicality , was to the writes so as to avoid 
the number of writes the being used. 
the also ignored coming from the hall effect 
at a rate any higher than 110 so as to make the reading 
by at least somewhat undesirable .  . this was for an 
automobile that was not expected to ever 110 in 
operation. the case , of course , might not be the same for your 
1993 7 ! 

the of some cars do indeed info about conditions 
under which cars have been operated .  . since angle and 
data , etc is available it would not be difficult to 
all sorts of interesting information about the 
drivers  use of the car. i am not aware of any 
currently trying to enforce restrictions based on reading 
out use data from the  . while it could be a potential invasion 
of your for to have access to data about your 
driving style , it could also provide valuable information from 
actual field use conditions to help engineer more appropriate cars .  . 
i personally would n't mind the my driving 
as long as it is done in an anonymous fashion .  . 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( john r. daker ) 
subject re open letter to 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 17 
reply to  ( john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( steven a. morris ) says 


or , here 's an even better suggestion , why do n't you guys go ahead and 
buy the rest of heavy  ( subaru ) and put either an 
in line 4 or v 6 into the  . i 'd buy the in a 
minute if it had a engine instead of the 4 that they 
seem attached to. 

what do you find so wrong with the flat 6 in the 's , or the flat 4 for that 
matter 


the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal 

from  ( srihari shoroff ) 
subject re instead of a , what 
organization logic inc. 
distribution na 
lines 24 

in  ( jason m. roth ) writes 

r t had an article on cars of the ilk and they liked the ex , 
the and the 3 best of all , and the was way down the 
list except for  . 

i just looked at that article first of all , this summary is 
of 10 cars , the was , right behind these mentioned and the 
( ! ) .  . as has been pointed out , it was a semi silly comparison the 
was at least than the 3 and  ( admittedly 
negligible , but an issue ) , and ( ! less ) than the  . the stated 
goal was a base under the was over , while the at 
the same price was excluded .  . in other words , they let the best 
play , but not the best  . note that the did the 

i dont know about the car comparison but as far as the price goes rest 
assured that the street for the 3 and and  ( maybe ) even 
the will be lesser than that of the you 're talking about. 
all price comparisons i 've seen are based on and of course the 
will sell the car for price whereas the others 
will do it way below  . 




from  ( robert j. wade ) 
subject re re a c units 
organization university engineering computer network 
distribution usa 
lines 29 

's comments 
sorry i ca n't help you with your question , but i do have a comment to 
make concerning a c units. i have a king or 
 ( forget which ) on my , and am quite unhappy with 
it. the fan is , and does n't put out much air. i will never have 
an a c in any of my again. i just ca n't 
trust the quality and after this experience. 


let me add my  . 02 . in. i had a a c by the and it did not 
work as well as the a c that was by the in 
identical to mine. i have talked to other people that have had the same 
result. do n't know if this is just a probable with or what 

ernie smith 

i agree , never have the add anything to your car. if you want a c 
make sure it is  ( installed(honda 's maybe excluded , many ca n't be 
bought with a c at the , but i think , maybe , they actually 
use all the needed parts for a true when they put one in .  .  . as . 
in bigger etc .  .  . or . are designed properly for this in the 1st place ) , 
anyway , my point is the a c wo n't be anywhere near as good 
as and the service will mess up your car when it .  .  .  . 
, holes in  .  . parts . not correctly or 
with all the etc. i know a guy who has been service at a 
for 18 years .  .  . he . said never have a add anything to your car .  .  .  . 
except , maybe ,  .  .  . 



from  ( dunn jonathan james ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 24 

 ( john r. daker ) writes 


cup  ( driving is an enough undertaking ) 

this is a good idea so you can carry your  ( non alcoholic ) without 
or having someone hold on to them. 

and fax machines  ( see above) 

fax machines , yes. why not get a hands free model 

fake and  . 

seemingly unique to american cars .  . the big three have n't yet realized 
that the are over. 

any gold trim .  . 

i agree. just another display of excess .  . 

jon dunn 



from  ( allen tom ) 
subject re options list 
organization corporation 
lines 22 

in article  ( charles parr ) writes 
the idea here is to list pointless options .  . you know , stuff you 
get on a car that has no earthly use 


1 ) power 

i like my power  . i think they 're worth it. 

however , cruise control is a pretty option. what 's the point 
if you 're on a long trip , you the gas and keep your eyes on 
the view for cops , right 

power are pretty too , unless you 're enough to have 
to share your car. otherwise , you 'd just it once and just leave 
it like that. 


allen tom you 're not like the others .  .  .  . you like the same 
things i do .  .  .  . paper .  .  .  . 
leather .  .  .  . dog  .  .  . we re not 
anymore .  .  .  . we re riding ! 

from  ( thunderbirds are go ! ! ! ) 
subject engine. 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 19 
nntp posting host 


g  day people , 

are there any owners or head out there , that know why 
my 's engine sounds the 's engine is at the best of times , 
but not even a nice nose it 's one of those very  . 
i do an oil change every 2 3 months , and for about 2 months the engine 
sounds relatively quiet during driving and  . at around the 3 month 
mark , after an oil change (i 've been this very thoroughly for months 
now ) it starts to get that very disgusting , not so much during driving , 
but more so during  . 
what 's its problem 
also .  .  . i do n't know if it 's just me , but if noticed a little 
drop .  . it just has n't got the it used to. 

any help would be ! ! 


worried .  . 

from  ( steve phillips ) 
subject re and the automobile 
organization 
x newsreader tin 1 . 1 . 3 . 
lines 14 

and his automobile .  . i need information on whether is 
responsible for all of the car accidents and the of 
the  . also , any other additional information will be greatly 
appreciated. thanks. 

! ! ! ! ! its all his fault ! ! thank god is 
innocent ! and that guy , he feel guilty ! 



stephen 
response center 
,  . 
home of the ! 

from  ( jerry bowman ) 
subject re owners 
nntp posting host fred . edu . 
organization university of boulder , 
lines 26 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( darren gibbons ) writes 

i'm looking for information on cars .  . now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two , 
with roll over , hard top , and really looking .  . my 
friend has one sitting in his in really nice condition , 
body wise , but he has up on him , so it has n't run 
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars the engine 
looks really to work on , but it is in fine shape and 
i am quite interested in it. 
thanks ! 



this would be the , would it not sold through in the mid  70 's as the price leader 



if it looks like a it would be an , the 
are over by a inside. 

the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 



from  ( gary lorman ) 
subject re electronic  ( was used question ..... ) 
organization , inc. 
lines 42 

in article  ( daniel l. lovall ) writes 
in article  ( gerrit conradie ) writes 

..... 

however , if i were to design a 's , i will use a counter to 
count the number of times the car passed 1 million  ( or whatever ) , and 
it in the car computer 's memory. this could be read when doing a 
test. for the date of the  . as easy as this is , i 
do n't know why do n't do it  ( do n't they ) to prevent illegal 
 . 

but as a previous writer said , it will in any case take to an 
, mechanic or electronic by a driving car. it will be 
easier to it. how , i do n't know. 

it should n't be that hard if you know much about digital  . if the 
counter is made with standard , all you should need to do is find 
the  ( chip(s ) used for counting , figure out what mileage you want to put in , 
and it but the directly to low high  ( you 'd also have 
to know what the conventions are for low and  . it might be a little more 
involved than this , but it should n't be beyond someone with a or bs  . 
all the display does is convert what the counter say into using 
a translation table in  . 

, 

dan 

but , those are probably inside a chip ,  ( to make it smaller and 
use less power ) and the data are not going to be available. 
it would probably not be but might be 
 ( wider operating range ) , not that the would make 
much difference. 
plus the chip would probably be  ( encapsulated with  . 
good luck. 



any that gets to be 11 or 12 feet long with 
big can be considered dangerous  bowl   


from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject re ad said best 
organization corp .  . 
lines 23 

in article writes 
i too was by this obvious  . what i think is going on is that 
claims that the is the best selling new car in 
the us (i think i have this near  . 's statistics 
dept. would have been proud of that sentence. 

note that the are also new designs .  .  .  . but hey are not new 
 . i guess does n't even sell as many as 
does , or there would be no  . 

but , is n't the car as far as 
government paperwork goes , stanza , to avoid and 
lengthy paperwork i read this on the net a while ago , and someone 
actually may have said there 's a little stanza logo on the 
somewhere. 

you can have it both ways ) 




software technology ,  ( 317 ) 
, , in i post , therefore i 

subject 
from  ( katherine bouton ) 
reply to 
organization u of , college of studies 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 4 

i was wondering if someone could point me to somewhere i could 
find a list  ( and comparison ) of all the that are 
out these days. seems like they are making a big but i'm not 
sure where to look 

from  ( lawrence b. keys ) 
subject re necessity of cleaning by 
organization national institute of standards technology 
lines 

in article ( jim grey ) writes 
in article r . writes 

in your experience , how true is it that a cleaning 
will do much more good than just using gas .  . while i 
agree that a would darken my day , how 
do they get , and is 59 a good price  ( or can i do it myself by buying 
a can of  ( what ) and doing what 


a cleaning at the is probably little more than 
them your gas , dumping in a bottle of , 
and sending you on your way 59 poorer .  . go to and buy the 
yourself for 1 . 29 .  . 

personally , i would n't use the 1 . 29 . product from  . i knew about 
this previously , but this past on 's 
 ( their resident tech type ) discussed these products , and 
not using them (i . e . , the non based  . 

supposedly only the based actually remove 
from your as they clean your  . and although the 
others  ( ethyl based ) do clean they also cause 
components in the system to , and they do n't mix well 
with water to help remove it from the system. 

i use a product recommended by called  ( by products , ) .  . 
it cost more about 14 . 00 . , but it is supposed to do the job without 
the potential harmful side effects , and its results are supposed to 
last from to  . i have also used 's (sp ) .  . 

i ca n't say that i have noticed any difference using either , since i 
only use these product as a item. 


just because you you need it , do n't mean it 's necessarily so. 
be suspicious .  . 

jim grey 


. 

larry 







1990 2.0 


forever ! 
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates 
that you probably would n't understand anyway ! 


from  ( ted schreiber ) 
subject opinions on recent 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering 
lines 15 

anyone have any opinions on fairly recent model ( 86 ) 

for what their class ( i'm not talking vs. 
which is more ) 

as far as i can , in recent years , there are 3 levels with all 
basically the same aspects .  . 

please email any responses 




university 
tel fax email 

from k .  . khalsa ) 
subject re options that would be great to have .  .  .  . 
reply to 
organization engineering and manufacturing , san diego , ca 
lines 36 

in article , 
 ( charles parr ) writes 



a list of options that would be useful. they can be existing 
options on a car , or things you 'd like to have .  .  .  . 

1 ) , great little  . lets you keep rough track of 
mileage , makes a good second for your gas  .  .  . 

2 ) full size spare 

3) built in and power systems for  . 

4 ) a fitting that allows you to generate current with 
the engine running , and plug in the , engine 
and  . 

feel free to add on .  .  .  . 

ok .  .  .  . 

5 ) how about a that really told you how much was 
left. like , can i make it to where the gas is 1 . 14 . or should 
i get right here at 1 . 35 . accurate to the tenth of a 
would be great .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
on contract to 
engineering and manufacturing 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . w. dr. 
 ( 619 ) san diego , ca 
!  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . !  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ! 
! ! 


from  ( archie holmes ) 
subject 's radio question 
keywords , , radio , theft 
distribution rec 
lines 7 


i was at the today  ( very  . anyway , i had a 
questions that the could n't answer. how does the theft 
deterrent on the 's systems work ca n't find the answer 
in any of 's  . thanks in advance. 



from  ( mark dean ) 
subject re and the 
nntp posting host luke . navy . 
reply to 
organization research 
lines 20 

, my name is russell and i am doing a research project on henry 
and his automobile .  . i need information on whether is 
responsible for all of the car accidents and the of 
the  . also , any other additional information will be greatly 
appreciated. thanks. 


so would mr.  .  . eh 

and mr. , mr. , and mr  ( insert car name here .  .  . ) . 



dan reed eat your out your eyes kill your 
boss burn down your house move to elmer nj out your nose with 
a lead use x for work hit your mother .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

people get a life ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

md 

from  ( carolinafan@uiuc ) 
subject re 's policy 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 75 

 ( hok tsang ) writes 

in article ,  ( fred dickey ) writes 
wrote 

the biggest problem some people seem to be having is that 
make on a car. i think most will agree with me that the car is 
with its , that is , they are n't 
compared to most cars in their class .  . i do n't understand the point of 
arguing over whether the makes the or not 

i have never understood what the big deal over is either. 
the only thing that i can figure out is that people believe that if 
they minimize the profit they will minimize their total out of 
for the car. while this may be true in some cases , i do not 
believe that it is generally true. i bought a in of  . 
at that time , based on studying car , i decided that there was 
no comparable car that was as as the  . sure , maybe i 
could have talked the price for some other car to the price , but 
my out of would n't have been any different. what 's important 
to me is how much money i have left after i buy the car. reducing profit 
is not the same thing as saving money ! show me how reducing profit 
saves me money , and i 'll believe that it 's important. my experience has 
been that reducing profit does not necessarily save me money. 

fred 


say , you bought your at , with a profit of  . 
if the profit is 1000 , then you would only be paying for 
the same car. so is n't that saving money 

yes. but the point is that are  . may 
well be selling a car intended on giving the a 2000 profit , but 
since a with profit is more expensive , it may be well 
worth it to buy the  . 

moreover , if really does reduce the profit margin by 1000 , 
then their cars will be even better deals .  . say , if the price of a was 
already 1000 below market average for the class of cars , then after they 
reduce the profit , it would be 2000 below market average .  . it will 

1 ) attract even more people to buy because it would save them money. 

2 ) force the to lower their to survive. 

now , not only will owners benefit from a lower profit , even 
the for other cars will pay less. 


not necessarily .  . it seems to me that , who do n't 
make a , whereas their at other generally 
do , make more per hour or whatever. this means that does n't give up 
the profit to their employees through , which is taken out of per 
car  . they just pass it along to less women. 

is n't that saving money 

maybe. maybe not. depends on accounting practices .  . i 'd rather pay 
more for service that does n't cut to contain costs .  .  .  . 


0 . 02 . , 
doug .  . 

2 100 

'87  ( carolina ) blue 



the university of illinois urbana champaign mail 

because he was human because he had goodness because he was moral 
they called him insane .  .  .  . man 

from  ( malcolm g. costello ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
reply to  ( malcolm g. costello ) 
distribution usa 
organization division , , , md 
lines 35 

in rec . ,  ( craig boyle ) writes 
article  ( yik lam ) 
x writes 
x , 
x 
x does anyone know how to take out the under the engine 
x should i turn or counter i tried any kind 
x of , 40 , etc , but i still failed ! 
x do you think i can use a electric  ( drill change to a suitable 
x bit ) to turn it out if i can succeed , can i re it not too 
x , is it safe without oil leak 
x 
you do n't have a car with opposite threads , then 
turn  . i would get some 
here , you may not have the plug and 
be trying to something else. 
x 

x 
x 
x thank you very much in advance 
x 
this reminds me of the first time my cousin did an oil change on his 
car. he under , removed a , the fluid , replaced the 
, then carefully in 5 of oil .  . did n't bother to 
check the stick , just off. did n't get too far till me found 
out that he 'd the 4 speed and an extra 5 
into the engine. ( moral as craig said do n't be to get some 
in person help the first time. 

code 65 . 1 .  ( formerly 
david model , division  . 
, md phone  ( 301 ) ( 



from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re wife wants 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 17 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( keith p7625 ) says 


help ! ! ! 
my wife has informed me that she wants a for her next car. 
we live in south  . , so we are definitely in the right are for one. 
my wife has mentioned the , but i think it is too small .  . 
i would like to wait for the new ( dec .  .  93 i think) .  . 
anyone have any opinions on any all in a reasonable price range .  . 

thanx 



) 


from l . 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization at t 
lines 19 

from article , by ( ) 
this happened about a year ago on the washington  . 
kids decided it would be really cool to 
huge down on cars from an  . four or five 
cars were hit .  . there were several serious , and sadly 
a small girl sitting in the front of one of them was 
in the head by one of the larger  . i do n't recall if she 
made it , but i think she was for a month or so and 
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live. 

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours i 
can see of off of and such , but 
20 ! has our society really this low 



yes 
! ! ! ! 
! 

from cc . edu .  ( jeremy corry ) 
subject series , 
lines 31 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 


my boss is interested in a new series mercedes  . 
does anyone have any testimonial evidence and or strong opinions 
on this car  ( or line ) 

particularly , i would like to hear about power  ( manual t. only ) 
reliability , feel , and any unusually good or bad features of the 
line. 

she currently drives a , and is being by its 
electrical problems. the claims there is nothing wrong , 
even though the doors have a habit of locking and them 
while you are driving down the road. the automatic shoulder 
also like to move back and forth as you move along. 
she does not have the new , larger engine and is quite 
with its lack of power. 

the would have to have more power and no peculiar problems 
such as the 's electrical system. she is also considering 
a  ( add some  . any comparisons between the 
line and the mercedes would be helpful .  . 

price is not an  . 


jeremy j. claimed the traditions 
cc . edu . of the navy are , , and 
 . 

my opinions are my own , but i probably got them from someone else. 


from  ( john denune ) 
subject re utility comparisons any opinions 
organization san diego state university , college of sciences 
lines 18 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

karl elvis wrote 

i'm looking at the following three 's anyone who 's driven all 
three have any strong opinions 





well , i was just in your position and i all three and liked 
all three. it was a toss up. i went with the 
based on reliability and looks .  . 

i do n't think you can go wrong with any of them. 

john 



from 
subject need info on 
organization at t bell laboratories 
distribution na 
keywords 
lines 15 



i test a this past and 
liked it. 

the offered it for  . 

1 ) is this a good price 
2 ) any comments on in general 

please use email. thanks 


peter 
! ! 

from  ( max lu ) 
subject re air without 
organization university singapore 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution usa 
lines 12 

we are working on gas solid air con system for applications .  . 
in this kind of system , the energy for the is from 
the gas .  . anyone interested in this mail email me or follow up this 
thread , we may have a discussion on of this technology. 




g q , internet 
division of thermal bitnet 
school of , university phone  ( 65 ) 
avenue , singapore fax  ( 65 ) 

from  ( robert j. wade ) 
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000 
organization university engineering computer network 
distribution na 
lines 18 

in article  ( steve tobias ) writes 
in rec . ,  ( kevin parker ) writes 
i 'd like to get some on a car with most bang for the in the 
to 16 , 000 price range .  . i'm looking for a car with enough to be 
driven every day , or even on long trips , but when i hit the gas , i want to feel 
some  . handling is important also , as are reliability and pretty 
low costs .  . a appearance is nice , but i do n't want a car 
that is all show and not much go. even though many of the are fast , i 
do n't really want a , and i never have cared for the song by a four 
 . i 'd prefer a or for the engine. if you have any suggestions , 
kevin 

there 's only one car that really fits your needs. it 's spelled 

5 . 0 . 


not ! sorry , he said , long trips , reliability , and low cost ! 

from  ( franklinkl ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
summary be careful about weapons ! ! ! 
lines 45 

in article ,  ( james p. callison ) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( brian j queiser ) writes 
anything if he had n't his gun into the asshole. texas it 's 
whole other country. 

that reminds me of one of texas 's  .  . you . hear a guy speaking in 
french  ( like it 's a letter home ) , then the french to the 
background , and a french voice come to the , talking 
about how he went walking on the beach , and it felt so much like 
home that he decided to take his shoes off .  .  . and . the rest of his 
clothes. it ended with please send  . ) 

on an rec . note , does anyone carry a gun on them or keep one in 
their car  ( which is bad idea , is n't it ) if you work in a bad part of 
town  ( or regularly go through one) is this a loaded question ) 

i normally have an colt delta in my box with a loaded 
magazine  ( which is perfectly legal in  . for those 
times that i'm travelling inter state , i keep an 
s w  . 44 . in the box , with a speed 

in my  ( which is legal everywhere , under federal law , illinois 
state police be  . 

as i 've said before , this is for defense my 
will pay to replace my car , but i only have one life .  .  .  . 

james 


carrying a , loaded or , in the , is 
considered carrying a weapon in and is illegal without 
a weapons  . unless the law has been changed recently , 
carrying a weapon openly is legal in but it is illegal .  . 
i read a newspaper account last year where police stopped a car on a 
traffic and observed a  . 357 . sitting on the 
 . the could not be cited for or carrying the weapon 
because it was not  . the article stated that if the gun had 
been discovered in the box , it would have been considered a crime .  . 


ken franklin they say there 's a heaven for people who wait 
and some say it 's better but i say it ai n't 
i 'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the 
the sinners are lots more fun , y know only the good die young 

subject re engine parts ! 
from  ( david bonds ) 
reply to  ( david bonds ) 
distribution world 
organization the cutting houston , tx 
lines 21 


w will not do work on internal engine components of the engine. this 
w 
w good thing , too. 
w 
w at about my went south .  . 2 different 
w tried 5 or 6 different , none of which worked .  . finally 
w i took it down the street to the local mechanic .  . this guy reads the 
w code off the engine computer , says bad , and it in 
w an hour .  .  .  . 

a friend of mine had some by flood , any 
are bad. he and his father did the short a via 
paper clip method  ( not sure of the exact technique ) , and read the codes off 
the service engine light generated from this. came up with the 
, went back to , and told them what was wrong. they 
fixed the car after that. what a bunch of  . 


the cutting bbs tx . a 14 . system 
houston , texas , usa 1 . running 

from  ( bill cray ) 
subject re thinking about buying good or bad idea 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 6 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i bought an about two months ago and am very happy with 
it. lots of room inside and even with the smaller engine it has 
enough power for me. the only problem i found was a small 
selection on the 's lots .  . they are hot around here. 


from  ( scarecrow ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization university of , ontario , canada 
lines 37 

 ( mike seningen ) 
85 esp. the electronic ones. 

the digital of the 87 with the large in 
the middle of the everything was digital except the stinking 

the funny thing about the digital  ( 87 t bird ) with the 
limit was that if you pressed the to convert to it would 
read all the way up to  . at this point the stock would get 
short of  . this of course was equivalent to about i . bet 
i really confused this thing if i 'd with the engine and rolled 
the stupid thing  ( the were limited to  . 

i 've gotta agree with on the w digital though. my 
had a  85 with a digital and radio .  . 
go figure .  .  .  . 


 ( usenet administrator ) 
i love the entry on my t it 's great for those times that 
i had to stop to put air in my  . i could get out and lock the door 
with the engine running while i around to air up the  . it also 

i had a great feature on my t  .  .  .  . i could pull the key out and 
leave the on. this scared the hell out of me the first time it 
happened but i kinda grew to like it. been a bad key copy or 
something. 

mark 

there is no god up in the sky 
no sign of heaven anywhere in sight nin jesus loves  . blow me. 
in to my former 
area jim 
and the infamous math 
 ( demoted not departed ) 
ministry 

from  ( constantino tobio ) 
subject re quick question 
article i.d. news . 1993apr6 . 
organization university 
lines 62 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 

newsgroups rec . , rec . 
subject re quick question 
summary 
expires 
sender 
reply to  ( constantino tobio ) 
followup to 
distribution 
organization university 
keywords removing  . 

in article  ( the devil reincarnate ) writes 
how do you take off the side door from the inside 
on an '87 the speaker went , and i want 
to access its  . 

i see only one press and the rest is fit. 


s 


quick question. why are you posting this to a newsgroup 

newsgroups rec . , rec . 
subject re quick question 
summary 
distribution world 
organization university 
keywords 

newsgroups rec . , rec . 
newsgroups rec . , rec . 
subject re quick question 
summary 
expires 
references 
sender 
reply to  ( constantino tobio ) 
followup to 
distribution 
organization university 
keywords removing  . 

in article  ( the devil reincarnate ) writes 
how do you take off the side door from the inside 
on an '87 the speaker went , and i want 
to access its  . 

i see only one press and the rest is fit. 


s 


quick question. why are you posting this to a newsgroup 
, jr. 
you weaklings , in fear , i am your ruler , land , sea and air. 
in my , erect i stand , i'm a nuclear murderer .  . 
i am ! , in peace 

from  ( the devil reincarnate ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
organization , 
lines 27 

in article  ( don eilenberger ) writes 

in article ,  ( yik lam ) writes 
, 

does anyone know how to take out the under the engine 
should i turn or counter i tried any kind 
of , 40 , etc , but i still failed ! 
do you think i can use a electric  ( drill change to a suitable 
bit ) to turn it out if i can succeed , can i re it not too 
, is it safe without oil leak 
thank you very much in advance 

i would suggest you take the car to the , with 
your own oil and filter .  . ask for an oil change .  . it will cost less 
than 10. watch him her do it. just from watching someone do a job , 
you will be able to learn and remember the sequence , and do it right 
when you do it yourself the next time. besides , when he she 
the , the next time around it will be easier for you. 

if it is stuck , use an impact  . not too much force though. 
use a new each time you put the back .  .  .  .  .  . 

s 




from  ( jtd is lost ) 
subject new car info 
organization , somewhere down from reality 
lines 38 


from 's helpful hints about your 
 ( given to new owners of  . 

a burning smell may be evident from your new car shortly after taking 
 . 
i now own a fire 


on s at above 32 degrees push the 
to the one time , release , and with your 
foot off the , crank the engine until it starts .  . than 
5 seconds ! ! ! ! ! ! ! my note of may be required. in 
below 32 degrees the will have to be 
depressed 2 3 times. 

door and trim can be if they are not 
by getting caught when doors. 

when shifting automatic transmissions from park neutral , or 
reverse into drive the shifts into 3rd gear .  . 

in case of 
1 start the engine 
2 shift into drive from park , then from drive to neutral 
3 turn off engine 
what if you are getting b c engine wo n't run 

if engine does not run do not use this procedure ! 
, i was worried ! 

insert where appropriate , though this is real. 

jonathan 


college , ny 
93  ( if you own one , you understand ! ) 

from  ( mark monninger ) 
subject re air without 
nntp posting host 250 . 10 . 7 . 
reply to 
organization sps 
distribution usa 
lines 20 

in article 
 ( chris behanna ) writes 
... 
several already have come up with several for 
 . you do n't hear about them because the air 
society 
 ( macs ) , that is , the people who stand to in that to 1000 per 
per automobile , have mounted an organized campaign to 
those 
out of existence if not ban them  ( on very 
shaky 
technical grounds , at best , on outright lies at  . 
... 

now , i'm not saying you 're wrong because i know that the r 12 
exist , but this sounds a lot like the that the oil 
keep us all from getting .  . 

mark 


from  ( sudhindranath g ) 
subject help ! ! ! !  ( mercury  . 
keywords gas mileage , high , , tune up. 
organization univ .  . of la .  . , 
distribution usa 
lines 34 

hi folks , 

i recently bought a  ( my first car ever ! ) .  . 
i have noticed a few problems with the car 

1. it gives very low gas mileage  ( something like 
11 i hear other car owners speak of 
gas mileage like 25  ( wow ! ) etc . ) .  . 

2. when i start the car , it goes into high  ( something 
like  ( or is it )  . after driving 4 or 5 , 
it comes down to  ( or 3000 )  . 

i would like to know if there is any way by which i can fix these 
problems. or is it natural for an old car like this  ( it has 
done about 117 , 000  . someone suggested that i change 
the  . i am not prepared to do it 
unless i am sure it will fix the problem. and yes , i got the 
car up recently  ( within the last 200 or  . 

please let me know if you have any suggestions .  . please respond 
by email since i do n't this newsgroup regularly. 

thanks. 

regards , 

 . 


 . email 

is he one of us or is he one of them so ask small minded men. 
those of noble mind think the entire world as their family. 

from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re new break after  ( 60k mi ) on  90 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 78 

in article  ( ryan kim ) writes 

hi , maybe someone can help me here .  .  .  . 
i am looking to buy this 1990 for right now. 

so its an automatic do n't know if us  . for  . 

the car has  ( or about miles ) on it. 
a typical mileage for 1990 cars seem to be about  ( or about  . 
the just informed me that when he brought the car in for 
he was told that the front break and the had to be replaced 
to meet the legal standards.  ( he said he will replace the components before 
selling the car to me . ) . 

being ignorant to the technical stuff on cars , i do n't know 
what this could mean .  .  .  . 
is about the time typical for replacing the above mentioned items 
or is this an indication that the car was 

if it is the first set of on front , then this is fine. my car 
eats a set every or so. the fact that he is replacing the 
too is also ok. 

would other things break down or have to be replaced soon 

the mileage is fairly low but typical stuff is  . check 
the records with the requirements for 
, belt changes and so on. 

the service is often expensive , so make sure he has done everything. 


the told me that he used the car on the a lot , but , 
i do n't know how to verify this .  .  .  . i 've seen the away 
in tiny in the front of the , though. 

well , this is one of the commonly cited methods for a 
car with  . 
might check the gas wear too. ask him how many sets of he 
has been through. a car might have by on 2 sets , 
a hard driven car 6 10 sets .  . 


although the is an excellent car and the car is very clean and 
well kept , it 's currently out of 
(a similarly  90 with will have 2 years or 
worth of left ) and i do n't want to worry about paying for 
any  .  .  . 

well , the should be pretty reliable but if its out of 
you should get it checked out by someone knowledgeable first. stuff 
for japanese cars can be expensive .  . 

but , i also need a car for 5 people .  .  .  . 

when will the new come out , by the way 

model year , i believe. 

i would very much appreciate your in this. 
please reply by e mail  ( preferred ) or post in this newsgroup .  . 

craig 
thanks ! 

ryan 




ryan kim 
university of , , computer 
do not between traffic at road works. 
from the new british code 
 ( toronto star april 3 , 1993 ) 




from  ( sergei poliakoff ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host 
organization is 
lines 19 

 ( michael t chaffee ) writes 
be valued in terms of money because they are human beings , i submit 
that they are not human beings .  . 

such have been made before , e.g. regarding jews .  . 

in article ,  ( matthew at the national university of senegal ) writes 
absolutely .  . a on my car bothers me more than the death of any 
number of scum .  . all of you feel the same way you just wo n't admit it. 
when are people going to realise that the mere fact that a piece of flesh 
and has the approximate shape of a human being does not in itself 
mean that it has rights 

all you types , eager to pull a gun on some scum guilty of 
your stupid metal boxes on have you ever 
killed a human to speak so lightly about such matters 




from  ( richard welty ) 
subject rec . frequently asked questions 
keywords monthly posting 
reply to 
organization new york state institute for studies 
expires thu , 20 may 1993 04 03 03 gmt 
lines 

archive name rec 

this article is one of a pair of articles containing commonly 
asked questions the other article contains questions 
of general consumer interest , and is broken out to facilitate 
to misc . 

last change 8 february 1993 ct now usage , 
new q a 

commonly asked questions 

questions 

q where are illegal 

a in the us , currently and the district of 
all usage of  . new york prohibits their use in 
large  . in canada , they are illegal in , ontario , 
quebec , and  ( prince edward  . they 
are apparently are illegal through most , if not all , of europe .  . 
legislation which would make them illegal is pending in many other 
chances of such legislation passing varies a great deal. 

q where are used do they really work 

a usage is spreading rapidly initially they were used only in canada , 
but now they are in new york and virginia .  . it is 
to assume that they are not in use in and d . c .  . 
they work by a certain by many currently 
available super het some brands of 
more strongly than others , and are thus more likely to be  . 
new are becoming available which may not be detected 
by the current generation of  . note that a 
may only be by one of these devices if it is turned 
on. 

q what is is it some kind of 

a is nothing more than a fancy and time speed distance 
computer .  . it depends on the operator as the target 
passes  . no are by a 
system. 

q what is where is it used should a be 
able to handle it 

a has recently been made available by the for use in the us 
in so called photo  . in these , a 
low beam is aimed across the road at a 45 degree angle to the 
direction of traffic , and a picture is taken of which the 
determines to have been in violation of the speed limit .  . 
are to the owner of the  . because of the low 
power and the 45 degree angle , many people believe that a 
cannot give reasonable warning of a , 
although some of have added such 
capability anyway. the number of where photo is in use 
is limited , and some question the of such units. best advice 
learn what photo units look like , and keep track of where they 
are used  ( or else , do n't speed . ) . 

q do work are they legal 

a quick answer no , and not in the usa .  . 
detailed answer cheap do not work well at all. 
that work are expensive and usually the property of the 
military .  . are a major violation of the of the 
federal communications of the usa .  . 

driving and questions 

q what are and 

a and are terms describing the behaviour of a 
car while near the   ( limit of , that is . ) . 
most drivers do not normally drive hard enough for these terms to 
be descriptive of the situations they  . simply put , they 
tell whether the car wants to go straight in a corner  ( steer  , 
or `understeer' ) or it wants to turn more in a corner ) . 
is commonly designed into most cars so that 
drivers , too fast , wo n't get into 
trouble .  . may also be by using too much 
in a corner .  . is designed into some more 
oriented cars it may be by lifting on the  ( trailing 
, or  . in extreme cases , lifting on the 
may so much that the car by or 
 . 

some technical details in a corner at speed , the on the car 
will develop what are called  the slip angle is the 
difference between the direction that the car is 
and the direction that the wheel is directing the car to 
travel .  . in , the front have a greater slip angle 
than the  . in , the have a greater 
slip angle than the front  . 

q what is a rev 

a when , the engine must be in the lower gear 
than it was in the higher gear .  . however , during a , normally 
you and lift your foot from the , so the drop 
rather than increase .  . in rev , you the 
before re engaging the so that the engine will already be up to 
the new speed .  . this results in a much and  . 

q what does heel and toe mean 

a heel and toe is a used to do a rev while 
 . this is normally challenging , because you need the right foot 
for both the and  . it is called heel and toe because you 
use one end of the foot on the , and the other on the to 
match for the  . in many modern cars this is a misnomer 
often you must use the ball of the foot on the and the right side 
on the  . 

note that some race car drivers will the , and just use the 
left foot on the and the right foot on the , 
the same thing. 

q what is double 

a while your right foot is doing the above , your left foot can do one of 
three things nothing , once , or twice .  . the reason for 
twice is to match the of the two in the 
to the speed of the engine. this is usually coupled with 
rev matching , so that while the engine is in neutral and the 
engaged , the is and both of the 
speed up. 

the procedure is as follows 
 ( 0 ) 
(1) move to neutral 
(2) engage 
 ( 3 ) match 
 ( 4 ) 
 ( 5 ) move to next lower gear 
 ( 6 ) engage 

this sounds like a lot of work , but with practice it becomes natural. 
the problem that double solves is normally the function of the 
within the  . in transmissions without or 
with very , double makes it much easier to shift .  . 
basically , if you double well , you are not using the at 
all. this is generally unnecessary on street cars with in good 
condition. 

q what do the numbers for from 0 60 , 1 4 , , and 
times in the really mean may they be compared 

a in short , 1 ) not as much as the want you to believe , and 
2 ) almost never .  . 

in more detail the numbers  ( 0 and 1 4 times 
in the us ) may be compared as long as they all come from the 
same source. vary so much from magazine to magazine 
that comparing a road track number to a car number is quite 
pointless .  . keep in mind , too , that the same applies from 
to on the street the is a major  ( often the 
major ) part of the equation .  . 

vary , and even if they did n't , are really 
only of the of the stock they change 
when change .  . do not make any assumptions about the 
comparative handling of , say , two sports based on numbers. 
this is not to suggest that are without value , however. 
are an excellent tool at driving schools .  . they are simply 
of limited value in the comparison of anything except  . 

times are slightly more useful they test some small parts of the 
automobile 's response. however , they are also 
by the stock on the car , and they do not test many of the 
car 's  . they do not tell you all you need to know before making 
a buying decision. for example , they do n't tell you what the end 
of the car will do on a road which suddenly goes off  . when a car 
has an , these are usually done in the  
setting , which may be quite for daily driving. the list of 
could go on for page after page .  . 

q my buddy claims that wide do n't make any difference , according 
to his freshman physics textbook , and that you ca n't ever 
or corner at more than 1 .  . does he know what he 's talking about 

a 1 ) in short he has n't got a clue .  . 

2 ) in more detail the for used in freshman physics 
textbooks presume that the are , and non , 
none of which properly apply to except in the case of a 
cold on which is far below its proper operating 
 . 

is never it is always to a greater or lesser 
extent .  . , which are not really and solid  ( as is a 
substance which in its natural form is liquid , and which has only been 
into a of by chemical magic ) , to match 
the surface of the which a is over. in a 
at operating , grip is actually generated by 
inside the deformed , and not by anything even remotely 
in the freshman physics sense of the term .  . the a 
is relative to its operating , the closer its behaviour will 
be to the traditional concept of if much than the its 
proper operating , the more likely the possibility of some 
part of the actually   to liquid , which is mostly like 
to happen deep in the , causing characteristic and  . 
 ( this latter , though , is almost completely unlikely to happen in normal 
street driving , so unless you 're a competition or do a lot of 
high speed track driving , do n't worry about it . ) . 

because is completely out of the domain of simple , 
it does not obey the freshman physics equation at all thus 
at more than 1 . and race cars corner and at more than 
1 .  . because simple does not apply , it is actually possible 
for different contact to generate of 
grip .  . an actual analysis of behavior would require techniques 
such as finite element analysis , due to the complexity of the mechanism .  . 

misc .  . questions 

q what does name or acronym stand for 

a here is a list of some of the names which are commonly asked 
about be careful in the meanings of other names 
as misinformation on the net. in particular , never 
ask in rec . humor . if you want a useful result. 

a. b. , 
or the corporation 

, 
or the automobile manufacturing company 

, 
or the italian automobile of 

, 
or works 




q does own 

a no. is a publicly held company , controlled by the and 
families .  . has extensive business dealings with , 
which causes some confusion. since currently is in some 
financial difficulty , there is a possibility that mercedes or may 
be interested in the company in the near future , but this 
is only speculation at this time. 

richard 
good has ever been reported about the full of 
a race car about either its pitch or roll   smith 

from  ( eric lorenzo ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 25 

in article  ( demosthenis a. zeppos ) writes 
why do n't you look again at trend 's , times , they are 67 . 9 . , right 
along with the , and the car does that with small 14 that 
are all , not to mention that the rides alot better than 
a  . 

my came with and they are not all  . i took 
out my right front bumper on  ( not ice ) , before i learned 
this fact. i immediately bought which are definately all  . 
a 4 i walk by everyday has on it even .  . the 
where i bought my new said the were made out of a different 
that gets really hard and slick when the gets near  . 
said he 'd only try to sell me those during the if we were in 
texas and not  . 

thanks , 
eric 




o an lifestyle eric j. 
violates our genetic 
not to excercise is not also 
to be fully human. keith 

from  ( roger mullane ) 
subject re 86 5 speed 
organization , santa , ca 
lines 26 

i have a 1986 5 speed with , 000 on it. it is 
the worst car i have ever owned .  . i had an that had on 
it when i sold it , and it was still going strong . this is with religious 
attention to such as oil changes etc. both cars were driven in 
exactly the same manner .  .  . 

1. it has gone through two  ( which are ) . 
2. 3 sets of  ( really eats in the front even with careful align ) 
3. all started about 25 
4. burned up  ( service note on this one) 
5. seek stop working on radio about 
6. two  . 
7. constant error from computer .  . 

8. and finally .  . a bearing went out on the no. 1 seriously damaging 
the , the engine etc. when the was done 
last week it required new , one new  ( has two ) because 
the when they tried to mill it. the took 4 
weeks to get because it is on national back order. 

everything on the engine is unique to the 1986 year .  . they went to a new 
design in 87 .  . parts are very expensive .  . 

no way would i ever buy another  . it is highly  . . 



from  ( craig deforest ) 
subject re quick question 
organization stanford center for space science and 
lines 8 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 
in reply to 's message of mon , 5 apr 1993 21 14 57 gmt 

in article  ( the devil reincarnate ) writes 
how do you take off the side door from the inside 
on an '87 the speaker went , and i want 
to access its  . 

why are you posting this tripe to rec . 

t drink ! ! ok ! 

from  ( michael t chaffee ) 
subject re 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 14 

 ( roy matthew thigpen ) writes 


last night i had a dream that my bought a  . 
i took it out for a test drive , without his knowledge , 
and had to push it all the way home just to avoid a  . 
dream , i wonder what it means .  .  .  .  . 

 .  . let . 's see .  .  . you in der or you in 
der room , you 

m. 
 ( feeling a bit , doubtless inspired by the 
 ( some word ) of the viper ) 

from  ( joe karolchik ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 31 

(i deleted your name because i do n't want to sound in my remark ) 

this is a two problem. unfortunately our culture has been over time. 
the breeding of these low life 's is getting worse our justice system is at best 
extremely weak to handle these problems. that is why low citizens should have 
the power to protect themselves and their property using force if necessary 
anywhere a threat is imminent .  . 

my  ( my pride and joy ) got stolen right out of my a few years back .  . 
the persons that did that were eventually caught  ( lucky for me ! ) but not before 
having trashed the car. 

on another , on my way from texas to florida , i had stopped in a small 
for the night in a small town somewhere in florida .  . about 5 were my 
car , setting off the and challenging me to come out. when i and another 
walked out with a 357 and a 45 automatic respectively , they vanished .  . 
to say , i immediately up and left. 

watch out for car and accidents .  . they can be ! 

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if 
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your 
i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there 
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun. 

we can all ask what 's happening to society these days , but do n't forget to 
ask another important question too what effort am i to make it any 
different than it is 

just my thoughts , 
joe 

from  ( matthew liggett ) 
subject re owners 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization university 
lines 62 

in  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 

 ( craig boyle ) writes 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( darren gibbons ) writes 
i'm looking for information on cars .  . now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two , 
with roll over , hard top , and really looking .  . my 
friend has one sitting in his in really nice condition , 
body wise , but he has up on him , so it has n't run 
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars the engine 
looks really to work on , but it is in fine shape and 
i am quite interested in it. 
thanks ! 



this would be the , would it not sold through in the mid  70 's as the price leader 

sounds a lot more like an to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same 
as the , rather than the bigger but i could easily 
be wrong. i think the later 's were sold here as  . 

craig 

i think the is the european name for the  . i'm pretty sure 
that the only 's sold here were are the  . i think the 
is just an early '70s to mid '70s  . 

the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

bzzt .  . 
the was a two door in the us. 
it had a 1900 engine. 
was sometimes referred to as an 1900 .  . 
's are also ve hot and fun cars too. 






















 junk  , r us kid , , and fan of 
, , and other  . 

from  ( robert abbott ) 
subject re water in of 89 
nntp posting host 
organization 
lines 18 


in article ,  ( tommy szeto ) writes .  .  .  . 
water gradually up in the of my friend 's 89  . every 
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and out the water 
under the cover on the  . i would guess this usually happens 
after a good storm .  . a few 

1 ) is this a common problem 
2 ) where are the holes for the 


i had the same problem in my  90 6. i had it fixed 
under  . i think they replaced a tail light  . 
check with a , it 's a known problem. 


robert k. 


from  ( roy matthew thigpen ) 
subject re ad said best 
organization university of virginia 
lines 35 

writes 
in article  ( chin thang ) writes 
recently , i saw an ad for the which says that it is the 
best for the past 6 months , is that true 


i too was by this obvious  . what i think is going on is that 
claims that the is the best selling new car in 
the us (i think i have this near  . 's statistics 
dept. would have been proud of that sentence. what they mean , i think , is 
that of all totally new models , i.e. cars never sold before in any 
form , the is the best , thereby , 
etc. 
this is from the same people who make the claim that our is 
theirs .  .  .  .  . implying that the quest are out selling 
the  .  .  .  . not only is this not true at all , but it was a stupid 
claim to make .  .  .  . the was part of the introduction campaign for the 
 . kind of a bold statement to make when you have n't even sold one yet , eh 


and i thought and where bad. on you and 
! 

any other interpretations 


craig 
does anyone has regarding the of cars sold for the 
past 6 months 



tony 



from  ( robert g. carpenter ) 
subject thinking about buying good or bad idea 
organization computer services 
lines 7 

i'm thinking of buying a new dodge has anyone had any 
experiences that they 'd like to share 

thanks. 




from  ( kevin murphy ) 
subject old license plates wanted 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 18 


hi .  .  . me and my roomate are going to the living room and 
we thought it would be a cool idea to have a license from every 
state in the us and then from else we could find , like canada , 
, even some european ones. 

if anyone has any ideas or knows someone that could help us out 
please let me know .  .  .  .  . the more recent , the better , but anything 
would be nice. 

either that or if you have an old hanging around .  .  .  .  ( hint hint ! ) 




kevin c 
west main street 
peoria il 

from  ( george kirkaldie ) 
organization bbs cambridge , ontario , canada 
subject re birds are they physics 
reply to 
x software 1 . 04 . rev. 5 1992 
lines 28 

in , operator writes 
crazy question anyone ever wonder how birds can drop a load on a car 
going over 65 

i took a non stop trip , got on four times  ( every time hitting the 
, not even the open ! guess we have birds ) 
was going 75  . 



i used to have a  67 , was sitting at a light waiting 
for it to turn green .  . it turned green , but i a little  ( sleeping i 
guess) and a bombed me , it directly in front of me at eye 
level , i guess the and thought i was going to take off 
right away. 

and i'm still trying to figure out the one i got under my bumper as 
well ! ! ! was the flying up and doing fancy at my car and 
decided to drop one while executing a perfect loop 



'87 george 
, control 
phoenix gold , 
, cambridge , ontario , canada 
a t a r i 


from h . 
subject re drivers who do n't look ahead 
organization chicago home for the morally challenged 
distribution usa 
keywords bad drivers 
lines 29 

in article ,  ( donna martz ) writes 

so , i block the would be  . not only for my own good , 

but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it. 
! ! ! ! ! ! 
as a rule of philosophy , i do n't feel particularly sorry when somebody gets 
by his own stupidity , but it does worry me when some idiot is in a 
position to cash in my , too. 
h . h .  . mayo 

well , are n't we just mr. himself ! ! just what the world needs , 
another self traffic cop .  . 


well , if you want to stick the nose of your car up the ass of a 50 foot semi , i 
suppose it 's your , however , i'm not going to let you kill me in the bargain .  . 
if you get by somebody your inevitable death due to less that 
wise driving practices , then tough ! ! ! 





thank god for the fourth of , for it the earth of a 
load of fools 

mark 


from  ( jason chen ) 
subject 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
reply to 
organization bell communications research 
lines 19 

i just visited the ny show , and saw two cars on the eagle 
vision and dodge  . 

really nice i must say. very attractive , lots of features and room , 
at a price .  . 

unfortunately , the is quite  . on both cars , 
the seals around the and door off. it turns out 
the seals are just big  . it goes on just by 
the against the tongue on the door frame .  . surely it would come 
off easily. 

i am not sure how many of this kind of engineering assembly 
problems that will show up later. 

i may still consider buying it , but only when it a good 
track record .  . 

jason 

from  ( john fox ir ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 50 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host east . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( wharfie ) writes 
in article  ( zauberer ) writes 
i guess i was n't clear enough here. i said the roads were designed for 
of 80 or so and still be safe .  . the current 55 65 will add a 
margin .  . 

they were designed for of of 80 i forget the 
exact but for military  . that 's 80 in a dodge 
 . not 80 in a 1993  . 






ah yes , the  . now there was a that today 's cars ca n't 
touch in terms of high speed road holding ability ! ) 

from  ( theodore chen ) 
subject re 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 15 

in article  ( russ brown ) writes 
in article  ( john r. daker ) writes 
has anybody noticed that has an for horrible 
station , ,  . have their no 
aesthetic sense at all 

the new may just be even than my  . ) 

has the market on station  . 
after seeing the new , i had thought would 
finally turn out something nice looking .  . the new station 
bears a strong resemblance to a , and a looking 
one at that. 



from m . 
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions. 
organization 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( danny phornprapha ) writes 

i have 30 , 000 as my  . i'm looking for a sports or car. 
what do you think would be the best buy 

well , for a bit more you could get an 7 , definitely a best. 

for under you 're stuck with  ( in no particular order ) 

1 



) 






from  ( lon stowell ) 
subject re how hard to change on 
article i.d. pyramid . 
reply to  ( lon stowell ) 
organization pyramid technology corporation 
lines 5 

in article (e .  . michael smith ) writes 
does it take any peculiar tools to remove the from a 
o 

 . just a nice big  . 

from  ( jonathan edwards ) 
subject re grand vs. 4 
article i.d. world . 
organization , inc. 
lines 18 

in article up . east . sun . com . writes 

any reason you are limited to the two mentioned they are n't really at 
the same point along the spectrum not to mention price range .  . 
how about the , , , , and if the 
allows , the land 

any advice on how to buy a land my local says they 
get two a year , and if i want one i can just get on the waiting list. 
forget about a test drive or even kicking the  . 
and if they are that rare , i doubt there is much of a parts on 
hand. 




jonathan 
, 

from c . 
subject re car buying story , was christ , another service  .  .  . 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 36 

from article , by  ( mark monninger ) 

this kind of behavior is what i was shocked by in my  . for 
out loud , how do these think they can talk to 
this way and still stay in business again , i do n't expect sales people to 
bow , , and in my presence but i sure do n't expect to be 
either. i was very surprised by the way the sales people talked to 
me and in other   i in sales 
 . evidently , their success rate is high enough that they continue 
to do business this way. there must be a lot of people out there who are 
easy to intimidate .  . 


a couple of months ago i went to a to test drive a car. afterwards , 
we sat down to discuss  . i explained that i wanted a car just like the 
one i , but in a different color .  . he said he could get one exactly like 
i wanted from the network within a day. we then a price and 
signed the deal. 

next day , i get a call .  . he explains that they , and they had 
to take into account a price increase .  .  ( the last price increase had occurred 
over 4 months prior to my visit . ) . if i still wanted the car , i would 
have to over another 700 .  . as an alternative , they would honor the 
price if i bought the car i test  ( which had been sitting around for 
6 months and had a few on it) .  . i said  . this was a good 
example of how they can you and still cover their  . it 's too 
bad more people do n't demand honesty or these types of would 
no longer be in business. 

the next i went to was straightforward and honest .  . first thing the 
said was , lets 's see what you have for cost and work out 
how much profit i should make. the deal went through with no problems. 

steve 



from state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) 
subject re top 10 reasons why i love  ( not for the humor impaired ) 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution na 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 52 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 

in article writes 
in article state . edu . , state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) writes 
in article  ( tom haapanen ) writes 
writes 
here are another ten reasons why we should all love 
10. car love their new car buying service 
2. and later on buying a family 

and my number 1 

1. the of the religious of the true believers . 

or the of real men who would never bother to read the 
magazine but are more than to criticize it. 

hey , i'm a real man and i do read it. so i can criticize 
it all i want , especially since i pay for the publication .  .  ( they 
accept no outside , do n't you know .  .  .  . ) . 

john 
to you , the was just 
something that happened to other people , 
was n't it the black 

relying on consumer reports to pick your is like 
letting field select your living room  . 




no one should ever rely on just a magazine to determine what car they 
buy , i do n't care what magazine .  . btw , i subscribe to three other 
, i just think is getting a by these men 
from hell who think real men should read . . . . 

statements like what you said above have no meaning. people keep on 
saying is only good for or as you 
said relying on consumer reports . . . . is like. . . and that is 
all they say. 

if there were as critical of as they are of maybe there 
would be some real content. 

john 




john 
to you , the was just 
something that happened to other people , 
was n't it the black 

from  ( mihir shah ) 
subject re  ( performance(was re by its 
nntp posting host 
organization washington university , st. 
distribution na 
lines 27 

in article jason m. writes 
i ca n't imagine any or owners n there in stop light 
races .  . it as much as two challenging each other 
in a game of one on one ! ! 

the does 0 60 in about 8 . 5 . note that this is closer to a than 
to a or storm  ( pseudo  . that 's a ridiculous 
comparison , i know , but the point is that  ( and high end , 
for that matter ) just fine , in fact better than most 
cars of the is great , but to 2 
tons , it just does n't go that quick .  . , on the other hand , use 
to with some short to move very quickly off the 
line. anyway .  .  .  .  . 




while your 0 60 time is consistent with most car and reports , i saw 
the show a 5 speed at 7 . 9 . seconds .  . i'm sure that most 
owners will be very lucky to get this speed , but 7 . 9 . seconds is still 
fast for a small 4 door .  . a new ex runs about 8 . 2 . seconds 
0 60 , if i'm not mistaken .  . most cars in this class are lucky to be in the 
9 second range .  . 





from  ( charlie johnson ) 
subject re car order delay 
nntp posting host 
organization corporation 
lines 23 

in article , writes 
i read an article in the 3 25 chicago stating that is 
having problems addressing the demand for the 3 . engine for it 's 
cars .  . can anyone post how long they are waiting for an ordered car or 
how long they have been told they 'll have to wait 

thanks ! 

john mas 


e mail address 

i ordered an es on jan and have n't seen it yet. i called 
a couple of weeks ago and was told 2 3 more weeks. it 's probably time 
to call again. 

charles johnson 
corporation 
systems division 
01 

beaverton , or phone  ( 503)629 ) email 

from  ( jonathan bruce hacker ) 
subject re was re safety from how far can you see a car 
article i.d. gap . 
distribution na 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( the devil reincarnate ) writes 


.... these 
up cars make non things less  ( like and 
 . we 're not going to 's for people and 
too. 

well , 's are already mandatory for  .  .  . 





























































































jon hacker get the 2 2 . 1 . march 
caltech , pasadena ca for 15 
caltech . edu . call 1 3 ibm 

from  ( jerry bowman ) 
subject re old low 
nntp posting host fred . edu . 
organization university of boulder , 
lines 52 

in article w o email  ( eric youngblood ) writes 
in article ,  ( scott warren rosander ) writes 
in article ,  ( george 
nz ) writes 
after too many years of school i'm finally and getting a real 
job. of course i am trying to make plans of how to spend all this extra 
money. right now i have an 89 , a good car , but not real 
i was thinking of selling it in about two years and dropping around 
on a sports car of some kind. after thinking about it , i may have a 
better idea i 'll keep the until it drops and buy the car i 've 
always wanted a  . my reasoning is that  ( accord ) 
 ( corvette ) is less than what i would spend anyway. 

basically , i'm thinking of a late 70 's , early 80 's for around 7  . 
my question is , what are good years to consider  ( for reliability , looks , 
in that order , believe it or not , is not a main 
concern , if i want to go fast , i get on my motorcycle ) and what are 
good 

also , what would look like i'm male , single , 23 (i might 
wait until i'm 25 to get the car lower  . would the fact that 
i mainly drive the other car lower it is there some type of classic 
car or rarely driven class for driving it under 
per year 

my has a 66 and its on what you say  classic  . 
basically what that means is that it has restricted amount of driving 
time , which basically means it be used as an every day car and would 
probably suit your needs for limited mileage .  . 


in my area , denver , if you look around alittle you can get an 
1984 for 10 , 000 or less , not much less. you said your not looking 
to go fast , they are a really nice car just not real powerful .  . 
in addition to restricted mileage , many classic also require 
that the be when not in use. 

0 . 02 . 





eric 
bell northern research 
, texas 
, 
( 
w o email 




from  ( jim frost ) 
subject re is car important 
organization software , inc. 
lines 32 
nntp posting host 3 . 

state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) writes 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
 ( trevor corkum ) writes 
i figure that into walls are n't common enough 
for me to spend that much extra money for protection , but there are 
lots of low speed that do worry me. 

get into an 30 accident and you may reconsider .  . i 've been in one 
and it is really  . my life is something i value more 
than a car 's looks or  . consider it , it may not 
happen often but when it does , you 'll sure be glad you got a safe car. 

granted the are n't perfect but i 'd much rather be in a car that 
did well in the test than a car that did horribly .  . 

you raise a valid point , but again it 's a how much money 
do you want to spend for that kind of protection you could buy a 
, , or  and get really good crash protection  ( and other 
luxuries ) but you 'll pay more for it. in my case it 's 
out of the question because all of those cars are beyond my  . 

even in high speed head on the most beneficial item you can 
have is a good old 3 point  . nowadays , at least in the us , 
you get an if you get a 3 point belt so  ( presumably ) you get an 
added safety benefit there as well. that 's something i certainly look 
for and which can be had in cars .  . 

my  . 02 . , of course. 

jim 


from  ( vlasis theodore ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization bbs , , florida 
lines 61 

 ( allen tobias ) writes 

in article ( 
this happened about a year ago on the washington  . 
kids decided it would be really cool to 
huge down on cars from an  . four or five 
cars were hit .  . there were several serious , and sadly 
a small girl sitting in the front of one of them was 
in the head by one of the larger  . i do n't recall if she 
made it , but i think she was for a month or so and 
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live. 

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours i 
can see of off of and such , but 
20 ! has our society really this low 



society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the ! the basic reason 
is that human life has been to the point were killing someone is 
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on acts on tv , we can abort 
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised 
when some kids drop 20 and kill people. they do n't care because the 
message they hear is life is cheap ! 

at 

well people or , 
only the us is experiencing the of human life  ( among 
developed  . 

i am an american but i was raised in europe , where the worst thing that 
can happen to somebody is get his car broken into , or have his 
picked by slaves or  . 

of there will be some , but extremely rare .  . 

i.e. in you can walk through any neighborhood at any time during 
the night without even worrying .  . 

in germany , you can walk the at 4 . 00 . am and not even look 
behind your back , at the sanitation that clean the streets to a 
 . 

whoever of you have been there you know what i am saying. 

i dont have any easy answers but if we as a nation do some 
we might get somewhere. 

of course these postings sould be in soc . culture . us . but if we reduce 
crime here it 'll mean less car , thus we could spend 
more money on our cars .  .  ( now my posting is rec . tech . 
 . 

theodore 


software engineer 
communications .  . 

sig under development ... 

from  ( roy matthew thigpen ) 
subject 
organization university of virginia 
lines 8 


last night i had a dream that my bought a  . 
i took it out for a test drive , without his knowledge , 
and had to push it all the way home just to avoid a  . 
dream , i wonder what it means .  .  .  .  . 

roy .  . 


from  ( gordon hamachi ) 
subject re problem 
organization systems incorporated 
lines 32 

writes 
my just hit the magic 100 , 000 mark and now 
all sorts of things are beginning to go bad. the latest problem 
i am experiencing is with my  . they still stop the 
car fine , but once i am stopped completely , my 
will another 2 or 3 all by itself. if really 
strange , and i am worried my will quit working one of 
these days. 

i checked my fluid , and the was full , but the 
fluid itself looked really  ( like  . i called 
my mechanic and he told me i need a new master , 
which will cost me a 250  . 

you are not alone. my  with 110 , 000 on it started 
showing the same behavior. 

i replaced the master myself. it took about an hour and cost 
about 45 .  . sure beats paying to have someone else do it ! if i wanted to 
my own master instead of putting in a one , it would 
have cost only 20 to 30 for the  . 

the master is easy to get to. two it to the 
engine  . two lines enter the master  . the tricky 
part was that the lines were stuck  . my craftsmen open end 
rounded off the heads ! i had to use to those  . 
wow ! best invention since bread .  . after that it was very easy .  . 
the new part in place , add new fluid , and the  . 

this is quite easy even for a  . my local parts had a 
manual for the it had detailed of the master 
and a step by step procedure for replacing it. 

from  ( roy matthew thigpen ) 
subject re dodge experiences 
organization university of virginia 
distribution usa 
lines 12 


i do n't know if some are out there , but from personal experience 
my brother 's has been trouble free. not one single , only 
regular  . the only work he had done on it was a result 
of his stupidity .  .  .  . he stopped suddenly in the middle of a left turn 
on a busy , and was ended .  . he has a 1989 
 . i would it , but i would also like to say that if 
you can wait about months , is coming out with a new car 
called the , that is built in the same way as the 's where .  . 
good luck with your  . 



from 
subject re just does not feel right 
lines 24 
nntp posting host 
organization super 

in article ,  ( ram v. mohan ) writes 
i 've a 89 with about on it. recently i do not get 
a good feeling of the road , esp. on a wet when driving the car. 
it as if the car is and there is no grip on the road. 
the are the original ones and have threads on them  ( passes the 
head  . i had the shocks and and checked and 
things are fine. however i feel like that i dont have the grip of the 
road and feel as if the car is esp. on turns .  . any help 
in this is appreciated. thanks. 


two shots at it (1) check the again if you can see the wear , 
you 're down to problem area  ( and some pass a test between the 
that 's no guide at  . your problem in the wet is call  . 
you may not have enough left to channel water out from under the 
so it goes on you as it off the road. 

(2) age. in particular , soft get harder as you put 
them thru more  . harder do n't grip as well as 
soft ones. effect is very on that get very hot very 
often , such as in competition , but it all  . 

bob 


from  ( albion h. bowers ) 
subject re too fast 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 42 
reply to  ( albion h. bowers ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( theodore chen ) says 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
compare either to the and you tell me which was designed 
to go fast .  . 

you have a point about the , especially seeing as how the 
does n't even have in the back .  . 
but there are significant differences between the latest and 
the late 80 's , not the least of which is handling .  . i'm not 


i think you mean late  . the biggest change that to 
alter the of their baby was way back in august  ( for the 
 model year ) when they the  . besides , some people 
actually know how to take advantage of , and enjoy it. 

in europe .  . the got low marks for high speed handling  ( though to 
be fair , they might have been comparing it to the 's  . 


what was that hill  ( famous race car driver ) said about the 


you should have seen what hill ( world ) had to say about 
the 's he 's driven .  . 

you ca n't make a out of a , but you can 
have an awful fast  . 


yeah , that was what he said. ) 

paul agreed. they both the  ( modified by ruf ) to 
either of the 's at that test. 



al  nasa 
well goodness  .  . do . n't you know that girls ca n't play guitar 
mary 

from  ( aamir qazi ) 
subject re how is doing 
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 20 
reply to 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

 ( cs173sbw ) writes 

does anyone know what to the ! has 
done any to it are there any pictures of this i 
can ftp down somewhere 
thanks 
p.s. better , seen any rc model of this beauty ) 

had an article about the car within the past weeks. 
it was the issue with the vt on the cover. naturally , i 
do n't remember the date of the issue , but i can check it if 
anyone is interested .  . 







why should i care i 'd rather watch  . 

from  ( mark sunsoft ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 12 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host corp . sun . com . 

 .  .  . and . in san francisco recently , some of our examples of humanity 
oil over a road so that going would become 
, and then they would walk right up to the and make their 
demands known. 

mark , system engineer insert standard disclaimers here 

technical i speak for myself , an individual , 
park , ca , usa not for the company for which i work. 




from tom 
subject  ( again ) 
reply to tom 
organization canada remote systems 
distribution rec 
lines 25 


 ( kojo yeboah ) writes 

to all those who have , do you recommend using super or just 
regular  . i have been using regular  . a friend of mine has 
a and has always used super and thinks i should be using the same 
however , i believe the of super for cars and under 
has been by guess who the who sell them , because that is 
where they make the most profit .  . a ralph report and other consumer advocates 
have in the past spoken against those oil  . 

your is designed to run on , however the 
engine will the so that no harm be done 
to the engine with lower  . 

you will likely , however , get somewhat more power and mileage 
 ( especially in hot weather ) out of this particular engine if you do 
run it on  . 

tom 

deluxe 1 . 25 . i sell  . 

canada remote systems , ontario 


from  ( kumaravel natarajan ) 
subject 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , group 
distribution na 
lines 17 

i heard the are considered burning than 
gas because the less of carbon , 
, and of  .  ( co , ,  . 

but they can put out a lot of matter. i heard 
something about legislation being discussed to clean up 
. is there anything in the works to 
for how about the 
of them on and cars would it be any 
different than a i 'd assume easier , 
since we 're removing matter instead of converting 
 . let 's hear people 's opinions .  .  .  . 



motorola , arlington il 


from  ( tom ostrand ) 
subject radio for 
keywords radio , , replacement 
nntp posting host siemens . com . 
organization siemens research , princeton  ( plainsboro ) , nj 
lines 19 

i'm looking for a replacement radio for a 1984 
 . standard off the shelf is fine , but 
every place i 've gone to  ( service merchandise , etc . ) . does n't 
have my car in its model application book. i want to just 
take out the old radio , and slide in the new , with minimal time 
spent it up and the  . 

if you have put in a new in a similar car , i 'd like to hear 
what brand , how easy it was to do the change , and any other 
relevant information. 

please answer via e mail .  . 
thanks , tom 


tom e mail 
siemens research phone 
college road east fax 
princeton , nj 

from  ( guynn , richard carl ) 
subject re and the real world 
article i.d. zeus . 
distribution world 
organization texas a m university , academic computing services 
lines 34 
nntp posting host zeus . tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( mike brookbank ) writes .  .  .  . 
my sister has an  . she has one from the last year they were produced 
 ( 1978 ) .  . its in very good shape .  . i 've been bugging her for years 

last year produced  . 

about selling it. i 've said over and over that she should sell it 
before the car is worthless while she that the car may 
actually be increasing in value as a result of its limited  . 

which one of us is right are there out there who are 
still willing to pay to for an old are there a lot out in the 
market 


yes , there are still alot of out there. the earlier cars  ( pre 
74 1 2 ) are usually more desirable due to certain things that went with having 
 ( ride , generally more  . the older cars are 
 .  .  .  . the newer ones seem to be at a stable level at the 
moment .  . 6 to would require extremely good condition and low  . 
if the car is in good shape and regular is kept up on it , the car 
should last for a long time. there are still plenty of parts sources  . 
the is a great , fun little car. if she is keeping it solely in the hopes 
that it is going to appreciate , tell her to sell it. it is not worth waiting 
the time it would take to appreciate to a real level. 


 . 
 ( complete ) to be finished 
texas a m university 
keeper of the eternal 
a.k.a. the symbol that i 'll have it soon , 
refuses to die. honest ! 


from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject re bullet proof 
distribution usa 
organization corp .  . 
lines 51 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( charles h. hsu ) writes 
i am interested to find out if there is any domestic car 
 ( especially and ford ) which produces bullet proof  . 

i understand is working on one , double , super high 
engine , more , a bit   , etc , lots of equipment , 
the works. color selection is limited though. 

the problem is that the guy at penn .  . avenue is about to get it 
 . clinton )  ( last time it was a lincoln , this time a  . 

i am just wondering if this so called bullet proof  ( perhaps 
, special materials for the body engine etc . ) . car lincoln 
and models is readily available to the public. 

not to my knowledge i know does conversion work for things like 
hot (i . e .  . the sold to the middle east) but 
things like that are always done by third parties , not the  . 
maybe you will need to buy a specific that has up everything , 
perhaps the police on the and start from 
there. 

do we have 
to go through any special to obtain these cars i would really 
like to hear from anyone who has experience with the bullet proof cars .  . 

and i  along in my and this out 
of nowhere with an  ( rocket grenade ) but the 
stopped him ) do n't think many people on the net have a need 
for cars .  . 

check with local service security places. they 'd 
know best. i think your average car will have a if 
you told them i 'll take the blue , with options  ( fuzzy dice ) , 
 ( power everything ) , and  . 

any information regarding the and after market that have 
bullet proof lincoln 's and 's is greatly appreciated. you may 
email me at or post the message in this newsgroup if 
you believe other netters might be interested as well. btw , same information 
on mercedes , , lexus , and is needed 
as well if you have it. 

i believe an article on the conversion process appeared in the car press within 
the last few months. 




software technology ,  ( 317 ) 
, , in a different kind of disclaimer 

from  ( keith p7625 ) 
subject re 
summary 
nntp posting host 145 . 4 . 54 . 110 . 
reply to 
organization and data group 
lines 13 


a little bit off of the subject but here goes 
yes he is one in the same (i . e .  . div ) 
also his brother at and was the winner in  . 
i have also seen the name in the early  ( 1911 and on ) 
i assume he is related 

keith , 
motorola inc. 
and data group 
beach , 

see at and 400  .  .  . yes . ! ! ! 

from  ( jason chen ) 
subject 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
reply to 
organization bell communications research 
lines 34 

i saw an interesting product in ny show , and would like to 
hear your comments .  . 

 ( militech(tm ) is yet another oil  . but the of this 
product really impressive , if it did n't cheat .  . 

the setup of the is fairly simple. a is 
half in a small oil , filled with oil .  . the 
is by an electronic  . a metal is pressed against 
the using the until the stopped by  . 
the that is needed to stop is read from the  . 

before was added , the was stopped with about 60 
of  ( you pick the brand of oil , no  . once was 
added to the oil , the could not be stopped even with 120 of 
 . 

here is the good part even after the the oil , 
you still could not stopped the with the thin film remained on it. 

they say you need only add per of oil every  . a 16 
bottle is 25 .  . 

i still have my  . if this product is really so great , why it was 
so little known the said it is widely used in military .  . i did n't 
believe it. the was so impressive , that i bought a bottle against 
my common sense. 

has anyone heard of or actually used this product is it real 
if you are going to the show , please visit this stand on the 
second  . see if can find out if the is a hoax or not. 

jason 


from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re and 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 53 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( robert loper ) says 

in article  ( james p. callison ) writes 
in article arbor . mi . us . arbor . mi . us .  ( david hwang ) writes 
in article  ( wharfie ) writes 
in article  ( chris silvester ) writes 


why anyone would order an with an automatic is 
beyond me if you ca n't handle a stick , you should stick with a 
regular and leave the to real drivers .  . that is not to 
say that there are n't real drivers who ca n't use the stick  ( eg 
persons ) , but they are n't in any position to use an 
anyway. 

i would be willing to bet that if we removed the automatic 
transmissions from all type cars  ( like the 5 . 
, , and the like ) we 'd cut down on the number of 
accidents each year .  . are fine for little , 
but they have no business in cars , imho .  . 

james 

i have to disagree with this. i have a with a and a 4 speed 
w , and it is really better that way. are 
for their long life and ability to handle amount of power. i live 
in the area , and a manual would be much harder to drive in the traffic 
here. now if i still lived out in the sticks like i used to , a manual would be 
more fun. 

safety wise , an is less  .  . i . would hate to have to be 
shifting while i was trying to into traffic in the here. 
wise , i can hold my own against any stock 5 . 0 . or 5 . 0 . 
w a five speed .  . 

all of this imho .  .  .  . ) 

all of my ho 's disagree with your ho 's .  . i loved rush hour in my stick .  .  . 
it in the  ( auto(like i did any other time in the  .  . ) .  . of course , 
rush hours are nothing , from what i hear .  . if . i lived in la , i might 
be of a different  . and , just for the record , rarely do you shift 
when into traffic .  . that . is what 5 are good for .  . 4th . is 
good up through around 80 90 , most of the time , so you can just wind it out .  .  . 
it 's not going to hurt anything , and keeps it in the anyway .  .  . 
only shift into top gear when you are in  ( 4th(fairly rare , 
unless you drive a or some such , i 'd bet ) or when you hit 
speed where you feel  ( comfortable(or when my mother is sitting in the 
complaining about how you wind her poor little engine way 
too hi ) 
just my ho 's .  .  . 



from  ( george yu ) 
subject re the ! ! 
lines 43 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( tommy hwang ) writes 

sorry for the mis , but i forgot how to it after 
my series of and no on hand reference here. 

is it still possible to get those wwii be 's 
a would be great i think. 

 93 

according to the complete guide to cars , 7th edition , from 
publishing , it 's the  ( w 2 over the  . 
the company is 


p.o. box , 
1 , norway 

47 30 voice line 
47 2 fax line 


an from the blurb 

 .  .  . this . fine from is a very close copy of 
the original , and the same all and cross country 
capabilities as its wwii  . the body 
is very complete , and includes all the hardware you will 
need , except for your own car. the phone number ... 
is the entire at t sequence call and ask for karl 
, or send 5 cash or international money order 
for a complete literature  . 


george .  . 

p.s. , i 'd be happy to share what info i have on other cars and 
car  . 

p . p . s .  . , i'm looking for a used or 
d from  . i 'd 
appreciate any leads or advice stories from any owners 
out there. 

from  ( jim frost ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization software , inc. 
lines 17 
distribution na 
nntp posting host 3 . 

 ( nancy feagans ) writes 
and  . these should be an option . 

, at least , is heading in that direction .  . one of the post sale 
questions they asked me was if i 'd like the choice of a 
or an plug , and another whether i 'd like the choice of 
an or a cup  . 

the  93 have the vs plug option 
 ( which did not exist in the  i bought ) i'm not sure about the 
vs cup  . it 's a step in the right direction .  . 

the does make a convenient change so it 's not 
completely useless. 

jim 


organization institute 
distribution na 
from 
subject van step .  .  .  . van help 
lines 13 


netters , 

i would like to find out information about a device that is used on and 
 . this device is a step that hooks onto the and up for 
 . i 've seen this device on 's shady tree mechanic .  . i would like to 
know if it is a good product and i would also like the price and address 
of where i can this product .  . 

thanks , 

george 
email 

from  ( andrew brandt ) 
subject and recent changes .  . 
organization the university of north at hill 
lines 9 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
keywords , , change , update 

i am interested in finding out how the and have 
been updated in the past few years. like new engine , and 
the like. i noticed that the 1993 and 1992 are identical , 
for example , and was looking into buying a used one. 

any info would be , esp. models years to check out or 
avoid .  . 

, andy 

from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re too fast 
article i.d. 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 63 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
 ( craig boyle ) writes 
the quality of is something of a myth .  . the road surface 
is n't much different to a typical tx  . they are better 
in terms of , safety , signs , etc. 

they light the in texas funny , everywhere else i 've been 
they only light 'em at  . 

sorry , by they i meant , not us  . 


i wo n't even get into how much road vary between states and 
except to say that there are some areas where are 
essentially  . 

than most of the roads here. a in the that you test your 
shocks on at 60 will kill you at 130 .  . do n't get me wrong , i love to 

it would have to be quite severe .  . i do n't recall any us , 
without road damage warnings , that i would regard as 
at 130 in any decent , well car. 

i suspect you have very limited experience us vary 
, particularly between states. i can name a number of 
in various parts of the country where 130 would be 
very in any car. 

well , i 've driven in every state but , and drive about per year .  . 
i take long cross country trips any chance i get its fun for me and i 
can get  . 
my job allows me to drive rather than fly. not to labor the point , but 
i 've driven just about every the us , germany , uk and france plus 
some in mexico , which was good. 


i'm not sure what you call quite severe in terms of road deviations 
but i suspect every single on through ct would be 
considered so. they 're hard to take at  . that 's not the only 
i 've seen with such deviations , but it 's one i drive 
frequently .  . 

yes , but as a age of the total in the us 
all you have to do in this case is mark the hazard , people to 
slow to 85 or so. 


texas is pretty much an case you ca n't assume that everywhere 
has roads in such good condition , such flat , and such 

texas are , sometimes a good surface .  . mostly flat .  . but , 
in ca is comparable and  . 

wide open  . it just ai n't so. 

given the absence of other traffic and car built for 130 (e . g .  . 535 ) 
most us are just fine. the problem is other road users and 
cops .  . 

jim 


craig 

from  ( jeff hagen ) 
subject 's new plant in , 
organization wake university 
lines 8 
nntp posting host ac . edu . 


is anyone reading this message involved with the new plant 
 ( does even have a net connection ) 

seeking info , 
jeff 



from  ( tommy reingold ) 
subject rec . 
article i.d. 
organization at t bell labs , , nj , usa 
lines 42 
nntp posting host net . 

request for discussion 

this is a request for discussion on the creation of a newsgroup 
concerning cars .  . it will allow to exchange 
information on , maintaining , , and 
 . 

group name 

rec . 

status 



rationale 

there may be enough people with cars or interested in 
buying a or interested in knowing more about for any 
reason to justify such a new newsgroup .  . the recent growth of 
the net could improve the time between a 
question and receiving answers from the community. 

discussion 

comments on this proposed new newsgroup should be posted to the 
usenet newsgroup news . groups . . if the reader is not able to 
do so , comments may be e to the proposer , at the address 
below. 

voting 

if no problems arise , voting will start 1 month from the 
posting date of this  . 

proposer 

tommy 

tommy 
at t bell labs , , nj 
or ! ! tommy 

from ( x ) 
subject re or 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 18 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

 ( danny phornprapha ) writes 
i'm getting a car in the near future. i 've narrow it down to and  . 
which might be a better choice 
thanks for your , 



i 've been asking myself this same question for the past year , so , if when 
you find out , would you please share the answer with me .  .  . 
the way i see it right now , work twice as hard so you can have both. 
cheers ) 



my suggestion is why not work twice as hard  ( like 
suggested above) then get ! ) enjoy .  . 



from j .  . 
subject re male female mystery re concepts of all time 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution na 
organization at t 
lines 15 

in article  ( beth schwindt ) writes 

besides which , where would men put all their crap if their wives 
did n't carry ) 





my wife rarely carries a purse , so all of her crap ends up in my ! 



ron  ( that 's a number 1 in , not letter l ) 
at t bell labs , nj usa 

from  ( ken king ) 
subject re the ! ! 
reply to  ( ken king ) 
organization computer science dept. univ .  . of in 
lines 36 

in article  ( tommy hwang ) writes 
sorry for the mis , but i forgot how to it after 
my series of and no on hand reference here. 

is it still possible to get those wwii be 's 
a would be great i think. 


you may be in luck. i seem to recall seeing a blurb in one of 
the car about a company in norway who a 
(sp ) off a real , and has adapted it to the 
 . as for the , all i can remember about the 
thing i used to own is that it had about 3 more 
travel than a stock , but i 'd heard that there were after 
market parts for off road use that were as good or better. note 
that the major difference  ( looks wise ) between a a thing 
are the and the  . the had an external spare 
mounted on the , and the down  ( for ) 
, and had rounded  . the thing has a lightly 
with the spare mounted inside  ( unless moved to make for more 
space .  .  . ) . and has half  ( imagine a 
large enough to put a in , and cut off the bottom half 
of it .  .  . ) .  . 
unfortunately , i do n't have that info anymore. try stopping 
at a local bookstore and copying down the phone numbers for the 
two big 's and calling them. they might be able to get the 
number for you  ( do n't forget to the time difference to 
norway before calling .  .  . ) .  . 

later , 


a quick bones , help me get include 
. ( o ) . this off my ! disclaimer . h . 
damn it , jim , i'm a 
() () doctor , not a ! ) 

from  ( andrew bernstein ) 
subject re 
organization motorola 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 129 . 38 . 
lines 36 

in article 
 ( robert j. wade ) writes 
@ in article  ( thad mcculloch ) writes 
@ 
@ has anyone had any experience with 's extended 
@ plan .  . it seems to be slightly less expensive than 
@ the normal sponsored policy. 
@ 
@ and once again .  .  .  .  . never buy extended  .  .  . they . are a complete and 
@ total period ! ! ! ! you are better off taking your money and putting it 
@ 
in a bank and using that money for  . many extended never 
@ pay or have co etc. 
@ 


how many people will actually put that money in the bank and keep it there for the 
sole use of a  .  .  .  .  . maybe . for people who have a hard time saving 
money or do n't want the of worrying about paying for everything the 
extended is worth it .  .  .  .  . for . some people it is worth it .  .  . others . not , and 
for some the peace of mind knowing you wo n't have too many 
is enough .  .  .  .  . if . you drive a lot , your basic can be up in a little longer than 
a year .  .  .  . how . many people can make the car as well as large  .  .  .  . 

it may work for some people .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

andrew 




andrew 
motorola inc. there 's no such thing as , 
e. road and that 's the fact 
, il 
 ( next mail ok ) 

from w .  . 
subject re new argument 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution usa 
organization at t 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( robert j. wade ) writes 

ok , how about this to argue about. why does the have a much lower base 
price than the it 's over  ( cheaper(i forget the exact  . 
does n't it cost more to have the extra doors etc. that 
are in the 4 door perhaps it is just a deal .  .  .  . people . want the 
, so they will pay the extra 1 . 


the has a wheel base than the , just a 
thought. ithink your right though .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


james @ a . t .  . t. bell labs 
hill , n . j .  . 
room 2a 
! ! 

from  . pugliese ) 
subject is this a good price 
organization , campus 
lines 25 
nntp posting host 



hi everybody , 

i will buy a ex  . the ask 12 , 750 for it , 
including a c ( ) , but not including stereo , tax , 
 . i live in mexico , so i do n't have time to go to a lot of 
and compare their  . the is in , tx .  . is this a good 
price for that car if not , how much should i pay for it 

please e mail if you do n't want to post. thanks a lot. 








n 
y de 
de 
 . de 
, n . l .  . , mexico 
 ( 83 ) 2000 

subject 1993 
from 
organization young university 
lines 8 

i 'd like to converse with anyone who has purchased a 1993 
about their experience. i'm new to the car buying game 
and would like to know what price i can expect to pay for a 
after  . 

thanks in advance , 

ellen 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject internal leak in 
lines 9 

hi , 

my friend 's by itself without using 
the gas  . the said it has a internal leak of air in 
the and needs a new  ( costs  . she likes 
to know if it is possible to fix the problem without replacing 
the whole  . 

thank you. 

from  ( welch bryan ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host ibm . com . 
organization ibm , research triangle park , north 
keywords , , danger 
lines 66 

in article ,  ( neil williams ) writes 
 ( brian larose ) writes 

this just a warning to everybody on the net. watch out for 
folks standing next to the road or on  . they can 
cause serious harm to you and your car. 

 ( just a notes version of my story follows ) 

last night , i was travelling on the here in 
, i was taking an to another 
and my wife suddenly and something large hit the side 
of my  . we down , but after looking back to see the 
standing there , we on to the police station .  . 

she did get a good look at the guy and saw him his with 
something the size of a , but i never saw him. we are 
very lucky the up high on the road if it would have hit 
her , it would have killed her. 

the police are looking for the guy , but in all he is gone. 

i am a very good  ( knock on wood ) , but it was night time and 
i never saw the guy. the police said they thought the motive was to 
hit the car , have us stop to check out the damage , and then jump us , 
and take the  . 

please be aware of folks .  . and for your own good , please t stop ! ! ! ! 

peace. 




brian 12 ,  . ,  . 



as long as we 're on the subject .  .  .  . several years ago myself and two others 
were riding in the front of a heading south on 5 
north of seattle ,  . someone threw a of an and hit our 
 . not by accident i'm sure , it was impossible to get up to the 
quickly to see who did it. we it was kids , reported it and 
left. 
a couple of years ago it again and killed a guy at my company .  . he was 
in his mid and left behind a wife and children. turned out there was 
a for a few blocks away. they caught the 14 year old 
that did it. they put a cover over the , what else could they do 
i do n't think i 'll over forget this story. 

in des , iowa , about a year ago , some kid dropped a from an 
and hit car just behind the  . it put a in the roof , 
so i guess i was lucky it hit metal .  . 

it 's frustrating that we ca n't do much. bother the city government to put 
covers on all slow down speed up a bit when driving under all 
in the city i like the first better , but that will take time 
and lots of people talking to the city governments .  . 

just another  . 02 .  .  .  . 


bryan welch amateur radio 
internet  ( best ) , 
everything will save love and music. 
disclaimer it 's all opinion. everything. so there. 

from  ( richard welty ) 
subject rec . welcome to to the new reader 
keywords monthly posting 
reply to 
organization new york state institute for studies 
expires thu , 20 may 1993 04 00 05 gmt 
lines 

archive name rec 

most recent changes , 15 march 1993 addition of alt . 

welcome to rec .  . 

this article is sent out automatically each month , and contains a general 
description of the purpose of each of the newsgroups , and 
some suggested for discussions .  . the keywords posting  
will always appear to make killing this article easy for users of 
with kill facilities .  . this article is posted to all 
groups , but followups are directed only to rec .  . if you do n't 
understand what this means , ask your system administrator for help , or at 
least for copies of the documentation .  . failing that , please 
subscribe to the newsgroup news . announce . newusers . and read the 
documentation provided there. 

introduction to the rec . newsgroup 

rec . tech . 

is intended for technical discussions of , their design , 
construction , , and service .  . other discussions are largely 
inappropriate , especially for sale  . 

rec . 

is intended for discussion of legal , organized competition involving 
 . technical discussions are appropriate as they apply 
to competition  . discussion from either of two viewpoints , 
and participant , is encouraged .  . arguments about sports cars are 
largely inappropriate , as are most other discussions .  . for sale are 
inappropriate unless they are for competition and or equipment. 
discussions of illegal events are marginal one should probably avoid 
advocating breaking the law.  ( remember , the fbi reads usenet ! ) 

rec . driving . 

is intended for discussions related to the driving of  . 
also , if you must discuss 55 vs. 65 , or , or insert 
your pet driving , do it here. 

rec . 

is intended for discussion of issues related to the use and ownership 
of by  ( this includes , , 
, etc . ) . it was created on the grounds that the info mailing 
list was very successful .  . it should not be from the existence 
of this group that it is appropriate to create many groups to cover many 
different groups specific to individual should only be 
created on of sufficient interest , via some avenue such as 
a mailing list. 

rec . car . 

is not properly part of the rec .  .  . it is , however , 
the correct place for discussion of equipment , and 
so is mentioned here. 

rec . 

is intended for the discussion of older cars  ( usually more than 25 years 
old , although this is not a hard and fast rule . ) . 

alt . 

is not part of the , but also of potential interest to the 
rec . reader .  . it is to the moderated mailing 
list , and is for serious discussion of and developing 
 . 

alt . n 

also not part of the  devoted to that peculiar 
american of older cars .  . 

alt . 

for the discussion of the popular and ,  . 

rec . 

is intended to capture discussion on all other topics. 




occurs when more than one newsgroup name is included on 
the newsgroups line in the article such articles will appear 
in all of the newsgroups listed .  . 

is one of the most misunderstood and misused facilities on 
usenet .  . you should only post to a group because you feel an article is 
appropriate you should never just to reach a particular 
audience .  . this distinction is subtle , but important. 
articles , for example , are more or less appropriate in rec .  . they are 
almost never appropriate in sci . or rec . ham . radio , and the fact 
that you might want to reach the audience in sci . or 
rec . ham . radio is not adequate justification for posting to either group. 

between any or all of the rec .  . groups is usually 
inappropriate if you find yourself doing so , consider whether or not it is 
truly , before sending your article. consider setting followup to 
to point to only one newsgroup if you feel you must  . 

between rec .  . and misc . is at best in 
particular flame wars over the speed limit in the us and or the use of 
should never be between any of these groups. 

most readers of sci . and rec . radio .  . could n't care less about 
the police and arguments that go on in 
rec .  . 

it is an excellent idea to check the newsgroups and followup to lines of 
articles before posting a followup .  . in particular , be wary of posting to 
misc . test . , rec . arts . startrek .  . , or talk . bizarre . , or any combination of these 
three. the life you save may be your own. 

distribution 

there is a field in the of any news article which allows you to 
 ( partially ) control where the article goes it is called the distribution 
field .  . it may be very useful for many reasons it should also serve 
as a that news is a very large and widespread system. 

the distribution of rec .  . is fairly extensive .  . as of this writing , 
the newsgroups are known to reach most of europe , australia , 
new , and some in japan .  . with this in mind , i offer the 
following hints about use of the distribution field in your article 
, and on article content. 

1 ) please take care not to send for sale about out 
in new jersey to france or california i doubt that anyone in 
either place will care , except for my , who for some strange 
reason likes  ( but only 4 door , at that . ) . 

2 ) when posting technical questions , please include the market for which 
your car was  . for example , there are a number of differences 
between a european market and a us market  . likewise , 
all and early reached the us with 
injection european market cars usually got  ( often  . these 
differences can be important to your readers make your situation clear. 
failure to do so can lead to pointless flame wars and a significant 
spread of misinformation .  . 

3) be careful about your and when posting 
in the us we get a mix of and english system values , whereas 
europe is almost entirely on the system. a future edition 
of this monthly posting will contain a list of commonly used 
that may not be known in some places that rec . 
this cuts both ways so let us not be about it. 

4 ) use the distribution field to limit where your article goes , when 
possible. within north america , the values na  ( north america ) , can 
 ( canada ) , and usa may be used. in addition , the two letter state 
of the us are supported in some cases e.g. if i wanted 
to send an article only to new york and new jersey , i could put 
ny , nj in a distribution field .  . note that multiple , separated 
values are legal .  . these distribution fields vary widely , however , so 
you should check with your local sysadmin to find out what is likely 
to be supported in your area. 

the of 

to a warning from the distribution section of this article 
be wary of making foolish assumptions about all cars , , etc. what is 
true for a with a engine may be quite utterly wrong for a 
with a engine. laws in are 
different from those in  . 

the need for adequate 

when you ask a question , please give a reasonable amount of information 
e.g. , if you have a question about your , please year , 
model , engine size , etc. otherwise , most answers to your question may be 
quite useless. 


concerning 

at one time or another , every has a or 
two even admits to this. please do n't waste everyone 's time by 
to the world that your x  automobile is terrible , so all 
x  are terrible , so no one should ever buy a car from 
the x  company .  . such articles are worse than useless , because they 
cause substantial bandwidth while carrying little or no useful 
information. 


concerning flames 

as much as we might wish it , a flame free newsgroup is something that most 
likely will never occur .  . here are some for flames and how 
to deal with them (a list of flame prone follows in the next section 
of this posting) 

if you post something truly obnoxious and inflammatory , do n't imagine for a 
minute that including the words flames  will work. it wo n't , and 
you 'll get exactly what you  . 

if you 're going to flame , you 're more likely to get away with it if you can 
cite a fact or maybe a well known reference. no one is likely to believe 
, assertions .  . 

be careful about who you choose to insult .  . consider not insulting anyone. 


asking the question 

it is a bad idea to post a question and end it with a phrase like 
send email , i do n't read this  . it is a much better idea to 
end the question with send email , if there is sufficient interest 
i 'll summarize the results in a later posting. i may miss posted responses 
to this  . 

answering the question 

if someone wants to hop up their , do n't tell them to get a  . 
either be silent , or give them useful advice. if someone wants advice on 
defending a speeding , do n't tell them to obey the law next time 
it 's offensive , guilt which is not proven , and does n't directly 
address the original question. in general , do n't post in order to see 
your words in print , and do n't post in order to enjoy feeling and 
self righteous .  . 


and or inflammatory 

certain are considered by timers  while discussion of 
them is certainly ok , and new , factual information is welcome , 
about them are extremely tiresome , and may get the person who posts them 
ignored altogether. some are naturally inflammatory it is 
difficult if not impossible to have meaningful discussion of them. some 
of these include the following 

1 ) the speed limit in the us pro and con 

2 ) discussions about the morality and of the sale and usage of 
 . 

3) discussions over which is best. 

4 ) discussions over what is a sports car  ( this is one reason why 
rec . is not a car  group everyone would argue 
about what constitutes a ) . 

5 ) over whether or not us federal law the 's 
right to own and operate a 

6 ) american  discussions 

7 )  bumper stickers and license plates 

8 ) insert here cars are terrible 

9 ) what kind of car did maxwell smart drive 
when i have a complete , accurate answer it will be added to the 
commonly asked questions article which is also posted monthly .  . 
until then , please do n't waste bandwidth on this topic. 



please direct comments and suggestions about this article to 



richard 
good has ever been reported about the full of 
a race car about either its pitch or roll   smith 

from  ( barry fowler ) 
subject re going into ! 
organization computer  . operation 
lines 1 

does that mean that they 're gonna bring back the and air 

from  ( steve green ) 
subject any liberty owners out there 
article i.d. steve . green . 
organization its branch , csiro , australia 
lines 16 
nntp posting host its . csiro . au . 

i 've had my liberty station for about 8 months now. saying 
i'm happy with it would be an ! 

just great .  . well built , handles , plenty of power. i 've only 
had if  off  once. did a trip over the mountains on a narrow , 
road , often very in parts. the did it with  . 
i had so much fun driving a car for years ! 

any other owners out there 


steve green hey , watch me pull a  my hat ! 
group that trick never works 
its branch  up my sleeve ! 
csiro australia no doubt about it i gotta get another hat 


from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re spark plug question 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 21 

in article  ( brian golden ) writes 
the nice thing about real is that you do n't have to change 
them very often at all. (i think like 50 , 000 ! ! ) they might cost 10 
each , but they would save for themselves in the long run. 

my t 's manual says to replace the every 60 ,  . 
has for 2 . 00 . each .  . are these real 
(i had in my  80 and my 
had 'em in his  note the had. they did n't last 
very long  ( much less than 50 , 000mi ) before they had to be replaced .  . 
i agree that they were n't the greatest . ) . 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( robert neilson ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 17 31 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization ltd .  . , burnaby , b.c. , canada 

lines 12 

sorry for the 0 content , but ... 

that is why low citizens should have the power to protect themselves 
and their property using force if necessary anywhere a threat is 
imminent .  . 

steve 

you do have the power steve .  . you can do it. why do n't you why do n't you 
go shoot some kids who are onto cars make sure you do a good 
job though do n't miss  cause like they have big and take it from 
me those kids are mean. 

from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re engine. 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 33 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( eliot ) says 

in article  ( thunderbirds are go ! ! ! ) writes 
are there any owners or head out there , that know why 
my 's engine sounds the 's engine is at the best of times , 
but not even a nice nose it 's one of those very  . 

assuming yours is a non , the is characteristic of 
a large 4 that does n't have  . i guess 
did n't care about little details like that when they can about 
the mid engine and the  . 

myself , i automatically cross out any car from consideration  ( or 
recommendation ) which has an 4 larger than 2 and no 
 .  . it is a good rule of to keep in mind if you 
ever want a decent engine. 

if the really you , there is nothing else that you can do 
except to sell it and get a  . 




nice theory. too bad the 's never came with a four over 2.0 
 . more like 1 . 6 .  . or did they were the 's 2.2 or 
some such 

i also understand that anyone using balancing on four , must 
pay a for using their patented design .  . like . 's 3 . 0 .  .  .  . 

c 


from  ( robert william fusi ) 
subject re new proposal 
organization university 
lines 22 

in article , 
m  ( dan day ) writes 
in article  ( jim frost ) w 


an is just an to either a or 
amateur .  . nobody to anymore. the thieves know 

this is why i think there ought to be a heavy fine on false  . 
i'm really off about the fact that due to all the 
cars with wolf , no one will pay any attention 
to my car if its ever goes off for real. 

depends on your area , in the city , nobody thinks about it .  .  . but . at a or 
something near the , people do at least over. remember , an 
is only a , not a  . if a sees two cars he 
likes , one has an and the other does n't , he 's obviously going to 
the car and avoid the  . there is a way around every , but 
at least you 've got something on your side .  .  .  .  .  . 
rob 



from  ( jack dauler ) 
subject re for 
organization  ( srsd mid ) 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
lines 3 

i have had good luck with my and s m  . 
the have been wearing well and even the few times i have 
heavy loads they have done well. 

from  ( john g. kissane ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
nntp posting host black 
reply to  ( john g. kissane ) 
organization motorola inc. , group 
lines 7 

as a matter of interest does anyone know why are so popular in the us while 
here in europe they are rare just wondering .  .  .  .  .  . 


john motorola ireland ltd .  . , 
uucp  .  . uunet . ! ! ! industrial , () () 
internet , , ireland u 

from  ( m'ani thorsteinsson ) 
subject 
distribution rec 
lines 7 
nntp posting host hi . is . 


i was the history of the the other day , 
and early in the film , around the  10  20 's , a name , , 
came out of the blue .  . i wanted to know if he is the founder 
or a who 's name was called the same as the other guy 's ) 

 . 

from  ( robert j. wade ) 
subject re 's policy 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 22 

in article writes 
i just ordered a after considering a few  . frankly , the 

stuff deleted .  .  .  . 

also has a good extended program 675 for 6 year , 
fully if you do n't use it. that works out to an actual cost of or 
so , based on the 6 year treasury rates. using savings account it 's more 
like 120 .  . in the first three years it also buys you free during any 
work , without counting against the  . 
mike 

in general extended are a  . this is really only 
because you get the one free with the car. also , is there 
perhaps a you pay each and every time you use the 
also , are certain items excluded from on the extended 
and if you use it at year 4 for some 60 job and pay a 50 and then 
you have used it so no ever ! 
again , extended are , high profit items for the  . 




from  ( jit lim ) 
subject re drivers who do n't look ahead 
keywords bad drivers 
distribution usa 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 33 

in article h . writes 
anybody is going anywhere. so , i block the would be  . not only for my own 
good , but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it. 

ah , we are looking for good people just like you. we are a very concerned 
group of citizens who are absolutely at the way that the majority 
of drivers simply disobey traffic rules like going above the speed limit , 
passing on our right , and riding our , while all the while we 
by the rules of this great country and maintain the mandated speed 
limits with our , cruise , while keeping the 
1 . 5 . car length distance 10 speed .  . how many times have you been 
ticked off by some who ahead in the 5 . 1 . 25 . car lengths 
that you have left between you and the ahead of you while driving 
55 finally you have an option. we are a totally member supported group 
that perform functions for our own good , for the good of this great country but most of all for those unfortunate ones that are too stupid to realize it , 
bless their souls .  . for a 10 , you can join citizens for rationally 
advanced r . a . , a non profit , members only , society. but , but , but , 
there is a slight , the  . to be a full member of 
this exclusive club , you must proof that you are able to be in the fast of 
the in your area , keep the correct 1 . 5 . car 10 i know this can be difficult with those around , not let anybody pass 
you , not in the next , not in the slow , not in the , 
not nowhere .  . for a complete list of acceptable and times , send 5. 
and by the way , over 90 of our members are highly regarded in the 
field and they are completely , absolutely in the business only 
to serve your best interests .  . as a testament to their virtues , they will give 
members 90 off the initial fee .  . feel free to drop me a line at 
your earliest convenience and remember , only speed kills ! 







from  ( welch bryan ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host ibm . com . 
organization ibm , research triangle park , north 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( grayson walker ) writes 
why under the car at all i have a machine i got for my that 
the oil out under through the stick  . it does an 
excellent job and by moving the around , you can get more 
old oil out than by using the plug .  . i think i paid 25 at e b  . 
the oil goes into a 3 can wait until it and into 
your favorite device. i use soft drink  . easy to take them down to 
the local oil center .  . 

this does sound good , but i heard it tends to leave more , etc in the 
oil  . also , i 've been told to change the old when it 's hot before the 
has much time to  . 

any opinions 


bryan welch amateur radio 
internet  ( best ) , 
everything will save love and music. 
disclaimer it 's all opinion. everything. so there. 

from  ( tom shou ) 
subject do i need 
organization silicon , inc. 
lines 27 
nntp posting host sgi . com . 

we 're considering getting a with and we have the 
following questions  ( all we would do is go no off roading ) 

1. with , do we need the  ( limited slip  . 
its purpose is to allow the to act independently when the 
are on different  . 

2. do we need the all  ( p235 75x15 ) or will the 
all  ( p225 70x15 ) be good enough for us at 


thanks , 


tom 






tom silicon 
n .  .  . 

 ( fax ) view , ca 



from  ( sesh murthy ) 
subject re vs 
distribution usa 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host watson . ibm . com . 
organization ibm t . j .  . watson research center 
lines 12 

in article ,  ( mark monninger ) writes 
although not in direct response to the referenced article , just to set the 
record straight , are  . cars are  . please , 

huh ! i though were ibm employees ) 

let 's get our terms straight .  . 

actually , some would argue that the only true is a round 
tail light or  . 

mark 

from  ( john oswalt ) 
subject re legal car buying problems 
organization corporation 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
distribution ca 
lines 32 

 ( rob boudrie ) writes 
in article  ( bob hutson ) writes 
after to terms i signed the contract and home in my new 
car. later that same night i noticed that the terms in the were 
different from the terms i had agreed to. (i made the stupid mistake 
of not checking everything on the  . this all happened last 
saturday .  . 

i have heard that there is a off law allowing me three days 
to reconsider the contract .  . is this true can anyone point me to the 
law the happened at the , if it matters. 

this off period applies only in certain situations 
you are at home. i also think the off period ends 
if you actually accept the merchandise .  . 

if this were not the case , any car would have the right to return 
a slightly used , highly , car 2 days after buying it. yeah 
that 's the trick if i want to buy a new car , i 'd have a buy 
return one , then go in and negotiate a better deal on a pre owned 
used car. 

however , if you agree some terms , and then , when about to sign , the 
you a contract with different terms , and leads you to 
believe that it the terms you agreed to , that 
is fraud .  . there is no 3 day limit on for fraud .  . 

you may have to  ( and win ) to get out of this. you will almost 
certainly have to threaten to  . 


john or 

from  ( robert william fusi ) 
subject re most bang for 
organization university 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( da 
bonds ) writes 
in rec . ,  ( kevin parker ) writes 
i 'd like to get some on a car with most bang for the in the 
to 16 , 000 price range .  . i'm looking for a car with enough to be 
driven every day , or even on long trips , but when i hit the gas , i want to fee 
l 

take a look at a  91 they can be found for , and are the 
ultimate in 4 door sports cars .  . similar to a , but 
quite civil and comfortable .  .  .  . try to get a late model 91 for the better 
 . 




the cutting bbs tx . a 14 . system 
houston , texas , usa 1 . running 

well , you could always go with a 5 . 0 . with a pleasant , but the 
star cars  ( talon laser ) put out in the models , 
and in the models , these cars also have handling to match 
the , and are civil in regular driving conditions , rather than having a 
harsh , ride .  .  .  . the . is clearly the better choice of the two 
 ( because of all that on the front drive model ) , but you may have 
to go with a or slightly used model for that price range .  .  .  . tough . 
decision .  .  .  . 

rob 




from  ( paul k. gloger ) 
subject for sale 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 40 


o service  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10 . 00 . 
this is not a complete set , but includes sections 4 , 5 
6 which cover components  ( suspension , 
, , , control , 
, air conditioning ) , body  ( body , 
doors , , , , instrument 
panel ) , and electrical  ( engine electrical system , body 
electrical system , , and trouble  . 
these are the genuine issue  . they are for 
model year 1986 , but have plenty of good information that 
applies to other years as well. 


and , as long as i'm posting  ( end of car stuff ) , 

o equipment  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75 . 00 . 
 ( several objective lenses ) with and 
, negative for and 2 1 4 x 3 1 4 , misc .  . 
printing  . developing , , , 
constant , ground glass , , 
, , cheap o  .  .  .  .  . and  ( as they say ) 
much more ! 


o beautiful  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 00 . 
solid  ( no  . , with very interesting 
in the  . built  ( we think) around 
 . not or covered with a simple , 
piece of , but too big  ( 60 long , 37 , 24 
deep ) for our little house. 


will deliver items  ( ie , over 10 ) anywhere in the rochester 
area.  ( and will consider the others . ) . will deliver any 
of it on campus between now and  . 

call or e mail paul or mary 
(716)  ( just south of rochester , ny ) 


from  ( timothy j gardner ) 
subject re another question 
organization institute of technology 
lines 13 
nntp posting host 2 . mit . edu . 

in article writes 

the  ( for those who can get it straight , it is s h o as in super 
high output , not as in show ) has a 3 .  ( 24 valves ) v 6. 

having spoken to technical from many times , i can you that 
internally at this car is always called the show or just 
the show . as in long o sound. i still refer to it as the s h o , 
however , because it sounds better to me. i assume many and owners 
prefer using the  . 

tim 


from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re wife wants 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 25 

 ( keith p7625 ) writes 


help ! ! ! 
my wife has informed me that she wants a for her next car. 
we live in south  . , so we are definitely in the right are for one. 
my wife has mentioned the , but i think it is too small .  . 
i would like to wait for the new ( dec .  .  93 i think) .  . 
anyone have any opinions on any all in a reasonable price range .  . 

thanx 

the supreme got high marks in c d 's recent test , if 
you can get by the stupid body and stuff. the may 
be out of your range , but its a good choice. is there a new f car 
the is a nice car also .  .  .  . those immediately come to 
mind .  .  .  . 




the university of illinois mail 
neil ,  ( c)1981 ) 
quick to judge , quick to , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice 
and fear walk hand in hand 

from  ( jeff smith ) 
subject for 89  
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
lines 22 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 

, 
i am looking to slightly increase the of my 89 
 . i was wondering if anyone could suggest that were not 
too  . i thought that one of the easiest would be a new 
 . does anyone know what kind of increase that the would give 
me i think i would check with for the part. are there 
any other would make parts. 

are there any other small changes that can be easily made and wo n't 
up the car. things like new , new injection chip etc 
i would welcome any suggestions of small changes that would make a 
difference. 

i do n't really want to change the etc because i have heard that it 
would be much harder on the engine. 

e mail please and i will post a summary of all the replies .  . 
thanks for any help you may have to offer ! 


jeff smith 
university , 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject re station  ( was open letter to 
organization clearer than 
lines 30 
distribution na 
nntp posting host engr . washington . edu . 

in article  ( theodore chen ) writes 
but you 'll 
never me dead in a ! 

even a based on running gear 

hmmmm .  .  . not sure , since no such exists .  .  . i can tell you another 
though .  .  . you wo n't me dead in a or either , 
1000 or not .  .  . not even the fact that has one. just 
my taste , no rational reasons for it. 


p.s. i think the gets a 4 . 2 . v 8 next year .  . 

car just tested the with 5 and 6 speed manual .  . 
review except for  .  . is trying to the 
development costs for the , and since the is not selling well , 
they are it into the 100 series cars .  .  . neat trick , 
eh yeah , a 100 would n't be a bad idea as competition for the 
would it maybe they can use a 3 . 6 . 
version to avoid conflicts with the model .  .  . then strip off all the 
garbage .  . let the remain with the and fat 
to go fight with the  .  .  .  . maybe turn up the boost a bit to 
up to say or so .  .  . ) while keeping the 100 with mercedes 
style  . 

blah blah blah .  .  .  .  . 




from  ( roberto l. landrau ) 
subject re eagle 
nntp posting host org . 
organization research computer , corporation , , ma 
lines 

in rec . wrote 

dear netters 

i am looking to buy a used eagle  91 or  91  . 

i would be concerned about how the car was driven and how well it was 
 . i own a one , and i would never buy a 
unless i knew the owner and his her 
driving  . 

question is that the  91 was mentioned in the 
april consumer reports to a car to avoid ! 

i have been wondering about that myself. the  90 models and the 
 were identical  ( except for the  . 

in particular , the manual , 

yes. some owners had problems with the  . using 
in the solved the problem in most 
cases. the problem was not unique to the , however. it was 
common to all models .  . the and had the same , 
but i did n't see those listed in  . 

electrical system , 

i do n't know of any major in this area , except that the 
that was at the had a low current  . 

and were below par  ( in both  . 

the first models  ( those built before may 1989 ) were for 
 . some and owners had problems with 
 . those of us who insist on using manual every 
time the nuts are have never had a problem. 

a friend of mine 
a  90 and he has had 2 jobs  ( pads ) , 

i can refer you to someone who has gone through a set of in one 
day ! it all depends on how you drive .  . it seems that most owners have 
been getting between 40 on a set of  . 

one stuck , 

first time i hear about a problem with the train on these cars , 
other than belt failures .  . 

and some problem , something 
about into second gear .  . this does n't seem 
too bad if one beats on his car. 

if your friend beats on the car , then his is not a 
representative of the car 's reliability .  . 

my suggestion is instead of listening to the useless consumer reports , 
talk to several owners  ( the mailing list may be the best way to reach 
a few of them) .  . 

i am willing to suffer reliability for speed and looks .  . seems 
you have to pay big if you want all three. anyway can 
anyone please let me know how you like your , and any 
problems you may have had , and if the are worth it. 

if  ( humor impaired ) to 
no matter how much you pay , you wo n't get all three. examples 

reliability and looks .  . 
reliability h h h h h h  ( yeah , right ! ) speed and looks 



the opinions stated above are not necessarily my employer 's .  . 

l. 
the corporation , ma 

from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re where can i get a new york 
distribution na 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 20 

in article  ( tim nelson ) writes 
the older ny taxis were made by the car company , and i would love 
to have one. 
or , is the car company still in business 

went out of business in  . it 's hard to get 
old that are worth , since almost every one was 
a that was driven into the ground. if you can get a 
body in decent shape the should all be available somewhere 
used whatever parts were around. for instance , i had a 
straight and a and a in mine. 


the model that i am looking for is the  . 

actually , you want a special if you can find one. 

good luck. i'm sorry i let mine go .  .  .  . 



from  ( james yuhn ) 
subject re question  ( grinding ) 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 15 

in article ,  ( wharfie ) writes 
in article 
 ( james yuhn ) writes 
that 's not the you 're hearing , its the  . early have 
a lot of what is referred to as  gear   . you can generally 

i have one of the first built , and mine does n't make 
this  . 


, do you have to be so difficult mine was built in december 
'88 , 
which as pretty early , and it most certainly away. 

jim 

from  ( chun wan ) 
subject vs. r 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 17 
reply to  ( chun wan ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i'm to trade my r in with a  . my car has 11 , 
on it and is a  model .  . the the is selling is a  91 
model with 23 , on it. it has a t bar roof , a c , and an , 
which my does not have. they are asking for  . is that a fair 
deal the only thing i noticed about the is that the engine did not 
seem to have as much as my which has the same identical 
engine. i presume that the last owner did not really push the engine 
to it 's limits while i did that on mine , the 's 
engine is a little  . so , if i buy the and excercise it 
well , should that slight power problem go away any advice on this will be 
much appreciated. thanks. please reply via e mail if possible. 

a motion picture major at the institute of , ca 
santa and a foreign student from ,  . 

the mind is the forerunner of all states. 

from ( ) 
subject re used question ..... 
organization 
lines 29 

in article  ( ravi ) writes 

hi , 
i am dying to get the answer for the of a 
here in san jose , california (i moved to from al ) 

you moved from to california my sympathies .  . 

year model description price 
1991 black , looks good 10 . 
manual , ac , 
, sun roof 

1989 white same as 9 . 


make sure that they have all records .  . oil should be changed 
every 3 months. the mileage on the cars is fine. 

be sure that these have the 16 engine. the 8 is a 
in name only .  . 

did n't you have a line on a  89 for jump on it. 



or 
1991 1977 7 


organization central michigan university 
from john foster 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 

lines 38 

from  ( drew eckhardt ) 
in article  ( paul o'donnell ) 
in  ( yik lam ) writes 

, 

does anyone know how to take out the under the engine 
should i turn or counter i tried any kind 
of , 40 , etc , but i still failed ! 
do you think i can use a electric  ( drill change to a suitable 
bit ) to turn it out if i can succeed , can i re it not too 
, is it safe without oil leak 

you should n't need any power tools to undo it , an electric 
probably wo n't give you much extra anyway. will help 
things that are due to but this is unlikely for a 
plug .  . you should be able to undo it with a  . when it 
, it will probably become very loose and you will your 
on the of the car this is the price you must 
pay for doing you own work. 

no , that 's the price you pay for not knowing how to use a 
 . you want to pull the towards you , away from 
painful hard things. if you ca n't pull it 
because things are in the way , push it with an open hand. 

i find this method much better myself , too , although i do really 
hate it when the finally comes loose and the and my 
hand both come into my face. after coming to , which is 
about 15 later , i change my clothes  ( because by this time 
all the oil has on me ) , and ice my entire face and 
down about 20 to the pain. later in the day i then 
proceed with the engine oil .  . 

it 's just crazy how i try and change the oil on my cars in one 
i go through about 3 of and 2 of ice .  . 

john 

from f 
subject 1993 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
lines 26 


i am thinking about getting an  . 
in consumer reports it is high in many 
including highest in reliability index for cars .  . 
was second followed by  . 

a couple of things though 
1 ) in looking around i have yet to see anyone driving this 
car. i see lots of 's and 's .  . 
2 ) there is a special deal where i can get an infinity , fully 
loaded , at cost (i have check this out and the numbers match 
 . they are doing this because they are and update mid 1993 
version  ( includes dual air bags ) and want to get rid of their old 1993 's .  . 

i guess my question is is this a good deal 
also , can anyone give me any on 

thanks , 

hoffman 

p.s. 

the other cars that i have test driven and which are in the 
running are 
, , and 

from j .  . 
subject re ultimate 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 14 

in article writes 
before the became the it was called the 200  . 
this model did come in a , a very quick  . very rare also. 

mike 


yes , i saw a 200 on i in nj on monday .  . i thought 
stopped selling in the us after the  . this is exactly the 
type of i would like to own. i bet its price is 4 5 times my 
car  . 

ron  ( that 's a number 1 in , not letter l ) 
at t bell labs , nj usa 

from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 25 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( gary w. mahan ) says 

dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left fast but when i 
cars who are on the right , i slow down a bit. if i were to rely on the j of the other car , to recognize the speed , i would be the stupid one. 

just to my curiosity , why would this make you the stupid one it seems 
to me , everybody should be aware enough of what is going on. you do not need 

i agree more. that is how it should work. people should also always see too. 

i constantly behind me (i have one of those mirrors ) and two outside  . i actually spend just as much time checking my  ( cops you know) .  . 

i still get caught off guard every now and then. 


maybe i word it right the first time. what i was trying to say was that if you plan to blow by somebody at a very high speed and you assume you are safe because the guy sees you , you are stupid  ( of course , it depends on the  . i have had some very scary instances when i assumed this and i dont think all of the fault was the other guy  ( now if he was going 25 in a 55 a whole different story ) 

ok. i can agree to this , because , as we have both proved , what is ideally 
supposed to happen , is n't always .  . and even though i'm the one doing 
the passing , i do n't see where it makes you stupid , but i agree , that if you 
think you are safe , because the other guy is supposed to have been paying 
attention , then yes , you are just as as the  ( other(maybe ) 



from  ( mihir shah ) 
subject re by its 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution na 
organization washington university , st. 
lines 43 
nntp posting host 

in article  ( yung writes 

i am the person who started out this subject. 

to me , the question really is not about profit but the 
amount of money for the type of car. i 've with a 
new with the similar amount of money a 
asked for a  . ok , i know it 's a model , but i think 
i got a better car  ( though i have to my initial idea of 
why i am getting a new  . 

today , during a conversion with a friend , i learned he rejected 
a for a as it only him a little bit more 
than a  . i may be wrong , but a loaded beats a  . 

i agree that a fully loaded would come close in price to a 
lower end  . a fully loaded , on the other hand , would still 
be more expensive than even the most  . a fully loaded 
would run somewhere around 17 , 000 , while a fully loaded would be 
somewhere around the 22 , 000 23 , 000 range .  . a base  ( gl i believe ) might 
start around 15 , 000 .  . of course there is the which can push 30 , 000 
if you really try , but this is a totally different car than your mainstream 
 . your statement was not entirely faulty , just a little 
 . 


i ca n't see is of better value and that is why i was 
by its  . oh , we did not spend much time getting our deals 
being better informed has its  . 

well , that 's ok. at least you 're not about like some 
of the other netters are. you seem to have rationally picked out the car that 
is best for you. the is an design that is about to be replaced by 
the , so you probably got a good deal on one of the last ones. 


then again , i may be wrong. 







from  ( jeff j. miller ) 
subject re need info on 's 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization network systems corporation 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( len buzyna ) writes 
hi there , 
i 've recently been with the idea of an old  . the going 
rate seems to be about for cars with anywhere from 40 mi .  . 
my question is this what should i expect at this price should i expect to 
have extensive body work done what about engine should i 
likewise expect to have both virtually replaced along those lines , 
does anyone have the names addresses of any mail order parts 
for everything from engine to body parts i'm completely new 
to the area of cars , and as i do n't actually do any work with 
cars , most of the work would have to be professionally done what sould 
i expect the cost of a to a free , mechanically 
sound automobile 
thanks in advance , 

 .  .  . 


true will be able to give you a better answer then this 
but i 'll dump my  . i 've wanted to own a for about 10 years 
now came close once but i ended up buying a instead  ( biggest mistake 
of my life ! ) 

anyway , for you should be able to get a nice car but your also set 
in the price range to get taken by a nice that is a pile of shit. 
the most common total failure for the car would be frame between the 
engine and  . also look for together 
here. oh yeah , the price range you are talking about must be the 4 
a 6  ( if you could find one) would be more  . 

parts for the engine are pretty easy to come by  ( for an old car ) and you 
can even crude in the jc catalog if you have too. 

the machine itself is pretty simple  ( they use the spare for 
instead of a chris sake ! ) so getting it fixed by a good 
bug mechanic would be easy .  . since it is mid engine you may spend 
more on labor for any work. 


jeff miller network systems corporation 
group avenue north 
mn  ( 612)424 ) 


from  ( ken r. ) 
subject re requested on  66 
nntp posting host london . com . 
organization technology , inc. , , il 
lines 28 

in article  ( jeff perry ) writes 
i have found a for the front end of an early 
 . moving the a and 
of a between the a and ball  . apparently , 
did a , but left out the  . 

i would be interested in , pro or con , on such a  . 

i'm no head , but do n't the early ones have a simple 
 ( that is , with no a arm ) just a 
going down to a lower control  ( single not an a arm ) , with a 
it in the forward direction 

anyway , simple like this can be lowered just by using 
, cutting the , the spring or 
the below the  . in each of these cases , the geometry 
will suffer because the lower control will not be at the 
intended angle .  . a placed between control and the bottom 
of the  ( roughly the of the reduction ) will 
the geometry .  . imho , the that includes the 
is the only way to go .  .  .  . 

ken 

ken r. an is a guy 
technology , inc. , chicago that has never had 
 ( 708 ) much experience 


from  ( bernie lofaso ) 
subject re fast idle on 88 
nntp posting host 
organization applied research labs , university of texas at austin 
lines 22 

 ( les bartel ) writes 

it did it again. this morning , my 88 was at 10 , 000  . 
ok , so i exaggerated a little , but it was very fast .  . it has a 2 
engine in it , and no of the would 
cause the idle to drop back to normal (i do n't think the is  . 
what can i do to fix this problem this has been a problem from time to 
time , but has itself out until now. i do n't have a , 
but by by the sound of the engine , it is about twice as fast 
as it should be. this is down from what it was at when i up 
at a stop light. 

sometimes a bad pull off will cause a car to fast idle .  . the 
pull off , which is , provides a necessary pull in non cold 
conditions to get the idle off the the fast idle  . the 
fast idle on your and see if you can it to produce a 
normal idle .  . if so , the and test it. if you ca n't apply 
 ( via a good piece of hose ) with your mouth that will 
cause the to retract , then it 's bad and should be replaced .  . 


applied research labs 

from  ( grayson walker ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
keywords to 
organization a . s . i .  . , island , florida 
distribution usa 
lines 9 

ah , yes , the big down in the  . the solution is simple. sort of 
like the advice my always gave never your ear with anything 
except your  . 

if you have pieces of , con , heads or , just reach into 
the through the hole in the block that was associated with the creation 
of those large bits and pieces .  . anything you ca n't remove with one hand 
through the hole in the block may safely be left in place. 


from  ( jason chen ) 
subject re ad said best 
reply to 
organization bell communications research 
lines 1 
nntp posting host wind . com . 

i guess that makes the most generic car in the us. 

from  ( boyd johnson ) 
subject re crash test , and 
organization corporation 
distribution usa 
lines 23 

i wrote 
is there a resource available to the consumer comparing all of the makes 
and models of , , , etc. for survivability in a 
crash of different 
... 
also , i 've found very little objective data comparing different 
for handling , pick up , , expected , etc. 
i recall years ago consumer reports 's guide was much more 
in those aspects than it is now. 

thanks to a reply from someone i looked a little further and found what 
i was looking for. the april magazine has most of the above things. 
despite recent articles here the looked pretty good for 
relative comparison purposes. unfortunately the crash test comparisons 
did n't include half of the cars i'm comparing .  . 
anybody know how  93 and in 
an accident 



boyd johnson ! com . ! johnson san diego , california 
at best and only to groups. 
my opinions certainly do n't match those of my employer .  . 

from  ( bhaskar manda ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 16 

 ( gary w. mahan ) writes 
why should a good be at the only thing i fear 
going at 130 are drivers , who switch to the left without using 
either view or  . doing 130 to 150 ai n't a rush 
for me , but it 's fun and i get where i want to go much  . 

in defense of the drivers , who are in the right  . here in the states , people simply do not expect when they are driving to be at a speed of 50  . i do n't think this is because they are stupid  ( of course , there are exceptions ) , they are just programmed because of the limit .  . do you  ( in the states ) when you look in the view always future positions of cars based on a 50 speed  . 
dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left fast but when i 
cars who are on the right , i slow down a bit. if i were to rely on the judgement of the other car , to recognize the speed , i would be the stupid one. 
btw , if no one else is around , then go for it ! . 

keep up the good work guys .  . 
the cops need to be with someone so that lesser 
mortals like us can be left alone. 



from r . 
subject  
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 11 

consumer reports once wrote about the s 10 that it shook and 
like a tired . there is one that is 
the back  . i believe its because the whole assembly 
and are not solid .  . anyway , has anyone had the same problem , and have 
you found any 

martin 
at t 
! ! 
 ( 215)391 ) 


from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re owners 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 45 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( craig boyle ) writes 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( darren gibbons ) writes 
i'm looking for information on cars .  . now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two , 
with roll over , hard top , and really looking .  . my 
friend has one sitting in his in really nice condition , 
body wise , but he has up on him , so it has n't run 
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars the engine 
looks really to work on , but it is in fine shape and 
i am quite interested in it. 
thanks ! 



this would be the , would it not sold through in the mid  70 's as the price leader 

sounds a lot more like an to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same 
as the , rather than the bigger but i could easily 
be wrong. i think the later 's were sold here as  . 

craig 

i think the is the european name for the  . i'm pretty sure 
well the european and us have entirely different bodies .  . there is 
little or no chance that they are the same. the went through several 
generations as the version of the and was ok in its time. 

that the only 's sold here were are the  . i think the 

not true. the has been in and out of the us market over the years. 
the  ( old kadett ) is only the latest version. 

craig 
is just an early '70s to mid '70s  . 

different cars .  . one looks like a sports car , the other is a  . 


the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 



from  ( thomas spencer ) 
subject are there any groups 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
distribution na 
lines 6 



are there any groups out there especially ones that deal with 


tom 

from james edward 
subject re super automobile  ( sighting(s ) ! ! ! ! ! together ! 
x tue , 20 apr 93 00 07 01 gmt 
organization long beach inc. 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 14 

in article 
graham e. thomas , 
writes , this automobile 
 . 

i can top that one. friday afternoon 4 16 93 i 
look out my in long beach ca .  . what do i 
see but the new  . i looks like a mix 
between the (sp ) and the batman 
car. it seems had their 
at the place  . car. 


j . b .  . 

from  ( theodore chen ) 
subject re ultimate 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 7 

in article  ( eliot ) writes 
the price of parts is a different story though .  .  .  . 

you can say that again. 
how does 23 for a new sound 



from  ( jim burrill ) 
subject re  
distribution usa 
organization river country , the , , , , , priest .  . 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 8 . 
lines 19 

r . martin . wrote 
consumer reports once wrote about the s 10 that it shook and 
like a tired . there is one that is 
the back  . i believe its because the whole assembly 
and are not solid .  . anyway , has anyone had the same problem , and have 
you found any 


i can relate to this. i 've tried everything on my 86 , every point , 
, etc. on the two cheap hinges on the seems to quiet it 
down for a time , until the works out of the hinges .  .  ( hinge appear 
to be made out of 16 nails ! ) 

another seems to get worse with age , and that is a in the 
in 4th gear .  . my has on it. i bought it new , treated 
it very easily , no fast off road stuff. ca n't build like they used 
to look nice , until you look at the price .  . 

jim 

from  ( charles parr ) 
subject options list 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization the university of , 
lines 16 

the idea here is to list pointless options .  . you know , stuff you 
get on a car that has no earthly use 


1 ) power 



add as you wish .  .  .  . 

regards , charles 

within the of the last few weeks i have heard elements of 
separate threads which , in that they have been in time , 
together to form a new within my and 
 . unknown net . person . 

from  ( dave duff ) 
subject re did us drive on the left 
article i.d. 
organization division 
lines 4 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

left hand wheel was not standard until the 20 's in the 
us. driving on the right has been standard since standards came into being. 
interestingly , has just begun building right hand drive cars again 
for to japan .  . 

from arbor . mi . us .  ( david hwang ) 
subject re and 
organization d . j .  . services 
lines 21 

in article  ( wharfie ) writes 
in article  ( chris silvester ) writes 

, which i have heard is somehow slightly than the  . 

has an automatic , it 's  . 

could be due to the end ratio also. 

usually have different ends than , from 
my limited experience anyways .  . 

david 





david w. , m . d .  . university of michigan medical school 
street , telephone 
ann arbor , michigan internet arbor . mi . us . 

from  ( mark maynard ) 
subject re owners 
nntp posting host com . 
organization computer corporation , , tx .  . , usa 
distribution rec . 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 22 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( darren gibbons ) writes 

i'm looking for information on cars .  . now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two , 
with roll over , hard top , and really looking .  . 


this would be the , would it not sold through in the mid  70 's as the price leader 



sounds more like an  . neat cars , fun to drive .  . sold through 
from through  ( if i remember  . i believe it 
was in  72 that there were some engine made such that parts 
were not interchangeable with the older models .  . parts are thus much 
harder to come by for the later models .  . parts in general are not 
too difficult to find .  . at one time jc carried some stuff 
including a brand new  ( not remfg ) long block. either a or a 
 ( hmm that looks hosed ) will be my next project .  . 

mark 

from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 34 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( gary w. mahan ) says 

why should a good be at the only thing i fear 
going at 130 are drivers , who switch to the left without using 
either view or  . doing 130 to 150 ai n't a rush 
for me , but it 's fun and i get where i want to go much  . 

in defense of the drivers , who are in the right  . here in the states , people simply do not expect when they are driving to be at a speed of 50  . i do n't think this is because they are stupid  ( of course , there are exceptions ) , they are just programmed because of the limit .  . do you  ( in the states ) when you look in the view always future positions of cars based on a 50 speed  . 
dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left fast but when i 
cars who are on the right , i slow down a bit. if i were to rely on the judgement of the other car , to recognize the speed , i would be the stupid one. 

just to my curiosity , why would this make you the stupid one it seems 
to me , everybody should be aware enough of what is going on. you do not need 
to the future position. you need to look at your a little 
more. if you around , you will be able to tell how much than you 
the car is going .  . maybe not precisely , but well enough to know if you should 
let him around before you try to pass .  . i know what you are talking about , 
about the other being , because i myself have been 
by drivers by at around 90 when i'm 55 65 .  . the problem , 
though , as i saw it , was not their fault for around me , but my fault 
for not paying the attention to my task at hand that i should have been. 
enough , since the 2nd  ( time(happened in around 4  . when i 'd had my 
for around 6 mo ) , i have n't been  . and . i 've been passed by 
cars doing roughly twice the speed of my car. another odd is the 
fact that this only seems to happen on long trips .  .  . and . if i drive along with 
them , it does n't happen at all ) even on the long trips ! )  ( adrenaline 
will do that to you .  .  . i . 've had bad cop experiences with speeding , so anything 
over the limit is for me .  .  . scared . i 'll get caught ) maybe 
they should raise the limit , so we can pay better attention .  .  .  .  .  . 

just curious , and my  . 



from  ( roy matthew thigpen ) 
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000 
organization university of virginia 
lines 7 


your best bet is the dodge with the 24 3 . 4 .  . 
it gets , and has a hell of a lot of room , great , and 
, with four wheel breaks .  . the cars won automobile 

automobile of the year award , and are quiet impressive. 


from  ( doug schneyman ) 
subject my two cars  ( '87 ) and dodge 600  ( '87 ) 
news software vax vms 1.4 
keywords dodge 
organization ask computer systems , product division 
lines 29 

as you can see , i have two 1987 cars , both worth about 3000 each .  . 
the problem is that costs on these two cars is 
running about per year and 3000 per year .  . 

what am i doing wrong 

within the last two months , the follows costs have occured 

dodge 600  ( dodge 's attempt at the american german car ! ) 

1 , 000 replace head 
new 

 ( chevy 's attempt at a japan import ! ) 

tune up , oil change , , middle , misc .  . 

note also that the  ( 1987 ) has only 70 ! 
does anyone out there have a with enough power 
to get up even a small hill without knocking is there 
something wrong with my car , i even use 93 gas ! 
(i have consider going to 110 if i can find it ! ) 

anyway , what are the best items to do it yourself , 
and what equipment is needed 

thanks , 
doug  ( 2 car doug from wayne , nj ) 


from w . 
subject on off road il .  . 
organization at t 
distribution 
keywords april 
lines 





attention all four wheel off road 

on off road sunday , april 
illinois 



the event 

the mud , a chicago land four wheel drive club , is 
an on off road sunday april  . 

for those who ask what is an on off road , well .  .  .  . 

an on off road consists of the following 

1. an on the road where participants are given a set of 
and clues guiding around the 
area. the object is to a course 
based on a set of and clues .  . participants will 
be given a set of questions to the course which 
they must answer along the way. points are awarded for the 
number of correct answers given. will ultimately 
lead to an off road area where a four wheel drive course is 
set up. at various in the on road course , check points 
will be set up where participants will be asked other questions 
or requested to perform some activity (e . g .  . roll , , 
free , etc . ) . for additional points. 

2. an optional off road , four wheel drive course where participants 
will off road , mud and or hill  . 
points are awarded for successfully off road obstacles 
without getting stuck .  . if you should get stuck  ( which is half 
the fun anyway ) , there will be assistance to get your 
so you can try it again. the off road course will 
divided up based on size , so stock as well as modified 
can run the course. 

at the end of the , will be awarded to top 
participants .  . door and will also be given out. 
food and also available at the conclusion .  . 

this is an organized activity sponsored by the mud 
so safety and fun is our foremost concern. all must be 
street legal and have solid points for the off road section 
of the course we do n't want to have to separate someone 's bumper 
from their ) . 

the particulars 

begins at instant , road , il .  . 
 ( 815)436 )  ( see map below) 
is between 9 and 10 30 a . m .  . first out at 10 00 a . m .  . 
date is sunday april , rain or 
there is an entry fee of 10 per  . 
you must have a co  ( passengers allowed ) 
a valid drivers license is required 
suggested equipment 
radio 

strap and 
clip board and 
no during 
for more information contact 
 ( 815)727 ) 
tom  ( 815)485 ) 
norm jr.  ( 815)741 ) 
brian  ( 708)979 ) 



instant 

1 . 1.2 mi north 







farm 
 . 3 mi .  . 




v 






from  ( michael t chaffee ) 
subject re 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 33 

 ( carolinafan@uiuc ) writes 

 ( tim shoppa ) writes 

i thought that the v 10 was originally designed for a  ( not necessarily 
a ! ) and then just sort of dropped into the 's frame because 
it fit and was available. a friend of mine and i saw  ( and heard ) a , 
and my friend 's first response was that it like a ! it 
fine to me , but then again , i do n't like the that most modern 
sports car make. btw , the we saw was moving at about , 
just like all of the other cars on the 10 heading east out of la 
on a friday afternoon. looked really nice , though. 

actually , i was under the impression that the v 10 in the was 
not the v 10 that dodge was developing for its new  . i have always 
thought it was the system and not the engine that produced the 
of a car .  .  .  . 

well , yes , the is where the majority of the comes out , but the 
basics  ( tone , firing cadence , etc . ) . are determined by the engine  . 
in the case of the , yes , we are discussing a huge 90  . 
engine , which will sound somewhat like a  . and my understanding , btw , is 
that that v 10 engine was designed originally with the intention of being ad 
for either the or the  . and from what i 've heard  ( no first 
hand knowledge ( ) it 's doing a pretty good job at both. 

and the best sound in the world is now and will always be a 60 degree 
designed v 12. period. 

michael t. 
email 

 . sig . under construction. excuse 

from  ( curtis eng ) 
subject selling a car through a car 
organization motorola , data division seattle , 
distribution na 
lines 16 

anybody got any good bad experience with selling their car through one of 
those car i'm selling a 1991 dodge stealth r t and i was 
by this company called the group based out of illinois .  . 

they said they have 7 10 in my area interested in my car or they would n't 
be talking to me. they talked to me for a good 20 asking everything 
about my car and said they could sell it no problem. they guaranteed that if 
they did n't sell my car in 75 days , i would get my money back ( 389 ) and since 
i charged it , i'm protected by federal law which states that if i'm not satisfied , 
i would get a  ( which is  . they federal expressed all the paperwork 
to me which had a contract stating their policy about the 75 days and such. 

i called up the in illinois and they do not have a file on them which is 
good news. so they definitely are a legitimate company but so far , it 's been 
over week and i have gotten nothing. so how effective are these types of 
anybody care to share their experiences 

from  ( robert william fusi ) 
subject re too fast 
organization university 
lines 12 

in article ,  ( andrew klossner ) 



can i ask. have any of you been at the speed of 130 it 's a 
rush .  . 

so is cocaine .  . what 's your point 

andrew 
do n't know about the cocaine , but .  .  .  .  . 


from  ( lawrence b. keys ) 
subject re us made m b 
article i.d. 
organization national institute of standards technology 
lines 47 

in article writes 
mercedes yesterday its plans to begin building utility 
in the us by 1997. they are targeted at the grand 
et al. and will sell for less than 30 , 000 .  . 

did anyone see a picture is it the g  ( gelaendewagen ) currently 


there is a picture in the may 1993 edition of european car  ( although , 
it may not be on the shelf  . 

some things that the article says 

has front wheel drive  ( first front drive 
for mercedes since the beginning of wwii ) 

3 . 
7 
they claim that the price will be about the same as a 
or  ( dm 50 , 000 ) 

looking at the picture  ( slightly disguised ) it looks like the 
, to me. 

available in europe  ( and in the us by grey market ) or is it an entirely new 
any details would be appreciated. 

dick 
applied research , penn state 

. 

larry 







1990 2.0 


forever ! 
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates 
that you probably would n't understand anyway ! 


from state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 22 


in article 
s . edu .  ( andrew j. huang ) writes 
in article state . edu . 
s . ohio . state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) writes 
i take the of the whatever and connect one 
to each  . then , insert my fingers in each of the 
spark plug  . no guys ! both hands must be used ! 

i have just a couple of questions about this  . 

first , what firing order should i use do i start with my pointer 
finger or my left hand or right 

place your hands flat on a table , and the firing order from left to 
right. 

and secondly , i have a and there are two 
for. any suggestions 

well , you have friends do n't you 
12 might be more than one person can take .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( les bartel ) 
subject re air 
reply to 
organization corporation 
lines 30 

in article andrew brandt writes 
i looked into getting a c on my 1987  . 
the is plus , is like 5 1 2 hours on 
top of that. this is a of change .  . 

does anyone know any place that does a c 
 ( not with a a c , but some third party  . 

i cannot seem to find anyone who can put a third party a c in a 
 . i am in no , so i would prefer some place nearby , but 
any references would be  . 

, andy 

sorry i ca n't help you with your question , but i do have a comment to 
make concerning a c units. i have a king or 
 ( forget which ) on my , and am quite unhappy with 
it. the fan is , and does n't put out much air. i will never have 
an a c in any of my again. i just ca n't 
trust the quality and after this experience. 




i'm going to live forever 
corporation ... or die trying 
division 

or 
 ( 205 ) 

from  ( steve dunham ) 
subject re car buying story , was christ , another service  .  .  . 
lines 18 
organization the university of utah 
distribution usa 


while not exactly a service incident , i had a similar experience recently 
when i bought a new  . 

i had picked out the i wanted and after a little we 
agreed on a price .  . i wrote them a check for the down plus tax 
and license and told them i 'd be back that evening to pick up the  . 
when i returned , i had to wait about an hour before the guy could 
get to me. when i finally got in there , everything went until he 
started adding up the numbers. he then discovered that they had 
the tax license by about 150 .  . 

this seems to be a popular with  . last month my brother bought 
a new 90 series from a local  . they came back with the 
final price , tax and all , and he added it up for himself. there happened to 
be an extra on under the tax part. he pointed out their error 
and asked them to re think their addition .  . they came back with the right 
price the next time. 

from  ( tom mackey ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization development 
lines 33 

in article  ( robert neilson ) writes 
sorry for the 0 content , but ... 

that is why low citizens should have the power to protect themselves 
and their property using force if necessary anywhere a threat is 
imminent .  . 

steve 

you do have the power steve .  . you can do it. why do n't you why do n't you 
go shoot some kids who are onto cars make sure you do a good 
job though do n't miss  cause like they have big and take it from 
me those kids are mean. 

that is absolutely correct. they have a of that runs much 
deeper and stronger than anything i ever experienced even during the 
of the 60 's racial  . i am absolutely convinced that there are 
kids out there today that have no concept of right and wrong , but have the 
human intelligence which is turning them into the greatest that 
have ever walked the earth. they will unless the rest of humanity 
decides that it is in their best interest to stand up against these 
humans , and for individuals to start taking some responsibility for their 
own protection. in a state in which the individuals turn to the authorities 
and police for protection , the police and government is soon of 
the very humans that they originally sought protection from. 

gee , i guess you my hot  . i 'd better go cool off somewhere. 



tom  ( 206 ) 
computer services  .  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! 
m s 20 , p.o. box , seattle , 

from  ( kumaravel natarajan ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , group 
distribution usa 
lines 21 

 ( roy matthew thigpen ) writes 

writes 

in a previous article ,  ( adam m. gandler ) says 


i heard is planning to design or is in the process 
of a line based on the  . 
if these were as thought out as the full and 
, i see no reason why they could not give 
the and even the a serious challenge. 

oh ! ! ! we now get to see sold through  .  .  .  .  . 
! 
why is it this a hole insist on remarks like this. i really am growing 
tired of this s  . 

do you have a kill file for your newsreader i put the name 
in my kill file and that gives me about 10 15 less articles per day that 
i have to through. 

from  ( stephen f. nicholas ) 
subject re dodge experiences 
organization state university 
distribution usa 
lines 17 

edu .  ( darren r daubenspeck ) writes 


they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next 
year with all new models .  . 


junk they 've made the c d lists for years due to their excellent handling and 
 . they have been around since about , oh , 85 or 86 , so they 're not 
the on the lot , and mileage is about five to eight under the class 
leader. you can get into a 3 . 0 . l v 6  ( 141 hp ) for 10  ( the i 4 
a bit more ) , and a for 14  . 


as an ex  . of 3000 cars , they were the most trouble free of 
all models .  . i bought one for my wife .  . 


from  ( ron gaskins ) 
subject re concepts of all tim 
originator 
keywords switch  ( repost ) 
organization corp .  . 
lines 22 


in article ,  ( lasse , t , 1129 ) writes 
in article , () writes 
imho , the thing we ever did in copying the japanese was moving the 
switch from the to the controlling the turn signal cruise 

the federal government has mandated that all cars by model year 
 return to the mounted switch .  . 

a study by the national traffic safety  ( nhtsa ) has 
found that an unacceptable percentage of after were the 
direct result of drivers getting their left foot stuck in the 
wheel ) 


ron 
electronic systems 
, , in 

ron 
electronic systems 
, , in 

from state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) 
subject re top 10 reasons why i love  ( not for the humor impaired ) 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution na 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 28 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 

in article  ( andrew j. huang ) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) writes 
in article  ( tom haapanen ) writes 
writes 
here are another ten reasons why we should all love 

or the of real men who would never bother to read the 
magazine but are more than to criticize it. 


but that 's the point. we do read it , or at least we did. then we 
found that their were useless and uninformed .  . then we 
write lists .  . the flame war is so easy to start because they are so 
wrong and claim to be so right and so  . 

andy 



ok if you are so right , name a few good examples that were brought up. 


john 

john 
to you , the was just 
something that happened to other people , 
was n't it the black 

from  ( fred w. bach ) 
subject re air without 
organization tri university 
lines 75 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host ca . 
keywords , r 12 , , , 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( chris behanna ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 
in article 
 ( chris behanna ) writes 
... 
several already have come up with several for 
 . you do n't hear about them because the air 
society 
 ( macs ) , that is , the people who stand to in that to 1000 per 
per automobile , have mounted an organized campaign to 
those 
out of existence if not ban them  ( on very 
shaky 
technical grounds , at best , on outright lies at  . 
... 

now , i'm not saying you 're wrong because i know that the r 12 
exist , but this sounds a lot like the that the oil 
keep us all from getting .  . 

it sounds crazy , but it 's true. one of the best r 12 , 
12 , is currently a product .  . unfortunately , the 
on air is comprised almost exclusively of members .  . 
such being the case , no papers about any alternative other than 
r have been accepted for review publication .  . 

yo , john you want to provide some more details or should i just 
repost your repost 

later , 

chris 114 h d wide 's red 
baby 
disclaimer now why would 1991 11 needs a name 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild dogs .  . 


we here are very interested in info on  ( in fact i 
think we really need all the info on this we can  . 

i would really appreciate technical , supply , and hardware 
details. 

also , is a useful in the of 
certain  . any info on the  


i am currently working with the local who are making sure 
we are with the  . the trouble with is 
that they only tell you what you are no longer to do , not what 
you should do instead. 

i think the cause of the new is the montreal 
which has a definite out  .  ( of course the cause of 
the montreal was all the research done on the causes of the 
problem . ) . 

someone asked earlier about why the governments were working so fast 
to ban the  ( cfc ) and not and other 
gas producing  . the effect  ( produced by 
like and methane ) and the hole problem 
 ( produced by long lived , containing molecules ) are not the same 
thing. it is a lot easier to do something about not using the 's 
 ( chloro fluorocarbons ) than it is to stop producing and which 
are natural of and of living  ( animal )  . 
more trees and not destroying so many existing trees would help 
the gas problem , but would do nothing for the problem. 

fred w. , group internet 
 ( tri university facility ) voice 
, campus fax 
university of british , vancouver , b.c. , canada 

these are my opinions , which should only make you read , think , and question. 
they do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or fellow workers .  . 

from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re in automatic transmissions 
organization university of 
lines 5 

i just wanted to know 

to in an , you keep the gear in n gas it then stick the 
gear in d .  .  .  . i 've never tried this but am sure it works but does this 
up the we 're having a bit of a debate about it here .  .  .  . 

from 
subject re necessity of cleaning by 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 1 . 
organization company , st. , 
lines 29 

in article , ( jim grey ) writes 
in article r . writes 

in your experience , how true is it that a cleaning 
will do much more good than just using gas .  . while i 

a cleaning at the is probably little more than 
them your gas , dumping in a bottle of , 
and sending you on your way 59 poorer .  . go to and buy the 
yourself for 1 . 29 .  . 

this should not be the case if they are at all  . 
cleaning is done properly with a can of which is 
up to the system under high pressure .  . the car is actually run on 
the during the cleaning process. the equipment to properly do this is 
, and generally not something the average home mechanic has .  . the 
itself is not very expensive ( 5 8 ) and you could probably make up a to 
fit your system and do it yourself , but i did n't tell you that .  .  .  . ) 

not many in are worth wasting your money on. there has been a 
discussion of these products on here from time to time , and 
 ( not pro with techron ) is generally regarded as the best. it is , however , 
a bit more than 1 . 29 . a bottle .  . imho , it will not for proper 
cleaning if they are really up. you 'll have to decide if the 
59 price is a better deal than spending your time and or buying equipment to 
do it. 

scott 1 the group of company 
packet 

from  ( dennis kennedy ) 
subject  72 chevelle 
organization university of 
lines 11 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cc 25 . edu . 

i do n't want to sell this car , but i need money for college. 
chevelle super 
402 , four speed , 12 
numbers match 
110 , 000 original 
no 
looks and runs excellent 
or best offer .  . 
call at  ( 503)343 ) 
or email 


from kurt 
subject may build car 
organization r d 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cs . com . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x fri , 16 apr 93 13 54 11 gmt 

this appeared today in the 

the japan economic journal reported plans to build a car 
in the us for sale in japan .  . bruce , of 
communications , yesterday confirmed that president and jack smith 
had a meeting recently with , president of  . 
this meeting the two discussed business opportunities to increase 
to japan , including further component sales as well as 
sales , 
parts sales , the two agreed to pursue an 
arrangement whereby would build a , right hand drive 
in the us for sale by in japan .  . a working group has been 
formed to model , exact and other details. 

from  ( cs173sbw ) 
subject re how is doing 
lines 22 
nntp posting host edu . 



in article tu . de . tu . de .  ( christian huebner ) writes 
i can remember reading a track competition in some car magazine , which 
featured the , the and the  . the result was about 
the same i would have expected the was not only the of 
the three , but also dropped out during it 's test because 
of  . for a it showed ridiculous  . 

 .  .  . i find this hard to believe. about the same as 
the red head , but it has hell lot more horse power. perhaps it 's 
due to pre well , to me , it still got the most 
among all the sports cars i have seen. 

bye .  .  .  . 

chris tu . de . 

best ever built ! 
personally , i do n't like cars that rely on power. i guess everyone 
has their favorite car. 


from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re electronic  ( was used question ..... ) 
organization corporation 
lines 21 

in article  ( daniel l. lovall ) writes 

it should n't be that hard if you know much about digital  . if the 
counter is made with standard , all you should need to do is find 
the  ( chip(s ) used for counting , figure out what mileage you want to put in , 
and it but the directly to low high  ( you 'd also have 
to know what the conventions are for low and  . it might be a little more 
involved than this , but it should n't be beyond someone with a or bs  . 
all the display does is convert what the counter say into using 
a translation table in  . 


nobody is using discrete ic 's to do these functions anymore if at 
all. i doubt any of the had any to start with. 
 .  .  . much . less  . 

i can almost that it 'll a attempt to figure out 
how does it without breaking anything and invalidating any 
on the car. if you 're lucky , you 'd still be able to 
start the car. 


from  ( john r. daker ) 
subject re options that would be great to have .  .  .  . 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 26 
reply to  ( john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( charles parr ) says 


a list of options that would be useful. they can be existing 
options on a car , or things you 'd like to have .  .  .  . 

1 ) , great little  . lets you keep rough track of 
mileage , makes a good second for your gas  .  .  . 

2 ) full size spare 

3) built in and power systems for  . 

4 ) a fitting that allows you to generate current with 
the engine running , and plug in the , engine 
and  . 

feel free to add on .  .  .  . 

5 ) power 


the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal 

from  ( steve phillips ) 
subject re super automobile  ( sighting(s ) ! ! ! ! ! together ! 
organization 
x newsreader tin 1 . 1 . 3 . 
lines 8 

give out the address , i 'll drive by and take a look myself , then post. 



stephen 
response center 
,  . 
home of the ! 

from  ( doug zolmer ) 
subject re 80 oil change 
nntp posting host 
reply to  ( doug zolmer ) 
organization bell northern research ltd .  . 
distribution na 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( donald wan ) writes 
my friend brought a recently. i had it for times and i 
think its a great car , esp on  . however when she took it to a local 
for a oil change , the bill came out to be about 80 dollars .  . the 
told us it is because to change the oil filter on a it is necessary to 
a metal cover under the engine and that took an hour of  . 
at first , we think we are being ripped off so she phone to a in 
but found out the they are charging roughly the same price .  . so is there any 
owner out there that has the same problem and if the oil change story is 
true , then the engineer of looks pretty to me. by the way , the car 
looks great .  . 


for car service are very expensive in compared to other 
parts of ontario .  . for example , there are places in ottawa that still charge 
only 40 hour .  . i 've seen a couple of places charging 60 hour .  . the 
i 've heard in is 70 hour .  . 

 . 



doug internet disclaimer my opinions only 
bell northern research ltd .  . ottawa , ontario , canada conform ! 

from 
subject needs info on car shows 
reply to 
organization university of south australia 
lines 54 



hi from australia , 

i am a car in australia .  . 

i am particularly interested in american cars of the 
1960s and  . all makes , , ,  . 

i will be in the usa for 6 weeks from may 2nd to june 14 1993 .  . 

chicago sun may 2 thursday may 6 
denver friday may 7 sunday may 9 
austin , texas monday may 10 friday may 21 
city friday may 21 monday may 24 
, california tuesday may 25 thursday may 27 
, friday may 28 sunday may 30 
grand , monday may 31 tuesday june 1 
, san diego and june 3 sunday june 6 june 
south , cal sunday june 6 june 9 
thursday june 10 
san thursday june 10 sunday june 13 


i was wondering if anyone could send me any information of 
car shows , , , model car shows etc. during this period. 
can anybody tell me when the meet is on this year 

also , any places to visit  . car , private collections , 
your collection etc. any bit of information is ! 

i am also interested in finding some model cars  ( scale  . 
i am in cars .  . of particular interest is 



rebel machine 
and others 

if you have any , , etc and are interested in selling them , 
tell me , i will be interested .  . 

i can also send bring you models of australian high cars if 
you are interested .  . 


please reply by email to 


thanks , 

john 



from 
subject 1989 for sale 
article i.d. 
organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
lines 12 

my friend , david gordon wants to sell his 1989  . some of the details of 
e car are as follows 

five speed 
a c , am stereo 
ps 

excellent condition 

asking 00 .  . 

please call him at  ( 708 )  . 

from  ( chris behanna ) 
subject re car ! ! ! help 
article i.d. research . 1993apr6 . 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 32 

in article  ( ollie  north  chaine ) writes 

help ! my car has been cancelled for the second time in a row ! 
i still have n't gotten in touch with my from because she 's 
out for the week but my mom said that i got a call saying that my 
was going to be cancelled because of an accident ( not even a bender ) 
that was never declared or anything. besides the fact that i have no idea how they found out about this , the only 
other thing that could bug them is that i have 1 but i told them 
about it and they said that it was n't a problem. 
if i go to another , i know i will end up paying more  ( b c i already 
around for this one) and i ca n't afford to pay for the 
especially since i still have n't gotten the 3000 the two 
are supposed to me. i just got a new and ca n't afford the 
car and the , but i bought the car having gotten a quote 
from state farm which they later went back on. 
please help me ! what legal rights do i have can i make state farm who originally 
gave me the quote give me that rate  ( they made a mistake after i signed all 
the papers , i did not give any false evidence ) how can i get my money back 
for the car if i ca n't pay for the i'm ! ! ! 


i just went through this mess in new jersey  ( i'm still waiting for a 
as well ) , namely , that the original company made a mistake and left me 
in the  . my recourse was through nj 's dept. office of consumer 
protection. you should have a similar office in your state. make use of it. 

good luck , 

chris 114 h d wide 's red 
baby 
disclaimer now why would 1991 11 pending 
agree with any of this anyway i was raised by a pack of wild dogs .  . 

from  ( christ ward ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 49 

writes 

in article 
 ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 

 ( tyson f nuss ) writes 

from article , by  ( john r. daker ) 


fake and  . 
any gold trim .  . 

these , i will agree , are , right along with the fake 
spare it 's sad watching those little old 
try to load their into the with that huge 
in the way. 
most fake top on a , with 
all the door trim still not anyone . 
of course , there was that i once saw .  .  .  . 

i have seen a supreme  ( gm10 ) with a roof , 
a  . shoot the owners , now , before it 's too late. 

it gets better. i 've seen them on a 4 door , s 10 
, and even a van .  . a van w a fake 
top is not something you want to see just after eating ! 


and better yet .  . there . 's a in town with wire , 
roof , job and a spare  ( showing the wire 
wheel within , of course) .  .  . i'm . scared to look on the inside and have 
only seen it down the road .  .  . and . i too was glad i had n't just  . 





bob luck must have been a wonderful girl 
she 's never been a friend of mine ! 
the project 
the lives ! 



chris t. ward do n't take life too seriously , you can never come 
out of it alive .  . 



from  ( dick grady ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 18 

in article  ( barak h. tulin ) writes 
i just started reading this thread today , so forgive me if it has already been 
mentioned. but .  .  . what . was the deal with 's putting the on the 
left hand turn signal it was a on the end , where the 
would be on the  . could the not figure 
out the through the wheel , or what 

tried that also , back in  . my had the at 
the end of the turn signal , instead of in the center of the wheel where 
god intended it to be. ) i two different cars then  ( the other an 
1984 camry ) , and never did get used to pushing the turn signal to 
blow the  . the only time i got it right was when i was getting the 
state required safety inspection ! 
not one of 's better ideas. 


dick salem , nh , usa 
so many newsgroups , so little time ! 

from  ( roy matthew thigpen ) 
subject re going into ! 
organization university of virginia 
distribution na 
lines 25 

writes 
from the latest issue of , the will arrive in 
in mid 1994. have already been  . no word 
on the changes to be made for the version. my question to all of 
you is would you buy it and how much would you pay for it 



why should i care i 'd rather watch  . 







why should i care i 'd rather watch 

! ! ! ! finally my wishes have come true , dick with a 
engine. do n't you think they should maybe spend the money doing something 
about the lousy build quality design of their bigger selling cars this is 
another example of why is in so much trouble .  . if you 're going to stick 
the 1 or 1 engine in a car , at least make it a nice looking one. 

. 

from  ( steve heracleous ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 20 


this is a two problem. unfortunately our culture has been over time. 
the breeding of these low life 's is getting worse our justice system is at best 
extremely weak to handle these problems. that is why low citizens should have 
the power to protect themselves and their property using force if necessary 
anywhere a threat is imminent .  . 

my  ( my pride and joy ) got stolen right out of my a few years back .  . 
the persons that did that were eventually caught  ( lucky for me ! ) but not before 
having trashed the car. 

on another , on my way from texas to florida , i had stopped in a small 
for the night in a small town somewhere in florida .  . about 5 were my 
car , setting off the and challenging me to come out. when i and another 
walked out with a 357 and a 45 automatic respectively , they vanished .  . 
to say , i immediately up and left. 

watch out for car and accidents .  . they can be ! 

steve 

from  ( tommy hwang ) 
subject the ! ! 
organization university computing center 
lines 12 

sorry for the mis , but i forgot how to it after 
my series of and no on hand reference here. 

is it still possible to get those wwii be 's 
a would be great i think. 

 93 


if i can convert a c 128 to a , i can do anything .  .  .  . not ! ! 



from  ( mark wayne blunier ) 
subject re male female mystery re concepts of all time 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 30 

 ( beth schwindt ) writes 

this has me thinking. is there a biological reason why women ca n't put 
their in their pants like men do i have two on the 
back of each of my pants .  . i put my in one and in another. 
many of the even have a on them so i can close them securely .  . 
everything is that much simpler for me. why ca n't women do the same 
is is biological  ( ie , not enough room for a bigger bottom plus and 
a wallet ) or is it the way they are raised by the parents 

i 've found that it has to do with the way women 's clothes are made. 
if you put in the front of women 's or , you 
get a that also tends to make it impossible to sit down because 
they stick you constantly .  . in the back  . 

also , try looking at the back of women 's and compare 
them to the back on men 's jeans. they are usually  ( if you buy 
that you expect to last for any length of time) about half the 
size. there flat out is n't room for a or a bunch of  . 

besides which , where would men put all their crap if their wives 
did n't carry ) 

the same place single men do , in back , comb in other 
back , in front , in other from , pen 
in , or front pants  . or do married men start 
carrying around a bunch of stuff to keep there women happy 


mark b. 

from  ( thatch harvey ) 
subject re restrictions 
organization , 
lines 24 




the could have to do with the car being a  . 

a lot of laws were passed concerning in the 80 's .  . 
these states may require greater protection than the  . 






uucp  ( no longer valid ) domain 
instrument division 
, 
 ( 206 ) , , 
prince d sports 







from  ( wade guthrie ) 
subject re curious about the i 
organization international 
lines 43 

 ( albion h. bowers ) writes 


in a previous article ,  ( wade guthrie ) says 

 ( taka mizutani ) writes 

in article , 
 ( stephen d'amelio ) wrote 

i wrote 
this is consistent with the pre  74  . the engine before that was a 2.2 
 ( or less , depending on how early you go ) , and got its power at high 
 ( starting at about , and jumping up at around 5k ) with a 
narrow  . the  74 was a 3 and had a lot of equipment. if 
you got much power at all , it 'd be better through the rev 
range .  . 

 . wrong answer. it really depends on whether you are talking model 
year or date of manufacture .  . for instance , mine was a  67 , but was 
in august of  . prior to all were 2 . o .  . for 
the  70 and  model years they were 2.2  . for the and 
model years they were 2 . 4 . except for the  73 rs which was a 
2 . 7 .  . the  74 and later years were easily identified by the new 5 
 . most models in the  74 year were 2 . 7 . except the 
which was a 3 . 0 .  ( us from  74 were 2 . 7 .  . in 
 78 they went to 3 . 0 . and there was only a single model , the  ( think 
of it as a cross between the s and the  . note all the above 
are based on model year , not date of manufacture .  . 

i stand  . this is all from memory , mind you ) 

as for the rev happy behavior , the earlier cars are even more prone to 
this. the 2 . 4 . cars used low , and suffered a bit 
in this regard .  . the early 3 . 0 . and 2 . 7 . also got a good 
of gear as well. the 2.0 and 2.2 were far and away 
the of the lot. 

yeah , that 's what i was trying to say. no , really ! 

wade trying to program on dos is like trying 
to with a saw. 
me be not speaking for the  . 

from  ( lawrence b. keys ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization national institute of standards technology 
distribution usa 
lines 37 

in article  ( george louie ) writes 
in rec . ,  ( nancy feagans ) writes 
and  . these should be an option . 

why make it an option. you can use the to coins and other 
small things which come in  . use the as an electrical 
for all types of  ( cd , , 
, etc . ) . i do n't want to pay extra for these things and if 
you do n't use them , they do n't hurt you. 

i use the to keep change and other items in. i converted the 
into a volume control for my in ! 




george 


. 

larry 







1990 2.0 


forever ! 
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates 
that you probably would n't understand anyway ! 



from  ( andrew e page ) 
subject re 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 9 


there was an article in business week not more the 4 weeks ago 
on this very subject. in fact the was one of the cars 
they laid out an example for. 


andrew e. page  ( warrior poet ) decision and effort the and arrow 
mac the difference between what we are 
and technology and what we want to be. 

from  ( kurt henriksen ) 
subject  .  . cross .  .  . 702 
organization university of chicago , astronomy and 
distribution na 
lines 1 



from  ( fred w. bach ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization tri university 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ca . 
keywords , , danger 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , 
 ( neil williams ) writes .  .  .  . 


as long as we 're on the subject .  .  .  . several years ago myself and two others 
were riding in the front of a heading south on 5 
north of seattle ,  . someone threw a of an and hit our 
 . not by accident i'm sure , it was impossible to get up to the 
quickly to see who did it. we it was kids , reported it and 
left. 
a couple of years ago it again and killed a guy at my company .  . he was 
in his mid and left behind a wife and children. turned out there was 
a for a few blocks away. they caught the 14 year old 
that did it. they put a cover over the , what else could they do 
i do n't think i 'll over forget this story. 
neil , computer services ,  . 
 .  .  . 


neil , what did they do to the 14 year old who they caught what did 
the man 's company do this could be significant and in any case 
very interesting. 

followups to alt . parents .  . 


fred w. , group internet 
 ( tri university facility ) voice 
, campus fax 
university of british , vancouver , b.c. , canada 

these are my opinions , which should only make you read , think , and question. 
they do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or fellow workers .  . 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject re 
organization clearer than 
lines 5 
nntp posting host 42 . 145 . 4 . 


in europe you can buy a , with computer controlled rather 
than the coupled ones of the outgoing  . 



from  ( shantanu ganguly ) 
subject re are 's worth the price 
organization motorola , inc. austin , tx 
lines 86 
nntp posting host sps . mot . com . 

in article  ( horace dediu ) writes 
in article ,  ( shantanu ganguly ) writes 


some comments 

a ) good and mid and high can be obtained by the 
top gear and final drive  . contrary to popular , a 
number of japanese cars have quite good from 70 in top 
gear .  . 

no problem with that. the question is do they perform in all 
conditions  ( roads , and curves ) at that speed and do so for hours on end , 
year after year without giving the white from my experience on 
the , a good car can be easily by its 
at  . the best stay on cruise control at for hours. i 've 
seen the typical boy in a try to keep up. sure they hit the century 
mark , but if the wind the wrong way they change , and if on an 
, they may right into a  . the at can be 
severe enough to make the  . at can , and a can 
kill .  . many german cars are designed for this environment , even if they ca n't 
seem to get out of their own way from a stop light  ( mercedes come to mind in 
particular . ) . and another design point is economy at those  . the 
germans gear the car for very good high speed (a typical m b turns 
at 55 , almost a stall ) 

good point. i have no idea how either of my will handle at 100 , 
nor do they reach  . however , using  to be 70 90 

a ) they are quite to long high speed drives .  . i 've done several 
trips in my with no problems whatsoever. the last big trip 
i made was driving from new york to texas .  . i remember driving 700 
a day at typically 75 85 without any problems. i'm sure i 
would have been more comfortable driving a , but no white  . 
no problems with and  . 

then there was the trip back from new after where 
we were doing 80 all the way to houston .  . no problems. 

b ) both my cars have surprising good economy at high  . i see 
no difference between 60 and  . on the trip 
back from new , we got about 30 in my , quite ok. mind 
you , the engine to almost at 80 .  . the is better 
than the in economy .  . down the road , i still 
get 35 at 70 75 driving. 


b ) i ca n't understand why these high scale european are afraid 
to design that can be repeatedly to near in 
the low  . i have been doing that for that last with 
my , with no to either the engine or the , 
and getting excellent to boot. i 'd call this an engineering hack 
to cover up design  . 

at you 'd still be breaking in a high scale european they 
typically are designed to last , 000 per engine , , 000 mi .  . per 
 .  ( the record is now over 1 , , 000 on a , and i 've 
read about transmissions lasting 700 , 000 ) . speaking of 

now now , you ca n't compare a with a engine. i see enough 
and for sale that have 100 on them and 
 . if was to build an for , i 'd well 
expect the to last  . 

, they have very good at the cost of , and are very 
popular in all european cars  ( diesel is considered the green fuel ) from the 
smallest to the  . again , we see a difference in  . 
in the us are considered slightly worse than useless , and extremely 
to so you ca n't give them away. 

ever got caught behind a early 80 's at a stop light it 's not 
pleasant .  . the newer 's are a lot better though. the volvos 
and are probably the offenders .  . 

as for economy , why should we care gas is cheap ! i personally would n't 
buy a car for any reason what does it buy me 


 ( motorola ) 

phone (512) motorola , mail drop 
fax (512) william drive w. 
austin tx 
email 



from  ( andrew brandt ) 
subject seeking good mechanic .  . 
organization the university of north at hill 
lines 14 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
keywords , , spider , mechanic 

i am looking for for a good  ( great ) 
mechanic in south jersey or philadelphia or nearby .  . 

i have a  78 spider that needs some engine , tranny , work 
done. the body is in quite good shape .  . the car is awful in cold 
, wo n't start if below (i know , i know , why drive a 
spider if there 's on the ground  .  .  . ) .  . it has 
injection that i am sure needs  . 

any opinions are welcome on what to look for or who to call .  . 

email or post  ( to rec . , i will summarize if people want. 

, andy 

from  ( robert loper ) 
subject re and 
nntp posting host com . 
organization design center 
lines 42 

in article  ( james p. callison ) writes 
in article arbor . mi . us . arbor . mi . us .  ( david hwang ) writes 
in article  ( wharfie ) writes 
in article  ( chris silvester ) writes 


why anyone would order an with an automatic is 
beyond me if you ca n't handle a stick , you should stick with a 
regular and leave the to real drivers .  . that is not to 
say that there are n't real drivers who ca n't use the stick  ( eg 
persons ) , but they are n't in any position to use an 
anyway. 

i would be willing to bet that if we removed the automatic 
transmissions from all type cars  ( like the 5 . 
, , and the like ) we 'd cut down on the number of 
accidents each year .  . are fine for little , 
but they have no business in cars , imho .  . 

james 

i have to disagree with this. i have a with a and a 4 speed 
w , and it is really better that way. are 
for their long life and ability to handle amount of power. i live 
in the area , and a manual would be much harder to drive in the traffic 
here. now if i still lived out in the sticks like i used to , a manual would be 
more fun. 

safety wise , an is less  .  . i . would hate to have to be 
shifting while i was trying to into traffic in the here. 
wise , i can hold my own against any stock 5 . 0 . or 5 . 0 . 
w a five speed .  . 

all of this imho .  .  .  . ) 





robert l. infinity is a notion best 
in a warm bed. 
texas , inc. my opinions are my own , not 's .  . 

from  ( steve hui ) 
subject re instead of a , what 
organization national capital , ottawa , canada 
lines 19 


one thing that everyone is forgetting in this argument 
over the of the vs. the japanese cars is 
the no . this makes the 's 
price low in comparison to the base of 
the japanese competition on paper , but in reality , one 
could several hundred dollars off the price of 
the japanese cars .  . 

admittedly , though , here in canada , at least , the 
is in the same price class as the , not the 
 . 

steve 

from  ( grayson walker ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
organization a . s . i .  . n 
distribution usa 
lines 10 

why under the car at all i have a machine i got for my that 
the oil out under through the stick  . it does an 
excellent job and by moving the around , you can get more 
old oil out than by using the plug .  . i think i paid 25 at e b  . 
the oil goes into a 3 can wait until it and into 
your favorite device. i use soft drink  . easy to take them down to 
the local oil center .  . 

! 


from  ( tom pickett ) 
subject re and 
reply to  ( tom pickett ) 
organization systems , inc. engineering 
lines 20 
nntp posting host 48 . 14 . 46 . 

in article ,  ( jim 
frost ) writes 
ok , i 'll give you a few reasons 

1. neither car was designed to turn at those  . 
2. neither car was designed to stop quickly from those  . 
3. safety mechanisms were not designed for at those  . 
4. an environment leads to circumstances 
where you might need to turn or stop with no notice. 


do you , by any chance own an or have access to one , such that you 
would have any idea what it is designed for or how it handles 

just wondering .  .  .  . 


tom 
or 


from  ( b b s) 
subject re 
news software vax vms 1.4 
organization arizona state university , tempe , az 
lines 10 

in article ,  ( roy matthew thigpen ) writes .  .  .  . 

last night i had a dream that my bought a  . 
i took it out for a test drive , without his knowledge , 
and had to push it all the way home just to avoid a  . 
dream , i wonder what it means .  .  .  .  . 

you probably should told you to buy that car , than your dream might 
come true. 


from  ( jonathan edwards ) 
subject land worth it 
organization , inc. 
lines 10 

in response to a post about 's , i got several to 
check out the land , despite its price .  . 
the told me it 's a cult car . 
if a car is good enough to create a and loyal following , there 
must be something really extraordinary about it. 
so , all you land here is your chance to convert me. 


jonathan 
, 

from  ( joseph st. lucas ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization general corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 10 

do n't have a list of what 's been said before , so not repeating .  . 

how about mounted oil  ( like on my ford ) that , no 
matter how hard you try , will out their half on the bottom 
of the car when you change them 


joe standard disclaimers apply 
general space systems , san diego 
work is something to keep me busy between ultimate games. 

from  ( ross , l ) 
subject re drivers who do n't look ahead 
organization , , nj 
distribution usa 
keywords bad drivers 
lines 44 

in article ,  ( jit lim ) writes 
in article h . writes 
anybody is going anywhere. so , i block the would be  . not only for my own 
good , but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it. 

ah , we are looking for good people just like you. we are a very concerned 
group of citizens who are absolutely at the way that the majority 
of drivers simply disobey traffic rules like going above the speed limit , 
passing on our right , and riding our , while all the while we 
by the rules of this great country and maintain the mandated speed 
limits with our , cruise , while keeping the 
1 . 5 . car length distance 10 speed .  . how many times have you been 
ticked off by some who ahead in the 5 . 1 . 25 . car lengths 
that you have left between you and the ahead of you while driving 
55 finally you have an option. we are a totally member supported group 
that perform functions for our own good , for the good of this great country but most of all for those unfortunate ones that are too stupid to realize it , 
bless their souls .  . for a 10 , you can join citizens for rationally 
advanced r . a . , a non profit , members only , society. but , but , but , 
there is a slight , the  . to be a full member of 
this exclusive club , you must proof that you are able to be in the fast of 
the in your area , keep the correct 1 . 5 . car 10 i know this can be difficult with those around , not let anybody pass 
you , not in the next , not in the slow , not in the , 
not nowhere .  . for a complete list of acceptable and times , send 5. 
and by the way , over 90 of our members are highly regarded in the 
field and they are completely , absolutely in the business only 
to serve your best interests .  . as a testament to their virtues , they will give 
members 90 off the initial fee .  . feel free to drop me a line at 
your earliest convenience and remember , only speed kills ! 







of course you are a bunch of arrogant lawyers who know best for the 
rest of us. you are doing such a wonderful job with our judicial system , 
getting all the criminals off , i bow to your superior  . not to 
mention the you from us poor who get from 
speeding state police officers , so you can is when we go to court. 
i just love lawyer ! do n't you 

c. 


from  ( don skanes ) 
subject experiences 
keywords , 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 10 


i have been looking at buying a 1989 and was wondering 
if anyone had any bad or good experiences with this model .  . is it 
all that much different than the other 

it looks , and sounds like a nice even thought the 
price is rather for an  89  ( 12k  . 




from  ( kent gabrin ) 
subject re did us drive on the left 
organization 
lines 44 

in article  ( craig boyle ) writes 

 .  .  . deleted . lines .  .  .  . 

well and australia , and lord knows wherever else used to drive on 
still do drive on the wrong side of the road. i believe 
changed in  . the way i heard it was that they 
all the traffic signs around one sunday .  .  .  .  . 

as i live in i remember the day perfectly well. we changed 
side 09 03  ( or 03  . i do n't the exactly time but 
it was in the night.  ( in the  big  cities like 
all was forbidden , and taxis , during the whole 
) . the day was a sunday and everything was prepared in before. 

before the day we was told to follow the lines on the road and 
after it was the white one that matters. the signs with on was 
prepared with a  left mode  label that was off that night to 
reveal the new right mode arrow .  . 

the year after also changed. 

about cars before the h day  ( h as in . is 
and stands for 'right' ) practically all cars already had their 
on the left side. even the cars from uk had 
the wheel on  the right  . at last we have cars with the on 
the right side. ) 

more that uses the left side is 

japan 
(i think) 
new 
how about south africa 

btw. some that the left side is the right side because 
and other meet at the left when they fight in  . ) 

 .  .  . deleted . lines .  .  .  . 

kent systems ! my thinking is not as great as 
s 88 ! will try 
! company sold again. former name was 


from  ( charles parr ) 
subject re by its 
distribution na 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization the university of , 
lines 37 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) writes 
in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) writes 
because i want to get the lowest price possible , it 's called capitalism .  . 

i have news for you capitalism is the practice of 
 . 

same difference , if you lower your costs you increase your  . 

personally i'm not at all bothered by the scheme .  . if i 
do n't want to pay as much as they 're selling it for , i can go buy a 
different car from a different and they get nothing. that 's 
competition for you. if the can be charging what 
they do and making that kind of profit , that 's capitalism at it 's best 
and more power to 'em .  . 


i 'd rather have the consumer what things will cost not the 
 . 

sorry , but neither   the cost .  . it 's a  . 
whether it 's up front at a in an all out 
war , or more removed on a larger economic scale 
 ( ie , if ca n't sell at it 's price , the price drops , 
or the company stops building them) , it remains a 
value controlled by market forces .  . to think that the consumer 
price is ludicrous .  . if the consumer 
price , then cars would be free  .  .  . and . no one would build 
cars .  . 

regards , charles 

within the of the last few weeks i have heard elements of 
separate threads which , in that they have been in time , 
together to form a new within my and 
 . unknown net . person . 

from  ( lawrence b. keys ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization national institute of standards technology 
lines 44 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
( ) writes 
what the hell is happening to this great country of ours i 
can see of off of and such , but 
20 ! has our society really this low 

you make it sound like this behavior is new. it is n't .  . a lot of 
have that curls up over the to 
make this kind of think a lot harder to do. 

i do n't understand the myself , but then again i could n't 
figure out move !  ( i'm glad they bombed 'em ) or the either. 


i know that this is n't the group for it , but since you brought it up , 
does anyone have any idea why they have n't bombed the cult 

just curious. 



 ( newsgroup list trimmed significantly ) 

jim 


. 

larry 







1990 2.0 


forever ! 
the fact that i need to explain it to you indicates 
that you probably would n't understand anyway ! 



from  ( thatch harvey ) 
subject re removing rain x coat on the front , any 
organization , 
lines 21 



if you want a summer without rain , you 're in the wrong place. you must not 
have been here a whole year yet. keep the rain x my friend. 






uucp  ( no longer valid ) domain 
instrument division 
, 
 ( 206 ) , , 
prince d sports 







from  ( andrei chichak ) 
subject re vs 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university of , canada 
distribution usa 
lines 15 

mark wrote 
although not in direct response to the referenced article , just to set the 
record straight , are  . cars are  . please , 
let 's get our terms straight .  . 

actually , some would argue that the only true is a round 
tail light or  . 

mark 
back when i was building round tail light they were  . it was 
only when the  ( red , generated , eating ) 
got into the market ( that they became and the started 
 . 



from  ( charles parr ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization the university of , 
lines 23 

in article  ( jim hart ) writes 
in article 
writes 
my top 10 list of concepts ever 

10. 1984 dodge colt only avail. with automatic trans. 
9. back up on they 're on the sides of the car ! 

sure would be interested to know what  ( year(s ) this was ! 
i do n't seem to recall any car with back up on the sides , much 
less any  . i suppose i could be mis interpreting what you are 
trying to say here .  .  .  .  .  . 

just a quick comment. mounted on the side 
would actually be extremely useful for people backing out of 
 .  .  . 

regards , charles 

within the of the last few weeks i have heard elements of 
separate threads which , in that they have been in time , 
together to form a new within my and 
 . unknown net . person . 

from  ( fred w. bach ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization tri university 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ca . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( robert neilson ) writes .  .  .  . 
sorry for the 0 content , but ... 

that is why low citizens should have the power to protect themselves 
and their property using force if necessary anywhere a threat is 
imminent .  . 

steve 

you do have the power steve .  . you can do it. why do n't you why do n't you 
go shoot some kids who are onto cars make sure you do a good 
job though do n't miss  cause like they have big and take it from 
me those kids are mean. 

this last comment was obviously a bit cynical , but a true statement of 
the attitude of some drivers  ( there 's your content ) , i would say. 

what law  ( not low as above  ( talk about !  ) 
citizens have the right and responsibility to do is try to prevent this 
type of behaviour in children. a doctor may have to use force 
against a part of a body  ( like it) when an infection disease 
has gone too far. but his real desire would have been to prevent the 
disease in the first place or at least it in the bud .  . 

followups should go to alt . parents . 

fred w. , group internet 
 ( tri university facility ) voice 
, campus fax 
university of british , vancouver , b.c. , canada 

these are my opinions , which should only make you read , think , and question. 
they do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or fellow workers .  . 

from  ( scott r. ehrlich ) 
subject help find stolen car 
organization university , boston , ma .  . , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 25 


i offered to relay this information for a ham friend of mine without 
internet access 

his name is robert  ( bob ) , , and his car was a 
1985 brown ,  . 

his  ( yaesu ft415 ) and were also included in the car. 
it was stolen from lynn , mass .  . about 10 days ago  ( being on april  . 

if anyone has any information about the car 's , please e mail 
me. 

thank you for taking the time to read this message. 



scott internet 
amateur radio packet radio 



scott internet 
amateur radio packet radio 


from  ( robert j. wade ) 
subject re dodge experiences 
organization university engineering computer network 
distribution usa 
lines 10 

in article  ( daryl biberdorf ) writes 
another user recently requested info about the 
cars , but i have n't seen any public responses. 

what are people 's experiences with these cars 



they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next 
year with all new models .  . 

from j .  . 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
keywords n 
lines 19 

in article  ( aviad sheinfeld ) writes 

do you think i can use a electric  ( drill change to a suitable 
bit ) to turn it out if i can succeed , can i re it not too 
, is it safe without oil leak 

the to the in your service manual .  . that 
way it wo n't leak , strip , break , etc.  ( hopefully ) ) 

thank you very much in advance 



you can avoid these problems entirely by an oil in 
place of the  . i have one on both of my cars .  . there have been no 
in , 000  ( combined on both  . 

ron  ( that 's a number 1 in , not letter l ) 
at t bell labs , nj usa 

from  ( bob lagesse ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
reply to 
organization 
distribution 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( andrew j. huang ) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) writes 
i take the of the whatever and connect one 
to each  . then , insert my fingers in each of the 
spark plug  . no guys ! both hands must be used ! 

i have just a couple of questions about this  . 

first , what firing order should i use do i start with my pointer 
finger or my left hand or right 

and secondly , i have a and there are two 
for. any suggestions 

andy 


how about your two big toes and while you 're at it , why bother with removing 
the plug when you could remove the instead and it out from 
there with your mouth and then it out 


domain bob , software engineer 
uucp ... ! uunet ! ! systems division 
voice  ( 513 ) drive 
fax  ( 513 ) , ohio , usa 

from  ( jason chen ) 
subject re open letter to  ( really station wagon ) 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
reply to 
organization bell communications research 
distribution na 
lines 10 

with the popularity of , the market room for station is 
out. they are not as comfortable as , and do n't carry as 
much as the  . 

this is not to say nobody wants the anymore. but the demand is certainly 
by the , and may not be economical to build a product for. 

jason 

a station owner 

from  ( albion h. bowers ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 48 
reply to  ( albion h. bowers ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( eric youngblood ) says 

in article ,  ( eliot ) writes 

race car stuff deleted 

back to the stuff for a second , note that the  tranny in 
still shifts at the 's command , not some  . the 
still the shifting , not the  . 

now , there is no dispute that in cars , are 
inherently more than  . that is in theory. my point all 
along is that whatever a manual has over an 
automatic can very easily be lost by a who is n't or 

one thing that gives an automatic an advantage at launch is the fact that 
it has a vs a  . i know this sounds strange but , 
a the engine output when  . it functions 

as a sort of limited continuously  . typically you get 
a of 2 to 3 times depending on the stall speed .  . 

i have yet to see a on a automobile .  . 
such systems do exist , but none are presently in 
that i am aware of. these are commonly called drive or 
 . 

contrasted to a which merely when  ( result is no mult ) 

what the does allow is for the engine to be closer to its 
during the launch before a car can fully engage it 's 
 . proved it many years ago with the  70  ( ets and 
terminal 1 4 times were close enough be identical for 4 speed and 
 . note that this is also the major reason that an car can 
get away with than a manual , the slip in the makes up 
for the  ( and before everyone starts about the proposed 
5 soon to be out , note that some are using 6 
speed  . 

once past however , the begins and the 
effect is reduced , but by then you should be on the  . 

correct. 

al  nasa 
well goodness  .  . do . n't you know that girls ca n't play guitar 
mary 

from daniel u. 
subject re did us drive on the left 
organization carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 50 

nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 


the reason i ask is because i went to a classic car meet here in the uk , 
and saw a very nice old de , 's i 'd guess , with 
type , etc , but it was right hand drive .  . i ca n't believe 
that produced cars just for the uk .  .  .  .  . 

well and australia , and lord knows wherever else used to drive on 
the wrong side of the road , so the market might have been 
larger then than just the uk .  . 

i'm , but i believe in the we probably mostly down 
and in  . i am fairly sure that of the 
wheel was pretty much arbitrary to the company at that time .  .  .  .  .  . 

by the , there was a very active good roads movement , which had 
its origins actually in the during the bicycle , picked up 
steam in the  ( witness the association , or so , 
and the us support act  ( real name something different ) in 
that first federal aid to states and to build decent 
roads .  . also , the experience of widespread use of for domestic 
transport during 1 convinced the government that good were 
crucial to our national defense .  . anyway , by the there were plenty 
of good roads , at least around areas , and they were rapidly 
expanding into the  . this was the era , after all , of the 
first , the , the camp ground , etc. two good 
books on the subject spring to mind warren america on the 
road  ( title may not be exact author is) and another called the devil 
in god 's country author i forget .  . also , any of john 's or 
john bell 's histories .  . 

as to of the wheel being arbitrary , by the early 
there were virtually no american cars that did not have the wheel 
on the left. in the early days , cars had the wheel on the left , on the 
right , and even in the middle , as well as sometimes having a 
instead of a wheel .  . this was fairly early on , though i 
do n't know why. 


dan 

carnegie mellon university 
applied history 

world history on from to , whether we 
can comprehend and prove it or not. 






from  ( jason chen ) 
subject re no deals .  .  . save . 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
reply to 
organization bell communications research 
distribution usa 
lines 2 

a local is no necessary ! 
make you wonder .  .  .  . 

from  ( frank reid ) 
subject re the ! ! 
lines 23 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 

in article  ( tommy hwang ) writes 
sorry for the mis , but i forgot how to it after 
my series of and no on hand reference here. 

is it still possible to get those wwii be 's 
a would be great i think. 

 93 

the thing is still in mexico and 
possibly south america .  . good luck one they probably do n't meet 
us safety and pollution requirements .  . there are mechanics and 
which in they might be helpful for finding a thing unless 
the wwii re have them all. 

the wwii was the german equivalent of the , but was not 4 
wheel drive .  . one is on display at the at , , 
also the rare (sp ) version , in full scale  . 
highly recommended ! 



frank 

from  ( jim frost ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization software , inc. 
lines 16 
nntp posting host 3 . 

( ) writes 
what the hell is happening to this great country of ours i 
can see of off of and such , but 
20 ! has our society really this low 

you make it sound like this behavior is new. it is n't .  . a lot of 
have that curls up over the to 
make this kind of think a lot harder to do. 

i do n't understand the myself , but then again i could n't 
figure out move !  ( i'm glad they bombed 'em ) or the either. 

 ( newsgroup list trimmed significantly ) 

jim 


organization penn state university 
from 
subject re on car. 
lines 5 

all you have to do is turn it in to the police like you would an accident , 
get a report and send it in to your company and they will contact 
the other guys company and they will have to pay just as they 
would in an accident they caused .  . thus no need to go to court. a friend of 
mine did this and he got the money so it does work. 

from 
subject 86 
organization student , industrial , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

i have a 86 with a c and  . it 's turned 
and the light started  . i went to the and he said 
it was a light saying i need to change the oxygen  . he 
said , it is to be changed every , but since i bought the car when it 
had , i do n't know if the same thing happened at and  . he 
quoted for the part and 50 to it. the part cost 30 
outside , but the mechanic i went to could not fix it saying the 
is placed too deep in the engine parts. he suggested i wait till it 
before i do anything. if anyone out there owns a 
, i want to know how they got their oxygen changed. also , 
did you face any problem with fixing it without the 's help. also , 
what are the results of the oxygen  . 
any help would be greatly 
thanks 


from  ( ralph bean ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
organization site 
lines 12 
nntp posting host rose . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 8 . 

wrote 
robert j. wade writes 
until .  .  . and . more are  ( built(like 2 in the same city ) , 

 .  .  . most . medium and large cities have .  .  . a . small of now 

has two  . 



ralph 
rose . com . 

from  ( jacques w brouillette ) 
subject re show 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 5 
nntp posting host edu . 


i want only two things from this world , a and a small 
nation with which to it. this would be a good and just 
thing. car can just go home and  . 
manufacturing engineering 

from  ( the devil reincarnate ) 
subject re was re safety from how far can you see a car 
organization , 
distribution na 
lines 

in article  ( mark r poulson ) writes 
 ( the devil reincarnate ) writes 
you will be surprised at the number of people who forget their 
while driving. and then there are the people who just plain do n't get 
their eyes checked once a year .  . 

as someone who has lousy vision , i can see objects at a distance without 
my  . however , they are quite fuzzy and i may not be able to make 
out the details. but i can certainly tell that something is there. 


i wo n't argue too much about anything. i am probably one of those that 
think that we ca n't have enough safety on the roads .  . i would 
sacrifice  ( as you call it) , than someone having trouble seeing 
danger earlier. one saved life more than my lifetime of 
for me. 


and then there is dawn and  . when your eyes have not yet 
to the poor light. and there are those who drive black grey cars .  . and 
then there is the case where you are driving down a two way one 
road , and someone is cars , and coming the opposite direction 
does n't see you because your are not on. or vice  . at , 
that is quite a small reaction time. but of course , we are too to 
think we are and can react than that .  .  .  .  . only the poor 
sod who you did n't see might not have a normal life ever .  .  .  . 

i worked out the reaction time in a previous post and its plenty , even for 
an 80 year old , as long as are in the 60 range or less. 
if you or some other is going way than that , then be careful .  . 

as always , you are responsible for your driving actions .  . if you pull out to 
pass and crash into someone  ( for whatever reason ) its your fault. if you ca n't 


problem is that , i may just kill the guy. i agree that i would be at fault , 
and i will have my license revoked , why , i might even go to the gas chamber .  . 
but the fact still remains that the guy is dead. someone died because i 
was too to put on my  . 


see a damn thing , then you should n't be driving fail , fallen trees 
or do n't have , etc .  .  .  .  . i maintain that strength 


the ratio of the probability of fallen trees on the roads to 
traffic is too low to even be considered .  . the difference is also 
working on what we know could happen , to what might happen. 


running are not necessary for who drive around  . it may 
be a good idea to force the running or on when you turn your 
on , but only because some people are too stupid to do so. 
if you crash into one of those idiots , you have to fight it out in court to 
show his  ( if you can even prove it) .  . 


just out of curiosity , how much gas do you loose when you put 
your on and how much do you reduce the life of your head 
and what is the cost of your anyway 

mileage is certainly reduced , but by a very very small amount  ( probably 
about 110 for head and running  . this is an extra 1 7 
that must be made by the engine. it may be that this will cost you around two 
a year .  . but times 200 million cars , that 's a lot of gas .  . 

compared to the number of of gas by those 200 million cars , 
it is ! 

whatever .  .  .  .  .  .  a pity i have to share the same roads with a person 
not concerned with safety .  . 

s 



life is measured in hours. so if you normally drive in half daylight and 
half night , your will have to be replaced twice as often. 
only cost about for most  . 

the cost to the individual is trivial and to me is not the issue. what i 
do n't like is the all these cars with cause. i do n't 
need to constantly see the of the behind me. i do n't need 
to see the of every gosh car for a down the road. these 
up cars make non things less  ( like and 
 . we 're not going to 's for people and 
too. 

a of is as are the orange front running  . 
this is certainly sufficient for other people to see you  ( if they look ) and 
does n't me nearly as much as full power  . 

mark 



from ee . edu .  ( bijan mobasseri ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
article i.d. 
organization university 
lines 6 

not exactly , but who the on the or 70 
out of the right in front of the  . neat place but i love 
to know what the did to its after a few years. also , does 
the pointer on many us cars have to be 3 feet long . 



from  ( eric youngblood ) 
subject re old low 
reply to w o email  ( eric youngblood ) 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 47 

in article ,  ( scott warren rosander ) writes 
in article ,  ( george 
nz ) writes 
after too many years of school i'm finally and getting a real 
job. of course i am trying to make plans of how to spend all this extra 
money. right now i have an 89 , a good car , but not real 
i was thinking of selling it in about two years and dropping around 
on a sports car of some kind. after thinking about it , i may have a 
better idea i 'll keep the until it drops and buy the car i 've 
always wanted a  . my reasoning is that  ( accord ) 
 ( corvette ) is less than what i would spend anyway. 

basically , i'm thinking of a late 70 's , early 80 's for around 7  . 
my question is , what are good years to consider  ( for reliability , looks , 
in that order , believe it or not , is not a main 
concern , if i want to go fast , i get on my motorcycle ) and what are 
good 

also , what would look like i'm male , single , 23 (i might 
wait until i'm 25 to get the car lower  . would the fact that 
i mainly drive the other car lower it is there some type of classic 
car or rarely driven class for driving it under 
per year 

my has a 66 and its on what you say  classic  . 
basically what that means is that it has restricted amount of driving 
time , which basically means it be used as an every day car and would 
probably suit your needs for limited mileage .  . 



in addition to restricted mileage , many classic also require 
that the be when not in use. 

0 . 02 . 





eric 
bell northern research 
, texas 
, 
( 
w o email 


from  ( hi ho silver ) 
subject re who was or what is , as used in the 
organization what you wo n't find on my desk. 
lines 20 

 ( steve wyrick ) 
anybody keeping track of how many of these there are so far i have 
, , , , , , , and , not to 
mention lexus , and ! 

you 're apparently including names that are , or appear to be , 
of real words in english or some other language (e . g .  . 
, , , altima ) , in which case you missed ones such 
as , ,  , and  . in canada , add and 
 . if you count , add and  ( in canada ) 
 . how about the , if it is given that name 
in north america 

others might include , , , and  . in canada , 
add asu na .  . 

i know that sometimes my when i eat .  . where  . 
have you seen this boy lust never  . i say  . honey , i'm 
home. 
... ! uunet ! ! silver 

from  ( ken buck ) 
subject re do trains have 
organization bull information systems inc. 
lines 16 

m . writes 
i came upon a 
train on a with its sitting directly over 
the  . ... just as i passed from the , 
my went into full alert all and all chirps , 
, and going strong .  . 
could this have been caused by the train 's radio or what 

recently have wheel slip systems 
that use shared with police (i forget which  . 
these will set off your if you get close enough , though 
i believe the range is pretty short .  . 

btw , police sometimes use to check for speeding trains 
 ( just like regular police check for speeding cars ) , although the 
intent here is for safety , not collection  ( unlike with  . 

from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re dodge experiences 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 13 

in article  ( stephen f. nicholas ) writes 
stuff about dodge deleted 

as an ex  . of 3000 cars , they were the most trouble free of 
all models .  . i bought one for my wife .  . 

what do you mean by all models , all models of cars , all models , 
all models that the had bought because there is no way in 
hell that the is the most reliable car of all models sold , not 
even 's dept. of lies , damned lies and statistics would claim that. 

craig 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject eagle 
lines 22 


dear netters 

i am looking to buy a used eagle  91 or  91  . 
question is that the  91 was mentioned in the 
april consumer reports to a car to avoid ! 

in particular , the manual , electrical system , 
and were below par  ( in both  . a friend of mine 
a  90 and he has had 2 jobs  ( pads ) , one 
stuck , and some problem , something 
about into second gear .  . this does n't seem 
too bad if one beats on his car. 

i am willing to suffer reliability for speed and looks .  . seems 
you have to pay big if you want all three. anyway can 
anyone please let me know how you like your , and any 
problems you may have had , and if the are worth it. 

thanks for any responses ! 



from  ( michal prussak ) 
subject illegal 
nntp posting host sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 38 

i know it 's a long shot , but maybe someone went through this and will have 
some comments to share .  . 

the story is this i bought a car out of state , and i'm trying to get 
the safety inspection in  . the problem is that the car has 
on all except the  . the is rather 
weak , and you can clearly see the inside of the car through the  . 

the inspection said that they wo n't pass it unless i get a 
from the state police .  . so i went to the state police the 
told me that is illegal , and i can get a 
only for a pre car or for a medical reason. i asked him to 
show me the section of the code that says it 's illegal .  . he 
showed it to me and the said that you ca n't have , if 
you ca n't see the inside of the car because of the  . when i told 
him that you can in fact see the inside very well , he shut the book 
and said it 's just illegal , and in fact we can have someone give you 
a for it right now. well , wo n't argue with that .  .  .  . 

since the code says it 's ok as long as you can see through the 
, i 'd like to keep it (i 'll re read the code in the 
 . i 'd also like to get some sort of paper from the police 
that says it 's ok , so i can get the inspection , and so that i wo n't 
get in trouble for the later on. i also would n't mind 
a complaint against that he really me off. 

so does anyone have any experience getting that sort of a paper from 
the police , especially in does anyone have any experience 
a complaint against an i called the station 
later on today , but they basically said there is no place where i 
could a complaint against an  .  .  . and if i do decide 
to keep the and get a anyway , how much of a chance do 
i stand to appeal the in court 

any comments about it will be welcome ! 




from  ( tommy szeto ) 
subject water in of 89 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host stratus . com . 

water gradually up in the of my friend 's 89  . every 
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and out the water 
under the cover on the  . i would guess this usually happens 
after a good storm .  . a few 

1 ) is this a common problem 
2 ) where are the holes for the 

thanks for any info .  . 
tom 


tom no ! not those ! the ones on the 
bottom .  .  .  . 
include disclaimer . h . 

from  ( robert j. wade ) 
subject re  93 grand am  ( 4 cyl ) 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 16 

in article  ( edgar w. ii holcomb ) writes 
in article  ( ray wilmott ) writes 

hi all. a while back i was asking for info about a few different 
models , the grand am being one of them. response was generally 
one thing often repeated was go for the for some 
real power . point well taken , but .  .  . does . anybody have any 
on the 4  ( both the standard , and the quad 4 ) 
ray , 

the high output quad 4  ( 185 for the quad 4 ) , whereas 
the 3 . offered in the grand am  . i own a 

 .  . the . in the grand am is the 3 . 3 .  . , not the 3 . 1 .  . the 3 . 3 . is 
a version of 3.8  . the 3 . 1 . goes in the 
and  . 

from  ( scott fisher ) 
subject re and the real world 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 28 
nntp posting host au . 

 ( derek tearne ) writes 

people who bought bought them because they were an open 
and embodied what people thought they should for an old traditional 
 . not because they were great at anything. 

pretty much like the people who buy the 5  ( miata ) today. small 
fun and you can fool yourself  ( and a lot of other people ) that you have the 
of many far superior  ( and much more expensive ) cars .  . 

i have been for a fairly hard run in an , what they lack in power they 
surely make up for in handling .  . great for back streets with of  . 
they are a fairly light car with a low center of gravity and a quite free 
engine , a fun car. have you driven a converted 
now they are starting to perform ! i 've often thought a 
would go well in the too .  .  .  . anyone . done it 

regards scott .  . 

scott 61  ( 09 ) local  ( 380  . 
n 
department of psychology w e 
university of western australia .  . , . . s 
,  . , w . a .  . v 

joy is a with a flat , a blown oil and an unsympathetic 
wife , outside of a small remote town , 3 on a cold wet morning. 


from  ( matthew at the national university of senegal ) 
subject re owners 
organization national university of singapore 
lines 1 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

by the way , what do people think about the 

from  ( tommy reingold ) 
subject re in automatic transmissions 
reply to 
organization at t bell labs , , nj , usa 
originator 
keywords , , manual , automatic 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 24 

 ( jeff hagen ) writes 


the biggest for  ( imho ) is not shifting speed 
per , but rather the 's reaction speed when you 
try to force it to shift  . 
... 

i an  ( is that a name or what ) and a 
stanza .  . they both had  . i'm a manual 
bigot but i have to admit that the transmissions on these cars were 
better than i am .  . and yes , they responded very quickly to 
requests .  . the had a so i was able to figure 
out which gear i was in.  ( the may have also , but i do n't 
remember . ) . i believe it all the way down to second at about 50 
when my foot told it , no i really want to quickly .  . 

i would still prefer a manual , but i wo n't myself into thinking 
that i can out a modern automatic .  . and i'm very at 
shifting but certainly not as good as an automatic .  . 

tommy 
at t bell labs , , nj 
or ! ! tommy 

from  ( hi ho silver ) 
subject re on black 
organization what you wo n't find on my desk. 
lines 17 

joseph d. 
i my car a few months ago with a liquid and now have 
where i got some on the black plastic  . 
i 've tried repeatedly to remove the with no luck. i'm on the 
verge of replacing the  ( it 's a nice  . 

all removes on my 's black 
plastic  . your mileage may vary .  . 

given this observation , one would be well advised to take care not to 
get any of this  ( or , probably , similar such as son of a gun ) 
on one 's ... 

i know that sometimes my when i eat .  . where  . 
have you seen this boy lust never  . i say  . honey , i'm 
home. 
... ! uunet ! ! silver 

from  ( jim delwiche ) 
subject re advice sought 
organization grass group , grass , ca 
lines 32 

in article  ( hyunki hong ) writes 

i am currently in the car market and would like opinions on a 
 . how does it compare to a i thought the car 
looked very solid , stable and european .  . only so far is 
that that it does n't offer an my next question is , why is n't 
offering with should i pay the extra three 
thousand for a is even though it is smaller and less powerful 
than than the 

i think got caught out on the thing. it 's only been in the last 
year or two that have become a significant selling feature .  . 
assumed that automatic would govt. requirements for 
passive , but did n't guess that the  consumer would 
actually make buy decisions based on the presence of an  . 

is really right now in the us market .  . check out the 
article in last week 's about the crisis at  . and 
will be coming from the plant in mexico , but they do n't have 
the quality at that  . as per normal practice , the us 
launch of the iii is again and again , until a good 
of the useful life of the design is spent .  . 

i think that come from germany , so there is not the same 
quality and issue. it 's a nice car with a nice engine. 
whether will be a in the us market in two year 's time is a 
different question .  .  .  . 

i 'll leave the for someone else. 




from  ( charles parr ) 
subject re mileage 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization the university of , 
lines 36 

in article  ( jun he ) writes 
in article ,  ( walter a. 
koziarz ) writes 
in article  ( chris wiles ) 



report did a study i think and found that most 
got worse mileage with the off. the on the 
newer actually help. 

oh , sure they do .  .  .  . and replacing the front bumper and with a closet 
door helps mileage and  . if actually said that , then they have 
bigger fools working for them than the fools that believe their drivel .  .  .  . but , 
who am i to argue this just someone that 's been a for 20 
years , that 's all. forget the  net  , just take off the on trips 
since the are n't designed to nor capable of a load in the 
anyway. around town , the will have a effect on mileage 
anyway. 

k. 

they may help to improve mileage in some cases , i believe. with the 
on the structure behind the may differ and the may be 
reduced during high speed driving. 

how about those covers i 've been thinking of building one 
from for  . any comment on how they affect 
mileage in travel 

charles 

within the of the last few weeks i have heard elements of 
separate threads which , in that they have been in time , 
together to form a new within my and 
 . unknown net . person . 

from  ( carolinafan@uiuc ) 
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 17 

 ( roy matthew thigpen ) writes 


your best bet is the dodge with the 24 3 . 4 .  . 
it gets , and has a hell of a lot of room , great , and 
, with four wheel breaks .  . the cars won automobile 

automobile of the year award , and are quiet impressive. 

is the under , though 



the university of illinois urbana champaign mail 

because he was human because he had goodness because he was moral 
they called him insane .  .  .  . man 

from  ( ha nguyen ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
organization corporation 
lines 22 

in article  ( stephen d'amelio ) writes 
 ( brent moss ) writes 

you could take a and hammer and start holes in 
various and when some black slippery stuff starts 
out then you would know that the oil plug is nearby  ( within a foot 
or two  . close the holes with toilet paper before with oil 
though. 

you have to the engine with oil ! wow , no wonder i ca n't get 
an engine to last more than my first oil change .  . do n't forget to 
holes in the too , it will nice water 

on the engine and keep it nice cool. ) 

steve 

gee , you really make me confused .  . what is where is it 
what does it look like will it release any radiation  ( since it sounds 
like tor ) when you holes 



from  ( hok tsang ) 
subject re 's policy 
article i.d. cs . 
organization brown computer science dept. 
lines 51 

in article ,  ( fred dickey ) writes 
wrote 
i have been active in defending lately on the net and would 
like to state my full opinion on the subject , rather than just reply to others  
points. 

the biggest problem some people seem to be having is that 
make on a car. i think most will agree with me that the car is 
with its , that is , they are n't 
compared to most cars in their class .  . i do n't understand the point of 
arguing over whether the makes the or not 

i have never understood what the big deal over is either. 
the only thing that i can figure out is that people believe that if 
they minimize the profit they will minimize their total out of 
for the car. while this may be true in some cases , i do not 
believe that it is generally true. i bought a in of  . 
at that time , based on studying car , i decided that there was 
no comparable car that was as as the  . sure , maybe i 
could have talked the price for some other car to the price , but 
my out of would n't have been any different. what 's important 
to me is how much money i have left after i buy the car. reducing profit 
is not the same thing as saving money ! show me how reducing profit 
saves me money , and i 'll believe that it 's important. my experience has 
been that reducing profit does not necessarily save me money. 

fred 


say , you bought your at , with a profit of  . 
if the profit is 1000 , then you would only be paying for 
the same car. so is n't that saving money 

moreover , if really does reduce the profit margin by 1000 , 
then their cars will be even better deals .  . say , if the price of a was 
already 1000 below market average for the class of cars , then after they 
reduce the profit , it would be 2000 below market average .  . it will 

1 ) attract even more people to buy because it would save them money. 

2 ) force the to lower their to survive. 

now , not only will owners benefit from a lower profit , even 
the for other cars will pay less. 

is n't that saving money 



0 . 02 . , 
doug .  . 

from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re where can i get a new york 
distribution na 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 7 

in article  ( bob alman ) writes 
h o s e 

 . d o r k. 




from  ( randy king ) 
subject re problem 
keywords 
article i.d. 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 6 

thanks to all of you who responded to my posting. 

the problem with my s low beam problem was a loose wire 
connection . it was not the as a minority of you suggested .  . 

thanks again. 

from 
subject needs info on usa car shows 
reply to 
organization university of south australia 
lines 54 



hi from australia , 

i am a car in australia .  . 

i am particularly interested in american cars of the 
1960s and  . all makes , , ,  . 

i will be in the usa for 6 weeks from may 2nd to june 14 1993 .  . 

chicago sun may 2 thursday may 6 
denver friday may 7 sunday may 9 
austin , texas monday may 10 friday may 21 
city friday may 21 monday may 24 
, california tuesday may 25 thursday may 27 
, friday may 28 sunday may 30 
grand , monday may 31 tuesday june 1 
, san diego and june 3 sunday june 6 june 
south , cal sunday june 6 june 9 
thursday june 10 
san thursday june 10 sunday june 13 


i was wondering if anyone could send me any information of 
car shows , , , model car shows etc. during this period. 
can anybody tell me when the meet is on this year 

also , any places to visit  . car , private collections , 
your collection etc. any bit of information is ! 

i am also interested in finding some model cars  ( scale  . 
i am in cars .  . of particular interest is 



rebel machine 
and others 

if you have any , , etc and are interested in selling them , 
tell me , i will be interested .  . 

i can also send bring you models of australian high cars if 
you are interested .  . 


please reply by email to 


thanks , 

john 



from  ( eliot ) 
subject re ultimate 
organization clearer than 
lines 27 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 42 . 145 . 4 . 

in article j .  . writes 
yes , i saw a 200 on i in nj on monday .  . i thought 
stopped selling in the us after the  . this is exactly the 
type of i would like to own. i bet its price is 4 5 times my 
car  . 

think again ! ! thanks to 60  ( tick tick ) , used 200 
are  .  .  go for about ,  go for perhaps 1 
or more , the 20 91 's are quite a bit more because of an 
enormous and gain .  .  . i think they go for about 23 to if 
you can find one. i have seen quite a lot of  89  90 200  ( not 
that many though) at the lot .  .  . they use very high 
quality and the entire car is , so it will never 
 . 

in short , typically a 4 old 200 looks no more older than a 1 year 
old and the 5 are bullet proof  . out of one is 
not rare , even for a , which is for the  . then 
there are that you can buy to up boost .  .  .  . 

if you are into gizmos .  .  . the cars are loaded with just about 
everything too .  .  . 

the price of parts is a different story though .  .  .  . 




from  ( tom mackey ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
keywords , , danger 
organization development 
lines 27 

in article  ( neil williams ) writes 
as long as we 're on the subject .  .  .  . several years ago myself and two others 
were riding in the front of a heading south on 5 
north of seattle ,  . someone threw a of an and hit our 
 . not by accident i'm sure , it was impossible to get up to the 
quickly to see who did it. we it was kids , reported it and 
left. 
a couple of years ago it again and killed a guy at my company .  . he was 
in his mid and left behind a wife and children. turned out there was 
a for a few blocks away. they caught the 14 year old 
that did it. they put a cover over the , what else could they do 

execute the on the grounds of the , required 
by the rest of the , as soon as possible after the incident and a 
quick sure trial .  . i am quite serious. cause and effect. nothing else 
will ever make a  . 

i do n't think i 'll over forget this story. 
neil , computer services ,  . 

me neither .  . 



tom  ( 206 ) 
computer services  .  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! 
m s 20 , p.o. box , seattle , 

from  ( michael s. wiggs ) 
subject kill 
organization space science institute 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 8 


i just wanted to thank all the netters out there who either 
posted a response or sent e mail regarding my kill 
question. now that i know how simple a procedure it is , it 
looks like i 'll be paying my local a visit this 
 .  .  .  . 



from  ( chuck kesler ) 
subject re opinions  ( centered around the gt ) 
organization north state university , project 
lines 

in article  ( nathan ) writes 

jeremy g. says 

can anyone offer any opinions of the  .  .  . how they do in 
the long run , records , reliability , mileage , etc 

i am fixing to buy a car in the next few months something 
a little bigger than a typical small car and with a little more power. i 
am considering the 6 , , , , and the  . 
... 
i bought a  93 with the last  ( now at miles ) 
after over the r , , mr 2 , stealth , , 
and  . 
... 
the car design is different than earlier years , so it 's too early to see its 
reliability so far. for what it 's worth , my comments 

my 
door with up from inside rarely makes good wind  . 

some other owners on the mailing list have commented 
about this problem , but i have n't seen it happen on my 3 month old 
 93  . i think this may be something that has since 
the initial of cars .  . also , someone said that has issued a 
service to about how to correct this problem , so you 
may be able to get your to fix it. 

have stuck up a few times  ( weather ) 
air broke  ( pressure switch ) 
around fluid container does n't completely. 

have n't seen any of these problems , nor have i seen these mentioned on the 
mailing list , so these might just be having bad luck with these. 

engine little hope for do it  ( typical ) 

definitely ! 

parts somewhat more expensive than normal parts 
plastic does n't like and  . 
assembly on , out of , not 
properly. just a fluke .  . 

no problems like these either. i have n't been able to find any obvious 
places where they up. 

only gives 1 key with the car. c mon , spend an extra few ! 

hmmm ! i got two with my car. something tells me you got by 
your on this.  ( actually , if you count the credit card key that 
came in the owner 's , i got 3 , but since the credit card key 
does n't have any cut in it yet , i guess i wo n't count it.  ) 

has no on when up. i'm waiting for the day when 
i my head on the corner .  . 
behind air in and not in center  ( personal preference ) 

the latter is probably because of the air  . it 's pretty much takes up 
all the space where you 'd expect to find the  . 

speaking of the , i was surprised to find that the comes with one 
of those nice  sounding horns instead of the japanese sounding kind. 
the previous had japanese horns .  . 

mud onto side of car 

yeah , not very , but enough to be sometimes. 

my likes 
engine  ( design sounds power mileage torque ) definitely 1 
handling  ( very good for only at limits ) 
 ( the 5 speed is a must ) 
 ( lovely everywhere ) 
very little at full power  ( much better than the  90 i drive ) 
at 100  ( high though) 
low  ( good in front ) 
outside  ( nice in fog , never tested in weather ) 
air  ( see above) 
down (i have few passengers so a not important ) 
no when going over  ( still ! ) 
 ( 70 left for ) 

i agree strongly with all of the above , especially about the engine. the 
is very , very nice too. very to the eye , and 
sound. 

... 
i drive it to and from work 
each day on relatively roads , and most thing is that the 
's does n't like  . when you test drive one , find a 
road somewhere around town and see if the you get is 
 . 

yes , this car 's is n't for everyone. i personally like it , 
but if you find it a little harsh but otherwise like the car , i 'd strongly 
suggest looking into the 6. 

if you have 3 passengers , by all means bring them along too. they 'll find 
that they have no room in the back and you 'll find that the car rides 
differently  ( if that 's better is up to you) .  . 

the problem with the back is that there 's no room. plenty of 
head room , though. people fit back there without any , 
so long as the they are sitting behind is forward a bit to 
give them a place to put their feet. 

also , there 's a lot of glass 
around you which i was n't expecting the inside the car gets pretty 
hot in the summer .  . my back passengers  ( now very few ) complain about 
the lack of you may want to consider that when combined with 
the  . 

the power can greatly improve the throughout the car. ) 
i really enjoy the , by the way , but then i 've always been a 
for open air driving. no problems or anything like that .  .  . yet . ! 

i 've heard that the system has trouble , but mine works fine. 

i have n't heard about this one. i know that some of the very early 
 ( '89 and maybe '90 ) had problems with  ( which 
will replace at no charge ) , but i have n't heard about anything like 
this concerning the  93  . 

i have n't had any real trouble with this car outside of a 
that was , but the took care of that , and even 
gave me a free car for the day and a half that i was without my 
car. i was quite happy with the way they  .  . especially . considering 
that i was expecting the worst from them ! 

from what i 've heard , it sounds like had some problems with 
the  ( and probably 6 ) when they first went into , but 
i think these problems have mostly been at this point. that 's 
almost always to be expected with a completely new car like this , though. 

hope this helps , 



internet 
unix systems programmer us mail box , campus 
engineering computer , nc usa 
north state university phone 1 

from  ( don graham ) 
subject re 
organization john fluke  . co .  . , inc. , , 
lines 44 

in article com . ,  ( tom vervaeke ) writes 
i have had two , and still have the second right now. it 's a 
1991 base model with the big i 6 4 . engine , hard top , no 
power or air  . runs like a top .  . has about on 
it. has never been in the  . i can change my own oil  ( nice 
 . i can it myself  ( 11  . i take it to 
to check the and do the oil change there. 

my previous had a problem either. here in there  
more than 's , mercedes , volvos , and the like together ! in fact 
has been called the car for a while. they hold their value 
well , and are very easy to  . mine cost right around 14 . new. of 
course , i did n't blow money on an , sahara , or which 

i have a sahara and paid 14 . 1 . new  ( including the  . 

are just with fancy inside stuff. 

after driving a 5 for 6 years , that fancy stuff is pretty nice. 


the cars are primitive , ride like a dump , etc .  .  . but if you live in 
an area that gets around of per , you 'd have one too. 
they 'll go anywhere  ( with a winch ) and are easy to get parts for. the 

i like my , but when doing some serious off , it ca n't 
keep up with a 5 because of ground and limited 
travel .  . i do have a and would like to get an air in the 
future. 

4 . engine puts out and gets around  . not bad. 

i love the 4 . 0 .  . 


just my experience. i'm sure there are bad ones out there , but that goes 
for any make and model .  . 



graham 




from  ( keith p7625 ) 
subject wife wants 
nntp posting host 145 . 4 . 54 . 110 . 
reply to 
organization and data group 
lines 9 


help ! ! ! 
my wife has informed me that she wants a for her next car. 
we live in south  . , so we are definitely in the right are for one. 
my wife has mentioned the , but i think it is too small .  . 
i would like to wait for the new ( dec .  .  93 i think) .  . 
anyone have any opinions on any all in a reasonable price range .  . 

thanx 

from ( jim grey ) 
subject re necessity of cleaning by 
organization hell 
lines 19 

in article r . writes 

in your experience , how true is it that a cleaning 
will do much more good than just using gas .  . while i 
agree that a would darken my day , how 
do they get , and is 59 a good price  ( or can i do it myself by buying 
a can of  ( what ) and doing what 


a cleaning at the is probably little more than 
them your gas , dumping in a bottle of , 
and sending you on your way 59 poorer .  . go to and buy the 
yourself for 1 . 29 .  . 

just because you you need it , do n't mean it 's necessarily so. 
be suspicious .  . 

jim grey 


from 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 
distribution usa 
lines 1 

i had the exactly same problem with my  70  . it was also from cal .  . what i did was go to the local and pick up a from a  with the same set up. it worked for me , but a little bit slow to change from to  . better than nothing ! 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution na 
lines 37 

in  ( franklinkl ) writes 

in article ,  ( james p. callison ) writes 
in article  ( dan day ) writes 
in article news . com . writes 

it 's a big business. almost no cars come from the with 
any more , and any fake job definitely came from some 
place. what amazes me is how much people are willing to pay for 
bad taste 

how about those really fake wheel stuck onto the 
or side  ( or both sides ! ) of some cars 

some of 'em are n't fake  ( if you 're talking about the , 
named after the lincoln , the first car to one) .  . i 
personally would love to have a  56 t with a 
 ( and the v 8 ) that is one of the most beautiful 
cars ever built , imho .  . 

james 


the may have been the first modern era to mount the 
spare on the of the car but it was hardly the first car to one. 
various techniques for the spare were quite common 
in early , both us and foreign .  . 

right. in the both and had two mounted in 
in the front  . of course that was back when the front 
were long enough to provide room. there were a couple of other 
that did this as well , but memory  . 

ken franklin they say there 's a heaven for people who wait 
and some say it 's better but i say it ai n't 
i 'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the 
the sinners are lots more fun , y know only the good die young 

from  ( robert seymour ) 
subject re what car is this ! 
article i.d. reed . 
reply to 
organization reed college , , or 
lines 26 

in article  ( where 's my 
thing ) writes 

i was wondering if anyone out there could enlighten me on this car i saw 
the other day. it was a 2 door sports car , looked to be from the late 
early  . it was called a  . the doors were really small .  . in 
addition , 
the front bumper was separate from the rest of the body. this is 
all i know. if anyone can a model name , engine , years 
of , where this car is made , history , or whatever info you 
have on this looking car , please e mail .  . 

were in the with from  . they are rather 
odd looking with the front bumper .  . there are n't a lot of them around , 
but  ( motor news ) has ten or so listed .  . basically , they are a 
with new on top .  . 

brought to you by your neighborhood 

rush fan 


robert 
physics and philosophy , reed college  ( nextmail accepted ) 
artificial life project reed college 
reed energy project  ( soltrain ) , or 

organization penn state university 
from 
subject us made m b 
lines 10 

mercedes yesterday its plans to begin building utility 
in the us by 1997. they are targeted at the grand 
et al. and will sell for less than 30 , 000 .  . 

did anyone see a picture is it the g  ( gelaendewagen ) currently 
available in europe  ( and in the us by grey market ) or is it an entirely new 
any details would be appreciated. 

dick 
applied research , penn state 

from  ( mart molle ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
lines 36 

 ( charles parr ) writes 

my top 10 list of concepts ever 

9. back up on they 're on the sides of the car ! 

sure would be interested to know what  ( year(s ) this was ! 
i do n't seem to recall any car with back up on the sides , much 
less any  . i suppose i could be mis interpreting what you are 
trying to say here .  .  .  .  .  . 

just a quick comment. mounted on the side 
would actually be extremely useful for people backing out of 
 .  .  . 

while i ca n't think of any with side mounted , 
i know that started using them about 15 years ago. my 
did n't have them , but a friend 's certainly did. in addition 
to the tail light mounted , they had another 
set integrated into the front turn signal assembly .  . for those of you who 
do n't remember , of that had an enormous plastic 
growth , about the size of a national magazine , out 
of the front , which incorporated , side 
, white  ( like american 
cars ) aimed towards the side of the road when you have your turn 
on , and white aimed towards the back of the car when you 
have reverse gear .  . the showed how these front 
mounted were useful for  ( pot holes , kid 's 
, etc ) that would be run over by the front of the car if you had the 
turned while backing up. 

l. 
computer systems research institute 
university of 
, canada 
 ( 416)978 ) 

from  ( john r. daker ) 
subject 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 9 
reply to  ( john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


has anybody noticed that has an for horrible 
station , ,  . have their no 
aesthetic sense at all 


the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal 

from  ( richard welty ) 
subject rec . the rec . archive server 
keywords monthly posting 
reply to 
organization new york state institute for studies 
lines 10 

archive name rec 

the articles archive server 

the archive server is in the process of being , 
and is presently not available. 

richard 
good has ever been reported about the full of 
a race car about either its pitch or roll   smith 

from  ( malcolm g. costello ) 
subject re on info wanted 
reply to  ( malcolm g. costello ) 
distribution usa 
organization division , , , md 
lines 28 

in rec . ,  ( dennis schloeman ) writes 
to repost this again so soon , but 
information from my earlier post was 
from our system. 

xi am looking for information concerning 
x on for  . 
company here does it using 
they 've only been around for 9 months 
there 's not much of a track record here. 
the on any good how 
do they hold up over the years any 
would be appreciated. 
x 
 . 
x 

do you have a in your area they 've offered 
on around here for several years. if you do , see what 
kind of a they have. ( unfortunately , i do n't know anyone 
who has gotten one so i ca n't help you there . ) . also ask if they 
can give you a list of references .  . 

code 65 . 1 .  ( formerly 
david model , division  . 
, md phone  ( 301 ) ( 



from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re too fast 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 9 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) writes 
there may be a case where a speed limit sign is not necessary. but take 
them away entirely 

yeah , you 're right. doing away with speed limits would just 
mean huge tax increases as tried to make up for the 
they used to from passing  . 



from  ( jacques w brouillette ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
keywords , , danger 

could we cease this discussion. i fail to see why people feel the need 
to upon this issue for days and days on end. these areas are not meant for this type of discussion. if you feel the need to do such things , please 
take your thought elsewhere. thanks. 

i want only two things from this world , a and a small 
nation with which to it. this would be a good and just 
thing. car can just go home and  . 
manufacturing engineering 

from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 57 

in article  ( demosthenis a. zeppos ) writes 
in article , (j 
on cochran ) writes 
i 'd like to add the as a car which will kick r butt 
, and it 's a lot to 

comparing the and is apples to oranges , somewhat like a 5 . 0 . 
and a , both have very different ways of doing things and ought to 
appeal to different , i.e. , i do n't think an owner would 
be seen dead in a or vice  . 

stuff deleted 

are all , not to mention that the rides alot better than 

no i have seen comes with all  . 
the does come with much bigger 16  . 

along with the , and the car does that with small 14 that 
your times also vary , magazine to magazine 
road track and car have the r at 6 . 8 . to 8 . 0 . for road and track .  . 

the c d are almost certainly bogus and based on a hot 
by  . the mt are more plausible .  . 

also times vary from 15 . 4 . to 16 . 1 . 
16 . 1 . sounds reasonable , probably than regular  . 

so , the can out handle the and it can certainly keep 
up with it in  . and the probably has a higher top 
speed due to the advantage  ( 160 117  ( hp torque ) for the 
vs. for the  . 
you always believe those exact numbers , why do n't you drive a r , and see 
for your self , while the r has a low 117 , its high over a 

the is horrible for day to day driving. it needs a 6 speed 
box more than any other modern car. essentially in a 
equals 4th in the , and the regular are very at speed .  . 

make up for the difference  ( still would n't call it a though ! ) 

considering you save almost 3 , 000 dollars for the , and the 
is a reliable engine , it does n't make sense to get the as a 

the only person i knew with a had it bought back by as a  . it 
was a of junk , but very quick for  . 

quad 4 reliable , yeah , what 's your definition of reliable if that 's reliable , 
then its safe to say that in general are near perfect 

the only owner i know had the engine a with less than 
, a rare up by  . 
both the and are flawed cars .  . the would take 
the and the would be the  . 


craig 

from  ( allen tobias ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host com . 
organization computer corporation , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 24 

in article ( ) writes 
this happened about a year ago on the washington  . 
kids decided it would be really cool to 
huge down on cars from an  . four or five 
cars were hit .  . there were several serious , and sadly 
a small girl sitting in the front of one of them was 
in the head by one of the larger  . i do n't recall if she 
made it , but i think she was for a month or so and 
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live. 

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours i 
can see of off of and such , but 
20 ! has our society really this low 



society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the ! the basic reason 
is that human life has been to the point were killing someone is 
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on acts on tv , we can abort 
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised 
when some kids drop 20 and kill people. they do n't care because the 
message they hear is life is cheap ! 

at 

from  ( gerrit conradie ) 
subject re is car important 
organization university of , sa 
lines 25 

in article  ( trevor corkum ) writes 
subject is car important 
i was recently through the 1993 aid new 
car guide .  . what i found was a car would be given a  recommended  
under the picture while a few sentences later how a 
and were virtually guaranteed to be killed 
in a front end  . the most highly recommended small 
car  ( the civic ) has the worst crash of all of the small 
cars listed .  . there were many such cases of  great  
where you would n't survive an accident. is it only me , or is 
safety not one of the most important factors when buying a car 


definitely ! 

safety is an important for me when buying a car. i wo n't buy a 
small car like a or whatever. 

great safety handling speed for me 

seems to me that you would be more dead in a small car than a large car 
after an accident. 




from 
subject third party car ... 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 32 


since this posting , i 've received no replies or followups , so i'm posting 
here for the i did n't get in rec . car . 

article number 
newsgroups rec . car . 
path ! com . ! 
from 
subject third party car ... 
message id 
sender 
organization at t 
distribution na 
date tue , 13 apr 1993 20 23 33 gmt 

i recently saw a particular third party on a new  ( not mine , 
but it caught my interest ) and a new  . it seems to replace the 
power and is about a foot long made of plastic  . i 
have seen them on quite a few cars , but i ca n't find anything more about 
them in previous r . a . c . articles nor in r . a . articles .  . 

i 'd like to know all i can , so any is greatly appreciated. 


mom , we 're ! bud why tell me 



mail to 
which eventually up in 
! 


from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re too fast 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 53 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( james p. callison ) says 

in article  ( andrew a. spencer ) writes 

in a previous article ,  ( wharfie ) says 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
larger engine. that 's what the is a slightly modified family 
with a powerful engine. they did n't even bother improving the 
 . 

that shows how much you know about anything. the on the 
are very different 9  ( or 9 . 5 . i forget ) all around , 
in front .  . the normal setup is  ( smaller ) front , 
drums  . 

one i saw had too .  .  . it . was on a lot. 
of course , the sales man was a fool .  .  .  .  .  . yeah . , right .  .  . 
then later told me they were  .  . more . , but still 
crap , since al is so m , and just as good .  .  .  .  . 

i tend to agree , tho that this still does n't take the up to standard 
for running 130 on a regular basis. the should be bigger , like 
11 or so .  .  . take . a look at the ones on the they have 
 . 

well , let 's see .  .  . my . t has a computer controlled 
, 4 wheel  ( 11 front , 10 ( ) rear ) , 3 point 
, , good enough for 
without too much change , 310 3 . , 
4 wheel independent  ( plus limited slip differential ) , with 
a top speed in excess of , and rides on v rated (i have yet 
to find 60 in any other speed  . 

is that up to standard if not , why not 

james 

james , i really hate to do this , but try reading the damn posts ! 
never was a t mentioned. the discussion was about 's and 
 not being up to  . i do not know about  . i 
only know that the quoted for the by previous poster 
a little for me to say that it was up to  . this does not 
in any way me from wishing to own one , nor does it make it 
a bad car. it merely means that i think could have added that extra 
bit of safety and in larger , as the are plenty large 
enough for them to fit  ( if memory serves right , which it may very well not ) 
and the plenty powerful enough to need it. 


c 


from  ( where 's my thing ) 
subject what car is this ! 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 15 

i was wondering if anyone out there could enlighten me on this car i saw 
the other day. it was a 2 door sports car , looked to be from the late 
early  . it was called a  . the doors were really small .  . in addition , 
the front bumper was separate from the rest of the body. this is 
all i know. if anyone can a model name , engine , years 
of , where this car is made , history , or whatever info you 
have on this looking car , please e mail .  . 

thanks , 
il 
brought to you by your neighborhood 





from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 40 

in article  ( joe karolchik ) writes 
(i deleted your name because i do n't want to sound in my remark ) 

on another , on my way from texas to florida , i had stopped in 
a small 
for the night in a small town somewhere in florida .  . about 5 were 
my 
car , setting off the and challenging me to come out. when i and 
another 
walked out with a 357 and a 45 automatic respectively , they vanished .  . 
to say , i immediately up and left. 

watch out for car and accidents .  . they can be ! 

i'm not going to argue the issue of carrying weapons , but i would ask you if 
you would have thought seriously about shooting a kid for setting off your 
i can think of worse things in the world. glad you got out of there 
before they did anything to give you a reason to fire your gun. 

if i hear someone screwing with my car  ( ie , setting off the alarm ) and 
me to come out , you can be damn sure that my colt delta 
will also be coming with me. it 's not the screwing with the car that 'd 
get them shot , it 's the potential physical danger .  . if they 're 
like that , it 's very possible that they also intend to rob 
me and or do other physically harmful things. 

if they 're just screwing around , no harm done. if they 're on 
, they will receive the for their lead a 
 . injection  .  . there . 's no telling what today 's violent 
criminals will do. death may be the most pleasant outcome .  .  .  . 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( wharfie ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
distribution usa 
organization , inc. , austin , texas , usa 
lines 12 

in article  ( zauberer ) writes 
i guess i was n't clear enough here. i said the roads were designed for 
of 80 or so and still be safe .  . the current 55 65 will add a 
margin .  . 

they were designed for of of 80 i forget the 
exact but for military  . that 's 80 in a dodge 
 . not 80 in a 1993  . 





from  ( daryl biberdorf ) 
subject re 
organization texas a m university , college station 
lines 19 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 

in article writes 
i just visited the ny show , and saw two cars on the eagle 
vision and dodge  . 
at a price .  . ... 

unfortunately , the is quite  . on both cars , 
the seals around the and door off. it turns out 
the seals are just big  . it goes on just by 


through a single data point , you can draw any line you want. 
dr. s. , professor , texas a m dept. of computer science 


both my 's late model and my father 's 1987 stanza 
have demonstrated the falling door seals problem. 

d 


from  ( tim bigham ) 
subject re advice on and driving 
reply to 
organization brothers , inc. 
lines 26 

this past i from to , vt 6 or 7 times in my 
1990  ( talk about poor reputation in the ! ! ) 
with an excellent set of  . i put 4 on in dec .  . and have been 
sure in some pretty severe conditions ever since. i 've through 
4 5 covered roads , while other cars have been 
 ( front wheel drive  . 

concentrate more on where the the road rather than of cars 
in conditions .  . drive carefully , buy good , and most cars will perform 
adequately in less than ideal conditions .  . 

an aside 
i ca n't praise enough. absolutely the best i have ever 
driven on. if you live in the belt , do yourself a favor and get a set of these 
next  . 


tim 



timothy j. all opinions expressed above are my own 
brothers , inc. and should not be construed as those of 
, world financial center my employer .  . 
new york , n . y .  . 


from  ( michael t chaffee ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 21 

 ( eliot ) writes 

in article w o email  ( eric youngblood ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael j. edelman ) writes 
the big of is the 10 they that never 
gets to the  . in this respect they are at a to a manual .  . 

only when the is not locked up. there are out there 
with lock up in 2nd , 3rd and 4th  . 

w r t , is purely irrelevant .  . the only 
occurs at light and serves only to improve  . mind you , 
a does a job of improving , but the additional 
advantage of the gives you more  . locked 
clutch ) than its inherent losses take away. 


michael t. 
email 

 . sig . under construction. excuse 

from  ( chris barrus ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host ps . edu . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 02 42 46 gmt 
organization dept. of physics , univ .  . of california , 
lines 15 


unfortunately , i 've got another story to add to this. my 
and i were driving through west l . a .  . , and got by a just as 
we were away from a  . the scary thing was that the 
was heavy enough to put a decent in the door of my  72 
which is pretty much solid iron .  . couple of 
higher and it would have gone through the  . 

chris 


chris 
, peace through superior power ! 
sacred make the best hoffman 


from 
subject any or owners out there 
lines 4 

i want to start of list for and owners .  . if you are interested 
in , please contact me via e mail .  . 



from  ( joni ciarletta ) 
subject master 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 10 
distribution world 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 


thanks to everyone who responded to my break question. 
it does seem that the master is bad. i will have my 
mechanic double check and be sure it is n't something simpler 
and first , but from your responses it sounds like it 
is very likely to be the master  . 

thanks everyone ! ! 



from  ( mark g. salyzyn ) 
subject re do it yourself front end possible 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution na 
organization systems inc. 
lines 44 

 ( david . de leon ) writes 

in article  ( steven selick ) writes 
i 've got an 86 colt that i 'd like to do a front end 
on. is it possible to do without all of the fancy the 
pros have how 
steve 
no . no . no . no .  . 
if you do so , you are putting the lives of others on the road at consider 
able risk. why do you think mechanics are anyway you put 
it , you need those fancy  .  .  . 

, right , you want all the home mechanics up against a and 
shot eh 

bull you ! read the service manual and get your head out of the 
sand ! certainly there are tools for the job that are than an 
, that do the job as  ( albeit , not as swiftly ) , if not 
more accurate , due to the natural pride an owner mechanic places on his work. 
you can do an  job of a car using simple tools and 
some imaginative work that would never have the effect of 
life. the worst that happens is that your wear  ( well , 
you could have the totally and not be able 
to the car , raise your hands those that think their vision is 
so poor that they would up this ! ) 

i bet you are one of those people that that a 
with sand paper will kill millions of people. it magic .  . go take the 
course , and look at the people that have never learned to add 
in their whole life that are taking the ! 

btw , i am at the colt  ( and some of the other offerings ) 
because they go out of if you at them. my  
laser  ( similar to the , a colt ) needed a every 
3 months ... a good grade 12  to each wheel , using a carefully 
 . measure toe in , to  . a bit more 
difficult to and measure ... i used a to measure the 
space between the and a up that could be placed on 
and lower portions of the on the inside of wheel  ( hard to  . 
this same tool could be used instead of the  . i had made these tools up 
right after the last done professionally so i had a reference that 
the original poster might not ... 

ciao mark 

from  ( eliot ) 
subject re manual shift bigots 
organization clearer than 
lines 20 
nntp posting host engr . washington . edu . 

in article  ( michael t chaffee ) writes 
w r t , is purely irrelevant .  . the only 
occurs at light and serves only to improve  . mind you , 
a does a job of improving , but the additional 
advantage of the gives you more  . locked 
clutch ) than its inherent losses take away. 

the in my car contradicts both your assertions .  .  . i get much 
stronger if i let the  .  . which i can 
by lifting off , then quickly  ( but not too quickly to 
a kickdown ) applying  . above 3000 , the will never 
it would first. 

who says there 's no involved in driving an automatic i think 
of it as the and combined into a single  . with 
my car i can pretty much influence its shifting patterns with my 
right foot , while having both hands to  . 




subject curious about you 
from alice ruth 
organization penn state university 
lines 20 

please my curiosity .  . i'm interested in finding out who is using the 
e mail system. please do not flood me with mail after april 21st .  . thanks ! 
alice ruth or 

1. are you male or female 

2. how long have you been using the e mail system 

3. how do you have access  ( at work , at school , etc ) 

4. who taught you how to use the system is that person male or female 

5. have you helped anyone to learn the system was that  ( person(s ) male or 
female 

6. which net did you find my questions on 

7. which other are you interested in 

8. how often do you read post to the system 

from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject re top 10 reasons why i love  ( not for the humor impaired ) 
distribution na 
organization corp .  . 
lines 21 

in article  ( james p. callison ) writes 
no. at years , you are the end of the design life of the 
, when everything should be breaking .  . at that point , the 
driving make more difference than the actual reliability 
of the , so the data becomes unreliable for drawing conclusions , 

bad driving can damage a car in a couple of months , not 6 years. 

if that were not the case , everyone would be driving re  .  .  . 

and while you are considering things  ( factors in stat terms ) , how about 
city vs. driving , owner vs. service , extreme 
or environment , adherence (sp ) to , whether the car 
has ever been in an accident , number of different drivers of the same car 
in a family , whether the car is , up , ... 




software technology ,  ( 317 ) 
, , in a different kind of disclaimer 

from  ( michael a. davis ) 
subject slick 50 , any good 
organization university of virginia 
lines 9 


chances are that this has been discussed to death already , and 
if so could someone who has kept the discussion mail me or direct me 
to an archive site. basically , 
i am just wondering if slick 50 really does all it says that it does. 
and also , is there any data to support the claim .  . thanks for any info .  . 

mike davis 


from  ( roland , crab ) 
subject re what is 
reply to 
organization computer services 
lines 46 

in article ,  ( mark perry ) writes 
hardly a good reason , most us cars do too and plenty of people 
buy them  ( in the us anyway ) .  . i think the is quite a good 
looking car unlike the us 740 ! 



i do n't think it 's so easy to tell the from any other 7 or 9 series unless 
you look real close. i really do think 's are all dogs though they 
are 1 . 

while previous volvos have been essentially very fast , the 3 , 4 and 8 series 
are far from   in design or execution  ( how many have you 
seen ) .  . 

2 . have . than thou  . 

you state this like it is a bad thing. )  ( remember , car use 
ad they do n't do their own ! ) 

3 . are . part of  . 

is this true i know that they had done with , but i have n't 
heard about their into does this mean that the french government 
now owns anyway , makes some very nice cars , they just do n't sell 
'em in n .  . america ! 


however .  .  .  . one thing that i do think is in their favour is that they are 
immediately as a and that is not something you can say 
about most japanese and  . also have a strong 
look which like it or not is what i thing all car makers could aim for to 
make life a little more  . 

here ! here ! 












from  ( doug chamberlain ) 
subject re v. 
organization corporation , , al 
lines 42 

writes 

hi all , 
brand new to the group , so please , no flames ! 

honest opinions on country  ( not sport ) v.  . 

my , who every major decision up to four months after 
making it , is looking at one of the two .  . also , please comment on the 
importance , if any , between and  . we live in princeton , nj and 
will barely ever take it off road. we learned with this last that 
we could really use something with a little more in 20 of 
than an eight ! ! 

all replies  .  . he 'll be this for a while. he 's already 
decided on 6  . over 4 , so do n't worry about that one .  .  . 

thanks ! 

steve 

i own a new , i really love it ! 
i the and besides the power i just did n't see 
spending the money for it ! the was great but i just 
love the ! i have a and i got through the 
of 93 just fine ! i about 400 in the worst part of 
storm and it never ! my own opinion 
doug i 















from  ( charles wilson ) 
subject re experience opinions sought , 
article i.d. sail . 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 42 

in article writes 
apologies if this is a faq  ( is there a faq posting for this group i 
am an reader of rec . , so i ca n't  . 

i am in the market for a used , and have observed that 
for models with run about 1000 2000 less than 
comparable models with a gas engine. 

there has to be a reason for this. 

yes , there is consumer confusion. in the early 80 's with the 
crisis , etc. , everyone wanted better mileage .  . 
was the available and usually provides better mileage 
than comparable  . so , decided to their 
gas engine into a engine (i think was a 5.7  . big 
mistake. the engine was not , but converted .  . the engine 
could not handle the higher , etc. lots of problems with 
these cars .  . this up a big red flag to the casual observer 
t buy a  . they are bad. this was a gross generalization .  . 

ask yourself this question if your on driving , 
lots of it , would you use a or  ( but 
in the short run ) what do have in them 
even train are these 
no , they are  . provide a 
, 000 with they  . 

i own an  . the 6 . is a great engine. 
just keeps going .  . it was more expensive  ( when new ) than the 
engine was. the only problem with is that 
when they need to be , they are expensive .  . in a gas 
engine , you will pay about 1000 for a  . 6 . is about 
2000 .  . but then again , the engine about twice as long 
and gets about 50 better mileage .  . a for a engine 
costs about 100 to  ( or  . a of the injection 
on a will cost about  ( or  . but then again , 
you never need a tune up. 

if you 're looking at a 6 . , i 'd say you got a great deal. 
check to see if the injection was also. 

good luck. 

from  ( harv r laser ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 


lines 25 


no. reverse are to warn others that you are backing up. they 
are n't bright enough to  ( typically ) see by without the and tail 
 . 


craig 

perhaps instead of this silly argument about what 
are for , could n't we agree that they serve the dual purpose of 
letting people behind your car know that you have it in reverse 
and that they can also light up the area behind your car while 
you 're backing up so you can see 

on current models are much than they used 
to be on older cars .  . those on my are quite bright 
enough to a good area behind the car , and they 're 
much than those on my earlier cars from the and  . 

as having side , look at a  or  93 
model  ( or perhaps a year or two earlier too) and you 'll see 
red side and white side both near the 
car 's  . those are n't just white  . 



from  ( diane x2617 ) 
subject re wife wants 
organization allen co .  . 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

 ( keith p7625 ) writes 


help ! ! ! 
my wife has informed me that she wants a for her next car. 

 ( jeff perry ) writes 

, just last week the show week gave the results of what they 
thought were the best cars for  . in the category , the 
del achieved this honor .  . 

the one down side i see with the car is its , it looks 
and dull .  . 

i own a del and i must for the  . i really looks when 
the top is off. i looks a lot better in person than on the television .  . (i saw 
that as well. to say i was smiling a bit by the time it 
was over  .  .  . ) . ) 

watch out for that tan tho .  .  .  . 




from edu .  ( darren r daubenspeck ) 
subject re dodge experiences 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 12 
distribution usa 
reply to edu .  ( darren r daubenspeck ) 
nntp posting host rose . edu . 


they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next 
year with all new models .  . 


junk they 've made the c d lists for years due to their excellent handling and 
 . they have been around since about , oh , 85 or 86 , so they 're not 
the on the lot , and mileage is about five to eight under the class 
leader. you can get into a 3 . 0 . l v 6  ( 141 hp ) for 10  ( the i 4 
a bit more ) , and a for 14  . 



from  ( robert william fusi ) 
subject re too fast 
organization university 
lines 13 

in article ,  ( andrew klossner ) 



can i ask. have any of you been at the speed of 130 it 's a 
rush .  . 

so is cocaine .  . what 's your point 

andrew 

yeah , and the cop could n't me .  .  .  .  .  . 


from  ( john d. mooney ) 
subject re anti theft devices 
organization corp .  . 
lines 36 
originator 


in article ,  ( bob haar ) writes 
in article ,  ( john d. mooney ) writes 

someone writes 

btw , somebody stole the front off my up 
a few weeks ago ! i could n't believe it. i'm just driving around 
without it now. 

years ago , my brother lived in a rough area .  .  .  .  . he left his 
on the street in front of his house for a few days .  .  .  .  .  . 
one day he went to move it back into the , it would n't start .  .  .  .  . 

seems some fool needed a gas  .  .  .  .  . the fool found 
one under my brothers car. 


the in are quite easy to remove without entering the car 
or even the engine  . how would you like to find that 
your car would n't start because the engine was stolen 


i would feel a hell of a lot poorer .  .  .  . a gas is about 
50 in a  . an engine .  .  .  . more ! 

seriously though , my other brother , , left his on the same 
street .  .  .  . someone stole the out of it .  .  .  .  . try finding a 
in a ) i dare you ! 




john d general 

opinions expressed are mine .  .  .  . not necessarily de 's or 's 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution na 
lines 21 

in  ( dan day ) writes 

in article  ( james p. callison ) writes 
in article  ( dan day ) writes 

how about those really fake wheel stuck onto the 
or side  ( or both sides ! ) of some cars 

some of 'em are n't fake  ( if you 're talking about the , 
named after the lincoln , the first car to one) .  . i 
personally would love to have a  56 t with a 
 ( and the v 8 ) that is one of the most beautiful 
cars ever built , imho .  . 

i 'd go for a  39 lincoln if i could find one. sad part is 
that designed it , and look at the abortion they named after 
him. ai n't no justice. 


okay , i 'll admit it looks nice on the t  ( as a previous owner 
of and , i'm biased  . 

from  ( jonathan bruce hacker ) 
subject re air without 
article i.d. gap . 
distribution usa 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 39 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( mark monninger ) writes 

in article 
 ( chris behanna ) writes 
... 
several already have come up with several for 
 . you do n't hear about them because the air 
society 
 ( macs ) , that is , the people who stand to in that to 1000 per 
per automobile , have mounted an organized campaign to 
those 
out of existence if not ban them  ( on very 
shaky 
technical grounds , at best , on outright lies at  . 
... 

now , i'm not saying you 're wrong because i know that the r 12 
exist , but this sounds a lot like the that the oil 
keep us all from getting .  . 

these exist , and at this time are available. its the future 
that is in doubt. 

1 ) 12 

get it from people 's supply 


2 ) 

you can mix this yourself so no one can ever it away. 
just make sure you use good quality  ( dry )  . 


i do n't know of any ) 

jon hacker get the 2 2 . 1 . march 
caltech , pasadena ca for 20 call 1 3 ibm 
caltech . edu . read about it in 

from  ( mark sunsoft ) 
subject re 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 6 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host corp . sun . com . 


i was following an example of the the other day , and noticed the fit 
between the and the bumper .  . the gap was quite small on 
the left side , but much larger on the right. blech ! ! ! 

mark 

from  ( robert j. dilmore ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
lines 27 
nntp posting host com . 
organization research , inc. 

in article  ( barak h. tulin ) writes 
i just started reading this thread today , so forgive me if it has already been 
mentioned. but .  .  . what . was the deal with 's putting the on the 
left hand turn signal it was a on the end , where the 
would be on the  . could the not figure 
out the through the wheel , or what 

well , before we start calling the engineering folks in france a bunch of 
for this .  .  .  . 
my had this feature .  . this was not the earlier 
german variant but the newer one that was identical to the of 
current fame .  . i ca n't tell you how many times this feature me off. 
come to think of it my brothers had this as well. 

robert 



going back to an earlier thread , imagine having to turn left , shift , 
a in the with your left hand high beam on 
the , and , after the would n't move , having to the 
on the left hand ! gives me the  . 






from  ( chris williams ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization government of ontario 
lines 

in  ( vlasis theodore ) writes 

 ( allen tobias ) writes 

in article ( 
this happened about a year ago on the washington  . 
kids decided it would be really cool to 
huge down on cars from an  . four or five 
cars were hit .  . there were several serious , and sadly 
a small girl sitting in the front of one of them was 
in the head by one of the larger  . i do n't recall if she 
made it , but i think she was for a month or so and 
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live. 

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours i 
can see of off of and such , but 
20 ! has our society really this low 



society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the ! the basic reason 
is that human life has been to the point were killing someone is 
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on acts on tv , we can abort 
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised 
when some kids drop 20 and kill people. they do n't care because the 
message they hear is life is cheap ! 

at 

well people or , 
only the us is experiencing the of human life  ( among 
developed  . 

i am an american but i was raised in europe , where the worst thing that 
can happen to somebody is get his car broken into , or have his 
picked by slaves or  . 

of there will be some , but extremely rare .  . 

i.e. in you can walk through any neighborhood at any time during 
the night without even worrying .  . 

in germany , you can walk the at 4 . 00 . am and not even look 
behind your back , at the sanitation that clean the streets to a 
 . 

whoever of you have been there you know what i am saying. 

i dont have any easy answers but if we as a nation do some 
we might get somewhere. 

of course these postings sould be in soc . culture . us . but if we reduce 
crime here it 'll mean less car , thus we could spend 
more money on our cars .  .  ( now my posting is rec . tech . 
 . 

theodore 


software engineer 
communications .  . 

sig under development ... 

i remember this happening on the i 75 through michigan and ohio several 
years back .  . a group of guys in an old would end a car , 
usually out of state or  . you stop and they smack you with a bb 
 . at least they did n't kill you for the sake of a car. 
i think the cops put out and this down for a while. 

, are you safe walking through germany if you are a 

from  ( fred w. bach ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization tri university 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ca . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( allen tobias ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article ( ) writes 
this happened about a year ago on the washington  . 
kids decided it would be really cool to 
huge down on cars from an  . four or five 
cars were hit .  . there were several serious , and sadly 
a small girl sitting in the front of one of them was 
in the head by one of the larger  . i do n't recall if she 
made it , but i think she was for a month or so and 
doctors were n't holding out hope that she 'd live. 

what the hell is happening to this great country of ours i 
can see of off of and such , but 
20 ! has our society really this low 

yes. nobody is watching them. if they get caught , there is no punishment 
at all. in the old days such behaviour would be rewarded with a 
with a good belt , and then taken into some hospital to see first hand 
what kind of damage such accidents cause. of course this does n't happen 
any more. that would probably save the kid 's life by teaching 
him some respect for others. a person with that little respect would 
inevitably wind up dead early anyway. 

the problem is  . if you put a into hot water , 
he just out. but if you put him into cold water and then ever so 
gradually it , the will  . this is what the 
industry and lack of religious , moral , and standards in our 
modern north american society have done to us over the years. now that 
we are about to be   , we may have up too late. 




society , as we have known it , it coming apart at the ! the basic reason 
is that human life has been to the point were killing someone is 
no big deal . kid 's see hundreds on acts on tv , we can abort 
children on demand , and kill the sick and old at will. so why be surprised 
when some kids drop 20 and kill people. they do n't care because the 
message they hear is life is cheap ! 

and the education system and the religious leaders are n't doing much 
about it , either. with both parents working in this society , where is 
the influence at home children are everywhere ! 
and these kids can watch whatever and listen to 
whatever violent hate promoting music and they like because no 
one is home to stop it. 

this day and age , when there is about 100 times more things to learn 
than when i went to school , our answer to this increased knowledge is 
school hours and more time ! i say keep the kids in 
school longer , feed them good food and teach them something , and when 
they get home , have a parent there to interact and them. there 
is a very old and now forgotten a child left on his own will 
bring a parent to grief .  . systems are not the answer. this is 
just shifting the parents  own off on someone else to 
whom it 's not a life long , but rather just a job. 



at 

followups should go to alt . parents . 


fred w. , group internet 
 ( tri university facility ) voice 
, campus fax 
university of british , vancouver , b.c. , canada 

these are my opinions , which should only make you read , think , and question. 
they do not necessarily reflect the views of my employer or fellow workers .  . 

from  ( ian boyle ) 
subject re what is 
organization bnr europe ltd .  . 
lines 20 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host bnr . co . uk . 

and all of these cars are driven fairly hard. none of them are at the head of 
a line of cars going 30  .  .  . the . first two spend a lot of their operating 
life with the  .  . and . the only reason the does n't is it has 
a 120  .  .  . 
what i want to know is .  .  .  . have . all you people who hate volvos been 
by someone in a blowing you away on the road , or what 

740 in uk was good for  . useful for blowing away , though i 
believe the better. 

i can say without any doubt that i have never been blown away by any , ever. 
i 've been into a few car parks though by shit head owners who  only thought they 'd be a few  . this does not happen with the owners of any other makes of car. 

not sure how long the small shit box volvos last too damn long .  . the worst car i ever was a  . in power , handling and ride it was of something 
from the , without the character. the only ceased a couple of years back .  . i 've only been a in the big volvos , but that was enough. i ought to go 
for a test drive because they offer some neat  . 





from  ( barryb ) 
subject re dodge experiences 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization western washington university 
lines 25 

edu .  ( darren r daubenspeck ) writes 

they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next 
year with all new models .  . 

junk they 've made the c d lists for years due to their excellent handling and 
they . have been around since about , oh , 85 or 86 , so they 're not 
the on the lot , and mileage is about five to eight under the class 
leader. you can get into a 3 . 0 . l v 6  ( 141 hp ) for 10  ( the i 4 
a bit more ) , and a for 14  . 

how can car be any good that has 

s n a c 
u d n e 

written on the back with letters as if a 2 year old had 
written it ! 

 ( about as silly as 's to make the label on the back 
of some of their other cars appear like they are mercedes . ) . 

sorry , i could n't resist .  .  .  . 



from  ( zauberer ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university 

can we please stick to . thank you. 
lines 1 



from  ( alex rosser ) 
subject re what is 
article i.d. gap . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 27 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( stephen wolfson ) writes 

in article 
 ( oep ) writes 
which turns into a car when it gets old .  . the average 
of 
a in norway is 18 years , and in 20 years ) 

of course someone pointed out when or was running their 
at least 10 years , that the average was 
less than than the us average .  . 

that my be , but every i 've ever owned has lasted far longer than most 
other cars .  .  .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . , 000 , still on the road. 
 .  .  . , 000 , still on the road. 
1984  .  .  . , 000 , still on the road. 
and i 'll admit , the cost is high. but with some 
of your own , and finding a good mechanic , you can avoid most 
, and make the rest  ( cheap(the sum total of the on the car with 
, 000 has been 2 and a  .  . bad  . 
and all of these cars are driven fairly hard. none of them are at the head of 
a line of cars going 30  .  .  . the . first two spend a lot of their operating 
life with the  .  . and . the only reason the does n't is it has 
a 120  .  .  . 
what i want to know is .  .  .  . have . all you people who hate volvos been 
by someone in a blowing you away on the road , or what 

from  ( kumaravel natarajan ) 
subject re water in of 89 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , group 
lines 39 

 ( james long) writes 

in article 
 ( tommy szeto ) writes 
water gradually up in the of my friend 's 89  . every 
once in a while we would have to remove the spare and out the water 
under the cover on the  . i would guess this usually 
happens 
after a good storm .  . a few 

1 ) is this a common problem 
2 ) where are the holes for the 

i noticed this is my  89 also , when recently cleaning out the back .  . i 
think the water is coming up through some holes beneath the 
spare .  . mine looked slightly , and there was no water or water damage above 
the level of the spare area. 

this has taken a low priority since i just found out  ( while my tires ) 
that i have a ! ! 

i 've got an 89  . it has the assembly .  . i think this is where 
the water is getting in. when i first got it  ( had it for a month ) , one of the 
up with  . i took it in to the and they replaced 
the entire assembly .  . it happened to the other one about 3 months later. this time 
i happened to look in the spare well and noticed water standing in there. the 
was more reluctant this time to replace it. but i convinced them to 
fix it.  ( they must have had to deal with a number of other with the same 
problem . ) . i have n't noticed water in the  ( or the trunk ) for the last 2.5 
years , but just last month , the just up again. i'm going to try 
to take it back to get them to fix it again. i'm real tempted to some 
and holes in the and of the assembly and forget about it. this is 
getting very annoying.  ( almost every other i 've seen has had this problem . ) . 




motorola , arlington il 


from  ( bill c hutton ) 
subject car cover for sale 
organization company 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 19 




for sale 

car cover specifically for  91  , ,  93 mr 2. 

top of the line evolution 3 tm fabric .  . used for less than 6 months. 
the cover is in excellent condition no , cuts , or other 
 . it has for a locking  . the color is silver .  . 

price 90 f . o . b .  . will 


please contact 

or phone at 

after 6 

from  ( zauberer ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university 
distribution usa 
lines 5 

sorry about that last post , my server to send the message 

can we please keep this group to topics. thank you. 



from  ( jwg ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 17 50 gmt 
organization u  . organization . 

lines 21 

in article  ( brian harvey ) writes 

 ( robbie felix ) writes 
how about the thousands of kind who at local 
to help children , , the homeless 

hear , hear ! thanks ,  . 

you also do n't read that much about violence against , such as 
george bush alive tens of thousands of unarmed iraqi 17 year , 
who were trying to surrender , with  . 


i did n't know george bush could drive a  . 



ripe .  . 

jim grey 


from  ( franklinkl ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
summary the first do n't think so ! 
distribution na 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( james p. callison ) writes 
in article  ( dan day ) writes 
in article news . com . writes 

it 's a big business. almost no cars come from the with 
any more , and any fake job definitely came from some 
place. what amazes me is how much people are willing to pay for 
bad taste 

how about those really fake wheel stuck onto the 
or side  ( or both sides ! ) of some cars 

some of 'em are n't fake  ( if you 're talking about the , 
named after the lincoln , the first car to one) .  . i 
personally would love to have a  56 t with a 
 ( and the v 8 ) that is one of the most beautiful 
cars ever built , imho .  . 

james 


the may have been the first modern era to mount the 
spare on the of the car but it was hardly the first car to one. 
various techniques for the spare were quite common 
in early , both us and foreign .  . 

ken franklin they say there 's a heaven for people who wait 
and some say it 's better but i say it ai n't 
i 'd rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the 
the sinners are lots more fun , y know only the good die young 

from  ( jim frost ) 
subject re too fast 
organization software , inc. 
lines 36 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 3 . 

 ( craig boyle ) writes 
the quality of is something of a myth .  . the road surface 
is n't much different to a typical tx  . they are better 
in terms of , safety , signs , etc. 

they light the in texas funny , everywhere else i 've been 
they only light 'em at  . 

i wo n't even get into how much road vary between states and 
except to say that there are some areas where are 
essentially  . 

than most of the roads here. a in the that you test your 
shocks on at 60 will kill you at 130 .  . do n't get me wrong , i love to 

it would have to be quite severe .  . i do n't recall any us , 
without road damage warnings , that i would regard as 
at 130 in any decent , well car. 

i suspect you have very limited experience us vary 
, particularly between states. i can name a number of 
in various parts of the country where 130 would be 
very in any car. 

i'm not sure what you call quite severe in terms of road deviations 
but i suspect every single on through ct would be 
considered so. they 're hard to take at  . that 's not the only 
i 've seen with such deviations , but it 's one i drive 
frequently .  . 

texas is pretty much an case you ca n't assume that everywhere 
has roads in such good condition , such flat , and such 
wide open  . it just ai n't so. 

jim 


from  ( vlasis theodore ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization bbs , , florida 
lines 20 

 ( robert neilson ) writes 

sorry for the 0 content , but ... 

that is why low citizens should have the power to protect 
and their property using force if necessary anywhere a threat is 
imminent .  . 

steve 

you do have the power steve .  . you can do it. why do n't you why do n't you 
go shoot some kids who are onto cars make sure you do a good 
job though do n't miss  cause like they have big and take it from 
me those kids are mean. 

, 

i you dont do it yourself nobody , will. 
unless i am behind you , so both of us can shoot them  . 


from  ( robert j. wade ) 
subject re 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 21 


quad 4 reliable , yeah , what 's your definition of reliable if that 's reliable , 
then its safe to say that in general are near perfect 
 ( not to mention , a hell of alot and the . has the engine 
the hands down. you can rev that car all day , everyday , 
and you 'll never blow a , or crack the block , or anything else. (i speak 
from ! ) 
i'm not saying the quad 4 is a bad engine , but do n't reliability when you 
comparing it to a engine. and while the costs alot more , it is a 

a couple of things blowing a does n't speak of engine reliability , and 
while it is true that 's have a problem with head , that was 
a design flaw in the and has been  . also i know is 
replacing head that leak for free for  . other than 
that i have found my to be completely solid and the direct 
system means no cap to ever deal with. also 
mean no ever. i'm not the engine , i just 
think you are going overboard on the  . you are quite correct 
that the engine is , although i would not say , my 
loves to rev , especially at the high end. do you have any evidence 
of blocks cracking on i have not heard of this. 

from  ( larry rogers ) 
subject re 91 manual problem 
in reply to 's message of tue , 13 apr 1993 20 50 21 gmt 
organization data general , , mass .  . 
lines 34 


i had exactly the same problem with a  . third gear would 
just  . engine would rev up. kind of  . 

i sold that car quite a few years back but the memory of that tranny 
sticks with me. it also had a in first that the 
could not fix .  . if the law had been in place then , that car 
would have been covered .  . 

i have had several jap cars since then  ( figuring the was my 
to the american companies ) , and have never seen any 
bad behavior with the exception of a with a bit of 
that they did fix on the first try. 

anyway , from that day forward , i have that i would never 
another american car with a standard. american 
do n't have a clue on how to manufacture five speed transmissions and 
have been doing the much longer and on many more cars .  . 
however , i hate , so i am still buying jap cars .  . 

not sure this is any help , but other cars do this too. 

cheers , larry 

larry 
larry big brother 
is watching 
data general 

the opinions contained are my own , and do not reflect the 
opinions of data general or anyone else , but they should .  . 

sometimes we are the , sometimes we are the bug 


from (e .  . michael smith ) 
subject re how hard to change on 
organization circle  c  , of the , california 
lines 88 

bottom line i did it and it worked .  . 

some  and techniques  are included here 

in article  ( james p. callison ) writes 
in article (e .  . michael smith ) writes 
does it take any peculiar tools to remove the from a 
this is a with front and  . 

so , with a big and an air and a jack  ( and a 
bottle jack  .  .  . ) . can i do this at home 

i found that i needed some smaller to undo the shocks .  . 
and a can of helped .  .  .  . 

the needed were  ( exact fit ) but i was able to use 
some  .  .  . 13 16 and 15 16 are rather close to 21 and  .  .  . 
it can be fun having a canadian ... 

i'm this undo u  . put a bottle jack on the 
and raise the frame to take off of the spring .  . undo 
the end  . drop the spring .  . turn the bottom  . 
re connect the spring  .  .  . 

sounds about right. 

did n't have to undo the end  . just the 2 u on 
each side and the  . up the frame some more 
 ( had to put the spare on the and put a 
on top of that to get the  jack  high enough to 
raise the frame ... i t one  .  . ) . lifted the spring 
free of the  . taking out the block gave me enough room to 
undo the pin holding the spring pack together. 

the spring pack was held together with a on top and a round head 
on the other end .  .  .  .  . no head .  .  .  . vice worked fine .  .  .  . 
i the with and it came right off. 

the bottom spring and then .  .  .  . 

is this a waiting to happen , or an easy , though physically 
demanding , thing to do 

well , it 's easier than doing a decent job on a ) 
 ( ok , well , maybe it 's not that easy , but it 's not terribly 
difficult . ) . 

i ... i'm a little more sore today than after working on a 
... 

a 1 . 5 . foot was a real help. for the u 
nuts is 150 to 200 ( ! ) .  . a does n't have that kind of 
... 

it was a  challenge  to get the  pack  back in the spring pack .  . 
pack with two hands , hold with third , put on 
with fourth while picking up and vice with 
and sixth hands ... i used some string to tie the pack together 
while holding the pin in for  .  .  . then i could let go 
to get the , , vice  .  .  . . 

getting the pin back up with the lift block was a challenge too .  .  .  . 
until i discovered that the had 1 ) and or 2 ) rolled forward .  . 

one the drivers side , a bottle jack under the front of the 
it back in line enough for the pin head to drop into the right 
hole .  . on the side , i had to the wheel into 
forward about 1 2 to get things to line up. spent more than an 
hour working on getting the pin head into the hole in the lift block 
with and and of before i took a 
break and thought about why it was n't up anymore  ( since it had 
been up before , and i did n't move it , something else must 
have ... hmmm , no longer not to move ... hmmm , move 
it back .  .  .  . hmmm .  .  . ) .  . 

after that , it was all much easier to  close  . 

btw , the ride is now , but not quite as soft as i was for. 
at least it now level .  .  . 



e. michael smith 

 whatever you can do , or dream you can , begin it. has 
genius , power and magic in it . ' . 

i am not responsible nor is anyone else. everything is disclaimed .  . 

from  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
subject re too fast 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 25 
reply to  ( andrew a. spencer ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( wharfie ) says 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
larger engine. that 's what the is a slightly modified family 
with a powerful engine. they did n't even bother improving the 
 . 

that shows how much you know about anything. the on the 
are very different 9  ( or 9 . 5 . i forget ) all around , 
in front .  . the normal setup is  ( smaller ) front , 
drums  . 

one i saw had too .  .  . it . was on a lot. 
of course , the sales man was a fool .  .  .  .  .  . yeah . , right .  .  . 
then later told me they were  .  . more . , but still 
crap , since al is so m , and just as good .  .  .  .  . 


i tend to agree , tho that this still does n't take the up to standard 
for running 130 on a regular basis. the should be bigger , like 
11 or so .  .  . take . a look at the ones on the they have 
 . 



from  ( hasit mehta ) 
subject new  94 
keywords parts 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester  ( rochester , ny ) 
lines 12 

in article 

is there such a thing as the new  94 eagle i heard from a freind that 
the new  94 have been released is this true and if so what are the 
differences between the  93 and  94 any opinions i would appreciate any 
replies and i would also prefer e mail , thanks ! 


s. 
university of rochester ! 

i do believe in , for i am the 

from  ( owings matthew ) 
subject re vs. s 10 opinions 
article i.d. 
organization western washington university 
lines 16 

if your buying a do yourself a favor and wait a few months 
for the  . are saying it is day and night over the 
current  . it 's , solid , and fast  ( 200hp 4 . 3 . v  . 
should whip the in every area too  ( accept maybe  . and always 
pick a over a  . 's are always so much better looking .  . man , i 
miss the  . 

and matt 
'87 250 type 

it 's a feeling that we all know 
and it 's an to some 
to keep the world in you 
while you try to run down the sun 

by heart .  . 

from  ( randy king ) 
subject left turn signal wo n't stop 
article i.d. 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 5 

the subject says it all. my 1984 's left turn signal does 
not stop after turning .  . what cause this to stop . is this 
a problem by the wheel . 

note this has an after market wheel  ( gt grant )  . 

from  ( dave duff ) 
subject re a new car 
organization division 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

i just had my 41  . i was told to from it and 
to leave it out in the sun ! ! supposedly this let 's the escape from 
the over a month or so (i can smell it 15 feet away on a hot day ) and 
lets any slight in the surface out , as the remains 
a little soft for a while. 

from  ( henry kon ) 
subject i'm all wet 
organization mit 
lines 8 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

my  . i 've always thought those things were a pain. 

can anyone provide any insight 

i know the is n't great .  . maybe i could the stupid thing shut .  . 




from  ( chris silvester ) 
subject re and 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 39 

in article  ( robert loper ) writes 
in article  ( james p. callison ) writes 
in article arbor . mi . us . arbor . mi . us .  ( david hwang ) writes 

i would be willing to bet that if we removed the automatic 
transmissions from all type cars  ( like the 5 . 
, , and the like ) we 'd cut down on the number of 
accidents each year .  . are fine for little , 
but they have no business in cars , imho .  . 

james 

i have to disagree with this. i have a with a and a 4 speed 
w , and it is really better that way. are 
for their long life and ability to handle amount of power. i live 
in the area , and a manual would be much harder to drive in the traffic 
here. now if i still lived out in the sticks like i used to , a manual would be 
more fun. 

i do n't know if it 's as much an issue of their to handle the 
power as it is the power they lose  ( in the ,  . 

safety wise , an is less  .  . i . would hate to have to be 
shifting while i was trying to into traffic in the here. 
wise , i can hold my own against any stock 5 . 0 . or 5 . 0 . 
w a five speed .  . 

however , if you a  93 with 5 . 6 speed manual , 
you 'll be , i'm afraid .  . ) btw , i know of what i speak as a former 
owner of a 5 .  ( 1989 ) and current owner of the 
car .  .  .  . 

chris s. 


chris any man capable of getting himself elected president 
should by no means be allowed to do the job 
douglas adams , the 's guide to the 


from  ( danny phornprapha ) 
subject or 
organization university 
lines 15 

hi everyone , 

i'm getting a car in the near future. i 've narrow it down to and  . 
which might be a better choice 

thanks for your , 




hey ! you out there ! 
please consider this 

are another earth student 
species your protection. work  ( 215 ) 

from  ( ravi puvvala ) 
subject 13 ,  ( with air , am fm ) good deal 
nntp posting host elvis . mot . com . 
reply to  ( ravi puvvala ) 
organization motorola 
lines 12 

hi netters 
i want to know if  ( w o tax ) is a good deal for 1993 
how is the review so far on  . is it a good buy 
please reply to me as i do n't read this group often. 

thanks in advance 


the purpose of education is not merely , 
the of facts but blow all 
motorola , boston ma the money 


from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject re manual shift bigots wanted 
organization university of 
lines 7 

the best on the street  ( and not the track ) are those from 
 .  .  . they wont change if you the gas during a turn .  .  .  .  . a few 
years back a was in a  ( you guys call it a without ) 
and was going round a corner .  .  .  .  . i it and next thing i know i was 
pointing backwards ! the other drivers seemed quite ) 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( joe staudt ) 
subject re from 
organization corporation 
lines 45 

in article writes 
netters ! 

i'm the us  ( i'm from sweden ) in august .  . i will probably a 
from  . i 've been quoted for a week 54 for additional days. 
this would include free driving distance , but not local taxes  . 
they also told me all necessary is included , but i doubt that , 
 cause a friend a car last year and it turned out he needed a lot more 
than what 's included in the base price .  . but on the other hand he 
did n't it from  . 

does anyone have some info on this 

is a off 
no , that sounds pretty reasonable for that car and that city. 

probability that i 'll be more 
unless you have an accident , you wo n't need more. if you plan on 
paying for the car with a credit card , check and see if your card 
automatically covers cars .  . also , your own may 
cover cars also. 

most here offer extra when you , and 
require you to initial in several if you do n't want it. the 
credit cards and personal provide the same sort of 
that the agency is trying to sell .  . 

i have never from , so i do n't know if they follow this 
same practice. 

is the a good car 
yes. it is a 2 door , probably a bit dull and 
wise , but very adequate .  . it will have an automatic 
, am stereo , air , and possibly power 
and door  . 

joe 




joseph , corp .  . 
p.o. box usenet is like for people who still 
, oh remember how to read. 
 ( 216 ) j. 

from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 34 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( brian j queiser ) writes 
anything if he had n't his gun into the asshole. texas it 's 
whole other country. 

that reminds me of one of texas 's  .  . you . hear a guy speaking in 
french  ( like it 's a letter home ) , then the french to the 
background , and a french voice come to the , talking 
about how he went walking on the beach , and it felt so much like 
home that he decided to take his shoes off .  .  . and . the rest of his 
clothes. it ended with please send  . ) 

on an rec . note , does anyone carry a gun on them or keep one in 
their car  ( which is bad idea , is n't it ) if you work in a bad part of 
town  ( or regularly go through one) is this a loaded question ) 

i normally have an colt delta in my box with a loaded 
magazine  ( which is perfectly legal in  . for those 
times that i'm travelling inter state , i keep an 
s w  . 44 . in the box , with a speed 
in my  ( which is legal everywhere , under federal law , illinois 
state police be  . 

as i 've said before , this is for defense my 
will pay to replace my car , but i only have one life .  .  .  . 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( ernest smith ) 
subject re a c units 
originator 
lines 34 
nntp posting host com . 
organization research , inc. 
distribution usa 


in article andrew brandt writes 
i looked into getting a c on my 1987  . 
the is plus , is like 5 1 2 hours on 
top of that. this is a of change .  . 

does anyone know any place that does a c 
 ( not with a a c , but some third party  . 

i cannot seem to find anyone who can put a third party a c in a 
 . i am in no , so i would prefer some place nearby , but 
any references would be  . 

, andy 

's comments 
sorry i ca n't help you with your question , but i do have a comment to 
make concerning a c units. i have a king or 
 ( forget which ) on my , and am quite unhappy with 
it. the fan is , and does n't put out much air. i will never have 
an a c in any of my again. i just ca n't 
trust the quality and after this experience. 




i'm going to live forever 

let me add my  . 02 . in. i had a a c by the and it did not 
work as well as the a c that was by the in 
identical to mine. i have talked to other people that have had the same 
result. do n't know if this is just a problem with or what 

ernie smith 

from  ( graham e. thomas ) 
subject super automobile  ( sighting(s ) ! ! ! ! ! together ! 
organization institute of technology 
lines 36 
nntp posting host edu . 

, this automobile  . 

driving along just a hair north of , i noticed an old , run down 
former car which appeared to deal with , and , older 
rare or foreign sports cars .  . i saw 

40 ( ! ) , the famous model from , that seemed to win most of 
its races in the late , including 4 or 6 times. 

two , one a , one a 

 ( boring compared to the rest ) 

three , a , a prepared for , and a red model 
that i could n't identify .  . 

and at the bottom , a late  . 

outside there was a , which was never regularly 
sold in the u.s. 

and in the , there was a small italian body , either an 
or a  . it was about the size of an austin  . 
the was missing , a with a 
in the left corner of the , and a of metal removed from 
the on the right hand side as if something would leave the 
and go to the outside from here. 
the looked like they 
would be the round type  ( if they were  . does anyone know what the 
make of this one is 

certainly made my day .  .  .  . 

graham e. thomas blah blah blah blah blah 
institute of technology blah blah blah blah blah 
internet blah blah blah blah blah 

from  ( dave duff ) 
subject re recall 
organization division 
lines 4 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 


we get about 20 for cars at our site every year , then the 
company them a year later to employees .  . the folks i know who drive buy 
them have no  . the cars seem to drive real nice too. 

from  ( mark monninger ) 
subject vs 
nntp posting host 250 . 10 . 8 . 
reply to  ( mark monninger ) 
organization motorola sps , tempe , az 
distribution usa 
lines 8 

although not in direct response to the referenced article , just to set the 
record straight , are  . cars are  . please , 
let 's get our terms straight .  . 

actually , some would argue that the only true is a round 
tail light or  . 

mark 

from  ( jack wood ) 
subject 
organization , 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
keywords 
lines 46 


my experience is over. 
the outcome was  . i won the battle but 
lost the war. the found that the car was 
, but decided to offer a well below 
market value ( .  . at the time of the hearing , average 
on my in the nada book was 21 , , but 
the decision was for 17 ,  . i wrote a letter to the 
council of better business pointing out the 
fact that if you have an automobile that does not 
rapidly , the has no incentive 
to deal with you. there is no way that the 
can loose because they can turn around and 
sell the at a profit if the consumer is awarded 
a  . the attitude of 's 
representative at the hearing tends to support this 
point of view he was totally unprepared and did not 
seem to take the proceeding very seriously. 

i decided to take the , even though i am 
getting totally on the price .  . i will not have 
to deal with continuing or selling a 
myself , and i have no case for a civil suit based on 
the law. i am planning to send a letter to 
my elected representatives telling them how utterly 
ridiculous the law is. the law allows for 
a use deduction equal to the mileage  . 
as if were buying my gas and paying 
for my  . 

summary of the case in may 1992 i bought a new 3 4 
 . between may 1992 and december 1992 
this required after  . systems 
that required attention included the , 
fan , , , and  . the main 
problem was the five speed manual  . they 
could not a non in at 
least four attempts .  . 

so , in summary , it is possible to get a , but 
you are going to get on the price , unless you 
paid too much in the first place , or if your car 
happens to be a model that rapidly .  . 




from  ( henry kon ) 
subject 
organization institute of technology 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 11 . mit . edu . 

is there a simple way these out of their misery 
do tend to be from old 
or from seals 
or all of the above 

is there any way to the rain 

thanks 


henry bruno 
office  ( with machine ) 
home  ( with machine ) 


from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re slick 50 , any good 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 16 

hmmm .  .  .  . i . was listening to the local radio expert  ( who is , amazingly 
enough , an honest to god  ( expert(tm ) it 's amazing what he knows .  .  . ) . , 
and he said that , based on his with the of 
 ( who is no longer with the , due to some kind of 
conflict ) , he avoids it like the plague .  . he does recommend other 
teflon based type oil , though. 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( daniel r. , to be ) 
subject re legal car buying problems 
organization university of 
lines 41 
distribution ca 
nntp posting host edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , 
 ( rob boudrie ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article 
 ( bob hutson ) writes 
after to terms i signed the contract and home in my new 
car. later that same night i noticed that the terms in the were 
different from the terms i had agreed to. (i made the stupid mistake 
of not checking everything on the  . this all happened last 
saturday .  . 

i have heard that there is a off law allowing me three days 
to reconsider the contract .  . is this true can anyone point me to the 
law the happened at the , if it matters. 

this off period applies only in certain situations 
you are at home. i also think the off period ends 
if you actually accept the merchandise .  . 

if this were not the case , any car would have the right to return 
a slightly used , highly , car 2 days after buying it. yeah 
that 's the trick if i want to buy a new car , i 'd have a buy 
return one , then go in and negotiate a better deal on a pre owned 
used car. 

for discussion purposes only 

on the other hand , if it can be proven , it 's possible the changed 
terms could be thrown out. the question will be whether the 
agreement contains a clause .  . see @ 2  ( parol 
 . if we 're talking about , then , of course , 
@ 2 316 should be looked at. 

but we have so little information that none of us can say anything 
conclusive .  . 

daniel 

the uniform code the innocent , but it is not a 
for the , the blindly naive , or the gullible .  . 
corp .  . v. , 54 misc .  . , 172 , n . y . s . 400 , 
y .  . city  . ct .  .  . 

from oh 
subject re grand vs. 4 
organization , engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 29 

nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

in article up . east . sun . com . 
writes 

any reason you are limited to the two mentioned they are n't really at 
the same point along the spectrum not to mention price range .  . 
how about the , , , , and if the 
allows , the land 

any advice on how to buy a land my local says they 
get two a year , and if i want one i can just get on the waiting list. 
forget about a test drive or even kicking the  . 
and if they are that rare , i doubt there is much of a parts on 
hand. 

land is just simply nice with shit load of power and room. 
fully stocked , it cost 40 , 000 .  . i think it is worth the money. 
only problem is when you get into  ( accident(it does n't usually break down 
unless you forget to get a oil change for or something 
stupid like this) , body parts and other parts are very hard to  . 
parts are over also. one of my friend had accident in past 
storm and he is still waiting for front bumper and side  . 

well , if you test drive land , all other look like  . 
one of magazine writer called it land . 

if you have 40 , 000 to spare for , get land and forget  . 




from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 26 

in article  ( craig boyle ) writes 
in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
was n't the original intent of the reverse for the , so he 
could see where he was backing up although reverse on the sides 

no. reverse are to warn others that you are backing up. they 
are n't bright enough to  ( typically ) see by without the and tail 
 . 

i do n't know where you live , but i could n't get out of my 
at night without reverse  . as someone said , out in the country 
you notice neat little things like stars and the difference between 
day and night. at night around my house  ( which is amongst a of 
rather oaks ) it is dark , except for nights with full  . 
reverse my path very well when backing up i greatly 
prefer cars with them to cars without reverse  . 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 

from  ( rick  open vms  colombo ) 
subject re do trains have 
nntp posting host gov . 
organization computing division 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( matthew liggett ) writes 
in m . writes 


while taking an extended easter , i was going north on i 45 
somewhere between , tx and , tx and i came upon a 
train on a with its sitting directly over 
the  . there appeared to be movement within the 
and out of curiosity i to 85 to get a better look. just as i 
passed from the , my went into full 
alert all and all chirps , , and going strong .  . 
i thought i had been nailed good but no police  . 

could this have been caused by the train 's radio or what 



i do n't know about trains , but i 've saw a sign on the back of a 
that you that your may be set off. 
it does n't explain why , but it does set off my  . 


from the e net of dsg 
l l lab 
p.o. box computer center 
, ill .  . usa 
of course i speak for , congress and the president .  .  .  . not ! ! ! 

from  ( danny phornprapha ) 
subject i'm getting a car , i need opinions. 
organization university 
lines 14 

i have 30 , 000 as my  . i'm looking for a sports or car. 

what do you think would be the best buy  ( i'm looking for specific models ) 

thanks , 




hey ! you out there ! 
please consider this 

are another earth student 
species your protection. work  ( 215 ) 

from  ( richard welty ) 
subject rec . mailing lists how to set up your own 
keywords monthly posting 
reply to 
organization new york state institute for studies 
lines 

archive name rec 

new article as of 4 february 1993 


many people want to set up mailing lists for their favorite 
rather know how to do it. this article 
will provide the essential information for doing so on standard 
unix systems. a shell and examples of file 
are included which presently run on a 2 here at com . 
for a number of mailing lists .  . note that if you do set up an 
mailing list , please let me know of the request address so that i can 
list it in the rec . posting. also the keeper of the 
usenet list of lists  ( check news.answers for this monthly posting . ) . 

first of all , to get anywhere , you need to either 1 ) be a sysadmin , 
or 2 ) have some measure of assistance from your sysadmin .  . it is also 
important that you have reasonably good network if it seems 
like you get everything several days after anyone else , or that you 
have trouble getting email through , then your network is 
probably not good enough. 



there is a mailing list named , which 
is available from several ftp on the network. details of 
the and operation of are beyond the of this 
article , but anyone who is considering running a large mailing list should 
probably look at carefully .  . 

the file 

on a typical unix system there is a file named on 
file server is your mail host it contains lines such as 

bar , , 


which means that any email sent the name  on that host is 
to users bar , , and  . thus , the simplest 
possible email list is 

my favorite car , , , my address 
my favorite car request my address 

this has a couple of problems the most one being that 
you have to be to edit the file. however , you can 
do the following , with the of your sysadmin 

my favorite car include home misc my favorite car list 
my favorite car request my address 

where the file is a list of and separated 
addresses .  . this file can be in the list admin 's home directory , 
owned by the list admin .  . 

mail 

this still has a problem mail usually gets to all the 
members of the list , which is generally considered somewhat  . 
therefore , the way that the driving school mailing list is set up 
is  ( thanks to of the list for this setup , 
by the way. i'm not sure where he got it from . ) . 


school request 
school rebroadcast include home misc school list 
school local school 
owner school school request 
owner school out school request 


here 's what is going on here 

the owner and request addresses are intended as for mail 
coming from the network. the request address also serves as the point 
of contact for administrative duties .  . 

school is what people send mail to instead of pointing at addresses , 
it points at a shell which rewrites before 
the email. school  ( of which nobody except me knows the name 
the name has been changed here to protect my own sanity ) points at the 
actual list members .  . 

the shell i use is as follows 


! 

e ' reply to d  e ' sender d  e ' from d  
 ( echo reply to 1 
errors to 1 
sender 1 
cat ) 
f 1 
f the 1 mailing list 1 rebroadcast 
0 


note that this does not know the name of the list the name 
is passed in from outside , so that the may be used for multiple 
lists (i run several out of this site . ) . 
the reply to , sender , and from lines from the 
message , for sender and reply to , and errors to 
9 . of all email messages end up being sent to the request 
or owner addresses if this rewrite is done. 

for digested lists , there is some software around. 
i 'll be able to provide more information in a future version 
of this posting. 

richard 

richard 
good has ever been reported about the full of 
a race car about either its pitch or roll   smith 

from  ( mark monninger ) 
subject car buying story , was christ , another service  .  .  . 
nntp posting host 250 . 10 . 7 . 
reply to 
organization sps 
distribution usa 
lines 57 

in article com .  ( tom 
vervaeke ) writes 
... experience with service dept ... 

while not exactly a service incident , i had a similar experience recently 
when i bought a new  . 

i had picked out the i wanted and after a little we 
agreed on a price .  . i wrote them a check for the down plus tax 
and license and told them i 'd be back that evening to pick up the  . 
when i returned , i had to wait about an hour before the guy could 
get to me. when i finally got in there , everything went until he 
started adding up the numbers. he then discovered that they had 
the tax license by about 150 .  . he then said he needed 
another 150 from me. i said we had already agreed on a price and it was 
their problem , i was n't giving them any more money. the guy then 
brought in the on duty who proceeded to give me a hard time. i 
reminded him that i was the customer and i did n't think i should be 
treated like that and that if he did n't back off he could forget the whole 
deal. he made some smart remark so i told him where he could stick it , 
back my check and left. to say , they were not pleased by 
the turn of events. 

early the next morning i got a call from the general sales wanting 
to know what happened. i related the story and he and 
asked if there was anything they could do to change my mind. i told him 
that if they gave me the for free i probably still would n't take it , 
that there were other in town , i was a repeat customer of theirs 
and that they should learn how to treat , etc , etc .  .  . i . was still 
pretty about the whole affair .  . he gave me the line about hating to 
lose a customer and they would try to find a solution , etc , etc. i told 
him not to bother , thanks , i 'd go somewhere else. 

a couple hours later , the owner of the called me , all 
, etc , etc , etc , and said that they would cover the 150 plus 
knock another 400 off the price of the  . i told him i 'd think about 
it and he gave me his private , direct phone number , his 's name , 
and assured me that they valued me as a customer , etc etc etc .  .  .  .  . 

i thought about it for a few hours and discussed it with my wife and we 
decided , what the hell .  .  . that . was a pretty decent deal , so i called him 
back and accepted his offer .  . when i went back the next day to pick up the 
, i received the treatment .  . everyone seemed to know about the 
incident , even the lot boy .  . everything went and i was out of 
there in my new in about 30  . 

so , i guess i'm a reasonably satisfied customer .  . however , it should not 
have happened in the first place. i was a bit shocked to have a sales 
person talk to me like that. i do n't expect them to bow and , but i 
sure do n't expect to be given a hard time either , esp. when it 's their 
mistake. 

anyway , i'm happy with the and it turned out to be a couple hundred 
dollars under and they paid most of the first year 's license fee .  . 
i'm not sure whether i 'll go back to that , tho .  . 

mark 

from  ( jerry storrs ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
originator edu . 
keywords , , danger , gun , violent , 
reply to  ( jerry storrs ) 
organization north state university , project 
lines 


in article ,  ( fred w. bach ) writes 
alt . parents . rec . 
path ! ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! primate . edu . ! ! ! cs . ca . ! ca . ! ca . ! music 
from  ( fred w. bach ) 
newsgroups alt . parents . , rec . 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
date 19 apr 1993 16 16 
organization tri university 
lines 52 
distribution world 
message id 
references 
nntp posting host ca . 
summary violent and victims need help. 
keywords , , danger , gun , violent , 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( janet rowell ) 
writes .  .  .  . 
could we cease this discussion. i fail to see why people feel the need 
to upon this issue for days and days on end. these areas are not 
meant for this type of discussion. if you feel the need to do such things , 
please take your thought elsewhere. thanks. 

i just want to second this request. i value this net group as one where people 
focus on problems and go out of their way to be of 
differences .  . the hostility expressed in the original posting like an 
assault .  . 

thanks , 
jan 


exactly my point. there is a lot of hostility to , and from ,  . 

look , i sent these posts here to alt . parents .  ( with a copy to 
rec . since you people in this group may have the best advice for 
and experience with  . 

if you follow the news for the usa , you will have heard that a 
group of 20 year old  ( barely out of the , certainly their 
was developed during their teens ) just shot and killed an innocent little 
girl riding in a car in the seattle area when her mother  ( who was driving ) 
her at the car with the in it. this is really upsetting 
and makes my stomach turn as it would any parent 's .  . does n't your heart 
just go out to that poor mother 


yes , fred , my heart and prayers go out to the mother and others who have 
been victims of these and other crimes .  . 

you folks in this group have a responsibility to offer any good advice 
that you may have. i suspect lots of people all over the world will read 
and appreciate your comments .  . 


however , i feel that you have missed the point of the previous postings  ( see 
 . your statement of  responsibility  is felt as an attack towards the 
members of this group. you are attempting to make the members of this group 
be required to answer. the only people who should make a statement are people 
who have experienced the problem and found a workable solution .  . 

both drive cars and are involved in and 
crime .  . maybe someone on this newsgroup has had specific experience in 
dealing with violent offenders like these kids are. at the same 
time , maybe you would have some good advice for those hostile people who 
sense that are now the potential victims .  . maybe you would have some good 
advice for them on how not to pay back and or not make the situation worse. 
maybe you have some good advice for local authorities or schools where 
this problem is  . but then again , maybe you 're not interested .  . ( 

many people are interested , but have no input. i will that your last 
sentence here is seen as an attack on the members of this group. if people have 
, they will give it. if they do not , you should not make them feel 
compelled (sp ) to respond .  . 

if you wish to continue this conversation , please send e mail .  . do not repost or 
attempt to me , i will not make another post  ( and may i make the same a 
suggestion to other group members ) on this matter. 



thanks in advance for your help , if we get any. 


btw , your welcome. 



jerry l. , system network ... why do you look for the living 
dept of chemical engineering , among the dead he is not here , 
 ( preferred ) he is risen ! 
luke 24 5 6 
the lord is risen indeed ! ! 

any statement made is the explicit belief of the writer and not the employer .  . 

from  ( punit qre ) 
subject mailing list 
organization corporation 
lines 9 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 
keywords 

could someone out there please tell me how i could get onto 
the mailing list. specifically i need the address and 
instructions on what to do. 

thanks in advance 





from  ( ad per aspera ) 
subject re utility comparisons any opinions 
organization lawrence berkeley berkeley , ca , usa 
lines 21 
distribution na 
nntp posting host 128 . 3 . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

i just read on this in road and track and car and 
 ( is that one or two b ) , and i was wondering if people out 
there have any opinions that from what these have to say .  .  .  . 

depending on how you plan to use your , i might recommend also 
and one or more of those , , 
and  . the car mostly seem to consider recently 
to be and ten of 
to be a  . considering that most of these seem to be 
used mostly as station , that 's probably not a bad 
approach , but if your applications are more demanding , pick your 
information sources accordingly. 

of the three on your short list  ( explorer , , 
pathfinder ) , i 'd recommend the as being closely based 
on a rather and the for being 
 . do n't know much about the  . 

good luck , 
joe 
just another personal opinion from the people 's of berkeley 

from  ( chun wan ) 
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions. 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 32 
reply to  ( chun wan ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( danny phornprapha ) says 

i have 30 , 000 as my  . i'm looking for a sports or car. 

what do you think would be the best buy  ( i'm looking for specific models ) 

thanks , 




hey ! you out there ! 
please consider this 

are another earth student 
species your protection. work  ( 215 ) 


for an all out sports car , i 'd go for the 7 without the sports 
 ( which is too ) . for a little more practicality and more 
comfort , the is a good buy .  . and for a good of 
, the lexus is perfect  ( with a manual of course . ) . 
however , the is coming out soon and if you like it 's looks , 
the is supposed to be great , almost race car like. i do n't 
like the 's or the dodge as they are 
too heavy and are n't very for a sports car. 

a motion picture major at the institute of , ca 
santa and a foreign student from ,  . 

the mind is the forerunner of all states. 

from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re ad said best 
organization sun 
lines 9 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host central . sun . com . 

i too was by this obvious  . what i think is going on is that 
claims that the is the best selling new car in 
the us (i think i have this near  . 's statistics 
dept. would have been proud of that sentence. 


note that the are also new designs .  .  .  . but hey are not new 
 . i guess does n't even sell as many as 
does , or there would be no  . 

from  ( neil williams ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
keywords , , danger 
organization computer services 
lines 51 

 ( brian larose ) writes 

this just a warning to everybody on the net. watch out for 
folks standing next to the road or on  . they can 
cause serious harm to you and your car. 

 ( just a notes version of my story follows ) 

last night , i was travelling on the here in 
, i was taking an to another 
and my wife suddenly and something large hit the side 
of my  . we down , but after looking back to see the 
standing there , we on to the police station .  . 

she did get a good look at the guy and saw him his with 
something the size of a , but i never saw him. we are 
very lucky the up high on the road if it would have hit 
her , it would have killed her. 

the police are looking for the guy , but in all he is gone. 

i am a very good  ( knock on wood ) , but it was night time and 
i never saw the guy. the police said they thought the motive was to 
hit the car , have us stop to check out the damage , and then jump us , 
and take the  . 

please be aware of folks .  . and for your own good , please t stop ! ! ! ! 

peace. 




brian 12 ,  . ,  . 



as long as we 're on the subject .  .  .  . several years ago myself and two others 
were riding in the front of a heading south on 5 
north of seattle ,  . someone threw a of an and hit our 
 . not by accident i'm sure , it was impossible to get up to the 
quickly to see who did it. we it was kids , reported it and 
left. 
a couple of years ago it again and killed a guy at my company .  . he was 
in his mid and left behind a wife and children. turned out there was 
a for a few blocks away. they caught the 14 year old 
that did it. they put a cover over the , what else could they do 
i do n't think i 'll over forget this story. 
neil , computer services ,  . 
. 


from  ( todd r. haverstock ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
organization computing network 
lines 10 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

well , you young wo n't remember , but we used to have side 
front until some damn counter them. these were 
separate at the of the front doors 
that at the  . worked like a charm .  . 

yeah , i loved the on my  ( hell , the only thing i liked 
about the  . one of the things i 'd like to see brought back .  . does 
anyone know if they 're an option on the new 

trh 

from  ( steve tobias ) 
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000 
reply to  ( steve tobias ) 
distribution na 
organization division , , , md 
lines 14 

in rec . ,  ( kevin parker ) writes 
i 'd like to get some on a car with most bang for the in the 
to 16 , 000 price range .  . i'm looking for a car with enough to be 
driven every day , or even on long trips , but when i hit the gas , i want to feel 
some  . handling is important also , as are reliability and pretty 
low costs .  . a appearance is nice , but i do n't want a car 
that is all show and not much go. even though many of the are fast , i 
do n't really want a , and i never have cared for the song by a four 
 . i 'd prefer a or for the engine. if you have any suggestions , 
kevin 

there 's only one car that really fits your needs. it 's spelled 

5 . 0 . 

from  ( kevin parker ) 
subject on cars summary 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 
nntp posting host cc . latech . edu . 
x newsreader s 1 . 3 . 2 . 

i recently posted an article asking what kind of single , male 
drivers under 25 old were paying on cars .  . here 's a summary of 
the replies i received .  . 






i'm not under 25 anymore  ( but is 27 close  . 

1992 dodge stealth  ( 300hp  . 
no , no accidents , own a house , have taken driving 1 , 
, , security , single .  . 

year  . state farm  ( this includes the additional 100 
for the 1 , 000 , 000 umbrella policy over my car and house ) the base 
policy is the standard 100 , 000 100 , 000 , 000 policy required in de .  . 

after 2nd driving course it will be 5 less. 

i bought the car in september 1992 .  . the company i was with  ( never had 
and accident or in 11 years ) quoted me 2 ,  . 

hope this helps .  . 

steve 
university of 
45 

kevin 

 ( hope i your name  .  .  . 

you asked about for cars .  . well , last year 
i was in a similar situation before i bought my car , and made the 
same inquiry as you. 

age 24  ( then and now ) 
car 1992 eagle 
driving record clean 
state illinois 
cost 6  . 

i turn 25 in may and the goes down to 6  . 
also , i'm single and that a higher rate with my company .  . 

i 've got a couple other friends w and they pay more 
than i do  ( different  . also ) , so maybe i'm just lucky .  . 

hope the info helps .  . 

dan 

motorola group 

38 
usa 
cc 

i'm 23 live in norman , drive an  89 have 
never made a claim against my  ( though i have been hit 
several times by drivers who could n't see stop signs or 
were with their radios ) and i have had three moving 
in the last 18 months  ( one for going 85 in a 55 one for failure to 
clear an (i still say the damn light was yellow ) and 
one for going 35 in a 25  ( which did n't go on my  . my 
from state farm  ( with a passive deduction ) on , 
comprehensive , and are 
roughly 1300 year .  . (i was paying just over year for a  ) . 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 
61 

i am beyond the under 25 age group , but i have an experience a few 
years ago that might be interesting to you. i owned a 1985 
 . i decided to buy myself a gift a more car. front 
included the and the  ( 1987 model  . 
i it down to those two .  . i liked the and handling 
 ( and appeal , too) of driving a  . the was less 
money and had more features and almost a personal 
car. it had better and a higher top speed than the  . 
i was almost ready to give in to a buying for the , but i 
decided to stop by my 's office on the way. i asked 
about what would happen to my rate with either car. 

if you buy the , your rate will be the same as 
the  ( the  85 was considered a and for that 
year was rated as one of the cars ) , with a slight increase because 
the car will be 2 years newer .  . our lower risk division will continue 
to handle your account. 

if you buy the , we 'll have to change you to the standard 
higher rate company and your rate will double .  . and if you go with 
a , it 's another story again we 'll cover the rest of this year , 
but you after that. 

but the is much than the , and the is actually 
than the standard  . that t make sense. 

that 's what the book says .  . we do n't , either. for 
some reason , the consider and their drivers 
as very traditional and conservative .  . 

i eventually went with the for a number of reasons. the 
had a nice to get me interested , but a tough high pressure 
guy in the back room. at equal monthly , it would have taken 
a year longer to pay for the , plus its higher  . i 
concluded that the high was related to probability of 
theft .  . 

) ) ) everyone 's entitled to my opinion. 
) 
imagination is more important than knowledge. albert einstein 





32 

i live in  . when i was 26 many years ago  ( 10 years ) i bought a 
am  . was about 1300 year .  . when i turned 26 , it immediately 
dropped to year .  . i had not had any accidents before or after , this was 
strictly an age change .  . that same rate stayed pretty much the same until i 
sold the car 2 years ago. my f 150 is about 80 year less. 

the real amazing thing is that when i up at age 25 , i felt so much more 
responsible than i was before .  .  .  . ) 



21 


for your information 
california 
male , single , under 25 , no moving violation 
spider 
2000 year 

what a bargain ! ! ! 
28 

let 's see , i'm 24 , single , male , clean driving record .  . i have a 
 . i live in san jose , california .  . i pay a year through  . a 
good deal if you ask me. 

i was thinking about getting a , but i think the is higher 
for a sports car vs a 

w 

27 

1986 , clean record , in a small new mexico town was around 
per year , age 24 .  . 

nearby city were 1 . higher than where i 've got mine  . 

 .  . robert . 

robert stack institute of transportation studies , univ of california 
 
37 
1300 per year , 1992 , 21 years old , state new mexico , 
state farm .  . 


64 


here is my info 

car  89 
co 's 

age 24 
date of license 14 , 1992 
view , california 
no moving  ( for now ) 

hope this helps .  . please post a summary if possible. 




email  ( 415)962 ) off  ( 415)926 ) 
38 
single , 24 years old , eagle , 1200  ( full cover , reasonable 
liability ) 
no , no , no accidents .  .  .  .  ( knock on wood .  .  . ) . 
mass , 

one thing that makes a huge difference in mass is the town you live in. 
i'm personally in one of the best towns within reasonable distance 
of boston .  . if i moved to the absolute best it would go down to about 
, if i moved to the worst it would be 2000  .  .  . 

also one accident and a couple of , would probably add another 600 .  .  .  . 





43 
i have a 1990 , am 23 years old and have no 
that went on my record .  . i live in illinois just outside of chicago 
and pay a year with full at state farm .  . i did get a small 
discount because of my  ( system 30 a  . i only live 15 from 
chicago but if i actually lived in the city the price would be about 2000 
a year .  . 
41 
i'm over 25 , but in case you 're interested anyway , i'm a 93 
for 6 month .  . personal total property with 
250 , glass and , state farm .  . 

39 

unless you are under 20 or have been driving for less than 5 
years , i think you are being seriously ripped off. i do n't have 
one of the cars you listed , but if your record is 
clean , then you should not be paying over  . 

did you try calling all the you could find 
although are supposed to be , i 've found that 
most places i initially call , give me some high 
quote and , i hit one that is much lower .  . 

also , i have changed when the rate went up at 
 ( no accidents , , car gets older ) to maintain a low 
rate .  . you always have to be careful when it comes to 
8 ) .  . 

good luck , 


from  ( donald wan ) 
subject 80 oil change 

organization university of 
lines 17 





my friend brought a recently. i had it for times and i 
think its a great car , esp on  . however when she took it to a local 
for a oil change , the bill came out to be about 80 dollars .  . the 
told us it is because to change the oil filter on a it is necessary to 
a metal cover under the engine and that took an hour of  . 
at first , we think we are being ripped off so she phone to a in 
but found out the they are charging roughly the same price .  . so is there any 
owner out there that has the same problem and if the oil change story is 
true , then the engineer of looks pretty to me. by the way , the car 
looks great .  . 

 . 


from  ( richard welty ) 
subject re 's policy 
organization new york state institute for studies 
lines 20 

in article  ( hok tsang ) writes 
moreover , if really does reduce the profit margin by 1000 , 
then their cars will be even better deals .  . say , if the price of a was 
already 1000 below market average for the class of cars , then after they 
reduce the profit , it would be 2000 below market average .  . it will 

1 ) attract even more people to buy because it would save them money. 

2 ) force the to lower their to survive. 

but what is 's motivation here they 're already selling every 
car they make , with multiple shifts in the plant .  . given this , what 
possible motivation could they have to lower 

cheers , 
richard 

richard 
good has ever been reported about the full of 
a race car about either its pitch or roll   smith 

from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re and the real world 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 24 

in article  ( mike brookbank ) writes 
my sister has an  . she has one from the last year they were produced 
 ( 1978 ) .  . its in very good shape .  . i 've been bugging her for years 
about selling it. i 've said over and over that she should sell it 
before the car is worthless while she that the car may 
actually be increasing in value as a result of its limited  . 


grass roots 3 93 has a long article about b 's this month .  . 
as far as speculation is concerned they think it is a 
waste of time , especially the later models are the least 
desirable , a original model the most. the reasons for its low 
value are easy and the fact that it just was not a very good 
car. 

craig 
which one of us is right are there out there who are 
still willing to pay to for an old are there a lot out in the 
market 


mike , 35 king st. north 
director , sales , , ontario  ( 519)884 ) 
systems inc. canada , fax  ( 519)884 ) 

from  ( andrew j. huang ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
organization university 
lines 16 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) writes 
i take the of the whatever and connect one 
to each  . then , insert my fingers in each of the 
spark plug  . no guys ! both hands must be used ! 

i have just a couple of questions about this  . 

first , what firing order should i use do i start with my pointer 
finger or my left hand or right 

and secondly , i have a and there are two 
for. any suggestions 

andy 



from  ( john r. daker ) 
subject re opinions sought 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 16 
reply to  ( john r. daker ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( scott dexter ) says 


i like the i would like some  .  .  . 

any and all 


yet another designed for who will never take it off road but want 
to look . 


the significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of 
thinking we were at when we created them. albert einstein 
the eternal 

from  ( kenneth finnegan ) 
subject re top 10 reasons why i love  ( not for the humor impaired ) 
article i.d. cs . 1993apr6 . 
reply to 
distribution na 
organization data systems 
lines 28 
nntp posting host navy . 

in article state . edu . , state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) writes 
in article  ( tom haapanen ) writes 
writes 
here are another ten reasons why we should all love 
10. car love their new car buying service 
2. and later on buying a family 

and my number 1 

1. the of the religious of the true believers . 

or the of real men who would never bother to read the 
magazine but are more than to criticize it. 

hey , i'm a real man and i do read it. so i can criticize 
it all i want , especially since i pay for the publication .  .  ( they 
accept no outside , do n't you know .  .  .  . ) . 

john 
to you , the was just 
something that happened to other people , 
was n't it the black 

relying on consumer reports to pick your is like 
letting field select your living room  . 




from  ( joni ciarletta ) 
subject problem 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 26 
distribution world 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

my just hit the magic 100 , 000 mark and now 
all sorts of things are beginning to go bad. the latest problem 
i am experiencing is with my  . they still stop the 
car fine , but once i am stopped completely , my 
will another 2 or 3 all by itself. if really 
strange , and i am worried my will quit working one of 
these days. 

i checked my fluid , and the was full , but the 
fluid itself looked really  ( like  . i called 
my mechanic and he told me i need a new master , 
which will cost me a 250  . 

i was just wondering if anyone out there has experienced this 
sort of thing. if so , is my mechanic being honest or do i 
simply need to have my and new fluid put in 

any help you could provide would be appreciated. please send 
replies directly to me , as i rarely have a chance to read this 
list. i will post the responses if there is any interest .  . 

thanks , 





from  ( celeste ) 
subject re male female mystery re concepts of all time 
nntp posting host 128 . 16 . 
organization 
lines 56 

in article , 
 ( wen king su ) wrote 

in article  ( sharen a. rund ) writes 

apparently you 're not a woman my husband hates the door 
features , but that besides families with children , a woman 
safer in a car that easily  ( in addition to watching around 
checking out if anyone 's near me when i get to my car never park 
in a , etc have my ready to open the door so i'm 
not in my purse looking for them .... 

this has me thinking. is there a biological reason why women ca n't put 
their in their pants like men do i have two on the 
back of each of my pants .  . i put my in one and in another. 
many of the even have a on them so i can close them securely .  . 
everything is that much simpler for me. why ca n't women do the same 
is is biological  ( ie , not enough room for a bigger bottom plus and 
a wallet ) or is it the way they are raised by the parents 

women 's pants rarely have and most , when they do , are too 
shallow to use ! 

i is very important for a woman to have her in her hand when 
she goes from building to a car. it is protect herself from 
would be by broadcasting that this is someone who 
as a definite place of  ( ie a locked car ! ) .  . 

and looks ! it breaks the lines and makes 
you look wide as a ! 

also , to have the that 
work for any clothing situation , the functions no 
what you are wearing !  ( even or a bikni ) 

a women 's suit coat is lucky to have 2  ( 2 on the outside , 
none on the  . i have men 's that have as much as 6 
! this is not fair ! ! ! 

as one that wears both men 's and women 's clothes , i can tell you , 
women 's clothes have few if any ! 

when dressed as a man , i put my on my inside coat and 
my in a coat outside  . it is much more 
than the pants and looks better. 

having a car that quickly and back fast is 
to a woman 's  . men do n't see this as a problem. 
a woman is aware of this every time she goes out ! (i . e .  . 
image some red at you we are going to fuck you ! 
and the out weight you by 20 and have 3 in 
on you ! ) 

if you want to find out why a women does something , live as one ! 



from  ( james p. callison ) 
subject re and 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering computer network , university of , norman , ok , usa 
lines 42 

in article arbor . mi . us . arbor . mi . us .  ( david hwang ) writes 
in article  ( wharfie ) writes 
in article  ( chris silvester ) writes 

, which i have heard is somehow slightly than the  . 

has an automatic , it 's  . 

could be due to the end ratio also. 

usually have different ends than , from 
my limited experience anyways .  . 

you 'll have fun looking for the end on an the 
is a front wheel drive  .  .  . 

i went back and checked the article again the is quicker 
than the automatic , but than the real  . 

why anyone would order an with an automatic is 
beyond me if you ca n't handle a stick , you should stick with a 
regular and leave the to real drivers .  . that is not to 
say that there are n't real drivers who ca n't use the stick  ( eg 
persons ) , but they are n't in any position to use an 
anyway. 

i would be willing to bet that if we removed the automatic 
transmissions from all type cars  ( like the 5 . 
, , and the like ) we 'd cut down on the number of 
accidents each year .  . are fine for little , 
but they have no business in cars , imho .  . 

james 

james p. , u of law center 

disclaimer i'm not an engineer , but i play one at work .  .  .  . 
the calls for  .  . t 
it 's a hell of a thing , killing a man. you take away all he has 
and all he 's ever gonna have. 
will , 


from m . 
subject re looking to buy dodge stealth , have questions 
keywords questions 
organization 
lines 66 

in article ,  ( craig boyle ) writes 
in article m . writes 

i found a this 

model 
stealth 
stealth es 
stealth 
stealth 

okay , i 'll take their word for it. 


i am giving every chance to retract widely known. the is 
rated at  . is 17. you have a advantage over a 

seems that the 1993 5 . 0 . is rated at only because 
changed its  . under the older , it still 
closer to  . that means that the has 3 more. 

and you still have n't posted any weight for the  . 


big threat .  . you are 'd by a , to c d 

yeah , sure , in your wet dreams .  . and that 's probably where you got 
that 11 . 2 . second 0 60 for the stealth .  . 


i 'll check c d 's 5 91 issue. strange that you claim to have that 

go ahead and check , you 'll realize what an idiot you are for not 
checking data  . car drive , may 91 .  . stealth es , , 
automatic .  . 

for 3 posts now you 've been on this may 1991 issue of car 
without posting any numbers. why not because they prove me right and you 
ai n't got the to admit it yeah , thought so. 


the r really is alot quicker than the sports car. 
you are close to the e. go look up the numbers in c d and 
report please. 

no , i'm going to play your game 

no way , 's are slow ! i took a test drive and it took 
21 . 7 . to go 0 50 ! why , even the it doors 
off. any 12 old knows that ! i race and i 'll kick your butt ! 
blah , blah , blah .  .  .  . 

let 's see ... yep , that sounds just like you. 
oh man , i just got it ! that 's you ! 


who would buy a automatic , that costs that is capable of only 
a 15 . 8 . and would plainly be by a r 

i , why did you 

but why would someone pick the dodge stealth over the 
all it takes is one look. 




from  ( dave schrader ) 
subject 400 big block 
keywords 400 big block 
article i.d. news . 
organization engineering , inc. 
lines 9 

as the subject says .  . it has and my brother in law wants 250 .  . please do n't 
reply to me as i am posting this for him. here 's his numbers 





dave 


from  ( jim frost ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
article i.d. 
organization software , inc. 
lines 14 
nntp posting host 3 . 

 ( dunn jonathan james ) writes 
 ( john r. daker ) writes 
cup  ( driving is an enough undertaking ) 

this is a good idea so you can carry your  ( non alcoholic ) without 
or having someone hold on to them. 

i agree. hour long stretches behind the wheel really make me 
, especially for something with  . i consider it a 
failing of my car that it has no cup nor anywhere to put a cup 
 . 

jim 


from  ( ad per aspera ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
organization lawrence berkeley berkeley , ca , usa 
lines 40 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 128 . 3 . 
news software vax vms 1.41 



they were designed for of of 80 i forget the 
exact but for military  . that 's 80 in a dodge 
 . not 80 in a 1993  . 

ever  once in a while , you still see a reference to the super 
system as and defense  . but whether 
the military has much of anything that goes 80 on the road is 
another matter. a few of their most up , 
maybe , load permitting .  . the military stuff i 've 
driven classic  ( willys kaiser , pre independent 
suspension ) and power  ( slant 6 in a pickup ) 
were n't exactly congenial at , and i would n't 
swear any of them would do 80 except as a on a semi .  . 

you just gotta love the standard military , too , or at 
least the one they used to use. designed ii as a 
compromise between in and 
on and so forth , it 's quite ill adapted to high 
on civilian  . for those who ca n't remember 
what they look like , imagine a with a 
road in the middle , up to car size. oh , yeah , and 
narrow too. one of the standard for a 
was to and that some of 
the made in ride and handling since d day. 

but the point made by and others still stands if 
you 're going to do 80 in a  power  ( or a 
or a or other tired 
vehicle ) anywhere , i 'd suggest the american  . 
your safe speed there tends to be limited more by your car 
and , road , and the of fools around 
you the roads were designed for going like the devil .  . 

naturally , neither i nor my employer advocates or 
driving. 

joe 
just another personal opinion from the people 's of berkeley 

from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re too fast 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 51 

in article  ( bob blackshaw ) writes 
in  ( craig boyle ) writes 

in article  ( mark hartman ) writes 
driving 130 in a straight line is fine , you very soon become 
to it. it 's only a rush when there are that you do n't 
think you can make. 

on a clear , 130 is nothing. in the u.s. of people and 
all judges would label you insane and it is difficult to persuade 
people otherwise. 

sure , but the surface condition of most good is far better 

the quality of is something of a myth .  . the road surface 
is n't much different to a typical tx  . they are better 
in terms of , safety , signs , etc. i 'd have 
no problem driving 130 on most us , as it is , i save it 
for the , which really are more likely to be dangerous. 

than most of the roads here. a in the that you test your 
shocks on at 60 will kill you at 130 .  . do n't get me wrong , i love to 

it would have to be quite severe .  . i do n't recall any us , 
without road damage warnings , that i would regard as 
at 130 in any decent , well car. note that my definition 
of decent , well , would exclude most typical american  . 

drive quickly and they say my will do 130 , but that 's 30 more 
than i 've ever tried in it cause there is n't a decent enough piece 
of road  . 

i do n't know where you live , but i would be much more worried 
about cops , other traffic etc. than the road surface at 130 .  . 
it just is n't that fast or that dangerous. if you have a 
, no problem. the models i have driven would be 
likely to be at higher  . 

craig 

craig 


mark 
, mi 
i'm in the school ! 


bob 



from  ( douglas baker ) 
subject of new ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization university of rochester , rochester ny 
lines 9 
nntp posting host rochester . edu . 


does anyone know the for a 1992 or 1993 
5 . 0 . l ho like the 0 60 time 1 4 and top end 
also can you tell me which magazine where these 's come from so i 
can look them up if if you could the year and month and 
page if you have it. 

thanks , 
doug 

from  ( robert william fusi ) 
subject re i'm getting a car , i need opinions. 
organization university 
lines 47 

in article ,  ( chun h 
wan ) writes 

in a previous article ,  ( danny phornprapha ) says 

i have 30 , 000 as my  . i'm looking for a sports or car. 

what do you think would be the best buy  ( i'm looking for specific models ) 

thanks , 





hey ! you out there ! 

please consider this 



are another earth student 

species your protection. work  ( 215 ) 



for an all out sports car , i 'd go for the 7 without the sports 
 ( which is too ) . for a little more practicality and more 
comfort , the is a good buy .  . and for a good of 
, the lexus is perfect  ( with a manual of course . ) . 
however , the is coming out soon and if you like it 's looks , 
the is supposed to be great , almost race car like. i do n't 
like the 's or the dodge as they are 
too heavy and are n't very for a sports car. 

a motion picture major at the institute of , ca 
santa and a foreign student from ,  . 

the mind is the forerunner of all states. 

the only thing about the and new is they 're about or 
more over his  .  .  . 

be good , 
and you will be 
mark 

from state . edu .  ( steven j orlin ) 
subject re changing oil by self .  . 
keywords n 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 18 


in article 
j .  . writes 

you can avoid these problems entirely by an oil in 
place of the  . i have one on both of my cars .  . there have been no 
in , 000  ( combined on both  . 

yes , but then someone would have no problem your oil in a lot. 

all they have to do is reach , turn a , and forget the trip 
home. 
but there is less they have a with them. 

i personally recommend , a  special  locking plug to keep 
away. ) 

steve 

from  ( lawrence c smith ) 
subject re engine. 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 16 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 

in article ,  ( eliot ) writes 

if the really you , there is nothing else that you can do 
except to sell it and get a  . 

perhaps a nice used '88 2 . 8 .  . 

does anyone know if the for the 2 . 8 . and the dual 3 . 4 . 
match the 3 . 4 . is supposedly derived from the 3 . 1 . , which was 
a out 2 . 8 .  . should be a drop in replacement , eh horses in 
a mid engine the size of a 

larry smith no , i do n't speak for  . need you ask 

liberty is not the freedom to do whatever we want , 
it is the freedom to do whatever we are able .  . 

from  ( dan day ) 
subject re warning .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host houston . com . 
organization system , inc. houston 
lines 13 

in article  ( jason hanson ) writes 
from article , by ( ) 
this happened about a year ago on the washington  . 
kids decided it would be really cool to 
huge down on cars from an  . four or five 
cars were hit .  . there were several serious , and sadly 

about a year ago , some kids a off an on i 94 near eau 
claire , wisconsin and it killed the below. (i believe he was a 
from minnesota . ) . 

here in houston a couple years ago a young pregnant woman was killed 
in a similar manner. 

from  ( carl mercer ) 
subject 1986 
keywords 1986 , , 
organization northern , inc. network application systems 
distribution 
lines 34 




for sale 

1986 
white , grey  . 
75 , 000 
in very good condition. 
in good condition 

car stereo .  . 

18 , 6 am 

component speakers professionally mounted 
in the doors. 

the car has been well  . i it often and keep the 
clean .  . its a good running car with a solid body  ( no thru , tiny 
of surface  . when i see a i touch it up . ) . the stereo 
makes the car. i have had no problems with it. 

i'm looking for 00 . firm .  . the car has an average wholesale value of 
about 00 . without the stereo .  . the stereo cost me 00 . last  . 

if you are interested , call or email me at 



(716) 
(716) evening 



from (i we are gaia ) 
subject re dodge experiences 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 115 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( stephen f. nicholas ) writes 
edu .  ( darren r daubenspeck ) writes 


they are pretty much junk , stay away from them. they will be replaced next 
year with all new models .  . 


junk they 've made the c d lists for years due to their excellent handling and 
 . they have been around since about , oh , 85 or 86 , so they 're not 
the on the lot , and mileage is about five to eight under the class 
leader. you can get into a 3 . 0 . l v 6  ( 141 hp ) for 10  ( the i 4 
a bit more ) , and a for 14  . 


as an ex  . of 3000 cars , they were the most trouble free of 
all models .  . i bought one for my wife .  . 



thank you for playing , i cannot agree with this. i believed 
this and to put it nicely , it was a piece of junk ! 

i loved this car , i it , i pampered it , and after 2 years , it just 
could n't stay together , i would say that not everyone will have the 
problems that i had , but know this , it 's not just the car , it is the 
ability to get the car fixed , which will not happen at any 
dodge take your pick  . i do n't care if there are going to 
reform their service with the intro of the cars , i will believe 
it when i see it. case and point , the local dodge  . you drive up , 
just looking , you do n't even get out of your door , when about 10  ( yes 10 ) 
all eye you like their next , and literally on you , 
and try to get you to make a deal , on everything your eye towards .  . 
service is about 2 times worse than that. i had an problem , but 
they tried to tell me that the k frame was , and about 2000 dollars of 
work parts to fix it. let me tell you the problems i had , and i took care 
of this car , i put alot of on it in the first couple years , but took 
it to every it needed , and many that should n't have been. 

1988 dodge es 

these were replaced within the 4 years that i owned the car. 

engine 
4 
bar 
2 water 
5 
hall effect 
main computer 
4 

these were 


automatic 
power 


those are just the things i can remember off the top of my head. for 
about a year before i sold the car , i said to myself , it 's a good car , i 
just ca n't find anybody enough the fix it. in the end , before i 
it in for a , the power started acting up again. i 
just stopped putting money into it. i must have put at least 
worth of over it 's lifetime. i am sorry but can 
me. bullshit , whoever backs em best , is just afraid the stupid things are 
going to fall apart , and no one will buy them without , why the 
hell do you think that has been last hope. 

you can do better , and i know people will disagree with me here , but 
japanese , like , or , or the only american car company that i 
feel is a quality product ,  . i will not touch another 
product again , no way. i do n't care how good the cars look good , and i 
will admit they look promising , but not with the support that you get .  . 
is n't much better , thank god , they do n't control , like they do 
their divisions , or it would be just another ploy .  . 

do n't get me wrong , i will be watching my car  ( which i do like ) like a 
for the next 4 years. i am much more to say it  ( or any) car 
is really good , until it has proved itself to me. 

but since someone else pointed out c d as a source. i will note , because 
i used to read these , that car and has never had a good 
thing to say about most products  ( shadow for one) , always were 
they about the k car , and engine. whereas trend 
always thought they were great cars .  . no car magazine is really objective .  . 

and although there are alot of people who do n't like reports , i 
will use them to my argument (i already know about the big stink 
with the crash , time will tell how good a car they are ) , the 
rate much worse than average , in fact none of the 
's rate a better than average , i think the best one is just 
average .  . excluding the star stuff and the 's .  . you 
can find bad stuff about the  . try as i might , when i researched 
the , i could not find anything bad about it. there is a great deal 
of information about this company , just because it is a new american 
company and it has created quite a stir in the community , for 
good reason. much more than the introduction of any new model lines of 
any established company .  . i read an article , which had a sub , an i 
think this on me more than anything else. some big in 
said and i quote , we are watching them very closely .  . come on , 
everybody grow up , the foreign cars , especially the japanese have been 
kicking our , for good reason , the american car could not make 
a good product or support the customer the way they want these days , to 
set in their ways , which is one of the reasons was created. they 
are still because they have n't learned yet. they have the 
ability , the workers are not inferior , the technology is not out of date , 
but their attitude is , and they are just finding this out. it 's called 
competition women if you do n't the demand of the 
consumer , well your out .  .  . 

suit on 




from  ( craig boyle ) 
subject re concepts of all time 
article i.d. 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 29 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
was n't the original intent of the reverse for the , so he 
could see where he was backing up although reverse on the sides 

no. reverse are to warn others that you are backing up. they 
are n't bright enough to  ( typically ) see by without the and tail 
 . 

are useful for telling whether cars are backing up out to the 
path of the car , i do n't think warnings were their original , since they 
are white. 

well , red and orange were already taken .  . maybe white defines the direction 
that the car is moving in. 


if you really want to be able to see behind you , get some fog for 
the back of the car. these work very well and are a good way to get 
rid of if you get that rush of  . 

craig 




the university of illinois mail 
neil ,  ( c)1981 ) 
quick to judge , quick to , slow to understand , ignorance and prejudice 
and fear walk hand in hand 

from  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) 
subject re owners 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 30 

 ( craig boyle ) writes 

in article  ( oriolefan@uiuc ) writes 
 ( darren gibbons ) writes 
i'm looking for information on cars .  . now you ask , which model 
well , the sad truth is , i'm not entirely sure , but it 's a two , 
with roll over , hard top , and really looking .  . my 
friend has one sitting in his in really nice condition , 
body wise , but he has up on him , so it has n't run 
for a while. does anyone have any info on these cars the engine 
looks really to work on , but it is in fine shape and 
i am quite interested in it. 
thanks ! 



this would be the , would it not sold through in the mid  70 's as the price leader 

sounds a lot more like an to me. i 'd guess that this is on the same 
as the , rather than the bigger but i could easily 
be wrong. i think the later 's were sold here as  . 

craig 

i think the is the european name for the  . i'm pretty sure 
that the only 's sold here were are the  . i think the 
is just an early '70s to mid '70s  . 

the university of illinois mail 
sig under construction hard hat area 

from  ( tom locke ) 
subject good deal 
organization development 
lines 20 

hi netters , 

my friend is seriously thinking of getting the  . there is 
a local here in seattle selling them for , with 
, that 's off from  . he thinks it 's a 
very good deal  ( and i think so too) .  . since he knows i have access to 
the net , he would like to get anyone 's opinion about this car , especially 
in the area of reliability and  . 
please send e mail to me as my friend does n't have access to the net. 

my opinion about this car is , you get a lot for 
everything  ( tranny , control , , , seet ) , 
full wheel drive , 2 2 , fast  ( 143 top spped ) , heavy  ( 3580lb ) ) 

thanks in ! 

tom work  ( 206 ) 
computer services e mail 
p.o. box m s 20 or uunet ! ! ! 
seattle , 

from  ( daniel l. lovall ) 
subject 
summary my air do n't work on my 
distribution usa 
organization university physics department 
lines 31 

i have a  with on it. i bought it in california , and if 
it 'll let me , i 'd like to keep it for another year .  . the only problem is these 
my do n't work. 

the car has operated control for the  . right now it is 
stuck in the mode .  . it will blow warm air , but i ca n't switch the air 
to either the (i can live without this) or the (i ca n't 
live without this) .  . i probably could just the air to the 
position , but this a lot of air in my face and is , well , 
kind of like putting a in reverse .  . 

i have taken parts of the off and looked at the system and i think 
the problem  ( or part of it) is with the two which control up down 
and outside inside air flow. the which  ( outside(vent ) in 
 ( side(no vent ) air is most of the way around , and the other one is 
probably too , considering the advanced age of the car. 

two questions 

1 ) is there anything i should be aware of about this  ( other than 
the fact that i should move from indiana ) 

2 ) in the event that replacement are n't available , is there 
a way to fix this 

thanks for any advice info 

, 

dan 


from  ( roy matthew thigpen ) 
subject 
organization university of virginia 
lines 3 


there is just something about the name of this group. ) 


from  ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) 
subject re concepts of all tim 
organization itc community access unix internet project 
lines 41 

in article  ( jim frost ) writes 
 ( joe staudt ) writes 
in article  ( jim frost ) 
writes 
stuff deleted .  .  .  . 

the silly thing about this whole argument is that most of the 
 ( i'm tempted to say all , but there 's bound to be a 
counterexample ) only operate if the car is on  ( acc or  . thus 
you ca n't easily pop the without starting the car. 

most cars the only cars i 've ever seen with this feature have been 
cars .  . my ,  80 , and  ( coming soon )  93 all have 
operated ... . my  
had an electric release that was  ( thankfully ) independent of 
the key in the  ( the exception to the rule mentioned in my first 
 . 

i should probably have said  . i have n't 
encountered any that are operated .  . numerous 
and several cars that i 've encountered have electrical 
in the , and all of the ones i 've seen needed the 
on to some degree to operate .  . your example is noted , 
but since it 's a it 's not a big deal. i 've never run into a 
with a operated release i 'd agree 100 that 
in such an environment a or always active electrical release 
would be rather stupid. 

jim 


my has a release that can be locked out with the key .  . 
the key can be left with someone and will not the 
or the release .  . 

i remember my  86 that had an electronic release 
on the drivers door , which was always active .  . the fact that the 
car had no real makes the security measure of able to 
able the release unnecessary .  . 



from  ( dunn jonathan james ) 
subject re photo  ( was re rec . frequently asked questions ) 
keywords monthly posting 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 18 

photo and make no sense at all. speeding is a moving 
violation , committed by the operator , not the owner. the owner may be a 
agency , a , a private party , or a government agency .  . as long 
as the owner has no reason to expect the operator will be driving 
or , the owner cannot be held responsible for what the operator does. 
the car may even have been driven without the owner 's knowledge or consent .  . 
i ca n't believe a , where the is not identified , would 
stand up in court. this is obviously a lazy , cynical , , 
way to , and has nothing to do with public safety .  . 



what do photo units look like also , what major u.s. cities use it 

jon dunn 




from (a welker ) 
subject for 
organization university of 
lines 14 

i am in the process of looking for a half decent 
for my  . so far , i have found a for 
and an for  ( canadian  . i was wondering if anyone 
could tell me about either of these or any other possible 
that i may be interested in. my main are a decent horse 
power increase  ( 5 30 ) and a nice low note to go along with that added power. 
i was also thinking of looking into both and has . 
anyone got anything to say about these i am mainly looking for the 
only but if anyone can find a good deal on a whole i would be willing to 
go after that. i also would like to know how much these would cost me in the 
states . please . mail me back if you have any information. 

mike 


from  ( markus 98121 ) 
subject re photo  ( was re rec . frequently 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 50 

in article ,  ( bradford kellogg ) writes 

in article ,  ( richard welty ) writes 

q what is where is it used should a be 
able to handle it 

a has recently been made available by the for use in the us 
in so called photo  . in these , a 
low beam is aimed across the road at a 45 degree angle to the 
direction of traffic , and a picture is taken of which the 
determines to have been in violation of the speed limit .  . 
are to the owner of the  . because of the low 
power and the 45 degree angle , many people believe that a 
cannot give reasonable warning of a , 
although some of have added such 
capability anyway. the number of where photo is in use 
is limited , and some question the of such units. best advice 
learn what photo units look like , and keep track of where they 
are used  ( or else , do n't speed . ) . 

photo and make no sense at all. speeding is a moving 
violation , committed by the operator , not the owner. the owner may be a 
agency , a , a private party , or a government agency .  . as long 
as the owner has no reason to expect the operator will be driving 
or , the owner cannot be held responsible for what the operator does. 
the car may even have been driven without the owner 's knowledge or consent .  . 
i ca n't believe a , where the is not identified , would 
stand up in court. this is obviously a lazy , cynical , , 
way to , and has nothing to do with public safety .  . 





we had those f g photo things here in a while ago. 
there was a lot of about them , and a lot of too (a can 
with touch up can do a lot of good .  .  . ) .  . 

eventually they had to drop the idea as there were a lot of court cases 
where the owner of the car could prove he did n't drive it at the time 
of speeding .  . 

i especially recall a case where it eventually proved to be a car that 
had stolen a car and made false plates .  . he , ofcourse , chose a license number 
of a identical car , so the photo seemed correct .  .  .  . 

in photo , every way you look at it ! 



from  ( andrew j. huang ) 
subject re quick question 
keywords removing  . 
organization university 
lines 12 

in article  ( the devil reincarnate ) writes 
how do you take off the side door from the inside 
on an '87 the speaker went , and i want 
to access its  . 


there is something going on here. it seems that once a month , the 
group must have get a specific detailed question about  . i 
would like to ask that next month we get one about instead of 
 . thank you. 

andy 

from  ( bob pitas ) 
subject re drivers who do n't look ahead 
keywords bad drivers 
nntp posting host earth . com . 
organization cambridge technology partners 
distribution usa 
lines 56 

in article h . writes 

well , i guess i know for sure what i meant , and it is this i do n't know where 
you drive , but around here are often solid with large 
of , , and cars of all descriptions .  . when i close on one of these 
s on the , i have no desire to add my to this 
accident looking for a place to happen. if there were any way to pass it 
i would be passing myself , however i ca n't .  . as i posted before , all it 
takes is a blown , or some on the to turn this pack 
into a cloud of metal , flying glass , and burning  . i want to 
maintain enough free space between myself and this mess to at least have a 
minimal chance to avoid a mass crash .  . that means maintaining a clear space 
between me and it. 
however , there is no end of who are dying to pass so they 
can add themselves and their car to the  . that would n't bother me so 
much except that after letting enough of these pass me and glue themselves 
to the pack ahead , my is filled up. trying to back off further does not 
work because the road behind me has filled up , my car right into an ever 
increasing pack .  . now , if there was any slight possibility that there was a 
open ahead , i 'd be glad to move over. but , there usually is no way in hell that 
anybody is going anywhere. so , i block the would be  . not only for my own 
good , but theirs as well even though they are often too stupid to realize it. 


just an comment i do n't like it when people decide what 's good for me .  .  .  . 
if you think you 're going to decide anything for me , you 'd better be 
carrying a and a gun. who made you capable of determining if there 
is no way in hell that anybody is going anywhere why do you find 
it necessary to add to the problem instead of just your own 
business if someone is their own business , i will give them 
all the room they want , and i 'll try to make things easy for them , even 
letting them in in front of me if they ask  ( with a  . 
on the other hand , if someone like you decides they want to block me and 
be a general , you can bet your ass that i 'll make life as 
miserable as possible for you , as long as it does n't affect anyone else 
who 's their own business. 
they have a phrase to describe someone like you 
self traffic police .  . 
just mind your own business and stay in the right where you belong .  . 

as a rule of philosophy , i do n't feel particularly sorry when somebody gets 
by his own stupidity , but it does worry me when some idiot is in a position 
to cash in my , too. 

h . h .  . mayo 




 85 bob 
14 . 13 . @ 8 . 
up at , , nh  ( cambridge , ma ) 

 ( in yyz ) 
disclaimer these opinions are mine , obviously , since they end with my  . sig . ! 


from  ( dick grady ) 
subject re 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 14 

in article  ( alex miller ) writes 
my physical has suggested that a good driving position 
for me is to have my back nearly and for my not 
to be much higher than my  . 
... 
are there any cars that are particularly good in respect to 
having both and a well designed 

take a look at  . i sat in a dodge , which had a high 
and plenty of  . 


dick salem , nh , usa 
so many newsgroups , so little time ! 

from  ( the devil reincarnate ) 
subject quick question 
keywords removing  . 
organization , 
lines 9 

how do you take off the side door from the inside 
on an '87 the speaker went , and i want 
to access its  . 

i see only one press and the rest is fit. 


s 


from  ( jim frost ) 
subject re best 1 
organization software , inc. 
lines 26 
nntp posting host 3 . 

 ( troy wecker ) writes 
there is no question that the 1 ( 299 ) has good range but 
not significant enough to be 2 or 3 times as expensive as some of the 
others. 

the big win with the v 1 is not its range but rather its 
and multiple  ( which you later 
called a a conclusion i disagree  . since the 
multiple it 's not surprising that it 's 
more expensive .  . while the added capabilities may not 
help you , there is added value for those of us who live in areas where 
there are a lot of false  . 

summary 1 way too expensive and not a better 
! 

i certainly call it interesting but i'm another person who thinks 
that the added value might be coming at too high a cost .  . very 
adequate are available for less than half the cost and 
one of them has suited me rather well. if i did more long distance 
travelling in areas i'm not familiar with i 'd probably consider 
getting the v 1 because it 's additional information would be useful in 
false  . 

jim 


from  ( markus 98121 ) 
subject from 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 20 

netters ! 

i'm the us  ( i'm from sweden ) in august .  . i will probably a 
from  . i 've been quoted for a week 54 for additional days. 
this would include free driving distance , but not local taxes  . 
they also told me all necessary is included , but i doubt that , 
 cause a friend a car last year and it turned out he needed a lot more 
than what 's included in the base price .  . but on the other hand he did n't 
it from  . 

does anyone have some info on this 

is a off 
probability that i 'll be more 
is the a good car 

thanx 




from  ( eliot ) 
subject re open letter to  ( really station wagon ) 
organization clearer than 
lines 7 
distribution na 
nntp posting host 42 . 145 . 4 . 


this week 's talks about how are getting back in  . 
i would n't mind an  ( great stealth value ) but you 'll 
never me dead in a ! 




subject question 
from 
organization young university 
lines 18 

i'm about to buy a new car and some of it. since i paid 
cash for the last car i bought i did not have to worry about 
whether or not i had a good amount of on it because 
of a bank loan .  . i just put the amount that i wanted  ( not what 
a bank would have  . friends are telling me that banks 
require some kind of on the car to protect it since it 
is on loans .  . is this true can that be 
gotten as part of my other i assume i do n't have to 
pay a for extra over my regular car  . 
am i correct i hear about accident health type at 
the and i am pretty sure these are just money makers 
for them. i just want to verify that i do n't have to buy 
these at all. or any other types of  . 

what do i have to pay for car , tax , license .  . anything else 

ellen 


from  ( sanjai kukreti ) 
subject advice on used car 
lines 11 
organization university of 

hi , i was looking for some helpful advice. 
i'm a university student with about to spend , and i'm looking for a 
used car. does anyone have any useful advice they could offer to a first 
time i'm not looking for anything , just something functional 
and reliable  ( less  . anybody have any ideas on what models 
might suit me 

thanks 




from  ( carolinafan@uiuc ) 
subject re most bang for between 13 , 000 and 16 , 000 
article i.d. news . 
distribution na 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 36 

 ( jeffrey hoffmeister ) writes 

in article  ( stephen d'amelio ) writes 

 ( robert j. wade ) writes 

there 's only one car that really fits your needs. it 's spelled 

5 . 0 . 

sports car , my '88 was considered a sports car. 
i still ca n't quite figure that out , since when do plastic add 
make a car a sports car 

jeff 

we 're talking about from k illinois farm . is 
ed in  . what the hell do they know about cars .  .  .  . both are 
sports cars .  .  .  . ) 













the university of illinois urbana champaign mail 

because he was human because he had goodness because he was moral 
they called him insane .  .  .  . man 

from  ( nathan ) 
subject re opinions  ( centered around the gt ) 
organization the santa operation 
lines 


jeremy g. says 

can anyone offer any opinions of the  .  .  . how they do in 
the long run , records , reliability , mileage , etc 

i am fixing to buy a car in the next few months something 
a little bigger than a typical small car and with a little more power. i 
am considering the 6 , , , , and the  . 

the is the of the bunch , thus my interest in opinions. 
but every magazine and book places it as an excellent value. 
btw , the is wheel drive and is due for a re design for 1994. 

thanks in advance ! 

while i do n't read normally read this group , i was looking for 
information  ( sigh , maybe in the faq) and came across your posting .  .  . 

i bought a  93 with the last  ( now at miles ) 
after over the r , , mr 2 , stealth , , 
and  . 

check this month 's consumer reports for previous records .  . 

my a fun car with , , over , and less than  . 
i thought about a , but checking with people ruled that out. 
the tri star cars  ( eclipse etc ) were out since they do n't have an air  . 
for the  ( mustang(also no  . 
the r into the rocket category .  . a good used car buy .  . 
the 6 was almost there but rolled more than i liked .  . 
i did n't like the at all. too for me. 
the has a much smaller non space than i needed , so out that went .  . 
the was ok but when loaded with options  ( and somewhat 
too) in non form. 
i never considered the since it did n't have an  . i did look at it 
for its virtues but that 's it. the never entered my mind. 
i should have looked at the dodge stealth more. 
since my list was , i bought the  . ) 

the car design is different than earlier years , so it 's too early to see its 
reliability so far. for what it 's worth , my comments 

my 
door with up from inside rarely makes good wind  . 
have stuck up a few times  ( weather ) 
air broke  ( pressure switch ) 
around fluid container does n't completely. 
engine little hope for do it  ( typical ) 
parts somewhat more expensive than normal parts 
plastic does n't like and  . 
assembly on , out of , not 
properly. just a fluke .  . 
only gives 1 key with the car. c mon , spend an extra few ! 
has no on when up. i'm waiting for the day when 
i my head on the corner .  . 
behind air in and not in center  ( personal preference ) 
mud onto side of car 

my likes 
engine  ( design sounds power mileage torque ) definitely 1 
handling  ( very good for only at limits ) 
 ( the 5 speed is a must ) 
 ( lovely everywhere ) 
very little at full power  ( much better than the  90 i drive ) 
at 100  ( high though) 
low  ( good in front ) 
outside  ( nice in fog , never tested in weather ) 
air  ( see above) 
down (i have few passengers so a not important ) 
no when going over  ( still ! ) 
 ( 70 left for ) 

as you can see , i'm primarily interested in the engine. while it does n't 
have the of a big car or the rush , the big selling 
point for me was the all 24 value 2.5 engine. 

the overall car is a good buy for the money. that market segment has n't changed 
much since  ( prelude , del ) .  . i drive it to and from work 
each day on relatively roads , and most thing is that the 
's does n't like  . when you test drive one , find a 
road somewhere around town and see if the you get is  . 
if you have 3 passengers , by all means bring them along too. they 'll find 
that they have no room in the back and you 'll find that the car rides 
differently  ( if that 's better is up to you) .  . also , there 's a lot of glass 
around you which i was n't expecting the inside the car gets pretty 
hot in the summer .  . my back passengers  ( now very few ) complain about 
the lack of you may want to consider that when combined with 
the  . i 've heard that the system has trouble , but mine works fine. 
leather and the entry system were n't available when i got the car so 
i ca n't comment on them (i got the car before it was  . 
i prefer cloth to leather anyway. 

i would n't want this car in the the is too rough for the 
inevitable surprise , are n't meant for , and the assume 
that you 're not wearing lots of thick clothing .  . rain is much better water 
generally off the at speed , the 
are easy and understandable , and i barely once with the 
 ( and i was really  . 
there is also a definite lack of cup small places. the 
has map below the speakers in the door , but they 're plastic 
that could fit two or 's  . the center 
rest has 1 cup and the back of the front have a cloth 
but that 's it. no change  . quite a let down from the  . 
and the is definitely not a people mover car or an box car ! 

lastly , do n't wet car covers in the back .  . the will the 
water up and the result will not smell pleasant ( .  . 






jeremy support disclaimer 
 ( internet ) free the above represent my 
fast project , cmu software opinions , alone. 
b . s .  . engineering , cmu gotta love it. 
every silver 's got a touch of grey 

this year marks the of the bill of rights 





no comment they 're coming to take me away , ha ha ! 

from  ( dave chu ) 
subject wanted opinions on 75 
nntp posting host dreams . ece . ca . 
organization ece university 
lines 14 

i was wondering if anyone out in net land have any opinions on 
in general. i know they are not the most reliable cars around but 
summer is and they are ) .  . i'm interested 
in a 75 but any opinions on would be appreciated. thanks. 

dave 


dave 
dept. of  .  . eng .  . 
university voice  ( 514)848 ) 
de w. fax  ( 514)848 ) 
montreal , quebec , canada email 


from  ( adam edwards ) 
subject re 86 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 34 

in writes 

i have a 86 with a c and  . it 's turned 
and the light started  . i went to the and he said 
it was a light saying i need to change the oxygen  . he 
said , it is to be changed every , but since i bought the car when it 
had , i do n't know if the same thing happened at and  . he 
quoted for the part and 50 to it. the part cost 30 
outside , but the mechanic i went to could not fix it saying the 
is placed too deep in the engine parts. he suggested i wait till it 
before i do anything. if anyone out there owns a 
, i want to know how they got their oxygen changed. also , 
did you face any problem with fixing it without the 's help. also , 
what are the results of the oxygen  . 
any help would be greatly 
thanks 




i sold my  86 last april with on it. i 'd driven it since 
the previous , putting on it. the light used to 
light up regularly , starting about after i bought it. 
my brother and i the engine but used all of the original equipment , 
so i suppose the could have used replacement .  .  ( hah , 
if you could call it that ) did not change .  . perhaps increased , 
but how much could a ca 3 engine produce 
that was a neat car , i held the engine block easily in one hand ! has 
anyone ever driven the   variant just curious .  .  .  . 

adam 




from  ( jesse mccabe ) 
subject there 's on my ! help ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 16 

actually i was n't too surprised , since i bought it with the  . any of you 
got some ideas of getting rid of this  ( key word ) it has all 
the 
way through on the door  . can i use 

also , is there a good that will bond to the 
was on my has off , actually , there 's some looking  stuff  on 
the themselves .  .  .  . but it comes off pretty easily. 

one more thing .  .  .  . 
have any of you done self to a car how do you start what do i need 
to do this 

please help me ! 



from  ( gary w. mahan ) 
subject re it 's a rush .  .  .  .  ( was re too fast ) 
organization software 
lines 14 

dont get me wrong , i love to drive in the left fast but when i 
cars who are on the right , i slow down a bit. if i were to rely on the j of the other car , to recognize the speed , i would be the stupid one. 

just to my curiosity , why would this make you the stupid one it seems 
to me , everybody should be aware enough of what is going on. you do not need 

i agree more. that is how it should work. people should also always see too. 

i constantly behind me (i have one of those mirrors ) and two outside  . i actually spend just as much time checking my  ( cops you know) .  . 

i still get caught off guard every now and then. 


maybe i word it right the first time. what i was trying to say was that if you plan to blow by somebody at a very high speed and you assume you are safe because the guy sees you , you are stupid  ( of course , it depends on the  . i have had some very scary instances when i assumed this and i dont think all of the fault was the other guy  ( now if he was going 25 in a 55 a whole different story ) 

from  ( roy matthew thigpen ) 
subject re new  ( was re ) 
organization university of virginia 
lines 7 


warren brown , the washington post 's writer was the first 
to get his hands on the new  . if you 'd like his of it 
his review appeared in friday 's paper , in the section .  . 
he is not your traditional writer .  .  .  . 
enjoy .  . 





