from  ( david nye ) 
subject re post information needed please ! ! ! 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 21 

reply to  ( keith stewart ) 

my wife has become interested through an acquaintance in post 
this apparently is not in new and different 
( eg complaints ) are treated  . does have 
any information on it 

it would help if you  ( and anyone else asking for medical information on 
some subject) could ask specific questions , as no one is likely to type 
in a textbook chapter covering all aspects of the subject. if you are 
looking for a comprehensive review , ask your local hospital  . 
most are happy to help with a request of this sort .  . 

, this is a condition in which who have significant 
weakness from childhood notice progression of the 
weakness as they get older .  . one theory is that the remaining 
neurons have to work harder and so die sooner .  . 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( steven grimm ) 
subject re opinions on  ( hay fever ) shots 
organization , view , ca , usa 
lines 7 
nntp posting host com . 

i had shots for about four years starting as a sophomore in high 
school. before that , i used to get bloody , attacks , 
and eyes so i could n't get to sleep .  . after about 6 months on the 
shots , most of those symptoms were gone , and they have n't come back .  . i 
stopped getting the shots  ( due more to laziness than planning ) in college. 
my got a little worse after that , but are still nowhere near as 
bad as they used to be. so yes , the shots do work. 

from  ( mary shafer ) 
subject re inner ear problems from too much flying 
article i.d. 
organization nasa , , cal .  . 
lines 33 
in reply to 's message of 5 apr 93 23 27 26 gmt 

on 5 apr 93 23 27 26 gmt ,  ( vida morkunas ) said 

can one develop inner ear problems from too much flying i hear 
that and have a limit as to the 
number of flying hours what are these limits what are the 
main problems associated with too many long  ( over 4 hours ) 
trips 

the rest requirements are to prevent  . the 
 ( pilot ) limits are somewhat more than the 
limits for this reason. rest requirements address amount of time 
on duty plus rest time. a tired is an accident prone  . 

the only limits i know of for inner ear problems are in military 
, which are frequently or less 
 . not being able to clear the ears members 
 ( duties not involving flying ) or grounded until the ears clear. 

flying can problems if ears do n't clear. if you do n't have 
big pressure changes , you may not know that you 've got a problem. but 
if you zip up to 5 , 000 or 6 , 000  ( the usual in an 
airliner ) and then back down to sea level , you may discover a problem. 
ears do n't clear readily because of , , , and 
problems. the last wo n't change the first three can. 
 ( decongestants or , usually ) can help. 
gum , sucking hard  ( or a bottle for babies ) , 
these will help all four causes .  . 



mary nasa research , , ca 
of course i do n't speak for nasa 
a at your is better than no at all. unknown us 

from  ( sherry olmstead ) 
subject re proteins 
nntp posting host ca . 
reply to 
organization canada  ( pacific centre ) 
lines 25 

writes about proteins  ( hsp 's ) and dna .  . 

i hate to be , but in this case i think it 's  . 

's are part of the response to  . the only reason they 
are called  proteins  is because they were first demonstrated 
using  . dead tissue  . meat ) is not going to produce any 
protein because it 's dead ! 

also , who cares if the dna you are is ! it will be 
completely digested in your stomach , which is about 2. 

some of you worry way too much. eat a healthy , balanced diet and relax .  . 

my advice is , if you do n't know what you are talking about , it is better 
to keep your mouth shut than to open it and remove all doubt about your 
ignorance .  . do n't speculate , or at least get some concrete information 
before you do ! 




title lab 
canada phone  ( 604 ) 0600 
, b.c. internet 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject  ( was eugenics ) 
article i.d. cup . 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
lines 36 

probably within 50 years , a new type of will be possible. 
maybe even sooner .  . we are now mapping the human  . we will 
then start to work on of that  . using genetic 
engineering , we will be able to insert whatever genes we want. 
no breeding , no , etc. the ethical question is , should 
we do this should we make a race of disease free , long lived , 
arnold , even if we can. 

probably within 50 years , it will be possible to and 
re our bodies at the molecular level. not only will 
be possible , but  . 

what will it be like to all the of shelf bar 
in your head , and all the errors they make in the 's 
favor at what will it be like to mentally edit and 
check your responses to the questions posed by a phone selling 
time share options 

indeed , we are today a nation at risk ! the threat is not from bad genes , 
but bad memes ! memes are the basic units of culture , as opposed to genes 
which are the units of genetics .  . 

we stand on the of new meme ! harmful 
memes which were restricted in their destructive power will 
run rampant over the , waste to the real benefits that 
future technology has to offer .  . 

for example , jeremy has been busy trying to whip up emotions 
against the new genetically engineered under development at 
 . this guy is harmful memes , a virtual memetic 
mary .  . 

we must expand the public health laws to include of people 
with harmful memes .  . they should not be allowed to other people 
with their memes against genetically engineered food , 
fields , and the space solid rocket  . 

from  ( lee lady ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
summary science is not mere  . 
organization university of hawaii  ( mathematics dept ) 
expires sat , 1 may 1993 10 00 00 gmt 
lines 85 

in article  ( russell turpin ) writes 

i wrote 
... or , to use a phrasing that i think is more accurate , science 
is the investigation of phenomena that avoids methods and reasoning 
that are known to be erroneous from past foul  . 

in article writes 
i can agree with this if you are talking about the less fundamental 
aspects of scientific method. ... 
... 
... in fact , i do n't see the alternative , as i do n't think that the 
are capable of experimental investigation .  . in saying 
this i am with the work of people like  ( 1970 ) , 
(1981) and  . 
.... 
while cannot be subject to the same kind of experimental 
investigation , as that to which it is applied , it can be 
 . can be compared to each other , sometimes by 
the results they produce .  . this kind of critical 
and comparison , together with the of existing 
for new fields of study , is what drives the evolution of 
and how we think about them. 

as usual , you are missing the whole point , russell , because you are not 
willing to even consider your basic article of faith , which 
is that science is merely a matter of and that the highest 
purpose of science is to avoid making mistakes .  . 

this is like saying that the most important aspect of business 
is accurate  . 

if science were no more than and not making mistakes , it 
would be a poor thing indeed. what was the of darwin what 
was the of einstein what was , for that matter , the 
of and 


in an earlier article , russell writes 

none of the foregoing should be read as meaning that we should 
open the door to of and science. 
modern advocates of , , and traditional 
chinese medicine receive little respect because , for the most 
part , they use methods and reasoning that the kind of research 
has shown to be terribly faulty .  .  ( this does 
not imply that all their are ineffective .  . it does 
imply that those who rely on faulty and reasoning are 
incapable of which are effective and 
which are not . ) . 

first of all , i think you are arguing against a straw man , because i 
do n't think that anyone here is arguing that , pseudo science , 
, , and traditional chinese medicine should be 
accepted as science. i , in particular , think the basic ideas of 
and seem extremely  . 

what some of us do believe , however , is that some of these things 
 ( including some of the ideas ) are of serious scientific 
attention .  . 

if in fact it were true , as you have stated above , that those who do not 
use the currently can have no idea what is 
effective and what is not , then science today would not exist. for all 
of current science is based on the past work of scientists whose 
, by current standards , was seriously flawed .  . 

it is certainly true that as , we need to re examine 
those results derived in the past using less perfect  . it is 
also true that the results obtained by people today who still rely on 
those early needs to be re examined in a more rigorous 
fashion by those qualified to do so  . 

but to say that nobody who fails to do elaborate double blind studies is 
capable of knowing their ass from a hole in the ground and to say that no 
ideas that come from outside the scientific could possibly 
be worthy of serious investigation ... this truly marks one 's attitude as 
,  . this attitude is not compatible with a belief in 
reason. 


in the arguments between and , psychology seems 
less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects .  . 



from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 20 

in article  ( jonathan h. lin ) writes 
i was wondering what steps are being taken to prevent the spread of 
drug  . i 've heard that some places are 
thinking of those with the disease. does n't this violate 
the civil rights of these individuals are there any legal 
for such action 


who knows in this legal , but there is legal 
for forcibly in  . 100 ago 
it was done all the time. it has been done all along 
in who wo n't take their medicine .  . if you have you 
may find yourself under of the public health department 
and you may find they have the legal power to insist you make your 
clinic  . 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( sharon paulson ) 
subject re food related 
organization nasa research center , va , usa 
lines 48 

nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 03 41 24 gmt 

in article  ( michael covington ) writes 

newsgroups sci . 
path news . nasa . gov . ! primate . edu . ! com . ! elroy . jpl . nasa . gov . ! ! zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! europa . eng . gtefsd . com . ! ! athena ! ai . edu . ! 
from  ( michael covington ) 
sender 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
references 
date fri , 23 apr 1993 03 41 24 gmt 
lines 27 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( david ozonoff ) writes 

many of these are based .  . after your post i looked in the 
literature and two articles that  ( contains 
tryptophan ) and  . the idea is that in the diet might 
an already existing or latent disorder , not cause it. 
check to see if the two are based .  . i 'd be interested .  . 

years ago when i was an , an young woman was brought into 
the er after having been reported to have grand 
why a . we her stomach and obtained 
what seemed like a couple of of , much of it  . 
after a few hours she up and was fine. i was tempted to sign her out as 
 . 

gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 

how about on the , e.g. 




michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

what is 




nasa research center 
 . , work  ( 804 ) 
, virginia .  . home  ( 804 ) 

from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject re could this be a 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 16 

gb from  ( gordon banks ) 
gb the would stop the over , but in , are 
gb under ordered .  . 

that 's a somewhat statement. i'm sure there are in 
which the for lab are from the doctor 's 
 . in most , however , including the one i work for , there is no 
direct incentive to under order. of the group are shared 
among all partners , but the group is so large that an individual 's 
generated costs have a effect. i do n't believe that we 
under order. then again , i'm not really sure what the right amount 
of is or should be. relative to the average british 
, i suspect that i rather drastically over order. 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from  ( kristoffer eriksson ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
keywords science errors 
organization i , , 
lines 14 

in article  ( russell turpin ) writes 
my definition is this science is the investigation of the empirical 
that avoids mistakes in reasoning and discovered from previous 
work. 

reading this definition , i wonder when should you recognize something 
as being a mistake it seems to me , that of pseudo sciences 
might have their own ideas of what constitutes a mistake and which 
of such previous mistakes they accept .  . 


, , 2 , s 702 26 , 
phone 46 19 33 13 00 ! e mail 
fax 46 19 33 13 30 ! or ... ! mail . net . ! ! ! 

from  ( thomas w. day ) 
subject re the 
summary how well does it hold up 
organization systems 
lines 43 

in article  ( dan hartung ) writes 

just had the opportunity to watch this flick on a e some 15 years 
since i saw it last .  . 

wow , the wwii channel did something not wwii 

i was very interested in the technology demonstrated in this film 
for handling infectious diseases  ( and similar  . 
clearly they faked a lot of the computer technology 
certainly at the time it was made most of that was science fiction 
itself , let alone the idea of a space . 

the capabilities of the computers were very faked for movie 
audiences who have not ability or patience with numbers. the book was more 
in that respect. in all respects , actually. the are 
still out of range , but not impossible. 

quite actually this is what got me wanted to see 
the movie again i watched a segment on the otherwise awful how 'd 
they do that dealing with a disease at the 's top 
lab .  . there was description of the elaborate security measures taken 
so that building will never be so to speak by man or 
nature  ( short of deliberate bombing from the air ,  . and 
the used similar to that in the film .  . 

sf  ( and i ve always wondered how crichton escapes this classification ) is 
usually ahead of science in both prediction and  . nasa 's 
processes were supposedly taken to prevent sf story 
 . i mean , nasa scientists were often sf readers  ( and 
sometimes writers ) and felt pre warned by their reading. 

i'm curious what people think about this film short of silly . 
is such a technically today 

i think the film still holds up among the best of sf films , but that is n't 
saying a whole lot. 

as far as the plot , and the structure that is not life 
as we know it , that 's a whole  argument for rec . arts . sf . tech . 
or something. 

yep .  . 

from  ( marlene j. stern ) 
subject 
originator 
nntp posting host princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
distribution nj 
lines 43 


we will be holding a bake and sale at in princeton on 
street , saturday april 24th 12 4 p . m .  . to benefit the 
foundation , a foundation established to 
encourage research a for  . our 
three year old daughter suffers from this disease. below is a press release 
that appeared in local newspapers. hope you can join us. 


on saturday , april 24 as part of in princeton , a local family 
will be having a bake and sale to raise money for and create public 
awareness about a rare disease called  . 

bill and stern 's daughter is afflicted with this disease 
characterized by attacking the inside of the , vocal and 
 . caused by a virus , the grow , block the air passages and would 
lead to death from without to remove the  . 
three year old has 11 thus far since her 
last year and faces the of over a hundred throughout her 
lifetime. 

even though the disease is hardly a word , it has affected the lives 
of enough people to inspire the formation of the 
foundation , a non profit foundation whose goals are to provide 
support for and families by and publishing a 
newsletter , enhance awareness of at the local and national level , and aid 
in the , , and treatment .  . 

since medical know that the virus causing the disease is similar to 
those viruses causing , they feel a would be within reach if money 
were available for research .  . because is rare , it not only gets 
attention but also funds to search for a  . part of the 
foundation 's mission is to change that. 

anyone interested in contributing items to the bake and sale , please call 
or bill at  . can be made at the 
foundation 's during , april 24th , 12 to 4 p . m .  . , in 
princeton , or sent directly to 

the foundation 
50 wesleyan drive 
 . , nj  . 
thanks 

subject post information needed please ! ! ! 
from  ( keith stewart ) 
organization information exchange 
lines 9 

my wife has become interested through an acquaintance in post 
this apparently is not in new and different ( eg 
complaints ) are treated  . does have any information on 
it 

thanks 


keith 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re and health risk 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
lines 72 

this reminds me of the last graham show i saw. today he 
meat on the in a big pot ! he used a strange 
i 'd never seen before. 

he took a big pot with , and placed a in it made from  . 
the was about the size and shape of a typical coffee table , 
made by a of around the edges .  . 

in the , he placed a couple of brown sugar , a similar 
quantity of brown rice  ( he said any rice will do ) , the contents of two 
of grey tea , and a few  . 

on top of this was placed an ordinary type , with 
two in it. the was put on , and the whole assembly 
went on the at high for 10 or 12 minutes. 

later , he removed what looked like  . what surprises 
and concerns me are 

1 ) no wood  . where does the flavor come from 

2 ) about 5 or 10 years ago , i remember hearing that color 
 ( obtained by sugar a common and 
agent ) had been found to be  . i believe they 
it under the of rats , or something. if the results were conclusive , 
color would not be legal in the u.s. , yet it is still being 
used. was the initial research result found to be incorrect , or what 

3) about 5 or 10 years ago , i remember grey tea being 
as , because it contains oil of  ( an extract 
from the of a type of  . does anyone know whatever 
happened with that story if it were , grey tea 
could not have it as an , yet it apparently continues to do 
so. 

wrt natural wood (i 've a right now , as it happens ) , 
i 've noticed that a food item will have an unpleasant 
taste when directly out of the if the has only recently 
stopped  . i find the best taste to be had by using wood , 
getting lots of right up at the beginning of the process , 
then for hours and hours without adding additional wood  . 

my theory is that the unpleasant are low molecular weight 
stuff , like , and that the flavor are some sort 
of larger more similar to  . the long time after 
the initial drives off the low molecular weight stuff , 
just leaving the flavor behind. does anyone know if my theory is correct 

i also remember hearing that the products of fat 
on the and burning are  . for that reason , and because 
it covers the product with and some unpleasant , i only 
non like directly over hot  . i do stuff like this 
by  . i have a long rectangular , and i put the 
at one end and the meat at the other end. the fat drops directly on the 
below the meat , and next time i use the i make the fire 
in that end to burn off the fat and help the  . 

and yet another reason i 've heard not to or meat is that 
cured meat , like and , contains 
, which are  . i'm pretty sure this claim actually 
has some standing , do n't know about the others. 

an amusing incident i recall was the , when it was 
discovered that the people who make cake mix were putting 
a lot of  ( edb ) into the cake mix to suppress  . 
this is a which is known to be  . 
the guy who represented the company in the press conference defended 
himself by saying that the risk from eating products every day 
for a year would be equal to the risk from eating two 
 . what a great analogy ! when i first heard that , my 
immediate reaction was we should make that a standard ! one 
would be equivalent to 0 . 5 . ! 

from  ( sandy silverman ) 
subject re and health risk 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 93 13 02 13 
nntp posting host com . 
organization american company 


lines 8 

proteins are those whose is in response to 
 . some are also made when are to 
other conditions , e.g. high salt .  . they have no obvious connection 
to what happens when you burn proteins .  . 

opinions expressed here are my own 
american 
, is best 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re update  ( help ! ) was what is this is it 's 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 42 

in article  ( john o'donnell ) writes 

i should n't have to be posting here. should know the 
literature beyond co 's denial go round. 
should get correctly and treated .  . 


why do you think is doing this is n't he acting in good faith 
after all , as the of for all and purposes , 
the more famous gets , the more famous gets .  . i do n't 
see the motive here. it is easy for me to see it the 
those who call everything and treat everything. 
there is a lot of money involved. 

i'm a computer engineer , not a doctor ( ,  . i was building a 
computer manufacturing company when i got  . i lost several 
years of my life to near total as a result , 
the company failed , taking with it over 150 jobs , my savings , 
and everything i 'd worked for for years. i'm one of the lucky 
ones in that i found a through the foundation 
and now can work almost full time , although i have persistent 
infection and still suffer a variety of  . and now 
i try to follow the literature .  . 


well , it is tragic what has happened to you , but it does n't 
necessarily make you the most objective source of information 
about it. if your whole life is around this , you 
may be too emotionally involved to be other people 
who may or may not have  . certainly of more research 
on would not be out of order , though , and people like you 
can be very effective there. 







gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject re could this be a 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 31 

gb from  ( gordon banks ) 
gb (i am excepting , which is arguably  . 
gb i hope you meant . 

given the choice , i would rather argue g . 

no arguments about in fact , current best evidence is 
that is (a la spreading depression of 
leao ) rather than  ( something causing and 
secondary  . 

without , however , is a issue. there do not 
seem to be objectively measurable changes in brain function. the 
 ( lauritzen , , et al ) have done local 
studies on without , and  ( unlike with , 
but like type ) they found no changes in  . 

from one  ( absurd ) perspective , all pain is , because in 
the absence of a nervous system , there would not be pain. from 
another  ( tautologic ) perspective , any disease is in the domain of 
the that treats it. treat headache , 
therefore  ( at least in the usa) headache is  . 

whether or not , nobody would disagree that 
are common .  . perhaps my fee for service 
colleagues , for cases , want all the headache 
they can get .  . working on a , however , i would rather not fill 
my office with holding their heads in pain. 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from  ( ron roth ) 
subject selective 
x by usenet gateway 
organization rose media , , ontario .  . 
lines 55 

 ( ella i baff ) writes 

ron once you have your confirmed through the 
proper , you might consider the following ... 
diet 

1 ) ron .  .  . what . do you consider to be proper  .  .  . this . sounds 

i'm glad it caught your eye. that 's the purpose of this forum to 
those , eager to learn , about the facts of life. that phrase 
is used to the frenzy of all the would be respondents , who 
otherwise would feel being left out as the proper authorities to be 
on that topic. in short , it means absolutely nothing. 

like a blood chemistry .  .  . tolerance and the like .  .  . suddenly . chemistry 
exists you know perfectly well that this person can be saved trouble 
and expense with simple and hair analysis to  .  . no . 
any  .  . but . then again .  .  . maybe . that 's what you mean 

and hair analysis , eh so what other fascinating 
space age medical techniques do you use do you sit under a pyramid 
over night as well to your brain back to normal after a mind 
expanding day at your  save the earth  clinic 

2 ) were you able to understand dick king 's post that 90 of diseases is not thy 
the statistic you cited from the new england journal of medicine .  . 

once i figure out what you are trying to say , i 'll still have 
to with the possibility of you not being able 
to understand my answer to your question ! 

3) ron .  .  . have . you ever thought about why you never post in misc . health . 
 .  . and . insist instead upon insinuating your , non medical , often 
delusional notions of health and disease into this forum i suspect from your 
apparent and medicine that there may be an 

you little you ! got me all out , 

underlying  father  .  . of . course i can this by 
one of my while they ponder my theory to see if one of their 
previously weak    .  . or . do you have 
about my unique methods of  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

john , , ca 


oh man , when are you going to start teaching all this stuff i 'll 
bet everyone on this net must be absolutely dying to learn more about 
going beyond and head straight for the mind for 
some  . 

ron 

2 . 00 . in the next world , you 're on your own. 
2 . 10 . usenet rose media  ( 416 ) 

from v. 
subject sale !  ( see letter ) 
reply to 
organization systems technology , ltd .  . 
lines 17 



in with the state scientific center on 
we have elaborated our own technology of bee venom components isolation , 
particularly , using modern by 
and , with application of only the materials , admitted 
for manufacturing production. high quality of our product is 
acknowledged by the expertise of the accredited test firm test 
v o  . 
no less than of the primary substance content. 
quantity from 100 g up to 5  . 
date of manufacture march 1993 .  . 
price usa . per  . 
is on sale 
, , , 10 a , 
ltd . tel . fax 86 04 , 46 


from  ( howard r doyle ) 
subject re 
organization pittsburgh transplant institute 
lines 41 

in article  ( steve heffner ) writes 
a bit more than a year ago , a in my right was 
discovered .  . it had produced a dull pain in that area. the 
was using the least  ( orthoscopic ) method and a 
plug and patch . 



i suspect you mean instead of  . 



now the pain occurs more often. my could n't identify any 
specific problem. the who performed the original procedure 
now says that yes there is a new in the same area and he 
said that he has to cut into the area for the this time. 

my question to the net is there a method to 
determine if in fact there is a or if the pain is from 
something else 


by far the  ( still ) best method to a is old 
physical examination .  . if you have an obvious coming down 
into your , or a in your that is brought about by 
increasing pressure .  .  .  .  . 
sometimes is not that obvious. the is small and you can only 
detect it by putting your finger into the  . 
whether you have a , or this is related to the previous 
operation , i ca n't tell you. the person that examined you is in the best 
position to make that determination .  . 

are there non ways of a every now and then 
folks write about ct and for this. but these are far 
too expensive , and unlikely to be better than a trained examining finger .  . 







from  ( rich young ) 
subject re is 
originator 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization division , company 
lines 86 

in article  ( steve pope ) writes 
the mass of evidence , combined with the lack of 
a properly constructed scientific experiment disproving 
the hypothesis , makes the reaction hypothesis the 
most likely explanation for events. 

the following is from a critique of a 60 on 
which was on 3rd , 1991. the critique comes from the 
diet and letter , february 1992 .  .  .  .  . edited . for  .  .  . 

chances are good that if you watched  60  last 
3rd 1991 , you came away feeling is bad for you. ... in 
the segment entitled  no , ' for instance , show host ed 
makes statements without adequately them 
 ( 'millions are suffering a host of symptoms , and some get violently 
sick' ) his report with but unproven 
personal testimony .  .  .  . and speaks of studies on that make the 
substance seem harmful without explaining just how inconclusive 
those studies are. 

consider his making reference at the beginning of the program to 
a study conducted at the eastern virginia medical school in order 
to back up his comment that there is  a lot of evidence  that , 
a flavor in chinese and other as well as 
in many supermarket items , causes  . what he does not 
make reference to is the fact that the study was performed not on 
humans but on  . 

one of the who conducted the study , 
patricia , d .  . , says it certainly is conceivable that 
a small minority of people are sensitive enough to to get 
from it.  but , ' she explains ,  the show probably 
the extent of the problem . ' . 

a second comes with mention of dr. john , a professor 
at the washington university school of medicine who , mr. 
remarks ,  says that his 20 years of research with 
animals shows is a hazard for developing youngsters  because 
it poses a threat of brain damage. dr. 's 
research with lab animals does not  show  anything about human 
youngsters .  . 

in fact , only under extreme did dr. 's 
experiments ever bring about any brain damage when he 
extremely high of into , completely 
their and entering their more directly , 
and when he used to force feed huge of the substance 
to very young animals on an empty stomach .  . of course , neither 
of those occurs with humans they simply take in 
with food. and most of what they take in is broken down by 
in the of the small , so that very little 
the much to little , in fact , for human 
blood levels of to come anywhere near the high 
found in dr. 's lab animals .  .  .  .  .  . 

the world health organization appears to be very much aware of 
that fact. and so does the european communities  scientific 
for food .  .  .  . both . , after examining numerous studies , 
have concluded that is safe .  . 

their determination makes sense , considering that has never 
been proven to cause all the symptoms that have been attributed 
to it , , a in the , and a 
burning , among others. in fact , the most fail safe 
of studies , the double blind study .  .  .  . , has 
the much substance .  . 

that 's quite fortunate since the alleged component of 
, , enters our systems whenever 
we eat any food that contains protein .  . the reason is that one 
of the amino that make up protein , acid , is broken 
down into during  . 

it 's a that occurs frequently .  . acid is the 
most of the 20 or so amino in the diet .  . it makes 
up about 15 percent of the protein in flesh , 20 percent in 
milk , 25 percent in , and 29 percent in whole  . 

that does n't mean it 's entirely that a small number 
of people have trouble properly and are therefore 
sensitive to it .  .  . the . consensus reached by large , international 
organizations is that is safe , the same consensus 
reached by the and the community at large .  . 


rich young  ( these are not 's opinions . ) . 

from  ( ron roth ) 
subject selective 
x by usenet gateway 
organization rose media , , ontario .  . 
lines 30 

 ( t russell responds to article by ron 
 ( t 
 ( t r ... i do n't doubt that the effect is alive and well with 
 ( t r every medical by some to be around 20 , 
 ( t r but why would it be higher with alternative versus conventional 
 ( t r medicine 
 ( t 
 ( t how do you know that it is if you could show this by careful 
 ( t measurement , i suspect you would have a paper worthy of publication 
 ( t in a variety of medical  . 
 ( t 
 ( t russell 

if you notice the question mark at the end of the sentence , i was 
addressing that very question to that person  ( who has a dog named 
sugar ) and a few other people who seem to be of the same opinion. 

i would love to have anyone come up with a study to support their 
claims that the effect is more with alternative 
compared to conventional medicine .  . 
perhaps the study could also include how respond if they 
are with a conventional versus an alternative doctor , 
i.e. which is more likely to get in the face 
when the success of the treatment does n't meet the expectations of 
the patient ! 

ron 

2 . 00 . when in doubt , make it sound convincing ! 
2 . 10 . usenet rose media  ( 416 ) 

from  ( walter f. lundby ) 
subject re is 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , group 
lines 48 


is there such a thing as  ( monosodium glutamate ) 
 . anybody here have experience to the contrary 


as a person who is very sensitive to and whose wife and kids are 
too , i want to know why the food industry wants to put in food ! ! ! 

somebody in the industry give me some reasons why ! 

is it an industrial that needs getting get rid of 

is it to cover up the fact that the are not very good or the food is poor quality 

do some of you get a sadistic pleasure out of making some of us sick 

do the taste have some defect in their flavor  ( mouth etc .  .  . ) . 
that 

i really t understand ! ! ! 

also ...  ( sp ) and  .  .  . why them there are 
safer ways to preserve food , , and ! 

i think 
1 ) outlaw the use of these without warning as 
large as those on  .  . 
2 ) require 30 of comparable products on the market to be free of these 
and state that they are free of , , and on the  . 
3) while at it outlaw 5. for that matter why food 
4 ) take the and out of vitamins .  .  ( in my only 
 ( tm ) did n't have 5 ) my doctor says 5 is 
responsible for 1 2 of all ! ! ! 

keep food food ! quit putting in junk ! 

just my two worth .  . 

sig a person tired of getting sick from this junk ! 


walter 




walter 


from  ( rick marsico ) 
subject 
organization state university 
lines 5 
nntp posting host edu . 

does the for relief fall into the 
or category looking at the product literature it 's 
not clear. 



from  ( larry silverberg ) 
subject school info 
reply to 
organization university of , 
lines 21 

, 

i am planning on school next year .  . 

i have my choices to the college of 
medicine , in philadelphia , or the california college of 
medicine in san francisco .  . 

if anyone has any information or about these two schools , please 
tell me. i am having a hard time which one to , and must 
make a decision very soon. 

thank you , larry 


live from new york , it 's saturday night .  .  .  . 

's special 
lawrence from the state university of new york @ 
aka 


subject what are 
from  ( ho ng ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 8 

what exactly are , those sore , in your 
in certain kinds of , people try and break up these it this 
really helpful 


ho 



from  ( md ) 
subject ( infantile ) 
keywords epilepsy 
reply to  ( md ) 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 32 


the reason i'm posting this article to this newsgroup is to 
1. gather any information about this disorder from anyone who might 
have recently been e by it ( from being associated with 
it or actually having this disorder ) and 
2. help me find out where i can access any medical literature associated 
with over the internet .  . 

recently , i had a baby boy born with which occured 12 15 hours 
after birth. he was immediately transferred to a major hospital in boston 
and has since been extensive drug treatment for his condition. 
this has been a major learning experience for me and my wife not only in 
learning the medical problems that our son but also in dealing with 
hospitals ,  .  . etc .  . 

i do n't want to go into a lot of detail , but his condition was 
quite severe at first then he began to grow and put on weight 
as a normal baby would. he was put on the standard anti drugs 
and that did not seem to help out. his , , cat are all normal , 
but the 's show alot of activity. after many , 
body structure , and infection virus the doctors still do not 
know quite what type of he is having  ( although they do have alot 
of evidence that it is now pointing to infantile ) .  . this is where 
we stand right now .  .  .  .  . 

if anyone knows of any or newsgroup or as i mentioned up above , 
any information to this disorder i would sure appreciate hearing 
from you. i am not trying to play doctor here , but only trying to gather 
information about it. as i know now , these particular types of disorders 
are still not really well understood by the medical community , and so i'm 
going to see now .  .  .  . if . somehow the internet can at least give me alittle 
insight .  . thanks. 

from  ( daphne balick ) 
subject re 
reply to 
organization science technology , 
lines 32 



in article  ( vida morkunas ) writes 
i live at sea level , and am called upon to travel to high cities 
quite frequently , on business. the cities in question are at to 
feet of  . one of them especially is very polluted .  .  .  . 

mexico city , , la 

often i feel the first two or three days. i feel , and 
my heart seems to a lot more than at sea level. also , it is very 
in these cities , so i will tend to drink a lot of water , and keep 
away from , such as those containing or  . 


thing is , i still have symptoms .  . how can i ensure that my short trips there 
 ( no , i do n't usually have a week to acclimatize ) are as comfortable as possible 
is there something else that i could do 



an that you might try for sickness in the is 
coca leaves or taking made from coca leaves .  . you might notice that 
many of the have in their mouths .  .  .  . the tea can be obtained in s. 
american  . this some of the and 
but do n't try to with it. i 've tried this when travelling and 
in and  . the amount of cocaine you would are too minute 
to cause any  .  .  . 

also it is a good idea to eat lightly and dress warm while to high  . 



from  ( alice sanders ) 
subject frozen shoulder and 
organization eastern illinois university 
lines 12 

had a frozen shoulder for over a year or about a year .  . it is still 
frozen , and i am still in physical every week. but the 
pain has almost completely. until last week when i the 
for twenty each , two days in a row .  . i have a push type power 
 . the pain started back up a little bit for the first time in quite 
a while , and i used ice and medicine again. can anybody explain why this 
particular activity , which does not seem to me very much generally , 
should cause this shoulder problem 

thanks. 

alice 

from  ( opirg ) 
subject re is 
organization university , ottawa , canada 
lines 44 

in article  ( gong tong ) writes 
in article  ( opirg ) writes 

for cites on , look up almost anything by john w. , a 
who has studied the effects of on the brain and on 
development .  . it is undisputed in the literature that is an 
food , and that its major , 
is essentially the in the brain 
 ( humans  . too much in the diet , and the system gets thrown 
off. and , also an are necessary in 
small , and are freely available in many , but the 
added by industry are far above the that would normally be 
encountered in a ny single food. by eating lots of junk food , 
, and diet soft , it is possible to jack your 
blood levels so high , that anyone with a to these 
will suffer numerous real effects .  . 
read 's review paper in  . brain , 1988 , and check his 
sources. they are  . there is no dispute .  . 



in order to effects of , that in blood must go through 
blood brain that i am not sure can go through or not. 

levels of and in the blood are able to the 
blood brain through the  ( or cvo ) , in 
particular the and  ( pituitary gland ) areas .  . the 
of the , and the eminence regions 
are particularly  . areas are not subject to the 
blood brain  . these areas control the release of , 
which the release and of governing development , 
especially sexual development .  . changes in adult rats , which are less 
sensitive to than humans , have been observed after , 
on a basis , of several are  . blood 
levels of are reduced , and release 
of becomes  . 

hope this helps .  . 





from  ( mark fulk ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization university of rochester 
distribution 

in article  ( gary merrill ) writes 
of course we ca n't hope  ( currently at least ) to explain how or why 
had the of snakes in the fire their  . 
surely it was n't the only he had. what was special about 
this one could it have had something to do with a perceived 
analogy between the geometry of the snakes and problems concerning 
geometry of is such reasoning extra scientific 
or is it rather at the very heart of science  ( perice 's notion of , 
the use of models within and across disciplines ) upon close examination , 
is there a non rational mystical leap taking place , or is it perhaps 
closer to a formal  ( though often incomplete ) analogy or model 

i feel the need to repeat myself 's dream is a rather bad example 
of much of anything. read root 's book on the history of the 
 . 

mark a. university of rochester 
computer science department 

from  ( jon noring ) 
subject re great post !  ( was re  ( yeast )  .  . ) .  ( very long) 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 38 

in article  ( russell turpin ) writes 

i hope gordon banks did not mean to imply that notions such as 
hard to see causing various problems should not 
be investigated .  . many have made by 
out how to investigate things that were previously thought 
virtually impossible to test for. 

indeed , i would be surprised if were such a 
phenomena .  . i would think that would produce signature 
whose measure would then set a lower bound on the 
extent of recent infection .  . i realize this might get quite 
tricky and difficult , probably expensive , and likely 
or uncomfortable to the subjects , but that is not the same as 
virtually impossible. 

i recall reading in the recently revised edition of the connection 
that there is indeed work by to do this. of course , they are 
working on the theory that with penetration into 
tissue with associated mild inflammatory response can and does 
occur in a large number of people. if you reject this hypothesis , 
then i 'd guess you 'd view this research as one more and 
 . stay  . 

jon 



charter member club. 

if you 're dying to know what means , be , e mail me , i 'll send info .  . 

jon 
international 100 . 100 . fred s 
place phone  ( 510 ) world 's best ! 
, ca v mail  ( 510 ) 

who are you read alt . psychology . ! that 's where the action is. 

from  ( steve pope ) 
subject re is 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host zion . berkeley . edu . 



and you 're condemning one particular without any 
evidence that that 's the to which you  . 

believe what you will. 

the mass of evidence , combined with the lack of 
a properly constructed scientific experiment disproving 
the hypothesis , makes the reaction hypothesis the 
most likely explanation for events. 

steve 

organization university of system 
from andrew t. 
subject reasons for hospitals to join internet 
lines 8 

what resources and services are available on internet bitnet which 
would be of interest to hospitals and other medical care 
i'm interested in anything , including and 
of interest to the medical profession on internet , 
special services such as access to or 
information , etc. etc. 

please reply directly to 

from  ( mark fulk ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization university of rochester 

in article  ( charles l. creegan ) writes 

what about 's infamous of the idea of 
from a of snakes in the fire their is this 
specific enough to count certainly it turns up repeatedly in basic 
 . of sci .  . texts as an example of the component of 
 . 

and has been rather thoroughly demolished as myth by robert scott root 
 . see his book , . structures for 
had been proposed before  , after him , and at the same time as him. 
the current models do not 's .  . many of the 
of 's structure the modern model more. 

i do n't think extra scientific is a very useful phrase in a discussion 
of the of science , except as a proposed  . extra rational 
is a better phrase .  . in fact , there are quite a number of well known cases 
of extra rational driving science in a useful direction .  . 

for example , discovered that acid was a mixture of 
 ( the origin of stereochemistry ) partly because he liked a 
friend 's crank theory of chemical action. the friend was wrong , but 
's stood .  . a prior  ( mitscherlich ) , looking 
at the same phenomenon , had missed a crucial detail presumably because he 
's motivation to find something that 
acid from  ( now we say d tartaric ) acid .  . 

again , discovered the of 
 ( tartaric acid again ) not because of some rational conviction , but because 
he was trying to produce that lived on l acid .  . his 
contained fantasies of becoming the newton of image life , which 
he never admitted publically .  . 

perhaps the best example is the that dna carries genes .  . 
started this work because of one of his students , and ardent 
and canadian , defended fred  in  . 
most of  were french , which decided the issue for the 
student .  . told him to replicate  work in , which the 
student eventually did , was convinced and started the 
research program which , in 15 or so years , produced the famous 
 ( avery , , and ,  . 

mark a. university of rochester 
computer science department 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re brain definition needed 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 16 

in article writes 
could someone please define a brain for me a relative has one near 
his  . 


a brain is an infection deep in the brain substance .  . it is 
hard to with , since it gets off , and usually , 
it needs surgical  . 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from a . 
subject information infant 
organization at t 
keywords 
lines 8 

here is the for the epilepsy foundation 
of america 1 1000 .  . they will be able to answer 
your questions and send you information and references on 
types , , etc. they can also give you references 
for a in your area. also ask for the 
number of your local foundation who can put you in touch with 
a parent support group and social workers .  . 
good luck. 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 35 

in article  ( chuck wa7kgx ) writes 

can you provide a reference to substantiate that back 
the lost weight does not constitute weight until it 
the starting weight or is this oral tradition that 
is shared only among you obesity 

of ny  . sci .  . 1987 

hmmm .  . these do n't look like references to me. is passive aggressive 
behavior associated with weight ) 

i left off the page numbers to encourage the reader to 
study the volumes mentioned , and benefit  . 


good story , , but it wo n't  . i have read the ny sci 
one  ( and have it) .  . this am i could n't find any reference to 
weight . i'm not saying it is n't there , but since you 
cited it , it is your responsibility to show me where it is in there. 
there is no index .  . i suspect you your knowledge base , 
as usual .  . 










gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re frequent 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
lines 25 

in article  ( robert allison ) writes 
does anyone know of any method to reduce this my brothers 
each tried a transplant  ( thigh to nose lining ) , but their 
soon returned .  . i 've seen a reference to an called that is 
supposed to help , and i 'd like to hear of experiences with it , or other 
techniques .  . 

is a , found  ( among other places ) in the 
of  . these have been popular , especially in europe , 
to treat , and seemingly in even more extreme cases 
a few months ago , a friend was from , and he said that he 'd 
had , but his friend sold him some  . , 
i asked to look at them , and sure enough these contained as the active 
 . i probably the effect from my skeptical 
 . i have no idea how he 's doing wise these days. 
the studies which attempted to look at the effect of these in 
human disease and were never very well controlled , so the 
reports of positive results with them is mostly  . 

this stuff is pretty much non , and probably , so there 's 
little risk of trying it , but i would n't expect much of a result. 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( barry s. rein ) 
subject need survival data on colon 
organization 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 

a relative of mine was recently with colon  . i would like 
to know the best source of survival statistics for this disease when 
discovered at its various stages .  . 

i would prefer to be directed to a recent source of this data , rather than 
receive the data itself. 

thank you , 






no clever comment. 



from  ( tamara shaffer ) 
subject re ( infantile ) 
nntp posting host sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 16 

in article , 
 ( md ) writes 


the reason i'm posting this article to this newsgroup is to 
1. gather any information about this disorder from anyone who might 
have recently been e by it ( from being associated with 
it or actually having this disorder ) and 
2. help me find out where i can access any medical literature associated 
with over the internet .  . 

i tried to e mail you but it back .  . please e mail me and 
i will give you someone 's name who might be very helpful .  . you might 
also post your message to misc . kids .  . 



from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re various 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 21 

in article  ( lindy foster ) writes 
i 've been treated to many for and treatment , 
and it looks like they 'll try a few more on me. i have taken 
(i think it was 3xdaily ) with no relief .  . i have just been started 


per day of is a in  . 
if you got at that level , it is unlikely that you will 
tolerate enough to help you. 

if we go the route , what is it likely to be how do 
work in 


probably a single  . we do n't know how they work in , but 
it probably has something to do with  . 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from (j .  . d. mcdonald ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
organization 
lines 13 

in article  ( mark robert thorson ) writes 

this would n't happen to be the same thing as , would it 
a truly awful parasitic , as i understand it. tiny 
dig deeply into the , themselves. ! they have these 
things in  . 

close. my mother comes from , right across the border .  . 
they claim to be the capitol of the world , and i believe them. 
when i grew up in worth it was bad enough , but in 
in the summer an attack was guaranteed .  . 

doug 

from dan 
subject faq typing  ( 4 4 ) software tools monthly posting 
supersedes typing injury faq software 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 
expires 22 may 1993 01 24 03 gmt 
reply to richard 
nntp posting host elmer cs . berkeley . edu . 
summary software tools to help out injured 
originator cs . berkeley . edu . 

archive name typing injury faq software 
version 1 . 8 . , 7th december 1992 

this faq is actually by richard . 
i post it , along with the other faq stuff. if you have questions , you want 
to send mail to richard , not me. dan 


software tools to help with 


this file describes tools , primarily software , to help prevent or  . 
this version now includes information on such tools as 
programs and digital watches .  .  .  . 

please let me know if you know any other tools , or if you have information 
or opinions on these ones , and i will update this faq .  . 

i am especially interested in getting of these products from people 
who have evaluated them or are using them. 

richard 
internet mail 
tel 44  ( direct ) 
fax 44 

changes in this version 

added information on , another typing tool 
for  . 


typing tools these aim to help you your keyboard use , 
by warning you to take a break every so often. the better ones also include 
advice on , and workstation setup .  . some use sound hardware to 

warn of a break , others use or messages. 

often , appears only after many years of typing , and the pain has 
a action in the short term too frequently you can be typing 
all day with little problem and the pain gets worse in the evening. 
these tools act as an early warning system by listening to their 
warnings and taking breaks with , you do n't have to wait for your 
body to give you a more serious and painful warning that is , getting  . 


tool at your service  ( commercial software ) 
available from 
bright star 
tel 1  ( 206 ) 
mac  ( system 6 . 0 . , 
description 
provides , keyboard watch , email watch , and system info .  . 
when to take a break  . has a few 
on , and  . sound oriented , will probably work best 
with sound card  ( pc ) or with  . should be possible 
to record your own messages to warn of break .  . 

tool  ( sound card and software ) 
available from 
media vision 
tel 1  ( 510 ) 226 
pc 
description 
a sound card to plug into your pc parallel  . 
includes  at your  . 

tool computer health break  ( commercial software ) 
available from 
escape , 
w. real 
109 

, ca 
tel 1  ( 408 ) 
dos 
description 
aimed at preventing , this program you to take 
breaks after a , based on time , or 
after a set number of is earlier. 
it gives you 3 to do each time , randomly from 
a set of 70 .  . are apparently to the type of work 
you do data entry , word , information  . 
are illustrated and include quite a lot of text on 
how to do the exercise and on what exactly the exercise does. 

includes information on that you can use 
to learn more about and how to prevent it. other information 
on non can be into this  . 
a full of medical terms and jargon is included. 

can be run in a dos box under , but does not then 
warn you when to take a break it does not therefore appear 
useful when used with  . 

cost quantity , site  . 

comments 
the counting approach looks good it seems better 
to measure the activity that is causing you problems than to 
measure time or even typing time. the stuff 
is very good and includes some of research papers , 
as well as lots of arguments you can use to get your company 
to pay up for tools .  . 

tool  ( commercial software ) 
available from 

one park dr. 
, ma , us 
tel  ( us only ) 
(3 . 0 . 3 . , 2 3 . 2 . not dos 
description 
aimed at preventing and eye , this program you to take 
breaks after a  ( or at fixed  . 
descriptions and pictures of pictures are 
and program you to help you do at the 
correct rate .  . includes 19 stretches and 4 training 
, can which are included and how many 
you do breaks last from 3 to 7 minutes. also includes help 
on  . 

quote from their literature 

is a program that breaks up your day with periodic 
sets of stretches and training  . the stretches work 
all parts of your body , and helping to prevent 
injury .  . the training will improve 
your vision and help to eye  . together these 
help you to become more and  . 

the includes the book computers by edward c. 
, o . d .  . and john s. , which describes the setup 
for a computer workstation and provides and to 
promote healthy and efficient computer use. 

cost including and handling , quantity 
for  . free ( 5 outside  . 

comments 
i have a copy of this , and it works as i would say 
it is better for than , because it 
does not allow breaks at periods less than 30 minutes. also , it 
you based on time rather than typing time , which 
is not so helpful unless you use the keyboard all day. worked ok on 
3 . 0 . though it did crash with a not sure 
why. also refused to work with the space bar on one pc , and has 
one without  . very though , and does not 
require any sound hardware .  . 

tool  ( commercial software ) 
available from 
software 
p.o. box 
, or , us 
tel 1 (503) 
mac , dos  ( windows version underway ) 
description 
aimed at preventing  . you to take a break 
with box and sound. includes a list of 
to do during breaks , and information on your 
workstation in an manner. price 59 
quantity and site  . the dos product is 
bought in from another company , apparently not sure how 
equivalent this is to the mac version. 

the mac version got a good review in 
magazine  ( feb  . good stuff with useful 
2 page of problems and solutions , with 
references .  . 

tool  ( commercial software , free demo ) 
available from 
lifetime software 
p.o. box 
houston 
texas , us 
tel  ( us only ) 
fax 1  ( 713 ) 
mail 

 ( working program but reduced functions ) available from 
compuserve advanced forum , new section , or 
health and forum , issues at work section .  . 
anon ftp ftp . edu .  ( and sites ) 

(3 . 0 . 3 .  ( mac and dos versions underway ) 
description 
aimed at preventing , this program you to take 
breaks after a  ( or at fixed  . 
descriptions and pictures of pictures are 
and program you to help you do at the 
correct rate .  . quite a few , can which ones 
are included to some extent .  . help. 

version 2.0 is out soon , mac and dos versions will be based 
on this. 

cost 29 . if support via compuserve or internet , otherwise 39 .  . 
site license for 3 or more copies is 20 . 00 . each .  . 
 ( note may have gone up for  . 

comments 
i have had a play with this , and it works ok. its user interface 
design is much better in 2.0 , though still a bit unusual .  . 
expensive tool around and it does the job. it is also the only 
tool with a redistributable , so if you do get the , post it 
on your local , ftp and bitnet ! 
does not include general info on and , but it does 
have the ability to step in the exercise sequence , 
which is good for repeating the most helpful  . 

tool  ( freeware ) , version 3.8  ( october 1992) 
available from 
email to 
anonymous ftp soda . berkeley . edu . pub typing injury 
unix  ( tested on , , character and x mode ) 
description 
this is a shell that runs in the background and you 
to stop typing , based on how long you have been continuously 
typing .  . it does not provide , but it does check 
that you really do take a break , and tells you when you 
can start typing again. 

now tells you how many you have been typing 
today , each time it you , which is useful so you 
know how much you really type .  . it also information 
to a file that you can or simply print out. 

the warning message appears on your  ( in character mode ) , 
in a pop up  ( for x windows ) , or as a message 
 ( for those with athena  . tim freeman 
has put in a lot of bug , extra features and support for 
x , and  . 

not formally supported , but email 
 ( for , , character mode ) or  ( for , 
x mode , zephyr ) if you have problems or want to give 
 . 

tool various programs 
available from 
various sources 
various 
description 
any program that you of an 
can be turned into an ad hoc tool. 
or , any submission program that lets you submit 
a program to run at a specific time to display a message to 
the screen. 

using as an example create a file , and 
include this in your win . 's  load ' line so 
you get it on every of  . suppose you 
want to have breaks every 30 , starting from 9 am .  . 
press  ( special time .  .  . ) . to enter an , enter 
9 30 , hit enter , and type some text in saying what the break 
is for. then press to set an on this entry , and repeat 
for the next  . 

by using , you can record the 
that set up breaks throughout a day in a  . rec . file. put this 
file on your  run ' line , as above , and you will then , with 
a single , be able to set up your daily 
with  . 

the above method should be to most programs. 
an example using jobs would be to submit a simple job 
that runs at 9 30 am and you to take a break this will 
depend a lot on your operating system. 

while these approaches are not ideal , they are a good way of forcing 
yourself to take a break if you ca n't get hold of a suitable 
tool. if you are enough you might want to 
write a version of  ( see above) for your operating 
system , using jobs or whatever fits best. 

tool digital watches with count down timers 
available from 
various sources , e.g. 100 .  . 
description 
many digital watches have timers that count down from a 
number of they usually easily to that number , either 
or automatically .  . 

while these are a very basic tool , they are very useful if you 
are writing , reading , driving , or doing anything away from 
a computer which can still cause or  . the great 
advantage is that they you to break from whatever you 
are doing. 

comments 
my own experience was that cutting down a lot on my typing led to 
my writing a lot more , and still reading as much as ever , which 
actually aggravated the in my right though the left 
improved .  . getting a count down watch has been 
very useful on some where i write a lot in a day. 

i have tried an old hour glass type egg , but 
these are not much good because they do not give an 
warning of the end of the time period ! 


keyboard tools these you to change your keyboard mapping 
so you can type one handedly or with a different two handed  . 
one handed typing tools may help , but be very careful about how 
you use them if you keep the same overall typing you 
are simply your hand use for the hand that you use for typing , 
and may therefore make matters worse. 

tool  ( public domain ) 
available from 
anonymous ftp soda . berkeley . edu . pub typing injury 
unix  ( do n't know which ones ) 
description 
allows one handed typing and other general keyboard  . 
only works through 's  ( so , you can use it with a terminal or 
an , but not most x  . 

tool keyboard tools  ( various ) 
available from 
anonymous ftp soda . berkeley . edu . pub typing injury c . 
also built into 3 . x .  . 
description 
the keyboard apparently uses a more rational 
that involves more balanced hand use. it may help prevent 
a bit , but you can also use it if you have , since 
it will slow down your typing a lot ) 


dan one of the most attractive features of a connection 
machine is the of on the faces 
office 642 of its  . ref. manual , 0 . ,  . 

from z . edu .  ( alex milshteyn ) 
subject re is 
organization mass general hospital 
lines 35 

in article writes 


i would n't call it a double blind , but one local 's 
provokes an impressive headache for my wife that one 
take out and no other .  .  .  . 

nothing  . 
quote 

chinese  ( crs ) 
a , associated with , due to 
of , which is used in chinese 
food it is characterized by of the head , , 
of the , and , and  . 

end quote. 
source 's illustrated medical dictionary , edition , 1988 , w . b .  . , p  . 

this was known long ago. brain produces and uses some naturally , 
but not in it is served at some chinese places. 
having said that , i might add , that in , does not enhance 
flavor for me to miss it. when i go to chinese places , 
i order food without  . places will do it for you. 
a for such a service would be a , capable of 
understanding , what you want. 


good luck. 


am 

m. m . d .  . server . edu . 
, in boston , ma .  .  ( 617)724 )  ( 617)726 ) fax 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 17 

in article  ( ken mitchum ) writes 

i found out that appears to be the only medical  ( as to psychiatric ) 
condition that one can be committed for , and this is because very specific laws were 
many years ago regarding  . i am certain these vary from state to state. 

i think in illinois disease  ( the old ones , not aids ) was included. 
was , for sure. 






gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( lee lady ) 
subject re science and 
summary merely avoiding mistakes does n't get you anywhere. 
organization university of hawaii  ( mathematics dept ) 
expires mon , 10 may 1993 10 00 00 gmt 
lines 57 

in article 
 ( michael holloway ) writes 
in article 
 ( lee lady ) writes 
i would also like to point out that most of the arguments about science 
in sci . , sci . psychology . , etc. are not about cases where people are 
rejecting scientific argument evidence proof. they are about cases where 
no adequate scientific research has been done.  ( in some cases , there is 
quite a bit of evidence , but it is n't in a format to fit 
of what science is . ) . 

here it is again. this indicates confusion between proof and the process 
of doing science. 

you are making precisely one of the points i wanted to make. 
i fully agree with you that there is a big distinction between the 
process of science and the end result. 

as an end result of science , one wants to get results that are 
objectively verifiable .  . but there is nothing objective about the 
process of science. 

if good empirical research were done and showed that there is some merit 
to , this would certainly be valuable information. 
but it would still not mean that as a science. this 
is where you and i disagree with  . in order to have science , one 
must have a structure that makes sense , not a mere 
collection of random  . 

experiment and empirical studies are an important part of science , but 
they are merely the of scientific research .  . the most 
important part of true scientific is scientific thinking. 
without this , one does not have any worth  .  ( no , 
do not just leap out at you after you look at enough data .  . 
nor do they simply come to you in a one day while you 're or 
looking out the  . at least not unless you 've done a lot of really 
good thinking ) . 

the difference between a prize level scientist and a 
scientist does not lie in the quality of their empirical  . 
it depends on the quality of their thinking. 

it really bothers me that so many graduate students seem to believe that 
they are doing science merely because they are conducting empirical 
studies .  . and it bothers me even more that there are many fields , such as 
certain parts of psychology , where there seems to be no thinking at all , 
but mere studies ad hoc  . 

and i'm especially offended by russell 's repeated assertion that 
science to nothing more than avoiding mistakes .  . simply avoiding 
mistakes does n't get you anywhere. 


in the arguments between and , psychology seems 
less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects .  . 



from  ( fiberman ) 
subject re is 
keywords , 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 5 
nntp posting host edu . 

i have heard that epileptic go into if they 
eat anything with added .  . this may have something to do with 
the of neurons .  . 



from  ( rich young ) 
subject re and health risk 
originator 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization division , company 
lines 24 

in article  ( richard silver ) writes 

some recent postings me that i had read about risks 
associated with the of , namely that 
are generated .  . is this a valid concern if so , is it a function 
of the or the is it a function of 
the elements , wood or vs. i wish 
to know more. thanks. 

from the university guide to total , 
d .  . , dean of university school of , 1991 
 ( isbn 0 06 4 ) 

the greatest hazard of is that the will not use 
enough and get burned .  . some people suggest that the 
itself is dangerous , because the , which is 
absorbed by the meat , contains , which , in its pure form , 
has been known to cause in animals .  . however , 
in order to experience the same results , people would have to 
large of meat at a 
time. 


rich young  ( these are not 's opinions . ) . 

from  ( mccurdy m . ) . 
subject  ( was good grief !  ( was re what is it  ) 
organization san diego state university 
lines 36 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
news software vax vms 1.4 

in article ,  ( jacquelin writes .  .  .  . 
 ( steve dyer ) writes 


etc. ... 


, you 're rude .  . medicine is not a scientific  . it 's 
often practiced in a manner. most early treatment of 
non life threatening is done on a guess , after 
evidence given by the patient .  . it 's an guess , by a trained person , 
but it 's still no more than a guess. 
it 's and simpler to first and only deal further with those 
people who do n't respond .  . 


is beyond rude .  . 

there have been and always will be people who are by their own 
knowledge and to anything that is n't already established .  . given what 
the medical community does n't know , i'm surprised that he has this  . 

for the record , i have had several of during the several 
past few years , with no indication of or 
 . i had not taken any  . 

my  ( who sees a fair amount of thrush ) recommended 

after i began taking on a daily basis , the ceased .  . 
when i quit taking the , the periodically resumed .  . 
i resumed taking the with no further since then. 

mike 
university computing services disclaimer 
san diego state university 
everything i say may be wrong 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re food related 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
lines 18 

in article  ( mark robert thorson ) writes 
i remember hearing a few years back about a new for 
which involved artificial and 
from the diet .  . the theory which was backed up by interesting 
results is that certain people are just way more sensitive to these 
than other people. i do n't remember any connection being made 
with , but it certainly could n't hurt to try an all natural diet .  . 

yeah , the diet is a load of crap. children with add 
who are placed on this diet show no improvement in their intellectual and 
social , which in fact continue to decline .  . of course , the parents 
who are enthusiastic about this approach it up at the expense of their 
children 's development .  . so much for the value of interesting 
results . people will believe anything if they want to. 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject and pregnancy 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 17 

 ( a from () 
 ( a a woman i know is off  . i believe that is one of the 
 ( a  . she is taking a very minimal right now , half a 
 ( a a day. she is also pregnant. my question is are there any known cases where 
 ( a or similar drug has caused harmful effects to the fetus 
 ( a how about cases where the mother took or similar substance and had 
 ( a normal baby .  . any information is appreciated. she wants to get a feel for 
 ( a what sort of risk she is taking .  . she is in her first month of pregnancy .  . 

, according to the  ( physician 's reference ) , is not a 
proven  . there are isolated case reports of , 
but it is impossible to establish cause effect relationships .  . the 
overwhelming majority of women that take while pregnant have 
normal babies .  . 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 3 aids related questions 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 29 

in article  ( paula ford ) writes 
a friend of mine was a regular blood  . during , he 
was given five units of blood , and after a suitable time , he went 
to donate blood at a  . he was , and did not know it. 

the red cross him with a letter . that 's all. no 
, no nothing. he died two years ago , this week. he left behind 

how long ago was this when i said you 'd get , i meant if 
you did it now. long ago , practices and had to gear 
up to provide the  . 

a wife and a four year old son. many people have suggested that his wife 
should the red cross , but she would not. she says that without the 
blood transfusions he would have died during the  . 


good for her. what we do n't need is everyone community service 
that provide blood that people need. is not fool proof. 
the fact that he got aids from a  ( if he really did) does 
not mean the red cross up. prior to or so , there was n't 
a good test and a lot of bad blood got through. this was n't the fault 
of the red cross .  . when did he get the transfusions 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( steve heffner ) 
subject 
organization computer corporation 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 20 

a bit more than a year ago , a in my right was 
discovered .  . it had produced a dull pain in that area. the 
was using the least  ( orthoscopic ) method and a 
plug and patch . 

the doctor considered the procedure a success. 

a few months later the same pain returned .  . the doctor said that 
he could find nothing wrong in the area of the  . 

now the pain occurs more often. my could n't identify any 
specific problem. the who performed the original procedure 
now says that yes there is a new in the same area and he 
said that he has to cut into the area for the this time. 

my question to the net is there a method to 
determine if in fact there is a or if the pain is from 
something else 

steve 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re in ca 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
distribution na 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 19 

in article  ( john joseph deltuvia ) writes 

there was a story a few weeks ago on a network news show about some sort 
of which supposedly attacks the bone structure and is somewhat 
widespread in california .  . anybody hear anything about this one 


the only i know of from california is  . i 
had n't heard that it attacked bone .  . it attacks and if you 
are especially , the central nervous system. nothing new 
about it. it 's been around for years. they call it 
, since it is found in the , not on the coast .  . 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( jon noring ) 
subject need reference multiple personalities disorders and 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 28 

i heard third hand  ( not the best form of information ) that there was recently 
published results of a study on multiple disorder 
revealing some interesting clues that the root cause of may 
have a psychological or basis. what i heard about this study was that 
in one   , a patient no observable or signs 
of  ( scratch were used , according to what i heard ) , 
while in other personalities they showed obvious symptoms , including 
a full on for particular  . 

if this is true , it is truly fascinating .  . 

but , i 'd like to know if this study was ever done , and if so , what the study 
really showed , and where the study is published .  . any help out there 

jon 



charter member club. 

if you 're dying to know what means , be , e mail me , i 'll send info .  . 

jon 
international 100 . 100 . fred s 
place phone  ( 510 ) world 's best ! 
, ca v mail  ( 510 ) 

who are you read alt . psychology . ! that 's where the action is. 

from  ( grant edwards ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( grant edwards ) 
organization , inc. 
lines 41 
nntp posting host 

 ( richard ottolini ) writes 

living things maintain small electric fields to (1) enhance certain 
chemical reactions , (2) promote of states with in a 
cell ,  ( 3 ) communicate between cells  ( of which the nervous system is 
a example) , and perhaps other uses .  . 

true. 

these electric fields change with and time in a large 
organism .  . 

also true. 


special techniques such as applying external fields in 
interact with these fields or the 
caused by these fields to make interesting pictures .  . 

not really. 

is taking pictures of the from 
objects  ( animate or  . the fields applied to the objects are 
millions of times larger than any biologically created fields .  . if you 
want to record the biologically created electric fields , you 've got to 
use low , high gain typical of and  . 
is just with physics type stuff  ( right up there with 
of extra fine in liquid oxygen then hitting 
them with a hammer which , like a setup , is fun but possibly 
 . 

perhaps such pictures will be of disease problems in 
when better understood .  . perhaps not. 

probably not. 


grant ! vote for me i'm 
inc. well , half , 
ill conceived and 
tax ! 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re vs.  ( was re endoscopy ) 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 15 

in article  ( peter cash ) writes 

by the way , does the brain even have pain i thought not i heard 
that brain can be performed while the patient is conscious for 
precisely this reason. 

no , no , we are n't talking about for the brain 's sensory 
, but structures such as the that handle pain 
for the entire organism .  . apples and oranges .  . 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( andrew rogers ) 
subject re is 
organization flames  r us 
lines 13 
nntp posting host hi . com . 

in article writes 
chinese , and many other asians  ( japanese , , etc ) have used 
as flavor for two thousand years. do you believe that 
they knew how to make from chemical processes not. they just 
extracted it from natural food such sea food and meat  . 

and to add further to the flame war , i read about 20 years ago that 
the natural extracted from the sources you mention above does not 
cause the reported it 's only that nasty artificial 
extracted from or whatever that causes chinese 
 . i find this pretty hard to believe has anyone else heard it 

andrew 

from 
subject panic disorder more success stories 
organization university of kansas academic computing services 
lines 32 

i posted this to sci . psychology . on april 3 , and after seeing 
your post here on disorder thought it would be 
relevant .  . 



my research indicates that two schools of thought exist. 
the literature promoting says it 's the superior 
treatment .  . not surprisingly , literature promoting 
also claims to be superior .  . 

what are the facts early in my research i did n't have a 
bias towards either or  . i 
was interested in a treatment that worked .  . after reading 
published after 1986 , the camp 
claims a higher success rate  ( approx 80 ) , a lower drop out 
rate , and no side effects associated with  . 

published an excellent article titled 
applied description of a and 
a review of controlled studies .  . this is from  .  .  . , 
vol. 25 , no. 5 , pp. , 1987 .  . the article provides 
instructions on how to perform applied  . 
, you start with two 15 minute daily , and 
progress in 8 12 weeks to 10 15 thirty second 
daily .  . 

i 'll mail this article to anyone interested  ( usa only please 
international please pay for  . 

mark 


from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject re and 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 37 

from  ( david nye ) 
a 
is than a  . 

and also better , because a can make a 
between , type headache , , benign 
, , and other 
headache that all appear normal on a  . a 
can also recommend a course of treatment that is appropriate to the 
 . 

also , since many people are convinced they have brain or other 
serious , it may be to just get a ct then have 
them come into the er every few weeks. 
and easier than taking the time to the patient , right 
personally , i do n't think this can ever be justified .  . 

sigh. it may never be , but i sometimes do it. even 
after i try to show with a detailed history , 
examination , and discussion with the patient about my , 
with lots of , still ask why ca n't you 
order a , so we can be absolutely sure often gets 
into the conversation , as in they ignored 's 
for years , and then she died of a brain , , or 
whatever. if you can get away without ever for a 
patient with an obviously benign headache , i 'd like to hear 
what your magic is. 

every once in a while i am able to by getting an  . 
mind you , i do n't think is terribly sensitive for brain , 
but the patient like something is being done  ( as if the 
hours i spent talking with and examining the patient were 
nothing ) , the has no radiation , it 's much 
than ct or , and the brings in some money to my department .  . 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from  ( bill ray ) 
subject re , and 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 8 
nntp posting host ee02 . engr . latech . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

daniel prince wrote 

... i think they should tx to tx ! 

i know it is just a joke , but please remember the people of 
did not ask david koresh to be a lunatic there , he just happened. 
is a town .  . i would think someone living in the home 
of and would be more sensitive ) 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re name of md 's 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 13 

in article  ( ed clarke ) writes 
it 's not an  . it is called a head  . all doctors never 

a 

the is the little that fits on the end of the  . 
there are also that and are 
all too familiar with. 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( rich young ) 
subject re what are the problems with  ( aspartame ) 
originator 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization division , company 
lines 76 

in article ( ) writes 
is a a couple thousand times than 
sugar. some people are concerned about the that the body produces 
when it  . it is thought to form and known to 
for in the that the body uses to eliminate 
 . the real issue is whether the levels of and 
produced are high enough to cause significant damage , as both are to 
living cells .  . all i can say is that i will not it. 

... 

in the september 1992 issue of the university diet and 
letter , there is a three page article about artificial  . what 
follows are those excerpts which deal specifically with  . 

without permission 

the controversy over began years ago in england , 
where a group of found that , under 
the , appears to and , 
presumably , the eating of more in the long run than if 
a person simply sugar. when asked a group 
of people to drink plain water , water , and 
water , they said that overall they felt after 
drinking the  . 
the study received widespread media attention and stirred a 
good deal of concern among the artificial using public. 
however , its results were questionable at best , since the 
did not go on to measure whether the increase in did 
actually translate into an increase in eating .  . the two do not 
necessarily go hand in hand. 
in the years that followed , more than a dozen studies examining 
the effect of on and eating were conducted .  . 
and after every one of them , the director of the 
of the study of human behavior at johns hopkins 
university , rolls , d .  . , concluded that 
and is not associated with any increase in 
the amount of food  . 

one artificial that is not typically accused of causing 
is  . but it most certainly has been blamed for a 
host of other ills .  . since its introduction in , the government 
has received thousands of accusing it of causing 
everything from to to mood to anxiety .  . 
still , years of careful scientific study conducted both before and 
after the 's entering the market have failed to 
that it can bring about adverse health effects .  . that 's why the 
for disease control  ( the government agency charged with 
public health ) , the american medical association 's 
council on scientific affairs , and the food and drug 
have given , one of the most studied food , a 
clean bill of health .  . 
granted , the has set forth an acceptable daily of 
50 of per of body weight. to 
the limit , however , a 120  ( 55 ) . woman would have to take 
in 2 , 750 of the amount in 15 of 
soda pop , 14 cups of , 22 cups of , 
or 55 of containing hot , ... 
a  ( 80 ) . man would have to some 4 , 000 
of the the amount in 22 of soda pop or 32 cups 
of to go over the limit .  . with content 
of 
only one small group of people must be certain to stay away 
from those born with a rare disorder called 
, or  . the one person in every 12 , 000 
to 15 , 000 who has it is unable to properly an essential 
amino acid in called  . once a child 
consumes it , it up in the body and can ultimately cause 
such severe problems as mental  . to help people with 
avoid the substance , on of soda pop and other 
must carry the warning 
contains  . 


rich young  ( these are not 's opinions . ) . 


from  ( george b. clark ) 
subject re and 
organization university of maryland 
lines 4 
distribution na 
nntp posting host eng . umd . edu . 
keywords , , 

you can also the inside of your nose with using a 
q  . is an that can be bought as an 
in a  . the doctor i listen to on the radio says to apply 
it for 30 days , while you are taking other by mouth. 

from  ( michael m. huang ) 
subject re is 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 21 

is common in many food we eat , including chinese  ( though some oriental 
might put a too much in them) .  . i 've noticed that when i 
go out and eat in most of the chinese food , i will usually get 
a slight headache and an thirst afterwards. this happens to many 
of my friends and relatives too. and , , we eat chinese food all the 
time at home )  ( but we do n't use when we 're for ourselves ) 

so , when we put one and one together , it can be safely assumed that 
may cause some allergic reactions in some people. 

stick with natural things. does n't do body any good  ( and possibly 
, for that  . so , why bother with it taste food as it should 
be tasted , and do n't cloud the flavor with an imaginary of  . 

michael 


michael m. do n't believe what your eyes are telling you. 
, iowa state univ .  . all they show is  . look with your 
understanding , find out what you already know , 
include standard . disclaimer . and you 'll see the way to fly. j. l. 

from  ( deb waddington ) 
subject info needed 's disease 
distribution everywhere 
expires 01 93 
reply to  ( deb waddington ) 
organization  network 
lines 33 


i have a 42 old male friend , as having 
for two years , who recently found out that his 
is the rare 's disease. 

's disease symptoms include bones  ( he lost 9 
off his hieght ) and internal 
and  ( all the time) .  . the problem  ( in type 1 ) is 
attributed to a genetic mutation where there is a lack of the 
in so the cells up. 
this will eventually cause death. 

replacement has been successfully developed and 
approved by the in the last few years so that those 
with this drug  ( called ceredase ) report a remarkable 
improvement in their condition. , which is 
by company costs the patient , 000 
per year .  . 's disease has been called the most 
expensive disease in the world . 

need info 
i have researched 's disease at the library but am relying 
on to provide me with any additional information 
news , stories , reports 
people you know with this disease 
ideas , articles about corp , how to get a hold of 
enough money to buy some , programs available to help with 
costs .  . 
basically any help you can offer 

thanks so very much ! 



from  ( lost boy ) 
subject re can men get 
organization university computing center 
distribution na 
lines 25 

in article  ( jon noring ) writes 
in article  ( tammy vandenboom ) writes 

here 's a stupid question to possibly the wrong news group , but .  . . 

can men get spread them what kind of symptoms 
similar as women 's i have a infection and my husband  ( who is a 
natural on a good day ) is sure he 's gonna it and keeps 
asking me what it 's like. i'm not sure what his symptoms would be. . 

the answer is yes and no. i'm sure others on sci . can expand on this. 

jon 

i know from personal experience that men can get  . i 
get rather nasty ones from time to time , mostly in the area of the 
and the base of the penis .  . they 're nowhere near as dangerous 
for me as for many women , but does it hurt in the ! 
even in the , when i i get really down there. the 
best thing i can do to keep it under control is keep my weight down and 
keep cool down there. in 60 degree , that kind of thing. and 
of course some occasional sun .  . 

lost boy 


from  ( andrew patrick ) 
subject any interest in a mailing list on epilepsy and 
nntp posting host doc . ca . 
organization communications research centre , ottawa , canada 
lines 36 


i have seen a fair bit of traffic recently concerning epilepsy and 
 . i am also interested in this subject i have a son with 
epilepsy and i am very active with the local association .  . i posted a 
message like this a few months ago and received no replies , but here it 
is again. 

is anyone interested in in a mailing list on epilepsy and 
this would allow us to hold discussions and share 
information via electronic mail .  . i already run a for two 
other groups , so the mechanics would be easy .  . 

if you are interested , mail me a note. if i get enough replies , i will 
make it happen and provide you with the details. 

btw , i have also started a on epilepsy .  . this is part of my 
research on natural language question answering systems. users of this 
service are able to ask questions about epilepsy and the program 
searches the and its best response. the technology 
works by comparing your question against a set of questions that have 
been seen before. all new questions that are not answered are recorded 
and used to improve the system. 

this is still small and , but we are adding new 
information. to try it out , do the following 

doc . ca . 
chat 

then select the epilepsy item from the of  . 


andrew patrick , d .  . communications research centre , ottawa , canada 


for a good time , run doc . ca . and as chat . 

from edu . !  ( steve holland ) 
subject re 's disease 
organization 
lines 32 

in article , 
 ( david watters ) wrote 

dear all , 

i am a 's disease sufferer and i'm interested if anyone knows of any current research that is going on into the subject. i 've done some investigation myself so you do n't need to spare me any details. i 've had the , the , etc .  .  . 

is a on the 

i am not in the medical profession so if you do reply i would appreciate plain speak. 

i 'd prefer to be direct as i do n't always get a chance to read the news. 

thank you in advance. 

dave .  . 
the best group to keep you informed is the 's and foundation 
of america .  . i do not know if the uk has a similar organization .  . the 
address of 
the is 


park avenue south 

new york , ny 
usa 

they have a lot of information available and have a number of  . 

good luck. 

steve 

from  ( mark mcwiggins ) 
subject re and health risk 
organization inc. 
lines 5 
nntp posting host com . 

also , do n't forget that it 's better for your health to enjoy your 
than to your ... 

mark 1 632  ( voice ) 
box , seattle 1 632  ( fax ) 

from mackie 
subject re options before back for at 
organization 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 86 . 38 . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x fri , 16 apr 93 15 37 39 gmt 

subject options before back for at 
from miller , 
date 13 apr 93 18 30 42 gmt 
in article miller , 
writes 
after two weeks of around with an pain in my low back 
and right , my sent me to get an which revealed 
a  ( and extruded ) at  . i went to a 
who prescribed (a anti inflamitory ) and 
rest 
for several days. it 's been nearly a week and overall i feel 
slightly worse i take three times a day so i can 
deal with daily activities like food and help me 
get to sleep .  . 

i 'll see the tomorrow and of course i 'll be asking 
whether or not this rest is helpful or if is the next 
step. what are my non surgical options if my goal is to 
full activity , including  . i should add this 
condition is , in my opinion , the result of wear and 
tear i 've had low back pain for years but i managed 

you do n't say whether or not you have any symptoms other than pain. 
if you have , weakness or problems , for example , 
these would suggest a need for  . if pain is your only 
you might do well to find a , pain 
clinic in your area. low back pain generally does n't do well 
with , on pain  ( as only symptom ) does n't 
much better. 
e correlation between findings and symptoms is  . 

mackie his opinions 
will  .  .  . 

from  ( david wright ) 
subject re natural anti aids 
organization computer products , division 
lines 16 
nntp posting host hi . com . 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article writes 
the biggest reason why the cost of medical care is so extremely high and 
increasing is that natural methods of treatment and even are still 
being systematically ignored and suppressed by the money and power 
medical  . 

that 's not the half of it. did you realize that all medical doctors have 
now been replaced by 

yup .  . by the way , what planet are you from , and once you got here , did 
you those against foreign medical 

david , computer products  ( america ) , inc. , ma 
these are my opinions , not necessarily 
's , though they are the opinions of all right thinking people 

from  ( david dodell ) 
subject medical newsletter part 1 4 
reply to  ( david dodell ) 
distribution world 
organization stat gateway service , 
lines 


cut here 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 


! ! 
! health info com network ! 
! medical newsletter ! 

editor david , d . m . d .  . 
north street , , , arizona usa 
telephone 1 (602) 
fax 1 (602) 

compilation 1993 by david , d . m . d .  . all rights  . 
license is hereby granted to on electronic media for which no 
are charged , so long as the text of this notice and license 
are attached to any and all portion or portions .  . 

the health info com network newsletter is  . articles 
on a medical nature are  . if you have an article , please contact 
the editor for information on how to submit it. if you are interested in 
the distribution system , please contact the editor .  . 

e mail address 
editor 
internet 
1 114 15 
bitnet 
 ( or internet 
anonymous ftp edu . 
list 
fax contact editor for information 




t a b l e o f c o n t e n t s 


1. comments news from the editor 
news  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1 

2. for disease control and 
16 april 1993 infectious diseases  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3 
of e. coli from  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5 
use of among adults  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14 
impact of adult safety belt use on children less than 11 years age ... 17 
publication of surveillance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21 

3. research news 
high tech assisted  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24 

4. articles 
low levels particles linked to serious attacks  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 29 
consensus development conference on  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31 
national  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32 

5. general 
medical education software  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40 

6. aids news 
aids daily summary april 12 to april 15 , 1993  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41 

7. aids articles 
first trial begins in children  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 47 
new evidence that the can cause disease independently  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50 
telephone service for aids  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 52 





medical newsletter page i 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 




comments news from the editor 


i would like to continue to thank everyone who has sent in a for the 
 . we have reached our goal ! a 
was purchased this week. 

thank you to the following individuals whose contributions i just received 

john 





again , thank you to all who gave ! 

i have been using plus for the past couple of weeks and would like to 
review the product .  . plus is a product of recognition systems. 
it runs under 3 . 1 . and supports that technology of the 
 . 

when initially bringing up the software , it lets you select several options 
(1) text (2) source ie , fax file , file  ( 3 ) 
automatic versus manual of the image. 

i like manual since the software then lets me select which 
parts of the document i would like , and in what order. 

once an image is , you can bring up the pop up image  . the 
software gives you two errors at this point. blue which are words that were 
converted reliability , but do not match anything in the built in dictionary .  . 
, which are words that plus does n't think it converted 
correctly at all. i have found that the software should give itself more 
credit .  . it is usually correct , instead of wrong. if a word is blue , 
you can add it to your personal dictionary .  . the only problem is the personal 
dictionary will only handle about 200 words. i find this to be very limited , 
considering how many medical terms are not in a normal dictionary .  . 

after a document is converted , you can save it in a multitude of word 
processor  . also any images that were captured can be in a 
or file format .  . 

i was extremely impressed on the percent accuracy for fax files. i use 

medical newsletter page 1 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

an card , which stores in a format .  . 
while most of my were received in standard mode  ( 200x100 dpi ) , the 
accuracy of plus was excellent .  . 

overall , a very impressive product .  . the only fault i could find is the 
of the size of the user dictionary .  . 200 words is just 
too small .  . 

if anyone has any specific questions , please do not to send me email. 




































medical newsletter page 2 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 




for disease control and 


infectious diseases 

source  ( 42(14 ) date apr 16 , 1993 

introduction 

despite predictions earlier this century that infectious diseases would 
soon be eliminated as a public health problem (1) , infectious diseases remain 
the major cause of death and a cause of and death in 
the united states. since the early , the u.s. public health system has 
been challenged by a of identified pathogens and (e . g .  . , 
coli , c virus , human virus , 
disease , disease , and  . the 
of many diseases widely to be under control , such as , 
, and  ( tb ) , have increased in many areas .  . furthermore , 
control and of infectious diseases are by drug 
resistance in conditions such as , , disease , 
, , , and (2) .  . 
place a burden on persons , those 
in (e . g .  . , hospitals and child day care centers ) , and 
minority and  . the substantial economic burden of 
on the u.s. health care system could be reduced by more 
effective surveillance systems and targeted control and programs 
 . 
this issue of a new series , infectious 
diseases .  . future articles will address these diseases , as well as 
surveillance , control , and efforts by health care and 
public health  . this first article the investigation 
of an of e. coli in the western united states  . 

references 

1. m. natural history of infectious disease. cambridge , england 
cambridge university press ,  . 

2.  . resistance to drugs a  . ann 
1993 61 .  . 

3. j , re , jr ,  . 
threats to health in the united states. washington , national 
press , 1992 .  . 

medical newsletter page 3 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 


4.  . preliminary report of coli 
from western united states , 1993 .  . 1993 42 85 6. 










































medical newsletter page 4 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

update of coli 
from western united states , 
1992 1993 

source  ( 42(14 ) date apr 16 , 1993 

from 15 , 1992 , through february 28 , 1993 , more than 
confirmed with e. coli and four associated 
deaths occurred in four states washington , , california , and  . 
this report summarizes the findings from an investigation (1) that 
identified a resulting from of from 
one  . washington 
on 13 , 1993 , a reported to the washington department of 
health a of children with  ( hus ) and an 
increase in emergency room for bloody  . during 16 17 , a 
case control study comparing 16 of the first cases of bloody or 
identified with age and neighborhood 
eating at a during the week before 
 ( matched odds ratio or lower limit 3 .  . on 
18 , a recall of unused from a 
was initiated .  . 
as a result of and case finding efforts , during 
february 1993 , with bloody or were reported to the 
state health department .  . a total of persons had illnesses meeting the case 
definition of culture confirmed e. coli infection or 
 ( figure  . of the persons , 52  ( 11 ) had close contact with a person with 
confirmed e. coli infection during the week of 
symptoms .  . of the remaining persons , 372  ( 88 ) reported eating in a a 
during the 9 days of symptoms .  . of the 
who what they in a a ,  ( 92 ) reported eating 
a regular  . of from 17 
through 20 .  . of the ,  ( 30 ) were 30 
developed , and three died. the age of was 7 . 5 . years 
 ( range 0 74  . 
following the report from washington , the division of health , 
department of health and welfare , identified 14 persons with culture 
confirmed e. coli infection , with dates from december 
11 , 1992 , through february 16 , 1993  ( figure  . four persons were 
one developed  . during the week , 13 
 ( 93 ) had at a a  . california 
in late december , the san diego department of health services was 
of a child with e. coli infection who subsequently died. 
active surveillance and record review then identified eight other persons with 
e. coli or from mid through mid 1993 .  . 
four of the had recently at a a and 

medical newsletter page 5 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

four at a b in san diego .  . after the washington was 
reported , of medical records at five hospitals revealed an overall 27 
increase in or for during december 1992 and 
1993 compared with the same period 1 year earlier. a case was defined as 
, bloody that was culture negative or not , 
or any in which stool culture e. coli , with 
from 15 , 1992 , through 31 , 1993 .  . 
illnesses of 34 met the case definition  ( figure  . the 
was identified in stool of  . 
persons were , seven developed , and one child died. the 
age of case was 10 years  ( range 1  . a case control study of 
the first 25 case identified and age and sex community 
eating at a a in san diego  ( matched 
or 13 1 . 7 .  . a study comparing case 
who at a with well regular 
 ( matched or lower limit 1 . 3) .  . 
b was not statistically associated with  . 
on 22 , after receiving a report of a child with who had 
at a local a , the clark  ( las vegas ) health district 
issued a press release requesting that persons with recent bloody 
contact the health department .  . a case was defined as , bloody 
that was culture negative or not , or any 
with a stool culture the washington of e. coli , with 
from december 1 , 1992 , through february 7 , 1993 .  . because local 
laboratories were not using  ( smac ) medium to 
for e. coli , this organism was not identified in any patient .  . after 
medium was , the was detected in the stool of 
one patient 38 days after  . 
of persons whose illnesses met the case definition  ( figure 2c ) , 
were three developed  . the age was 30 . 5 . years  ( range 
0  . analysis of the first 21 identified and age and sex 
community eating at a a during 
the week  ( matched or lower 
limit 4 .  . a case control study using well of case 
also eating at a  ( matched or 6 . 0 . 0 . 7 . 
49 .  . other investigation findings 
during the , a in washington linked with cases 
primarily were serving regular produced on 
19 , 1992 some of the same meat was used in produced on 
20 , 1992 .  . the of e. coli was isolated from 11 
lots of produced on those two dates these lots had been 
to in all states where occurred .  . approximately 272 , 
 ( 20 ) of the were by the recall .  . 
a meat by a team identified five slaughter plants in the 
united states and one in canada as the likely sources of used in the 

medical newsletter page 6 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

lots of meat and identified potential control points for reducing 
the likelihood of contamination .  . the animals slaughtered in domestic slaughter 
plants were to and in western states. no one 
slaughter plant or farm was identified as the source. 
further investigation of cases related to secondary in 
families and child day care is  . 

reported by m davis , , c , , seattle king dept of public 
health d gordon , , mw , md , health district , k 
, c , , pierce health dept ed , md , 
, md , dept of , d , md , of and 
, univ of washington school of medicine and children 's hospital and 
medical center , seattle m , md , b , j lewis , 
, md , state , washington dept of health .  . g , md , 
j , md , children 's hospital , san diego s hunt , p , , m 
, md , san diego dept of health l , , werner , 
md , , iii , md , state , california dept of health 
 . , central district health dept , h root , district 
health dept , d brothers , ma , , , , , of 
health , state public health , fr , md , state 
, of health , dept of health and welfare .  . , 
environmental program , l , pa , o , md , , 
, clark health district , a , md , state 
public health , md , r , , d , , state 
, of health , state dept of human resources .  . center 
for food safety and applied , food and drug  . food 
safety inspection , animal and plant health inspection , us dept of 
 . of field , program office 
diseases , of bacterial and diseases , national center for 
infectious diseases ,  . 

note e. coli is a negative first 
identified as a cause of in during an of severe bloody 
to (2) .  . this pathogen has since 
as an important cause of both bloody and , the most common 
cause of failure in children. have linked 
most cases with the of ground beef , although other 
food , including beef , raw milk , and apple , also have been 
 . preliminary data from a 2 year , , 
study revealed that when were routinely for e. coli 
that organism was isolated more frequently than in four of 10 
hospitals and was isolated from 7 . 8 . of all bloody , a 
higher rate than for any other pathogen .  . 
infection with e. coli often is not recognized because most 
laboratories do not routinely culture for this organism on 

medical newsletter page 7 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

medium , and many are of the spectrum of illnesses 
associated with infection  . the usual manifestations are 
 ( often bloody ) and is  . age groups 
and the are at highest risk for manifestations and 
 . usually after 6 8 days , but 2 7 of 
develop , which is characterized by , , 
failure , and a death rate of 3 5 . 
this report the difficulties in recognizing community 
of e. coli in the absence of surveillance .  . despite 
the magnitude of this , the problem may not have been recognized in 
three states if the link had not been established in washington 
(1) .  . laboratories should routinely culture stool from 
persons with bloody or for e. coli using agar  . 
when with e. coli are identified , they should be reported 
to local health for further evaluation and , if necessary , public 
health action to prevent further cases. 
e. coli lives in the of healthy , and can 
meat during slaughter .  . is with the u.s. 
department of 's food safety inspection service to identify 
critical control points in as a component of a program to reduce 
the likelihood of pathogens such as e. coli entering the meat supply .  . 
because practices can result in contamination of raw meat with 
pathogens , and because the process of beef may pathogens 
from the surface of the meat to the , ground beef is likely to be 
internally  . the food protection practice is to 
ground beef thoroughly until the is no longer pink , and the 
are clear. in this , of likely played 
an important role .  . the food and drug  ( fda ) has issued 
to increase the internal for to 
f 1 . c )  ( fda , personal ,  . 
actions by the described in this report 
and the of thousands of before they could be 
the value of public health of 
 . the public health impact and increasing of isolation of 
this pathogen the need for improved surveillance for 
caused by e. coli and for to better define the of e. 
coli  . 

references 

1.  . preliminary report of coli 
from western united states , 1993 .  . 1993 42 85 6. 

2. , rs , , et al. associated 
with a rare coli  . n j 5. 

medical newsletter page 8 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 


3. ,  . the of caused by 
coli , other e. coli , and the associated 
 . rev 1991 13 60  . 

4. , sm , , et al. illnesses associated with 
coli a broad spectrum .  . ann 
1988 109 12. 

5. march , s. test 



































medical newsletter page 9 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

use of among adults united states , 
1991 

source  ( 42(14 ) date apr 16 , 1993 

of and other products in the 
united states almost from through 1991 (1) .  . long term use of 
is associated with and increased risk of 
oral (2) the of which could increase if young persons who 
currently use continue to use these products frequently (1) .  . 
to trends in the of use of products , 
's 1991 national health survey health and disease 
 ( nhis hpdp ) information on and 
use and from a representative of the u.s. civilian , 
population greater than or equal to 18 years. this 
report summarizes findings from this survey .  . 
the 1991 asked have you used at least 20 
times in your entire life and do you use now similar questions were 
asked about use and  . current users of 
were defined as those who reported or 
use at least 20 times and who reported using or at the 
time of the former users were defined as those who reported having 
used or at least 20 times and not using either at the 
time of the  . ever users of included current and 
former users. current were defined as those who reported at 
least 100 and who were currently and former as 
those who reported having at least 100 and who were not 
now. ever included current and former  . data on 
use were available for 43 , persons greater than or 
equal to 18 years and were for and to provide 
national estimates .  .  ( cis ) were calculated by using 
standard errors generated by the software for survey data analysis  ( sudaan ) 
 . 
in 1991 , an 5 . 3 . million 9 . ) u.s. adults were current users 
of , including 4.8 million 6 . ) men and , 000 6 . ) 
women. for all categories of comparison , the of 
use was higher among men. for men , the of use was 
highest among those 18 24 years  ( table 1 ) for women , the was 
highest among those greater than or equal to 75 years. the of 
use among men was highest among american 
and the among women was highest among american 
and blacks .  . among both men and women , of 
use declined with increasing education. was 
higher among residents of the southern united states and in 
areas .  . although the of use was higher among 

medical newsletter page 10 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

men and women below the poverty level , this difference was significant only 
for women  ( p less than 0 .  ( table  . 
among men , the of current use of was highest among those 
18 44 years but by age the of use of 
was more by age group  ( table  . although 
women rarely used , the of use was highest 
among those greater than or equal to 75 years. 
an 7 . 9 . million 4 . 4 . 1 . 4 . adults reported being 
former users. among ever users , the who were 
former users was 59 . 9 .  ( 95 57 . 7 . 62 .  . among persons 
18 24 years , the of former users was lower among users 
2 . 49 . 4 . 63 . than among users 4 . 
64 . 2 . 76 .  . among persons 45 64 years , the of former users 
was similar for 9 . 63 . 1 . 74 . and 5 . 
9 . 78 .  . 
among current users of , 22 . 9 .  ( 95 19 . 9 . 26 . 
currently , 33 . 3 .  ( 95 30 . 0 . 36 . , and 43 . 8 .  ( 95 
39 . 9 . 47 . never  . in comparison , among current , 2 . 6 .  ( 95 
2 . 3 . 3 . were current users of  . 
daily use of was more common among users 3 . 
63 . 2 . than among users 1 . 40 . 6 . 
49 .  . 

reported by office on and health , national center for disease 
and health of health statistics , national 
center for health statistics ,  . 

note the findings in this report indicate that the use of 
was highest among young males .  . and young adult males , in 
particular , are the target of by that 
link with and  . use of oral 
has risen among baseball , encouraging this 
behavior among and young adult males and increasing their risk for 
, oral , and other mouth disorders  . 
differences in the of use among 
racial ethnic groups may be by differences in levels 
and status as well as social and cultural phenomena that require 
further explanation. for example , targeted practices may play a role 
in maintaining or increasing among some groups , and affecting the 
of use by young persons  ( 5 ,  . 
in this report , one concern is that nearly one fourth of current 
users also  . in the 1991 , the 
of was higher among former 
users than among current and never users. in a previous 
study among college students , 18 of current users 

medical newsletter page 11 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

 . in addition , approximately 7 of adults who 
reported other products for in an effort to 
stop  . health care should recognize the potential health 
implications of and use. 
the national health objectives for the year 2000 have established special 
population target groups for the of the of 
use , including males 12 24 years  ( to no more than 4 by the year 
2000 objective 3 . and american native youth  ( to no more 
than 10 by the year 2000 objective 3 .  . to lower the 
of use include continued of 
use , and control efforts , 
enforcing laws that restrict  access to , making taxes 
commensurate with those on , encouraging health care to 
routinely provide advice and follow up , providing school based 
and , and adopting policies that 
use on school property and at school sponsored events  . 

references 

1. office of and  . and youth .  . washington , 
us department of health and human services , office of the 
general , 1992 publication no.  ( oei 06)92 )  . 

2. national of health .  . the health consequences of using 
a report of the to the surgeon general. , 
maryland us department of health and human services , public health service , 
1986 publication no.  ( nih)86 )  . 

3.  . software for survey data analysis  ( sudaan ) version 5 . 30 . software 
documentation .  . research triangle park , north research triangle 
institute , 1989. 

4. , ct , a. out of  . am j public 
health 1992 3. 

5. national institute .  . or health an international 
perspective. , maryland us department of health and human services , 
public health service , national of health , 1992 publication 
no.  ( nih)92 )  . 

6. , as , , , , am .  . 
psychological of college students who use  . 
1993 18 16. 

7. ed , m , sw .  . age of and switching patterns 

medical newsletter page 12 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

between and among college students in the united 
states. am j public health 1989 8. 

8.  . use in 1986 methods and from adult use of 
survey .  . , maryland us department of health and human services , 
public health service , , 1990 publication no.  ( om)90 )  . 

9. public health service .  . healthy people 2000 national health and 
disease objectives .  . washington , us department of health and 
human services , public health service , 1991 publication no.  ( phs)91 ) 
 . 

























end of part 1 


internet fax 1 (602) 
bitnet 1 114 15 
amateur packet 

from  ( david partain ) 
subject what is it 
originator 
organization department of computer science , university of 
lines 11 


someone i know has recently been as having , 
a disease about which i can find no information. apparently it has something 
to do with the body 's of while at the same time being highly 
allergic to  . can anyone out there tell me any more about it 

thanks. 

david 
ida , university of link work phone 46  ( 013 ) 28 26 08 
s link , 46  ( 013 ) 28 26 66 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 3 aids related questions 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 17 

in article  ( paula ford ) writes 

we know ours is not and people need it. i think my husband should give 
blood , especially , because his is o , and i understand that 's a very useful 
blood type .  . 


it 's o that is especially useful. still , he is n't punishing the 
red cross but some o person that needed his blood and could n't 
get it. you are right , probably wo n't help. 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re 
summary different cause 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 9 

i'm surprised nobody mentioned that of the can be a 
of an infection , especially if it also or  . 
 ( it happened to me , and cleared it up nicely . ) . 


michael a. internet 
artificial intelligence programs phone 
the university of fax 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  ( amy mossman ) 
subject re is 
organization 
lines 31 
distribution world 
nntp posting host mania . berkeley . edu . 

in article ,  ( doug bank ) writes 

here is another story. i am a and never wanted to 
try chinese food , however , i finally tried some in order to please a 
girl i was seeing at the time. i had never heard of chinese 
 . a group of us went to the and all shared 6 different 
dishes. it did n't taste great , but i decided it was n't so bad. we went 
home and went to early .  . i up at 2 am and my  . 
i threw up for so long that  ( i'm not kidding ) i a in 
my tongue .  . and everything. no one else got sick , and i'm 
not allergic to anything that i know of. 

suffice to say that i wont go into a chinese unless i am 
physically threatened .  . the smell of the food makes me ill  ( and that is 
a  . when i have been in to suffer 
through beef and without any , i insist on no  . 
i have n't gotten sick yet. 



i had a similar reaction to chinese food but came to a different 
conclusion .  . i 've chinese food for ages and never had problems. i went 
with some chinese friends to a rest. and they ordered 
lots of stuff i had never seen before. the only thing i can remember of that 
was the first course , served in the shell with a type sauce .  . 
i thought , well , i 've only had once and i was sick after but that 
could have been a coincidence . that night as i sat on the bathroom , 
sweating and my stomach the hard way , i decided i would never touch 
another  . i may not be allergic but i do n't want to take the chance. 



from  ( ken mitchum ) 
subject re question 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( ken mitchum ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 42 

in article  ( glen w brooksby ) writes 
this past a friend of mine lost his 13 month old 
daughter in a matter of hours to a form of  . the 
person me called it   (sp ) .  . 
in retrospect , the disease her probably sometime on 
friday evening and she passed away about 2 on saturday .  . 
the symptoms seemed to be a that started small and 
then began rapidly .  . she began turning blue 
eventually which was the off that this was serious 
but by that time it was too late  ( this is all second hand info . ) .  . 

my question is 
is this an unusual form of how is it 
how does it work  . how does it kill so quickly ) 

there are many , viral , bacterial , and , which can 
cause , and the course of these varies 
widely .  . the causes of bacterial vary with age in adults 
 ( the same organism which causes pneumonia ) 
is the most common cause , while in children 
is the most common cause. 

what you are describing is from , 
which is the second most common cause of bacterial in 
both groups , but with lower in infants .  . this organism 
is also called the , and is the source of the 
common of that occur and are in 
the press. without treatment  ( and even with it in some cases) , 
the organism typically causes death within a day. 

this organism , as it is , is actually grown from the 
of many normal adults .  . it can get to the by different 
ways , but blood borne spread is probably the usual case. 

 ( an oral antibiotic ) is often given to family and contacts 
of a case of , by the way. 

sorry , but i do n't have time for a more detailed reply. 
is a huge topic , and sci . ca n't do it justice. 




from 
subject re modified sense of taste in 
organization university of northern iowa 
lines 16 

in article ,  ( dave lunger ) writes 

what does a lack of taste of , or a sense of taste that seems off 
when eating in someone who has mean what are the possible 
causes of this why does it happen 

i ca n't answer most of your questions , but i 've seen it happen in 
family members who are being treated with radiation and or  . 
graham published a many years ago  ( in with 
the american society , i think) called something has to taste 
good  ( as i  . 

the was just what we needed several times when favorite 
suddenly became . 

biology dept uni 

from  ( evan hunt ) 
subject re is 
organization the santa operation , inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 18 


in article  ( evan hunt ) writes 

in article  ( sharen a. rund ) writes 

no ) many that feature 
use to keep the looking longer , also , a number 

this brings up an important question for me could pre made , the 
kind sold in , have added without mentioning it legally , 
i mean anyone know what the law is in this area 


steve points out that was probably thinking of  . but 
the question still stands .  . 

hunt ,  . editor , the 
for more information about the , e mail to 

from  ( wansaicheong lin ) 
subject re is there a real 
organization national university of singapore 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 21 

it would be nice to think that individuals can somehow  the system  
and like a space , go where no man has gone before and 
return with a prize  . unfortunately , too often the prize is limited 
and the of the   questionable when applied to all 
 . 

this applies to both medical and non medical individuals .  . 
just because it appears in an obscure journal and may be of some use 
does not make the next all. what about the of individuals 
who have participated in trials did they have any 
of are they any less because they did n't their 
story all over the world 

as a note , was n't there some studies done on seeds for 
's  ( to the original poster what about trying for a trial of 
that it 's probably not a final answer but it certainly may 
some of the  . and you 'd be helping answer the question for 
future ) . 




from  ( daniel prince ) 
subject effects 
lines 17 

i know that the effect is where a patient better or 
even gets better because of his her belief in the medicine and 
the doctor it. is there also an anti 
effect where the patient doctors and medicine 
and therefore does n't get better or feel better in spite of the 
medicine 

is there an effect where the doctor believes so strongly in a 
medicine that he she sees improvement where the is none or sees 
more improvement than there is if so , what is this effect 
called is there a reverse of the above effect where the doctor 
does n't believe in a medicine and then sees less improvement than 
there is what would this effect be called have these effects 
ever been studied how common are these effects thank you in 
advance for all replies .  . 

... information is very valuable but information is much more common .  . 

from m . 
subject re a respectable medical tradition 
reply to m . 
organization computing lab , university of kent at , uk .  . 
lines 26 
nntp posting host eagle . ac . uk . 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 

accepted by whom not by scientists .  . there are people 
in every country who waste time and money on  . 
in britain and , where i have worked , it was not paid for. 
what are most of these countries i do n't believe you. 

i am told  ( by the person who i care a lot about and who i am worried 
is going to start putting his health and money into without 
really knowing what he is getting into and who is the reason i posted 
in the first place about homeopathy ) that in britain is 
available on the national health service and that there are about 6000 
who use practices .  . true false what 

have there been any important and documented into 
principles 

i was reading a book on over the weekend. i turned to the 
section on the principles behind medicine , and two 
informed me that do n't feel to provide 
any sort of explanation. the author stated this with pride , as though 
it were some sort of virtue ! why am i sceptical about is 
it because i am a narrow minded bigot , or is it because 
really looks more like witch than anything else 

 . 

from  ( richard silver ) 
subject and health risk 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 10 


some recent postings me that i had read about risks 
associated with the of , namely that 
are generated .  . is this a valid concern if so , is it a function 
of the or the is it a function of 
the elements , wood or vs. i wish 
to know more. thanks. 




from  ( john mckay ) 
subject lasers for 
originator 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university , montreal , quebec 
lines 15 


having had limited for more than 30 years , and finding 
it to all and i have tried , i wonder why 
do not use lasers to destroy the  . it would 
seem likely to be effective and  . are there good reasons 
for not using lasers 
i was told that had not yet reached the laser age. 

john 
ca . 


deep ideas are simple. 
odd groups are even .  . 
even are not. 

from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re 
organization wide field camera 
lines 24 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

in article ,  ( brian m. huey ) writes 
i think that 's the correct  .  . 
i am looking for any information that will allow 
do it to take pictures .  . i'm thinking 
that education for schools might have a for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the  . any info is greatly 
appreciated. 
in case you do n't know , , to the best of my 
knowledge , involves taking pictures of an  ( most of the time) organic 
object between charged plates .  . the picture will show energy patterns 
or around the object , and depending on what type 
of object it is , the or energy patterns will vary .  . one might 
extrapolate here and say that this proves that every object within 
the universe  ( as we know it) has its own energy signature .  . 

go to the library and look up  . 

j internet 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

from  ( anthony anello ) 
subject 
organization national , il 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host gov . 
keywords 40 dangerous 


can anyone tell me if a of 40 when as is 
dangerous , i.e. indicates a possible problem one dr. says no , the 
other  ( not his specialty ) says the first is and that another blood 
test should be done. also , what is a good diet  ( what has worked ) for a 
 . 


anthony 

, illinois 




from  ( neal howard ) 
subject re seek information 
organization inc. , tx 
lines 18 

in article  ( renato ghica ) writes 

has any one heard of a called made by , 
i believe. any info as to side effects or equivalent 

you probably mean , a member of the family , 
chemical name is  . it is such a strong that it is 
probably best refered to as a , rather than a  . just one 
pill will knock you on your ass. side effects may be similar to , , 
, and other  . 


 91 1200 ,  ( richardson , tx ) 

disclaimer my opinions are mine , not 's .  . 
let us learn to dream , , and then perhaps 
we shall learn the truth. august   ( 1890 ) 


from  ( kenneth ng ) 
subject re is 
organization private computer , , nj 
lines 15 

in article  ( steven zikopoulos ) writes 
in (  ( w out the s) ) writes 
i think the scientists are biased towards the food industry or something. 
was the article long would anyone be interested in posting it 
a told me that is used as a  .  . that . 's 
right .  .  . some . labs use it to kill neurons in and rats 

vitamin a  ( and i think vitamin d ) in strong enough can kill .  . the key 
words are and exposure mechanism .  . 



please reply to for now. 
all this might be an elaborate running in a little device sitting 
on someone 's table j . l .  . 

from  ( howard r doyle ) 
subject re broken 
keywords advice needed 
organization pittsburgh transplant institute 
lines 28 

in article writes 


about 3 weeks ago down into the hold of the and broke or 
a and and bruised my back and left  . 
my question , i have been to a doctor and was told that it was 
best to do nothing and it would heal up with no long term effect , and 
indeed i am about 60 better , however , the work i do is very 
hard and i am still not able to go back to work. the thing that me 
is the movement or i feel and hear back there when i move 
certain ways .  .  .  . i heard some one talking about the they broke 
years ago and that it still bothers them .  .  . any opinions 



your doctor is right. it is best to do nothing , besides taking some pain 
initially .  . some do n't like this and expect , or demand , 
to have something done. in these cases some will the 
patient  ( put a lot of heavy around the chest ) , or 
an  . all this does is make it harder to , but the 
patient does n't feel , because is being done about the 
problem. either way , the end results are the same. 







from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re pill 
article i.d. blue . 
lines 20 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 
a very simple question it seems to me that the 
pill just prevents the to nest in the and forces it to 
fall every month .  . but it does not prevent the of the 
 . is it true if yes , is there a risk of extra 
pregnancy , that is the development of the inside the 


actually that is not how the pill works , but it is how the works. 
the oral pill actually prevents from 
by providing to the , and thus preventing 
the that normally occurs at the time of  . with the 
what happens is that may occur , but the device prevents 
within the of the ( not the  . 



university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( john finlayson ) 
subject re exercise and 
nntp posting host 
organization , inc. 
lines 49 

in article  ( janet jakstys ) writes 
... the other day i played during my lunch 
hour .  . i'm out of shape so it was very intense exercise .  . i 
got , and  . afterwards , i noticed a 
all over my head then about 2 hours later , i could feel 
a start. (i continued to drink water in the afternoon . ) . 
i took , but it did n't help and the pain started although 
it was n't as intense as it usually is and about that night , the 
pain  . 

this is n't the first time that i 've had a occur after exercise .  . 
i'm wondering if anyone else has had the same experience and i wonder 
what the in this situation  ( heat ) .  . 
i'm not giving up so is there anything i can do  ( besides get into 
shape and do n't play at high noon ) to prevent this 

hi janet , 

sounds exactly like mine. same , same symptoms , 
same , same duration .  . in fact , of all the people 
i know who have , none have been so similar. there is such 
a wide between people with respect to what causes their 
, that i generally do n't bother what i 've learned 
about mine , but since ours seem to be alike , here are my observations .  . 

i do n't think it 's , per (i 've had more in than  . 
could figure , though. try up before 
playing rather than after. 

being in shape does n't seem to help me much , either. 

i 've identified four factors that do make a difference  ( listed in 
order of importance ) 

1 ) heavy exercise 
2 ) sleep 
3) (e . g .  . , breakfast ) 
4 ) physical trauma (e . g .  . , head bonk ) 

heavy exercise has all of my post , but i 
do n't get after every heavy exercise session. one or more of 
the other factors must be present  ( usually  . since i discovered 
this , i 've been nearly free only once every two 
or three years when i get ( it 's been so long , maybe i just do n't 
get them anymore ) and stop being careful .  . 

hope this is helpful .  . 

john .  . 

from  ( jude shavlik ) 
subject program forms 1st on sys for molecular biology 
keywords biology , artificial intelligence 
organization u of wisconsin cs dept 
lines 

for those the this summer , note that 
this conference is immediately it. 


preliminary program and materials 

first international conference on 
intelligent systems for molecular biology 

washington , d . c .  . 
6 9 , 1993 

sponsored by 
the national of health , 
national library of medicine 

the department of energy , 
office of health and environmental research 

the society 

the american association for artificial intelligence  ( aaai ) 

poster and 


technical 
hill center , national library of medicine 

for more information contact or fax  ( 608)262 ) 

purpose 
this , the first international conference on intelligent systems 
for molecular biology , is the meeting in a series 
intended to bring together scientists who are applying the 
of artificial intelligence , , machine 
learning , parallel computing , advanced data modelling , 
and related methods to problems in molecular biology .  . the 
to any or system supporting a 
biological task that is challenging , involves a 
of information from multiple sources at multiple levels , 
or in some other way the and 
properties of an intelligent system. 

facilities 
the conference will be held at 
hill center 
national library of medicine 

, building 
md 
in the conference center is strictly limited , so 
will be accepted on a first come , first serve basis. 
, as well as a and poster , will be 
at the 

wisconsin avenue 
md 
a special room rate has been with the , of day 
 ( expires 6  . must make their own , by 
writing the or calling  ( 800)331 ) and mentioning the 
conference .  . to participate in a matching service , 
e mail 

transportation 
the two facilities are within easy walking distance , convenient to 
the  ( metro red line , medical center stop ) , and from there 
to the station .  . nearby include , national , 
and baltimore washington international .  . 


full length papers from both talks and posters will be published in 
 . the citation is 

of the first international 
conference on intelligent systems for 
molecular biology  . l. , 
d. , and j. shavlik ) mit 
press , park ca , 1993 .  . 

copies will be at the conference to 
, and will be available for from the 
afterwards. 

talks 
, 7 , 1993 

8 00 9 

9 00 9 remarks 

9 15 10 invited talk 
statistics , protein , and predicted structures 
 . temple smith  ( boston university ) 

10 30 11 break 

11 constructive induction and protein structure prediction 
t . r .  . , l. , s. 

11 protein secondary structure modeling with probabilistic 
a . l .  . , s. , h . r .  . , w. 

12 00 1 lunch 

1 protein secondary structure using two level case based 
reasoning b. , b . g .  . , h . b .  . 

2 automatic of novel 
building blocks in proteins 
x. , j . s .  . , w . a .  . , d . l .  . , g. 

2 using mixture to derive hidden 
models for protein families m. brown , r. , a. , 
i . s .  . , k. , d. 

3 00 3 break 

3 protein using 
e . a .  . , b. , p. 

4 for molecular sequence 
c. , m. , y s. , j. 

4 efficient representation in 
molecular sequence d . j .  . states , n .  . harris , 
l. 

7 00 7 poster setup 
7 30 10 poster 

thursday , 8 , 1993 

8 00 9 

9 00 10 invited talk 
large scale dna a tale of and men 
 .  ( university of washington ) 

10 15 10 break 

10 pattern recognition for dna 
i. on line signal and feature for 
j . b .  . iii , d. , c. 

11 genetic for sequence assembly 
r. , s. , c. 

11 a digest approach to site mapping 
s . s .  . g. 

12 15 2 lunch 

2 order and distance relationships from 
m. 

2 sequence similarity by the 
significance method a. 

3 of human gene functional regions based on 
composition v . v .  . c . b .  . lawrence 

3 knowledge in 
j . s .  . , j. , g . c .  . 

4 00 4 break 

4 an expert system to generate machine learning 
experiments learning with dna data 
d. cohen , c. , h. 

5 of in sequences with 
implications t . m .  . d. 

5 probabilistic structure calculations a three 
dimensional structure from sequence correlation data 
r . b .  . 

friday , 9 , 1993 

8 00 9 

9 00 10 invited talk 
artificial intelligence and a grand theory of 
biochemistry  .  ( george university ) 

10 15 10 break 

10 molecular biology in in 
h . b .  . c. 

11 of localized and 
in m . l .  . 

11 fine grain for pattern in gene 
s . m .  . b . r .  . 

12 15 2 lunch 

2 representation for of protein 
d. , s. , j. 

2 finding relevant features 
l. t. 

3 techniques for biological materials and 
methods k. , r. , n .  . , 
m . j .  . 

3 a level description scheme of protein 
k. , k. , m. , s . t . c .  . 

4 00 4 break 

4 protein prediction through parallel 
logic programming d . a .  . clark , c . j .  . , j. , 
a. , m. 

5 a reasoning system for sequence 
specific in protein 
d. , c. , g . t .  . 

5 30 5 remarks 

poster 
the following posters will be on display at the 
from 7 30 10 , , 7. 

1 the induction of rules for chemical 
in d. d. 

2 a application for molecular 
s . s .  . ball v . h .  . 

3 a fast look up for string 
a. i. 

4 strategy parallel learning in sequence 
analysis p . k .  . s . j .  . 

5 protein structure prediction features 
from large candidate pools k . j .  . j . w .  . 

6 comparison of two approaches to the prediction of protein 
patterns i. , s . r .  . , s. h. kim 

7 a learning environment for protein modeling 
j. , l. j. 

8 inference of order in genetic systems 
j . n .  . t . h .  . 

9 a pattern language for molecular biology 
c. p . r .  . 

10 of processes 
r. 

11 representations of knowledge 
p . d .  . m. 

12 protein experiment planning using analogy 
b. l. 

13 design of an object oriented for reverse genetics 
k . j .  . , j. arnold , j . a .  . miller , w . d .  . potter 

14 a small for word recognition in dna sequences 
c. j. e 

15 an expert system for genetic 
mapping t . c .  . , m. a. 

16 constructing a object oriented system with 
logical for cell 
t. 

17 prediction of primate gene sequences with 
a cooperative knowledge system 
e . m .  . j. 

18 object oriented knowledge bases for the analysis of 
and 
g. , f. , f. , c. 

19 petri net representations in 
v . n .  . , m . l .  . , m . l .  . 

20 complexity in models of 
self replication j . a .  . , h. h. , s . l .  . , 
y .  . 

21 building large knowledge bases in molecular biology 
o .  . , c. , p. , f. , 
f. , g. , c. 

22 a service oriented information sources for the 
biological sciences g . k .  . springer t . b .  . patrick 

23 hidden models and iterative study of their 
equivalence and possibilities h. , k. , m. , 
a. 

24 protein structure prediction system based on artificial 
j. k. 

25 segment prediction from protein sequence 
data s . m .  . , d . m .  . cohen n .  . 

program 
will be conducted at the on 
tuesday , 6. 

12 00 2 introduction to molecular biology for computer 
scientists  .  ( rutgers university ) 

this overview of the essential facts of molecular biology is 
intended as an introduction to the field for computer scientists 
who wish to apply their tools to this rich and complex domain .  . 
material covered will include and 
, the basic organization of the cell and of genetic 
material , the central dogma of gene , and 
other in the area of structure , function , and as 
relates to current approaches .  . dr. has 
in both computer science and biology at , and 
has extensive experience in basic biological research in addition 
to his current work in biology .  . 

12 00 2 introduction to artificial intelligence for 
biologists dr. richard  ( mit corp . ) . 

an overview of the field of artificial intelligence will be 
presented , as it relates to actual and potential biological 
applications .  . fundamental techniques , programming 
, and notions of search will be discussed , as well as 
in somewhat greater detail , such as knowledge 
representation , inference , and machine learning. the intended 
audience includes biologists with some background , 
but no extensive exposure to artificial intelligence .  . dr. 
, co of and related , has 
worked in the area of artificial intelligence applied to 
biological problems in both and industry .  . 

3 00 5 , statistics , and information theory 
in biological sequence analysis dr.  ( los 
national laboratory ) 

this will cover the most rapidly expanding of 
intelligent systems for molecular biology , that of machine 
learning techniques applied to sequence analysis. closely 
to be addressed include the use of 
to both specific and general 
characteristics of sequences , and the relationship of such 
approaches to statistical techniques and information 
views of sequence data .  . dr. , of the 
division at los , has long been a leader in the use of such 
techniques in this domain .  . 

3 00 5 genetic and genetic programming 
 . john  ( stanford university ) 

the genetic , an popular approach to highly 
non dimensional problems , was originally 
inspired by a biological metaphor .  . this will cover both 
the biological motivations , and the actual implementation and 
characteristics of the  . genetic programming , an 
extension well suited to problems where the of the size 
and shape of the solution is a major part of the problem , will 
also be addressed .  . particular attention will be paid to 
biological applications , and to resources and software 
that will to begin using the methods .  . dr. , 
a professor of computer science at stanford , has taught 
this subject since 1988 and is the author of a standard text in 
the field .  . 

3 00 5 methods in sequence analysis 
 . david  ( university of pennsylvania ) 
 ( weizmann institute ) 

approaches to sequence analysis based on 
are in evidence. these involve the adaptation of 
tools and techniques from linguistics for 
pattern recognition and gene prediction , the of 
genetic structures and phenomena using formal language theory , the 
of significant and codes 
in sequence data , and sequence comparison and 
functional  . dr. , who holds research 
in both genetics and computer science at penn , 
represents the branch of this field that considers higher order 
approaches to sequence data , while 
has studied and published with  . edward in the area 
of word based analyses .  . 

form 
mail , with check made out to 93 , to 

conference , c o j. 
computer sciences department 
university of wisconsin 
west street 
madison , wi usa 



name 



address 







phone 

fax 

electronic mail 

status regular student 

presenting talk poster 



molecular biology for computer scientists 
or 
artificial intelligence for biologists 

, statistics , and 
or information theory in sequence analysis 
genetic and genetic programming 
or 
methods in sequence analysis 

 ( early before june 1 ) 

early late 
regular 100 
student 75 100 
one two 
regular 50 65 
student 25 35 
total 

include conference , 
, and general program  . 


organizing 
lawrence 
david u. of 
u. of wisconsin 

program 
douglas stanford u. 
bruce u. of pittsburgh 
christian los national lab 
fred cohen u . c .  . san francisco 
chris fields  . for research 
michael u . c .  . san diego 
peter international 
washington u. 
los national lab 
richard mit corp .  . 
charles lawrence 
michael u. of maryland 
george 
george u. 

u. 
national lab 
chris 
u. of 
david states washington u. 
u. of 
ed oak national lab 
david thinking machines corp .  . 


from  ( infospunj  ( dan field ) 
subject ca n't wear contacts after rk 
keywords , , contact , 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 28 

i love the faq .  . 

the comment about contact not being an option for any remaining 
correction after rk and possibly after is  . why is 
this does anyone know for sure whether this applies to as well 

also , why is it possible to get a correction in with involvement of 
only about 5 of the depth , while rk is done to a depth of up to 
why such a difference i thought the were 
with the exception of a laser being the cutting tool in  . i must not 
be understanding all of the differences .  . 

in the faq , the vision was considered less clear after the than 
with alone. if this is to the 
intentional slight , then it can be for when 
necessary with  ( or contacts , if they can be ! ) .  . it 
is important to know if that is not the case , however , and some other 
consequence of the would often interfere with clear vision .  . the 
first thing that came to my mind was a of the , which 
could n't help. 

would not help. 


daniel r. field , aka i'm just a  . 

biochemistry , i'm at the 
california polytechnic state u of the medical  . 

from  ( david james hahn ) 
subject re re help me  .  .  . 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 39 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 
originator 

from article , by 
the best way of self injection is to use the right size 
and choose the correct  . for , usually given 
, use a thin  ( 23 24 guage ) and select a on 
the , outer  ( no major or blood  . 
clean the area with before injection , and after. make 
sure to deeply (a different kind of pain is felt when the 
enters the contrasted to the   when it 
the  . 

ps try to go to a doctor .  . self treatment and self injection should 
be avoided as far as possible. 

the areas that are least likely to hurt are where you have a little 
fat .  . i on my legs and gut , and prefer the gut .  . i can stick 
it in at a 90 degree angle , and barely feel it. i'm not fat , just 
have a little gut .  . my legs however , are , and i have to 
to get anything , and then i at about a 45 degree angle , and it 
still  . the rate of differs for and 
however so if it 's a daily thing it would be 
best not to switch places every day to keep  . although 
some suggest switch legs or sides of the stomach for each shot , to prevent 
 . when you clean the off with an , 
wait for it to somewhat , or you may get the in the 
, and of course , that does n't feel good. a way to prevent 
is to mark the that you  . a good way to 
do this is use a little round and put it over the 
 . this helps prevent you from in the same , 
and the sites out  ( about 1 1 2 apart . ) . 

this is from experience , so i hope it 'll help you. (i have 
and have to take an injection every morning . ) . 

later , 
david 

david 
university of wisconsin milwaukee 


from 
subject re a respectable medical tradition 
lines 43 
nntp posting host vms . edu . 
organization college of medicine 

in article ,  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( rayaz jagani ) writes 


from , the complete handbook , 
isbn 0 2 , published in britain in 1990. 

from page 10 , 
 .  .  . and in , when the national health service was established , 
was included as an approved method 
of treatment .  . 

i was there in  . i suppose it must have died out since , 
then. certainly i never heard of any or in 
the of the  . perhaps the law codified it but the authorities 
refused to any  . a similar law in the us allows 
to practice in va hospitals but i 've never seen one 
there and i do n't know of a single va that has a  . 
there are a lot of on the net , so someone should be able to 
tell us if the provides for you. 





i do n't think they provide , heck the apparent was trying to 
promote to the ranks of a couple of years back .  .  .  . it 
pleased my family no end , since i'm at an school , sort of 
it for them .  .  . then . i told them that the name was the same but the 
practice was different .  .  .  . oh .  . 
if you 're seeking for your philosophy on the strength of 
the national health service adopting it , i suggest that you are not very 
sure of the validity of your philosophy .  . i believe in , the was 
still having its taught the fine art of , which is the 
of fluids by means of heating a cup , 
it on the afflicted site and allowing it to cool. 
i would n't take my sick daughter to a  . 


david n .  . 

, i'm with gordon banks 


from  ( david dodell ) 
subject medical news part 4 4 
reply to  ( david dodell ) 
distribution world 
organization stat gateway service , 
lines 

cut here 
limits of 's and now suggest using the drug either 
with other drugs or in a kind of aids treatment a number 
of drugs to fight the virus all at once. treating people with alone 
does n't happen in the real world anymore , said dr. mark of the 
university of california san francisco .  . also , with recent findings 
indicating that replicates rapidly in the after infection , 
may begin pushing even harder for early treatment of 
 . 


new infectious disease push american medical news  ( 04 05 93 ) vol. 36 , no. 
13 , p. 2 

the center for disease control will launch a network to track 
the spread of infectious diseases and detect drug or new in 
time to help prevent their spread .  . the network is expected to cost between 
75 million and million but is an essential part of the clinton 
's health reform plan , according to the and outside 
 . the plan will require the to enhance surveillance of disease in 
the united states and establish about 15 facilities across the world to 
track disease. 


april 13 , 1993 


plans to begin aids drug trials at earlier stage nature  ( 04 01 93 ) vol. 
, no. , p.  ( macilwain , colin ) 


medical newsletter page 42 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

the national of health has it will start treating 
positive as soon as possible after , resulting 
from recent findings that show is active in the body in large numbers 
much earlier than was previously believed .  . anthony , director of the 
u.s. national institute of and infectious diseases  ( niaid ) , said , 
we must address the question of how to treat people as early as we possibly 
can with drugs that are safe enough to give people for years and that will 
get around resistance .  . he said any delay would questions 
over safety and resistance rather than a lack of funds .  . , who co 
authored one of the two papers published last week in nature , rejects the 
argument by one of his co authors , fox , that the new 
indicates that 1 billion spent on trials has been a waste of time 
and money because the trials were started too long after the were 
and were ended too quickly .  . john of the medical college of 
virginia in claims that the new evidence strongly backs the argument 
for early treatment of  . aids the 
new information but said the scientific community has been slow to understand 
the significance of infection of the tissue .  . we 've known about this 
for five years , but we 're glad it is now in the public domain , said 
of the california based project  . but peter , who 
believes that aids is independent of and is a result of drug abuse in the 
west , said , we are several paradoxes away from an explanation of aids even 
if these papers are right. 


april 14 , 1993 


risk of aids virus from doctors found to be minimal washington post 
 ( 04 14 93 ) , p. 

the risk of being from health care 
to is minimal , according to new research published in 
today 's journal of the american medical association  . this finding 
supports previous conclusions by health that the chance of 
from a health care is remote .  . three studies in the 
demonstrate that thousands of were treated by two positive 
and without becoming with the virus .  . the studies 
were conducted by separate research teams in new hampshire , maryland , and 
florida .  . each study started with an positive doctor or and 
tested all willing to participate .  . the new hampshire study found 
that none of the 1 , who had by an 
positive surgeon  . in maryland , of 1 , 131 
operated on by a at johns hopkins hospital 
were found to be negative .  . similarly in florida , of 1 , 

medical newsletter page 43 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

, who all had been treated by an positive general , were 
tested and found to be negative for  . the florida , led by 
gordon m. of the university of miami school of medicine , said , 
this study indicates that the risk for of from a general 
to his is minimal in a setting in which universal 
are strictly observed .  . related story philadelphia 
 ( 04 14 ) p. 

alternative medicine advocates divided over new research program aids 
treatment news  ( 04 02 93 ) no. 172 , p. 6  ( gilden , dave ) 

the new office of alternative medicine at the national of 
health has raised questions about the 's commitment to an effort that uses 
or methods .  . the is a small division of 
the , with its only at 2 million dollars compared to more than 10 
billion for the as a whole .  . in addition , the money for available 
research grants is even smaller .  . about , 000 to 600 , 000 total will be 
available this year for 10 or 20 grants .  . , of the center for 
natural and traditional medicine in washington , d . c .  . , says the is afraid 
to become involved in aids .  . they have to look successful and there is no 
easy answer in aids , she said. there is also a common perception that the 
will focus on fields the will find non threatening , 
such as techniques and  . when the called for an 
conference of about 120 people last year , the aids 
community was largely missing from the meeting. in addition ,  
general lack of contact with the office has added suspicion that the 
will be ignored .  . jon , of act up new york , said , the 
is of without real research experience. it 
will take them several years to accept the nature of research .  . 
nevertheless , dr. , research director and aids 
at the college of medicine in seattle , said , here is a 
wonderful opportunity to aids research .  . it 's only fair to give the 
office time to , but it 's up to the public to insist that it 's much , much 
more than public relations . 

immune cell soldiers science news  ( 04 03 93 ) vol. , 
no. 14 , p. 215  ( fackelmann , a . ) . 

scientists conducting test experiments have found that 
6 can attack the human immune system 's natural killer cells .  . this attack 
causes the killer cells to , an important component in 
the immune system 's fight against diseases .  . also , the 6 may be a 
factor in immune diseases , such as aids .  . in 1989 , 's research 
found that 6 attacks another white cell , the t , 
which is the primary target of  . also found that 6 can 

medical newsletter page 44 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

kill natural killer cells .  . scientists previously knew that the natural 
killer cells of with do not work correctly. 's 
research represents the first time scientists have indicated that natural 
killer cells are vulnerable to any kind of viral attack , according to anthony 
l. , a with medical school. despite the test 
findings , scientists are whether the same result occurs in the 
body. 's team also found that 6 produces the 
that provides access for  . t express this surface 
, making them vulnerable to 's attack .  . concluded that 
6 cells can the of  . 


april 15 , 1993 


aids and in the to the editor journal of the 
american medical association  ( 04 07 93 ) vol. , no. 13 , p.  ( gellert , 
george and , f . ) . 

all health care workers are obligated and responsible for not only 
that politicians understand the of certain health 
problems , but also to be committed to related policies , write george 
and f. of the orange health care agency , santa , 
 . , and the university school of public health in ,  . , 
respectively .  . dr. 's on why american doctors should care 
about the aids beyond the united states details several reasons for 
the concerted interest that all countries share in aids .  . it should 
be noted that while aids leads in health , it 
is not the only doing so. diseases such as and many 
and pathogens have similarly the economic 
development of most of humanity and acted to large  . 
mentions the enormous social and economic impact that aids will have 
on many developing countries , and the increased need for international 
assistance that will result. also cites the lack of political 
the aids in its first  . but now there 
is a new with a promise of substantial differences in approach 
to international health and development in general , and aids in 
particular .  . vice president al in his book earth in the 
a major environmental that includes 
international development , with programs to promote , improve child 
survival , and technology and access throughout the 
developing world. if , this change in policy could drastically 
change the future of health .  . 

aids and in the in reply journal of the american 

medical newsletter page 45 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

medical association  ( 04 07 93 ) vol. , no. 13 , p.  ( berkley , seth ) 

every nation should as early and as possible 
before the disease an state , even at a cost of less 
attention to some other illnesses , writes seth of the 
foundation in new york , n . y .  . , in reply to a letter by  . and 
 . although it is true that diseases other than aids , such as 
and and illnesses , have similarly 
economic development in developing countries and much more attention 
than they are getting , disagrees with the contention that aids is 
receiving too much attention .  . differs from other diseases , in most 
developing countries because it is continuing to spread .  . for most 
diseases , the outcome of for one year is another 
year of about the same level of disease and death. but with aids 
and its increasing spread , the cost of , not only in disease burden 
but , is much greater .  . in the early part of a 
spreading like are highly cost effective because each 
individual infection prevented  . 
says he agrees with and about the social and 
economic effects of aids and about the need for political leadership .  . but he 
concludes that not only is political leadership needed in the 
united states for the aids , but even more so in developing countries 
with high of infection and where about the 
has been the rule. 





















medical newsletter page 46 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 




aids articles 


first trial begins in children 
h h s n e w s 

u.s. department of health and human services 
march 29 , 1993 


first trial begins in children 


the national of health has opened the first trial of experimental 
in children who are with the human 
virus  ( hiv ) , the virus that causes aids .  . 

the trial will compare the safety of three experimental in 90 
children from at least 12 sites  . must be 
but have no symptoms of disease. 

e. said this initial study can be seen as a 
in our efforts to the of 
children who now face the certainty they will develop aids .  . 

anthony s. , m . d .  . , director of the national institute of and 
infectious diseases and of the office of aids research , said the trial is 
the first step in finding out whether can help prevent or delay 
disease progression in children with who are not yet sick .  . if these 
prove to be safe , more sophisticated questions about their 
potential will be assessed in ii trials .  . 

the for disease control and estimates 10 , 000 children in 
the united states have  . by the end of the , the world health 
organization 10 million children will be  . 

the study will children ages 1 month to 12 years old .  . , which 
funds the aids trials group network , conducting the trial 
at sites around the country and three sites in the 
but funded by the national institute of child health and human 
development .  . 

preliminary evidence from similar studies under way in adults shows 
that certain can boost existing specific immune responses and 

medical newsletter page 47 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

new ones. it will be several years , however , before 
know how these responses affect the course of the disease. 

the results from the trial , known as , will be examined 
closely for other reasons as well. this trial will provide the first insight 
into how the immune system responds to candidate , said 
daniel , m . d .  . , director of 's division of aids .  . we need this 
information to design trials to test whether experimental can prevent 
infection in children. 

in the united states , most children live in poor inner city 
areas , and more than 80 percent are minorities , mainly black or  . 

nearly all children acquire the virus from their during 
pregnancy or at birth. an mother in the united states has more than 
a one in four chance of the virus to her baby .  . as growing 
numbers of women of age become exposed to through injection 
drug use or sexual partners , expect a 
increase in the numbers of children. 

disease more rapidly in infants and children than in adults .  . 
the most recent information suggests that 50 percent of infants born with 
develop a serious aids related infection by 3 to 6 years of age. these 
include severe or frequent of common bacterial illnesses of 
childhood that can result in , , and other symptoms 
to problems and long hospital  . 

at least half of the children in the trial will be 2 years of age or 
to comparison of the immune responses of the and older 
participants .  . all must have well documented infection but no 
symptoms of disease other than or a mildly 
or  . they cannot have received any anti or immune 
drugs within one month prior to their entry into the study .  . 

study chair john s. , m . d .  . , of the university of rochester medical 
school , and co chair , m . d .  . , of duke university school of 
medicine , will coordinate the trial assisted by james , m . d .  . , medical 
in the medicine branch of 's division of aids .  . 

we will compare the safety of the by closely the children 
for any side effects , to see if one produces more or 
, for example , than another , said dr.  . we 'll also look at 
whether low or high of the immune responses or other 
significant or effects .  . he emphasized that the small 
study size comparing these responses or effects among the three 

medical newsletter page 48 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

products. 

the trial will test two each of three experimental made from 
proteins .  . these so called , each genetically 
engineered to contain only a piece of the virus , have so far proved well 
tolerated in trials in adults .  . 

one made by inc. of ,  . , contains a 
protein that gives rise to 's surface proteins plus  . 
boost specific immune responses to a  . presently , is 
the only used in human by the food and drug 
 . 

both of the other one made by inc. of south san francisco 
and the other by , a venture of and , in 
,  . contain the major surface protein , , plus 
 . the contains , while the 
contains , an experimental that has proved safe and effective in 
other i trials in adults .  . 

a low of each product will be tested first against a in 15 
children. twelve children will be at random to be with the 
experimental , and three children will be given alone , 
considered the  . neither the health care workers nor the children will 
be told what they receive .  . 

if the low is well tolerated , controlled of a higher of the 
experimental and in another group of 15 children will 
begin .  . 

each child will receive one every four weeks for 
months and be followed up for 24 weeks after the last  . 

for more information about the trial sites or for , call 
the aids trials information service , 1 trials a , from 9 a . m .  . to 7 
p . m .  . ,  . the service has spanish speaking information 
available. information on 's aids research is available 
from the office of communications at  ( 301 )  . 

, and are of the u.s. public health service in  . for 
press only , please call k. at  ( 301 ) 402  . 




medical newsletter page 49 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

new evidence that the can cause disease independently 
news from the national institute of research 

there is new evidence that the human virus can cause disease 
independently of its ability to suppress the immune system , say scientists at 
the national of health .  . 

they report that itself , not an infection , caused 
conditions to develop in carrying the genes for  . although the 
genes were active in the , they did not compromise the animals  
, the found. this led them to conclude that the 
itself caused the disease. 

our findings support a growing body of evidence that can cause disease 
without affecting the immune system , said lead author dr. jeffrey of the 
national institute of research  . dr. and his colleagues 
described their study in the march issue of aids research and human 
 . 

developing animal models of infection has been difficult , since most 
animals , including , cannot be by the virus .  . to this 
problem , scientists have developed , which carry genes for 
as well as their own genetic material. 

scientists created the by genes into 
eggs and then implanting the eggs into female  . the resulting 
contained both normal and animals .  . 

institute scientists had created that carried a complete copy of 
genetic material in  . those , however , became sick and died too soon 
after birth to study in depth .  . in the present study , the scientists used an 
incomplete copy of , which allowed the animals to live longer .  . 

some of the animals developed , like on their 
and backs .  . other developed , 
that covered most of their bodies , in humans. no 
developed in their normal , non  . 

studies of tissue taken from the like showed that they were a 
type of called  . although the can 
cause these , showed no sign of that virus in the 
animals .  . 

tissue samples taken from the sick throughout the study revealed the 
presence of a protein producing made by the genetic material. 

medical newsletter page 50 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

evidence of protein proved that the viral genes were turned 
on , or active , said dr.  . 

the scientists found no evidence , however , of in the 
no increase in their white blood cell count and no signs of common 
 . the fact that genes were active but the animals  immune 
systems were not suppressed that the virus itself was causing the 
, dr. said. 

further proof of gene involvement came from a test in which the scientists 
exposed the animals to light. the light increased 
genetic activity causing to develop on healthy  . 
formation in response to increased genetic activity proved the 
genes were responsible for the condition , the scientists said. no 
appeared on normal exposed to the light. 

the used in this study were developed at by dr. peter 
, who is now with the national institute of and infectious 
diseases .  . 

on the study with dr. were mr. charles ,  . 
, joseph , , and paul , all of 
dr. stephen of the national institute and dr. james , 
with and now with  . 





















medical newsletter page 51 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

telephone service for aids 
h h s n e w s 

u.s. department of health and human services 

march 4 , 1993 


e. today the first 
telephone service for doctors and other health care 
who have questions about providing care to people with 
infection or aids .  . 
the free national telephone service is by a 
, a and a  . it provides information on 
drugs , trials and the latest treatment methods .  . the service is 
funded by the health resources and services and operates out of 
san francisco general hospital .  . 
said , one goal of this project is to share expertise 
so get the best care. a second goal is to get more primary health 
care involved in care for people with or aids , which reduces 
treatment cost by allowing to remain with their medical and 
community social support  . currently , many refer 
with or aids to or other who have more experience. 
said , this expertise should be especially 
helpful for and who treat people with or aids in 
communities and sites where expertise is not readily available. 
the telephone number for health care is 1 , and 
it is accessible from 10 30 a . m .  . to 8 p . m .  .  ( 7 30 a . m .  . to 5 p . m .  . pst ) 
monday through friday .  . during these times , consultants will try to answer 
questions immediately , or within an hour .  . at other times , and 
health care can leave an electronic message , and questions will be 
answered as quickly as possible. 
health care may call the service to ask any question 
related to providing care , including the latest aids drug treatment 
information , trials information , case , 
literature searches and other information. the service is designed for health 
care rather than , families or others who have alternate 
sources of information or materials .  . 
when a health care calls the new service , the call is taken 
by either a , primary care or family 
 . all members have extensive experience in and 
primary care for people with related diseases .  . the 
asks for patient specific information , including cell count , current 
, sex , age and the patient 's history. 
this national service has grown out of a 16 month local effort that 

medical newsletter page 52 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

responded to nearly 1 , 000 calls from health care in northern 
california .  . the initial project was funded by 's bureau of health 
, through its community aids training  ( cpat ) project , and 
by the american of family  . 
when expand their knowledge , they also improve the quality of 
care they are able to provide to their , said administrator 
robert g.  . m . d .  . , m . p . h .  . this project will be a great resource for 
health care and the aids they serve .  . 
this service has opened a new means of between health care 
and on care , said 's associate 
administrator for aids and director of the bureau of health resources 
development , g. stephen , m . d .  . , m . p . h .  . who treat people with 
or aids have access to the latest information on new drugs , treatment 
methods and for people with or aids .  . 
is one of eight u.s. public health service within  . 


aids numbers for 

national aids 1 aids 
for information in spanish 1 
aids trials  ( english spanish ) 1 trials a 























medical newsletter page 53 

cut here 
this is the last part 


internet fax 1 (602) 
bitnet 1 114 15 
amateur packet 

from  ( jason chen ) 
subject re is 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
reply to 
organization bell communications research 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( doug bank ) writes 

i up at 2 am and my  . 
i threw up for so long that  ( i'm not kidding ) i a in 
my tongue .  . and everything. no one else got sick , and i'm 
not allergic to anything that i know of. 

the funny thing is the stories about reactions to vary so 
greatly .  . some said that their heart up with face. some 
claim their heart beats once in a while. some with 
headache , some stomach  . some had eyes or running nose , some 
had or  . more serious accusations include 
difficulty and brain damage. 

now here is a new one  . my guess is that becomes the number one 
suspect of any problem. in this case. it might be just food poisoning .  . but 
if you heard things about , you may think it must be it. 

jason 



from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re help for stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 17 

in article writes 
my is in pain from stones .  . she says that because she has no 
medical , she cannot get them removed. 

my question is there any way she can treat them herself , or at least 
their effects any help is deeply appreciated.  ( advice , to literature , 

or is about the only effective way of stopping pain 
that severe .  . obviously , she 'll need a prescription to get such drugs .  . 
ca n't she go to the hospital or something 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( david nye ) 
subject re ( infantile ) 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 19 

reply to  ( md ) 

after many , body structure , and infection virus 
the doctors still do not know quite what type of he is 
having  ( although they do have alot of evidence that it is now pointing 
to infantile ) .  . this is where we stand right now .  .  .  . as . i know 
now , these particular types of disorders are still not really well 
understood by the medical community. 

infantile have been well understood for quite some time now. you 
are seeing a , are n't you if not , i strongly 
recommend it. there is a new about to be released called 
which may be particularly helpful for infantile  . as 
for learning more about , ask your doctor or his about a 
local support group. 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( david rind ) 
subject re what is it 
organization israel hospital , medical school , boston mass .  . , usa 
lines 19 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 
 ( david partain ) writes 
someone i know has recently been as having , 
a disease about which i can find no information. apparently it has something 
to do with the body 's of while at the same time being highly 
allergic to  . can anyone out there tell me any more about it 

can cause severe life threatening , usually 
in people who are otherwise quite ill .  . this is not , however , the sort 
of that you are probably discussing .  . 

where the body is allergic to 
is considered a by mainstream medicine .  . there 
is a book the connection which talks about this . 

there is no convincing evidence that such a disease exists. 

david 


from  ( michael holloway ) 
subject re a respectable medical tradition 
keywords yes , science , stupid ! 
nntp posting host ic . edu . 
organization state university of new york at stony 
lines 75 

in article  ( webster homer ) writes 
 ( michael holloway ) writes 

here 's your error. i really do think this shows some confusion on your 
part.  ( drum roll please ) science is n't so much the of evidence 
to support an assertion  ( read hypothesis ) as it is the of 
empirical observations in order to make an hypothesis .  . what should 
convince you  ( or not ) should n't be the final product so much as how the 
product was made. 

here 's your error. there is no observation or hypothesis that is not tainted 
by theory. i have a theory , i make observations , those observations will be 
made with my theory in mind. 

yes , absolutely , though i 'd make the observation in a more general sense of 
all observations are made by human beings and therefore made with various 
 . 

but here your message leaves talk of hypothesis and gets back , once again , 
to equating the business of science with the end result , the produced .  . 

science works very well at developing theories 
within , but is very poor at dealing with paradigm shifts .  . if i 
develop a novel paradigm that explains , chinese medicine , or 
spontaneous  . if the paradigm is useful it will show me the way 
to make observations that prove or disprove it. 

my point is n't so much whether or not you have a novel paradigm but how 
you come about developing it. 

the paradigm of modern medicine is that the body can be reduced to a set of 
essentially wherein disease is seen as in 
the machinery , essentially the old newtonian model of the world. it seems 
likely that theories based upon this paradigm do not give a complete 
of the universe , medicine , healing etc .  .  .  . indeed we now 
recognize an important psychological component to healing .  . 

perhaps you 'd admit that this is an oversimplification on your part  ( the topic 
of the philosophy of science is made for them , i'm making them too) but i 
think that it also summarizes popular misconceptions of science and the 
business of doing science. research does n't make any basic 
assumptions that are n't the same as any other discipline of scientific 
research .  . that is , that you make empirical observations , form an hypothesis 
and test it. modern medicine has much more to do with biochemistry than 
the old newtonian model of the world . and i doubt that many psychologists 
would appreciate being put outside this empirical world view . psychology 
also has more to do with biochemistry than  . 

it is also important to distinguish reason from science. science may be 
reasonable , but so are many non scientific  . aristotle reasoned 
that came from mud by observing one hop out of a  . 

, of course , but a good example. this is an empirical 
 . it was then tested , though perhaps not by aristotle , and eventually 
found wanting .  . in the meantime , some folk will 
have continued to believe in the spontaneous generation of animal life. 
there 's nothing at all surprising about this , it 's the way the of 
knowledge works. there are probably more than a few things in my own 
discipline of molecular biology that will be found to be totally off base , 
even idiotic , to someone in the future. these future people wo n't have come 
to these because they had suddenly gone all zen like and had 
a vision in an trip .  . someone will have thought of something new and 
tested it. this is the bit that people who seem to 
science and research ca n't seem to their minds around. science is a 
creative process. what i think of as factual and good research can be totally 
turned on its head by new results and theories .  . 

again , i think it gets down to defining what you mean by science . i often 
do n't recognize what it is that i do , and am involved in , in the way science 
is by popular media or writings of people in the  . they 
science as a collection of facts , of truth 
in big gold letters. that 's silly. its as though we just go into the lab , 
turn over a , and come up with a mechanism for 
 . its much more interesting than that. it really is a very human 
process. 

from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re 
organization wide field camera 
lines 15 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

in article ,  ( jason chen ) writes 
there is no contradiction here. it is essential in the sense that your 
body needs it. it is non essential in the sense that your body can 
produce enough of it without  . 

and when you 're in a technical discussion of amino , it 's the latter 
definition that 's used almost universally .  . 

j internet 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

from  ( david rind ) 
subject re adult 
distribution usa 
organization israel hospital , medical school , boston mass .  . , usa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 
 ( marc grant ) writes 
all over my  . at what point am i no longer infectious my 's 
office says when they are all over. is this true 

yes. 

is there any which can promote healing of the speed up 
healing 

started in the first 1 2 days probably and 
the formation of new  . 

david 


from  ( naomi t courter ) 
subject 
organization connect public access unix 
lines 15 


can anyone give me more information regarding i heard 
it 's a very common disease among women and if anyone can provide names 
of a surgeon in the north research triangle park 
area  ( raleigh hill ) who is familiar with the condition , 
i would really appreciate it. 

thanks. 



l . t .  . 
network services 
center for communications 
network 

from  ( jeff parke ) 
subject re 
organization college of medicine 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 45 

 ( kilty@ucrengr ) wrote 
my nearly 13 year old had a nasty reaction to this  . 
... suffice it to say , we will not 
her for disease again. she 's been through some 6 
states and has with us as well and we are used to watching for 
and dealing with them and we simply wo n't take her to really active 
disease areas .  .  .  .  . 

not to this out anymore , but .  .  .  .  . 

many feel that disease in dogs is so easy to treat that 
in an area , they often just give the appropriate to dogs 
presenting with , ,  . 

a recent paper  ( march 1993 ) has finally established that disease in dogs 
can be in a controlled setting .  . this has been 
an matter for , and is one of the fundamental requirements 
for many to acknowledge an as being of a particular disease. 
up to now , only the has been able to prove that 
the disease exists. 

this paper is noteworthy in two other regards 

1 ) none of the animals they were treated in any way. the dogs 
had of during a 6 8 week period which occurred 2 5 
months after exposure .  . after this period , none showed any further 
signs up to the 17 month observation period of the study .  . so 
these are proven , sick showing spontaneous 
without the benefit of drug treatment .  . of course , observations 
longer than 17 months will be necessary to be sure the disease does n't 
have the same that some see in humans. 

2 ) the addendum to the paper calls into question the techniques used by the 
to validate the  . of course , they want 
the world to use the model they developed in order to test 
 . 

anyway , maybe we will see some independent , scientifically sound 
of this in the next year or so. 


jeff 
also 
washington state university college of medicine class of 
, 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re is 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
lines 14 

in article  ( steve pope ) writes 
the mass of evidence , combined with the lack of 
a properly constructed scientific experiment disproving 
the hypothesis , makes the reaction hypothesis the 
most likely explanation for events. 

you forgot the face. 

i ca n't believe this is what they turn out at berkeley .  . tell me 
you 're an  . 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( dave lunger ) 
subject modified sense of taste in 
keywords 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 13 


what does a lack of taste of , or a sense of taste that seems off 
when eating in someone who has mean what are the possible 
causes of this why does it happen 

has stage ii , and is taking  . also has stage 
with known , and is taking  ( also had 
radiation  . 

thanks ! 

not a doctor , but trying to understand family member 's 


from mackie 
subject re request  ( souvlaki ) sauce 
organization 
lines 11 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 86 . 38 . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x fri , 23 apr 93 14 56 04 gmt 

in article michael , 
writes 
would anyone out there in  net land  happen to have an 
authentic , sure fire way of making this great sauce that 
is used to 's and 

i'm not sure of the exact recipe , but i'm sure is one of 
the major  . ) 

mackie his opinions 
will 

from  ( robin coutellier ) 
subject critique of pressure point 
originator 
nntp posting host 
reply to  ( robin coutellier ) 
organization northern , view , ca 
distribution na 
lines 

as promised , below is a personal critique of a pressure point 
i recently bought from the self care catalog .  . i am very pleased with 
the results. the catalog description is as follows 

the pressure point is an aggressive physical 
that actually the out of ... much like a 
 . the powerful drives two 
counter that move in one orbits 
in the , back , legs and  . 

pressure point 109 

to order or receive a catalog , call  ( 24 hours , 7 days ) 1 345 or 
fax at 1 345  . 


note 
when i ordered the , the item number was different , and the price 
was 179 , not 109 .  . when i received it , i thru the newer catalog 
with it to see anything was different from the first one. i was 
quite to see a 70 difference in price .  . i called them about it , 
and the said that they had switched , although it 
looks and works exactly the same. he told me to go ahead and return the 
first one and order the one , using the price difference as a 
reason for return. in fact , since the newer ones might take a while to 
from the (i received this one in 3 days ) , he told me i could 
use the one i already have until the new one arrives , then return the old 
one. very reasonable people. 


i have long term , shoulder and back pain  ( if i were a building , i 
would be described as ) ) .  . i have stretches 
and to do that help , but the problem never really goes away. 
if , for whatever reason , i do not exercise for a while  ( illness , not enough 
time , lazy , etc . ) . , the become quite and painful and , thus , 
more prone to further  . even with exercise , i sometimes require 
physical to get back on track , which 1st requires a doctor visit 
to get the prescription for p . t .  . 

the in my , if not released , eventually causes a headache 
 ( sometimes confused with a headache ) over my left eye. when my 
physical has my , and the sub 
in particular  ( the 2 areas near the base of the skull ) , the 
headache usually within a day , although it like hell to 
while it is being  . 

i ordered this device because it seemed to be exactly what i was wishing 
someone would invent a machine that would , not , my 
and sub like my physical has done in 
the past , that i could use by myself. no doctor visit or 
p . t .  . for a week later would be needed to use it. i could get up 
in the middle of the night and use it , if necessary. 

i have been using it for about a week or so now , and love it. the base 
is about a 14 x 9 rectangle , about 3 3 4 high , with handles on each 
side , and it into an average  . the two metal are about 
1 1 2 in and about 2 1 2 above the base .  . the 
are covered with a gray cloth that is non  . they are more 
one end , rather than  ( see figure below) .  . they move in 
either or counter , depending on which side 
of the switch is pushed , and are very quiet .  . it can be used from either 
side. for instance , the can be at the base of the 
or the top of the , depending on which direction you approach it. 













for the head , the user varies the amount of pressure used by  ( if 
down ) allowing all or part of the full weight of the head and or 
to rest on the  . the handles can also be used if sitting or 
standing , applying pressure with the  . since my are 
also  ( i'm typing this over an extended period of time) , and i 
do n't have someone living with me who can apply it , down works 
well for me. 

for my back , i sit in a high backed kitchen chair , position the 
behind me at whatever point i want , and back lightly  ( or 
not so lightly ) against it. the pressure of back holds it in place. 
if i want to the entire , i simply move it down a few 
whenever i feel like it. for my back , this machine is far superior to use 
than the commonly used home made of 2 taped together 
 ( with the , position  ( against a or door ) them over the and 
move the body up and down against them) .  . the are better than 
nothing , but difficult to use for very long , especially if your are 
not in good shape , and my long hair gets  ( painfully ) in the way if i do n't 
pin it up first. as far as i'm concerned , the easier something like this 
is to use , the more likely i 'll use do it. if there are multiple 
hassles , i'm more likely to not bother with it. 

not only has this machine helped with my , but my range of motion 
for my and back are greatly increased .  . the first time i used it on my 
sub , however , i it and pressed too hard 
against it , which resulted in a very tender , almost bruised area for a 
few days. i laid off it for about 3 days and applied ice , which helped. 
after that , i was more gradual about applying pressure .  . at this point , 
the pain in the sub area is now minimal while being  . 
i also learned to use very light pressure on my lower back , which is the 
most vulnerable point for me. 

it also some painful of between my shoulder , 
although , again , it took a few days of  ( just a few at 
a time) to really work it out. 

i highly recommend this product if you have similar problems , although i 
cannot for its  ( it seems pretty sturdy ) , since i 've had 
it such a short time. i plan to use it not only to , but also 
to the before exercising  ( and maybe after , too) .  . i have 
been ill recently and not able to exercise much for a few weeks , so this 
was very for me. 

this is the 1st product i 've ordered from this company and only recently 
became aware of it thru a co  . the catalog states they have been 
in business since  . it contains quite a few health care products and , 
while they appear to be more expensive than the average health care catalog 
products , they also appear to be of much higher quality with more thought 
put into what they actually do. definitely a step above some other ones 
i 've seen such as dr. health care catalog or wisdom . 
i'm only 37 , but have ended up on some type mailing lists  ( no 
big surprise here ) ) .  . i consider many of those products to be , 
particularly targeted the , with dubious health benefits. 

i apologize for the length of this , but it 's the kind of info i would 
like to know before something thru the mail .  . 



northern , view , ca 
internet 
uucp portal ! ! 




from  ( eric ) 
subject opinions on  ( hay fever ) shots 
organization university of chicago computing organizations 
lines 19 


, 

i am interested in trying this ( ) method 
against hay  . 
what is the state of affairs about this. i went to a doctor and 
paid 85 for a 10 minute 3 , to the 
that i am allergic to  ( june and timothy ) grass .  . 
i believe this. from now on it looks like 2 shots per week for 
6 months followed by 1 shot per month or so. each shot costs 
20 .  . talking about costs and the health care system , i would 
call that a  . we are not talking about rare 
here , but the garbage which grows behind the doctor 's office. 
apart from this issue , i was somewhat to find out 
that you have to keep getting the shots forever. is that right 
thanks for information. 
ej 



from  ( steve pope ) 
subject re is 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 17 
nntp posting host zion . berkeley . edu . 

writes , 

i am not a or a medical person but it amazes me that 
when they ca n't find a scientific or a known fact they automatically 
assume that the reaction is psychological .  . it is mind  . 

this , simply stated , is a result of the bankrupt ethics in 
the and scientific medicine  . 

america is fed up with the massive waste and fraud that is costing 
us 15 of our to support these , while 
marginal health care to the community. 

unfortunately , the clinton plan , in whatever form it 
takes , will probably cost us an even greater sum .  .  . 

steve 

from  ( joel cherney ) 
subject questions 
article i.d. reed . 
reply to 
organization reed college , , or 
lines 19 

okay , this is a long shot .  . 

my friend has of type symptoms , very 
regularly. this has been going on for a number of years. she 's seen a 
number of doctors was the last count , i think. most of them have 
said either you have or you 're full of it there 's nothing wrong 
with you. one has admitted to having no idea what was wrong with her , 
and one has claimed that it is  . 

now , what she told me about is that very few doctors even believe that 
it exists.  ( obviously , this has been her experience . ) . so , what 's the 
story is it real does the medical profession believe it to be real 

has anyone had success is treating or is it just something to live 
with thanks for your assistance .  . 

joel the 

of the 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 

in article  ( craig macdonald ) writes 
it may be extremely 
common , something like 5 of the population .  . it is with 
type drugs  ( elavil ,  . 

why is it treated with is it considered a 
condition 

no. that these drugs happen to be useful as is neither 
here nor there. 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from 
subject the of  . 
organization institute of and experimental 
lines 29 
nntp posting host su . 

i am very interested in of for improving health .  . 
i am the young and have highest medical education 
and in work in biological field and would like 
to work on this problem. 
can anybody send me the of the hospitals or medical where 
scientific problems of human for the health are investigated 
also i would like to set scientific contacts with colleagues who 
deals with in this field .  . 
i would be very anyone reply me. 

, contact by post , russia , 
, 
, 
p.o. box 46 , 
for n .  . 

or by e mail 

thank you advance , 
 . 










from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re question 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 42 

in article  ( glen w brooksby ) writes 
this past a friend of mine lost his 13 month old 
daughter in a matter of hours to a form of  . the 
person me called it   (sp ) .  . 
in retrospect , the disease her probably sometime on 
friday evening and she passed away about 2 on saturday .  . 
the symptoms seemed to be a that started small and 
then began rapidly .  . she began turning blue 
eventually which was the off that this was serious 
but by that time it was too late  ( this is all second hand info . ) .  . 

my question is 
is this an unusual form of how is it 
how does it work  . how does it kill so quickly ) 


no , the is one of the most common 
forms of  . it 's the one that sometimes 
schools or camp .  . it is and kills by attacking 
the covering of the brain , causing the blood to 
and the brain to up. 

it is very if caught in time. there is n't much time , 
however. the is the off. infants are very susceptible 
to dying from bacterial  . any infant with a who 
becomes or needs to be to a hospital where 
a will show if they have  . can also 
occur .  . 

immediate family members were told to take some kind of 
to prevent them from being , yet they did n't have 
any concerns about my wife and i coming to visit them. 


it can live in the throat of  . do n't worry , you wo n't get 
it from them , especially if they took the  . 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re can t 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 33 

in article  ( ella i baff ) writes 


re the treatment is worse than the disease .  .  . in . medicine there 
really is something identified as tissue and 
there are observable changes which take place , that whenever they occur , 
can be identified as  . what if i told you that most  ( spinal demons ) , which do n't exist at all. therefore any 
tissue damage incurred in a treatment performed 
in an effort to this silent killer , such as 
damage and , of the , , 
, , etc. , is by definition worse than non treatment .  . 

john , , ca 
email 

what does stand for could n't be an posting 
from a , could it my curiosity is piqued .  . 

ca is an especially entity for  . 
it so typically causes bone pain due to that it 
gets frequently .  . a bone 
is highly dangerous , since it can then  . i 've seen at 
least three cases where this happened with resulting 
damage , including  . this is one instance where knowing 
how to read x rays can really help a stay out of trouble .  . 
do know what from look like 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 19 

from  ( anthony anello ) 
can anyone tell me if a of 40 when as is 
dangerous , i.e. indicates a possible problem one dr. says no , the 
other  ( not his specialty ) says the first is and that another blood 

blood levels of 40 or so are common several hours after a 
big  . this level will usually not cause symptoms .  . 

test should be done. also , what is a good diet  ( what has worked ) for a 


if you mean , there are usually no symptoms , 
hence there is no disease , hence the dietary are the 
same as for anyone else. if a patient complains of , 
, sweating , , etc. several hours after 
a big , the are obvious eat smaller  . 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from  ( douglas s. rand ) 
subject re and 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 18 12 14 gmt 
organization open software foundation 

distribution na 
lines 29 

in article  ( phil de haan ) writes 

in article  ( george b. clark ) writes 
you can also the inside of your nose with using a 
q  . is an that can be bought as an 
in a  . the doctor i listen to on the radio says to apply 
it for 30 days , while you are taking other by mouth. 

i have a new doctor who gave me a prescription today for something called 
 . he said it may cause problems and i have a sensitive stomach 
to begin with. anybody ever taken this  . any good suggestions 
for avoiding an upset stomach other 

i 've taken  . my daughter has taken it many times for ear 
 . it works sometimes. it is a drug .  . about the only 
problem i found was that i'm sensitive and developed a after 
days of a ten day course. no more for me. my doctor was 
in not telling me to watch out for a  . i was quite in the 
dark and did n't realize that it could be a drug reaction. no harm 
done though. 

doug 



douglas s.  . 
11 cambridge center , cambridge , ma 
disclaimer i do n't know if agrees with me .  .  .  . let 's vote on it. 
amateur radio 

from  ( david rind ) 
subject re 
organization israel hospital , medical school , boston mass .  . , usa 
lines 18 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 
 ( 51351 robert  ( feddeler(mt4799)t343 ) writes 

could somebody explain to me what a is and what it is 
used for i it being something that test 
around really fast but i remember why want to do that 

purely  . they get bored sitting in that 
all the time. 

no , this is wrong. the purpose is to preserve the in 
the longer by creating and thus 
time  . of course , by slowing the subjective time of 
the test they get less bored , which is probably what you 
were thinking of. 

david 


from  ( mary e. allison ) 
subject re is 
organization center for reliable and high computing , university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 66 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( carl j lydick ) writes 

of course , bee venom is n't a single chemical .  . could be your brother is 
to a different component than the one that causes 
in other people. 

similarly , chinese food is n't just  . there are a lot of other 
in it. why , when someone eats something with lots of 
they do n't normally , one of which happens to be 
, do they immediately conclude that any negative reaction is to 
the 



read the ! ! ! ! 

i said that i personally had other people order the exact same food at 
two different times from the same and the people that 
ordered the food for me did not tell me which time the was in the 
food and which time it was not in the food. 

one time i had a reaction 

one time i did not 

the reaction came the time the was in the food 

that was the only difference 

same same ! ! ! 

why , when someone eats something with lots of they do n't 
normally , one of which happens to be , do they immediately 
conclude that any negative reaction is to the 

i eat lots of chinese food i love chinese food. i 've just learned 
the following 

if i get food at one of the that does not use or 

if i prepare the food myself without or 

if i order the food from a that will hold the  ( and i 
never get unless it 's from a that without the 
msg ) 

i do not get a reaction ! ! ! ! 

okay 

do you understand ! ! ! ! 

i get a reaction from 

i do not get a reaction when there is no 

if you 're having trouble understand this , please tell me which of the 
words you do not understand and i 'll look them up in the dictionary 
for you. 


the great secret of successful marriage is to treat all 
as incidents and none of the incidents as  . 


mary urbana , illinois 

from  ( ron roth ) 
subject scientific 
x by usenet gateway 
organization rose media , , ontario .  . 
lines 94 

gordon responds to ron 
 ( ron roth ) wrote 

well , gordon , i look at the results , not at anyone 's scientific 
stamp of approval .  . 

if you and your  ( followers ) are convinced  ( as you 've written ) 
by your methods of , , , , 
subjective research great .  . but , why should the rest of us care 

gordon , even if you are trying to this issue to death , you 'll 
never get more than a out of this one ! 
i have never tried to force my type of medicine on any of you. why 
should i my are happy. i'm happy. you and your peers seem 
to be the only miserable ones around bemoaning the loss of 
to the alternative camp .  . 
just look at europe .  . there has been a exodus from   
medicine for over a now , and it 'll be just a matter of time 
before more people on this continent will their drug and white 
coat worship as well and visit different doctors for different needs. 

you see ron , the point is n't whether you and your are 
convinced that whatever it is you do works it 's whether what you do is 
more effective in similar cases  ( of whatever it is you think you are 
treating ) than , , and  . 

this is very interesting. i have come exactly to the same conclusions 
but in regards to conventional medicine .  . 

you see , i do n't just treat little old that would n't know any 
different of what is being done , but a of my consist of 
teachers , lawyers , judges , , , university , 
and various health  . 
if these people have gotten results with my method after having been 
with yours or their own , i certainly would n't lose any 
sleep over whether you or your peers approve of my 
let 's face it , with all the committed by scientific 
over the years , i know a lot of people who hold your scientific 
method in much lower than they hold mine ! 

as far as we know ron 
which may all equal with appropriate 
 .  .  . 

sorry , but i'm not familiar or interested with what appears to be 
 new age  medicine  ( ayurveda , crystals ) , with the exception of 
, of which i took a course. but gordon , you already knew that 
you just wanted to make my system look a bit more far out , right 

i use very little , since my test  ( emr ) is hard to 
for accuracy and are more , while 
does have a problem with reliability , especially in conditions .  . 
an exception perhaps are which act fairly quickly 
and are more in certain viral or bacterial situations .  . 

my colleagues and i spend hours study design 
and results , even of currently accepted as standard . 
as good  ( well , adequate ) scientists , we are prepared , if 
presented with appropriate data , to our most deeply held 
beliefs in favor of new ideas. 

i have met the challenges of hundreds of by the 
accuracy of measuring their status to their total 
in other words everyone involved is happy ! 
if you were to a , would you worry over whether everyone 
in this world would find it to their liking , or only those that end 
up eating it 
since i have every research project that i have 
entirely myself , i do n't need to follow any of your rules or guide 
lines to any aspects of a grant application , which you may 
have to neither am i concerned of whether or not my study designs 
meet your or anyone else 's or acceptance .  . 

sorry ron , if conviction were the ruler of truth , a flat earth would 
still be the center of the universe and epilepsy a curse of the gods .  . 

i think there would be more justification for an uneducated person 
growing up in an environment to believe in a flat earth , 
than for a civilized , well and scientifically trained mind 
to follow the doctrine of evolution .  . 
genetic engineering of course is now the final to show god 
how it is  ( properly ) done. now we 've become capable of creating our 
own paradise and give disease  ( and god) the , right 

but just before we get rid of him for good , perhaps he could leave us 
some on how to solve a couple of tiny problems , such as war , 
poverty , racism , crime , riots , substance abuse .  .  .  . and one last thing , 
could he also give us a hint on how to control natural , the 
, and last , but not least peace 

ron 

2 . 00 . the lab called your brain is ready. 
2 . 10 . usenet rose media  ( 416 ) 

from  ( opirg ) 
subject re is 
keywords , 
organization university , ottawa , canada 
lines 

in article  ( steve dyer ) writes 
in article  ( opirg ) writes 

there has been no hard info provided about making people ill .  . 
that 's the point , after all. 

why do n't you just look it up in the or check out the medical dictionary 
cite which a doctor mentioned earlier in this thread 



that 's because these peer studies are not addressing 
the effects of in people , they 're looking at animal models .  . 
you ca n't walk away from this and start about and 
as if there were any documented health effects 
demonstrated in humans. note that i would n't have any argument 
with a statement like that animal has pro 
the following blah , blah , we must be careful about its 
use in humans. this is precisely not what you said. 

among others , see 's food relevance of 
animal studies to human safety  ( 1982 )  .  .  . 
6  . 

i'm sure would love to hear your arguments .  . 

have been done on , as well. i have never seen a 
study where the mode of was  . the 
and were  . some studies used and  . 
is not a normal admin .  . method for food  . studies , 
for obvious reasons. you must not have read the peer works 
that i referred to or you would never have come up with this brain 
injection bunk .  . 

it most certainly is for  . you know , studies of 
involve more than food science . 

whose talking about food science what is this comment supposed to 
mean and , brain research , nature , 
progress in brain research all fine food science  . ) 

pardon me , but where are you getting this from have you read the 
have you done a literature search 

so , point us to the studies in humans , please. i'm familiar with 
the literature , and i 've never seen any which relate at all to 
's work in animals and the effects of on neurons .  . 

then you would know that himself has casually referred to 
chinese in a few articles .  . why do n't you point 
us to some studies maybe then this exchange could be  . 

the point is the  . of course , they 're amino  . 
note that people with cannot tolerate any  . 

well , actually , they have to tolerate some it 's a 
essential amino acid .  . they just try to get as little as is healthy 
without producing dangerous levels of and its 
in the blood. 

they 're unable to it. 

's research compared infant human diets .  . specifically , the amount 
of freely available in mother 's milk versus baby , 
vs. typical lunch items from the standard american diet such as 
 . he found that one could the safety margin 
for infant humans by at least four in a single of 
 . mother 's milk was well below the effective  . 

goodness , i'm not saying that it 's good to feed infants a lot of 
 . it 's just that this safety 
margin is a construct derived from animal models and given that , 
you can prove anything you like. we 're talking policy in 
infant here , yet you 're it as received wisdom .  . 

who said anything about  received wisdom  there is no question that 
of are capable of destroying nearly all 
neurons in the of the and the 
eminence .  . these areas are responsible for the of 
critical to normal function and the normal 
development of the organism .  . humans are  . now 
what , pray tell , do you think will happen when the area of the brain 
necessary for the normal of release is missing 
are you trying to say that humans have no need of their , 
, and me , of that part of the brain that is responsible for 
controlling the  ( albeit indirectly ) of and 

how do you expect anyone to do the studies on this it 's to 
sacrifice humans to check out what effects , , etc 
of these are having on the brain tissue in humans. the food 
industry knows this. that 's why the animal model is used in medicine 
and psych .  . if you 're talking about straight , it would be 
useful to define the term .  . there are plenty of studies on 
showing the link between attitude and 
 . 

i suspect we may be arguing about separate things only adult 
 ( you ) , and late of childhood and its 
implication for adults  . certainly 
the for in adults are larger than 
for the young , but the of and , and their 
and increased presence in modern  ( jointly ) , and their 
hidden presence in , extreme  . why would anyone 
want to eat which have been shown to the 
system in adults the main point is blood levels 
, and oral would likely have to be greater than  . 

between who over what i would be most interested in seeing you 
provide peer non food industry funded to articles 
that has no effects whatsoever. 

you mean asserting . you 're being intellectually dishonest  ( or just 
plain confused ) , because you 're reports which do not necessarily 
have anything to do with each other. 's reports would argue a potential 
for problems in human infants , but that 's not to say that this says anything 
whatsoever about the use of in most , nor does he provide any 
studies in humans which indicate any effects  ( for obvious 
reasons . ) . it says nothing about 's to the phenomenon 
of the chinese . it says nothing about the frequent 
inability to replicate reports of in the lab .  . 

's work provides a mechanism for some 
 . , and martin have shown that 
causes changes in normal 
in adults .  . also was found to immediate and 
of , and to and 
release of in adults exposed to  . is 
responsible not only for control of growth during development , but 
also converts into  . could this be the cause of 
i do n't know. 

major . com . 
hmm .  .  . com . . why am i not surprised 


probably one of the remarks you 've made. 

if you had read 's review article , especially the remarks i 
already quoted in an earlier post , you would know to what i was 
alluding .  . may i ask exactly for whom you do computer ) 


from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re food related 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 12 

i'm told that is fairly common .  . my wife has it and it seems 
to be if sugar is with the  . 

i suppose that in a person just on the verge of having epilepsy , an 
allergic reaction might cause a , but i do n't really know. 
gordon 


michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  ( sherri nichols ) 
subject re exercise and 
article i.d. 
organization systems incorporated 
lines 12 

in article  ( janet jakstys ) writes 
this is n't the first time that i 've had a occur after exercise .  . 
i'm wondering if anyone else has had the same experience and i wonder 
what the in this situation  ( heat ) .  . 
i'm not giving up so is there anything i can do  ( besides get into 
shape and do n't play at high noon ) to prevent this 

i 've gotten after exercise , though for me it seems to be related 
to exercising without having recently. 




from  ( steven w orr ) 
subject need to find information about current trends in  . 
organization , inc. 
lines 15 


i looked for in my  . and came up with  . anyone have 
any good sources for where i can read in particular , i'm interested 
in finding out more about injection for 
vein  .  ( whew ! ! ) 

anything that like a pointer would be helpful newsgroup , 
, etc .  .  .  .  . 

many thanks. 


time like the wind .  . fruit like  . 
w. uunet ! world ! 
everybody repeat after me we are all individuals .  . 

from  ( jim perkowski ) 
subject re 
distribution world 
x 1 . 17 . by mike michael b. smith 
organization privately owned and operated uucp site. 
lines 26 

in article  ( susan ) writes 
a friend of mine has a very severe cause of 
for over a year now they cause him a lot of pain. 

i recently read (i do n't know where ) about a possible 
for  . does anyone have any information on 
this i ca n't remember the name of the treatment , or 
where i read it. 


i 'll probably get flamed for this , but when i was a kid we would go to 
my on middle bass island on  . we always came home 
with a nasty case of  ( large red where the had 
into the  . my mother would the with clear 
finger nail  . this was repeated daily for about a week or so. the 
application of the is supposed to them as it seals of 
the  . all i can say is it worked for us. one word of 
though. putting finger nail on a like hell. 

 ( if i do get flamed for this just put in my and call me 
 . ) 



!  ( and ) ! 


from  ( edwin barkdoll ) 
subject re 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 64 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article werner  ( john werner ) writes 
in article ,  ( gordon banks ) wrote 

explain. i thought there were 3 types of , equivalent to  . 

you 're basically right , but i think there are just 2 types .  . one is 
sensitive to red and green , and the other is sensitive to blue and  . 
this is why the two most common kinds of color are red green and 
blue  . 


yes , i remember that now. well , in that case , the are indeed 
color sensitive , contrary to what the original had claimed .  . 


i'm not sure who the original was but to 
reiterate respond to particular portions of the spectrum , just 
as respond to certain parts of the spectrum  ( bluegreen 
in our case , in certain amphibia ) , just as the 
respond to a certain portion of 
the spectrum etc. it is a common misconception to 
with being color sensitive , however the two are not 
 . 
so in sum and to a dead horse 
(1) when the of a are for number of 
absorbed of the absorbed , 
the are . 
(2) are simply with different 
and are not any more color sensitive than are , 
or other  . 
 ( 3 ) color vision because of which 
different parts of the spectrum  ( cones in this case ) are 
.  ( the is intentional ) 

i 've worked and published research on and for over 
10 years so the adherence to the belief that can detect color 
is frustrating .  . but do n't take my word for it. i'm a few 
excellent articles together with two rather good but color 
vision texts .  . 

the texts 
robert  ( 1979 ) human color vision , and 

m. (1981) color vision ,  . 


the original articles 
and  ( 1973 ) and resolution of by 
, j.  .  . 

lamb and  ( 1978 ) of to single  . 
j.  .  . 

et al.  ( 1990 ) in of the 
. j.  .  . 









from  ( mats winberg ) 
subject re help for stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host 
organization 
lines 15 


is n't there a relatively new treatment for stones involving 
a non use of sound where the patient is lowered 
into some sort of liquid when he she treatment i'm sure 
i 've read about it somewhere. if i remember it correctly it is a 
painless and effective treatment .  . 
a couple of weeks ago i visited a hospital here in and 
saw big signs showing the way to the ... 



mats 
, 



from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject re post information needed please ! ! ! 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 15 

from  ( david nye ) 
, this is a condition in which who have significant 
weakness from childhood notice progression of the 
weakness as they get older .  . one theory is that the remaining 
neurons have to work harder and so die sooner .  . 

if this theory were true , the would show group 
 ( evidence of loss of units ) it does n't .  . 
instead , the shows , ,  . 
this is more consistent with load by overworked 
neurons the neurons survive , at the expense of 
 . 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from  ( pam draper ) 
subject any info .  . on 
organization government systems , federal systems division , , va 
lines 20 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host gtefsd . com . 
news software vax vms 1 . 3 . 4 



i recently attended an  . were 
discussed .  . on a one on one basis , i asked the speaker what if 
none of the , , , , or work 
nor do any oral work. she replied that she saw an article on 
 . that this is not an allergic reaction and that nothing 
other than the 's and such would work.  ( which in my case is  . 

i want to find out as much as possible about this , since i am going to see 
my in may and want to be armed to the with information 
since nothing he has done with me has helped me at all and i have had no 
relief for 14 months. 

please respond if you know anything about this and or please let me know 
what articles might be helpful that i could look up in the library. 





from  ( tarl neustaedter ) 
subject re 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( brian m. huey ) writes 
i think that 's the correct  .  . 

the proper is  . it was an effect by 
s. , a soviet film in 1939 .  . 

as i recall , the are to 
and chemical reactions between the organic material and the silver 
in the films .  . 


stratus computer 
marlboro , mass .  . 
disclaimer my employer is not responsible for my opinions. 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re cause of mental 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 35 

in article writes 


studies have shown no  . studies and 
analyses have not turned up anything out of the ordinary .  . 
images of the brain show tissue in the white matter. 
subsequent analysis has shown that the of the 
white matter is progressive .  . 

because neither family has a history of anything like this , and 
because two of our four children are afflicted with the disorder , 
we believe that it is an disorder of 
some kind. naturally , we would like to know exactly what the 
disease is so that we may gain some insight into how we can expect 
the disorder to progress in the future. we would also like to be 
able to provide our normal children with some information about 
what they can expect in their own children. 


it could be one of the  ( not , only 
get  . surely you 've been to a university 
department .  . if not that is the next step. 
might help , especially if are also affected .  . 
there are so many of these diseases that would fit the symptoms 
you gave that more ca n't be said at this time. 

i agree with your that it is an  . 
if so , your normal children wo n't have to worry too much unless 
they marry near relatives .  . most genes are rare 
except in communities (e . g .  . jews) .  . 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from 
subject re diet for 's  ( ibd ) 
lines 34 
nntp posting host vms . edu . 
organization college of medicine 
distribution usa 

in article ,  ( john eyles ) writes 

a friend has what is apparently a fairly minor case of 's 
disease. 

but she ca n't seem to eat certain , such as , 
without , and of course she wants to avoid a  . 

her question is are there any who in the 
problems of people with 's disease 

(i saw the suggestion of like tea and  . 

thanks in advance , 
john 

all your friend really has to do is find a  . while 
most work in hospitals and clinics , many major cities will have 's who 
are in private practice so to speak. many will refer their 
with 's disease to 's for dietary help. if you can get 
your friend 's to make a , medical should pay for 
the 's services just like the services of a physical  . the 
better medical plans will cover this but even if your friend 's 
plan does n't , it would be well worth the cost to get on a good diet to 
control the and help the heal .  . 
's disease is an inflammatory disease of the and 
may help by decreasing formation but 
i'm not aware of tea or containing  . for 
bad , are used but for a mild case , the side effects 
are not worth the small benefit gained by use. is developing 
a new that should greatly help deal with 
inflammatory diseases but it 's not available yet. 

b. 

from  ( alice taylor ) 
subject and aids 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 8 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host 

a friend of mine is seeing an and 
wants to know if there is any danger of getting 
aids from the  . 

thanks , 

alice 


subject re method for 
from 
organization the old 's , , b.c. 
keywords method 
summary proven a hoax long ago 
lines 15 

dr. born and from school 
 . medical career by of total  . published in 
, his great work the of imperfect by treatment with 
out , he made claims about how the eye actually works that are 
simply not true. huxley was one of the more high 
in his system. mr. huxley while giving a lecture on system 
forgot the lecture that he was reading and had to put the 
paper right up to his eyes and then resorted to a glass from 
his  . book have been written debunking this , however 
they remain less read than the original fraud .  . cheers 

 ( john cross ) 
the old 's  ( home of the unix users group ) 
 ( 604 )  ( v32 ) public access usenet  ( 604 )  ( 2400x4 ) 
vancouver island , british 1 . 64 . 

from dan 
subject faq typing (3 4 ) keyboard alternatives monthly posting 
supersedes typing injury faq 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 
expires 22 may 1993 01 24 03 gmt 
reply to dan 
nntp posting host elmer cs . berkeley . edu . 
summary everything you ever wanted to know about replacing your keyboard 
originator cs . berkeley . edu . 

archive name typing injury faq 
version revision 5 . 11 . date 1993 04 13 01 20 43 


answers to frequently asked questions about keyboard alternatives 


the alternative keyboard faq 
1992 , 1993 by dan 

the opinions in here are my own , unless otherwise mentioned , and do not 
represent the opinions of any organization or  . 

current distribution sci . , sci . , human . factors , 
news , sci ,  . answers . , and e mail to c , 
, and 

changes since previously versions are with change 
to the right of the text , as is this paragraph .  . 

information in this faq has been together from phone , 
e mail , and product literature .  . while i hope it 's useful , the information 
in here is neither comprehensive nor error free. if you find something 
wrong or missing , please mail me , and i 'll update my list. thanks. 

all phone numbers , unless otherwise mentioned , are u . s . a .  . phone numbers. 
all , unless otherwise mentioned , are u . s . a .  . dollars .  . 

products covered in this faq 
using a pc 's keyboard on your workstation issues 
apple computer , inc. 
key 
systems 
the 

comfort keyboard system 
keyboard 

the tony ! 
the 
the 
the wave 
the minimal motion computer access system 

half 

 n speak 



pictures of many of these products are available via anonymous ftp 
from soda . berkeley . edu . pub typing injury .  . 32 . i highly 
recommend getting the pictures .  . they tell much more than i can fit 
into this file. 

if you ca n't ftp , send me mail , and i 'll and mail them to you 
 ( they 're pretty big .  .  . ) . 


using a pc 's keyboard on your workstation issues 

outline 
1. a keyboard over the serial 
2. x 
3. next 
4. silicon 
5. ibm rs 6000 
6. other stuff 

1. a keyboard over the serial 

if you 've got a computer which uses its own keyboard 
 ( sun , , dec , etc . ) . then you 're going to have a hard time finding 
a to sell you a compatible keyboard .  . if your workstation 
runs the x system , you 're in luck. you can buy a cheap used 
pc , your expensive keyboard up to it , and run a serial 
to your workstation .  . then , run a program on the workstation to read 
the serial and generate fake x keyboard events. 

the two main programs i 've found to do this are and  . 

is a sophisticated program , capable of controlling the , and 
even moving among on the screen. it requires a server 
extension  ( xtest , dec , or  . to find out if your 
server can do this , run   and see if any of these 
appear in the list. if your server does n't have this , 
you may want to investigate , 18 or later , 
or bugging your  . 

is a simpler program , which should work with x  . 
another program called also exists , but i have n't seen it. 

both and are available via anonymous ftp from soda . berkeley . edu .  . 

2. x 

also , a number of x  ( ncd , , to name a few ) use 
pc compatible  . if you have an x terminal , you may be all 
set .  . try it out with a normal pc keyboard before you go through the 
trouble of buying an alternative keyboard .  . also , some x add 
extra you may need to keep your original keyboard around 
for the once in a blue moon that you have to hit the setup key .  . 

3. next 

next had that new next machines will use the apple 
, meaning any mac keyboard will work. then , they they 
were their hardware production. if you want any kind of 
for an older next , do it now ! 

4. silicon 

silicon has that their newer machines  ( indigo 2 and 
beyond ) will use standard pc compatible and  . i do n't 
believe this also applies to the power series machines .  . it 's not 
possible to an older sgi to use pc , except by 
the entire machine .  . contact your sgi sales for more 
details. 

5. ibm rs 6000 

ibm rs 6000 are actually similar to normal pc  . 
unfortunately , you ca n't just plug one in. you need two things a 
to go from the large pc keyboard to the 
smaller ps 2 style din 6 , and a new device for aix .  . believe 
it or not , ibm wrote this device recently , i used it , and it 
works. however , they do n't want me to it. i 've been 
told hume (512) is a potential contact .  . if you learn 
anything new , please send me e mail .  . 

6. other stuff 

some here  ( notably health care keyboard co .  . and accucorp ) 
support some odd keyboard types , and may be to your 
regarding supporting your own computer .  . if you can 
get sufficient about how your keyboard works  ( either 
from the , or with a oscilloscope ) , you may be in 
luck. contact the for more details. 


apple keyboard 
apple computer , inc. 
sales offices all over the place. 

february , 1993 
price 
supports mac only 

apple has recently their new split design keyboard .  . the 
keyboard has one section for each hand , and the sections 
on a  . the sections do not upward .  . the are 
in a normal fashion .  . 

the main keyboard a normal apple keyboard .  . 
a separate contains all the extended key functions .  . 

the keyboard also comes with matching rests , which are not 
directly to the keyboard .  . 

as soon as soda comes back up , i 'll have a detailed blurb from 
available there. 


keyboard 
key 
phone 
possible contact , 
sold by many and pc 

spring , 1993 ( ) 
price ( ) 
supports pc only  ( highly likely) 

apparently showed a keyboard at  . it 's 
another split design. one wheel the of both 
the left and right hand sides of the main section .  . 
the arrow and a normal key pc keyboard .  . 

makes standard pc , also , so this product will 
probably be sold through their standard distribution  . 


 ( and numerous other products ) 
systems , inc. 
320 street 
newton , ma 

phone talk or 965 
fax 

now. 

price  ( end user system ) 
1000  ( end user system ) 
various other for service contracts , site , etc. 

 ( or higher ) pc only 
 ( 3rd party support for mac ) 

free software support for x is also available your 
pc with hardware talks to your workstation over a 
serial or network. the program is called , and is 
available via anonymous ftp 

soda . berkeley . edu . pub typing injury z . 
mit . edu . z .  ( most current ) 

if you want to use your product with x , you may want 
to ask for peter cohen , an at who knows more about 
this sort of thing. 

systems a number of voice recognition products. 
most  ( if not all ) of them seem to run on pc 's and 
 ( including ps 2 's and other  . they sell you 
a hardware board and software which in front of a number 
of popular word and  . 

each user  the system to their voice , and there are 
to correct the system when it makes mistakes , on the fly. multiple 
people can use it , but you have to load a different file 
for each person. you still get the use of your normal keyboard , too. 
on the you need to 1 between 
words. claims typical of 30 40 words per minute. 
i do n't have on the 1000 .  . 

the can recognize 30 , 000 words at a time. 
the 1000 can recognize  ( you guessed it) 1000 words at a time. 

's technology is also part of the following products 
 ( about which i have no other info ) 

sound system  ( voice pilot ) 
ibm 
voice ii  ( by systems for macintosh ) 
 ( by voice products emergency medical workstation ) 


the 
old phone number 
current phone number 

, inc. 
north  . 
, louisiana , u . s . a .  . 

ward bond  ( main contact ) 
david  ( did the unix software ) 

now. 

supports mac , ibm pc  ( serial native keyboard version 
coming very soon .  .  . ) .  . no other workstations supported , but serial 
support for unix with x has been written. pc and mac are 
getting all the real attention from the company .  . 

a system. one hand is sufficient to type everything. 
the second hand is for and increased speed .  . 

price 
 ( dual set each one is a complete keyboard by itself ) 
 ( single ) 

 ( cheaper were offered at as a show special . ) . 



industrial , inc. 
north street 
, arizona , u . s . a .  . 

mark  ( contact ) 

supports pc and mac 

in  . big could take 3 months. 

price 2000  ( 1 2  .  ( new price ! ) 

each hand has its own . each of the four main fingers has five 
each forward , back , left , right , and down. the have 
a number of  . despite , the key 
, and is reported to be no big deal to adapt to. the idea is 
that your hands never have to move to use the keyboard .  . the whole 
in its base , to act as a  . 

 ( see also the detailed review , written by 
available via anonymous ftp from soda . berkeley . 


comfort keyboard system 
fax 

health care keyboard company 

falls , wisconsin u . s . a .  . 


jeffrey  ( vice president contact ) 

now. 

supports pc  ( and mac ) 

future support 
ibm 122 key  ( 3270 style , i believe ) 
sun 
decision data 
40 
silicon 

others to be supported later. the hardware design is relatively 
easy for the company to re  . 

price , including one system . 

the idea is that one keyboard works with everything. you 
, a new , and possibly new , and 
then you can move your one keyboard around among different machines .  . 

it 's a three piece keyboard .  . the the 
standard key keyboard , except into three sections .  . each 
section is on a universal mount .  . each section 
independently to an infinite number of positions allowing each 
individual to type in a natural  . you can the three 
sections , too  ( have the in the middle if you  . each 
section is otherwise normal (i . e .  . you put all three sections 
flat , and you have what looks like a normal key  . 


keyboard 
 ( fax ) 

corporation 
south , 
seattle , washington , u . s . a .  . 

 ( vp contact ) 

now. 

supports pc .  . mac and sun in the works. 

price  . volume available. the includes one foot 
, one set of , and a program .  . 
an additional foot and other are extra .  . 

the has a large space in the middle , even though the 
keyboard is about the size of a normal pc keyboard slightly 
smaller .  . each hand has its own set of , laid out to minimize 
finger travel .  . handle many major functions  ( enter , 
, etc . ) .  . 

you can the keyboard in  ( very nice when software wo n't 
allow the  . 

foot are also available , and can be to any key on the 
keyboard  ( shift , control ,  . 


( 44 )  ( united kingdom ) 
p . c . d .  . limited 
15 
east 

england 

and stephen  ( contacts ) 

u.s. 
jim 
applied learning corp .  . 
road 
wayne , pa 

phone 215 

supports pc 's , , b , master , 
mac apparently now also available 


price pounds 
in the u . s . a .  .  ( basically , converted price shipping ) 

the cost is less for computers , and they have a number of 
, including carrying cases , switch boxes to use both 
your normal keyboard and the , an articulated that 
on to your table , and training   to help you learn 
to type on your  . 

you can also a keyboard for 10 pounds week taxes .  . 
u.s. price 120 month , and then 60 off if you want it. 

now  ( in your choice of black or grey ) 

has four main products a two handed keyboard , two one handed 
, and a keyboard designed for people to control with 
a mouth stick. 

the more to the , and is to 
bring closer to the fingers .  . a separate is in the middle .  . 



, inc. 
p.o. box 66 
, va , u . s . a .  . 

 ( pete sales ) 
 ( larry president ) 

now. 
supports pc , mac , ibm , sun , and and  . 
cost  . 

does n't use conventional push  . soft , which 
forward and  ( each key has three states ) , make for 
typing  . learning time is to be 2 3 hours , for getting 
started , and maybe two weeks to get used to it. 

currently , the do n't do anything , although a 
is in the works. 

the company claims it takes about a week of work to support a 
new computer .  . they will be happy to adapt their keyboard to 
your computer , if possible. 


, or 

mt.  . 
mt. , ny 

chris george  ( president ) 

now. 

price  . 

supports pc only .  . mac and x in the works. 

the is both a keyboard and a , and it fits in one hand. 
you type via finger  . shift , control , etc. are  . 
when in mode , the the , and 
are on your fingers .  . 

the leaves your normal keyboard available , also. 

most applications work , and works fine. has trouble .  . 
also has trouble works , keyboard does n't .  . 


 n speak 
engineering 
mill green  . 
street , md , u . s . a .  . 

 ( information provided by doug martin ) 

the n speak uses any of several codes for entering 
information grade i , grade ii , or computer  . basically , 
letters a j are combinations of 1 , 2 , 4 , and 5. letters k t are 
the same combinations as a j with 3 added .  . letters u , v , x , y , and 
z are like a e with 3 and 6 added .  .  ( w is unique because 
did n't have a w in the french ) . 


the tony ! 
tony 
the tony ! corporation 
court 
view , ca , u . s . a .  . 

supports mac , pc , ibm , sun , and dec .  . 



price  ( you commit now , and then you 're in line to buy the 
keyboard .  . when it , if it 's , you pay the price .  . 
if it 's more expensive , you still pay 625 ) 

the tony ! should allow separate of every key , to allow 
the keyboard to be personally  . a operated 
will also be available. 


the 
contact jeffrey or stephen albert , 
p.o. box 
la , ca , u . s . a .  . 

supports no info available , probably pc 's 
available summer , 1993 
price 

the keyboard is split in two , each pointing straight up. 
the user can the of the device , but not the of each 
section .  . side view are to allow users to see their 
fingers on the  . 


the 
dr. grant 
drive 
, maryland , u . s . a .  . 

as of , 1992 should be available in one year .  . 

supports pc , mac  ( maybe ) 

price 200  ( estimated ) 

the keyboard is at a fixed angle , and a built in 
operated by the  . function are in a circle at 
the keyboard 's left. 


the wave  ( was ) 310 
fax 310 

international technology 
avenue 
, california , u . s . a .  . 

 ( contact in sales ) 

cost 15 for a set of 

supports pc only .  . 

now. 

also ordinary key keyboard  ( pc at ) and 
key keyboard  ( pc xt ) , so make sure you get the right one. 

the one piece keyboard has a built in rest. it looks exactly 
like a normal key pc keyboard , with two of built in 
rest. the key switch feel is reported to be greatly improved .  . 


the minimal motion computer access system 
 ( fax ) 

equal access computer technology 
dr. michael 
39  . 
, ma , u . s . a .  . 

price compatible a few hundred dollars a one handed 
for their own system  ( dos software ) a few hundred dollars 

these are made , so an would 
make do whatever to make it for you. you can buy one now. 

supports pc only , although the compatible version might 
work with a mac .  . 

in a one handed version , there is exactly one per finger .  . in a 
two handed version , you get four per finger , and the 
do n't do anything. you can also get one handed versions with three 
compatible with the  . basically , get it 
any way you want. 

they also have a software to help you learn the  . 

works on a pc under dos , not  . planning on and 
pc support .  . no work has been done on a unix version , yet. 


half  ( canada ) 
the corporation 

, ontario , canada 


e mail 

supports mac and pc  ( but , not windows ) 

for anonymous ftp edu . pub half 

price 129 .  ( higher in canada , quantity available ) 
now. 

this thing is purely software .  . no hardware at all. 

the software will the keyboard when you hold down the space 
bar , allowing you type one handed .  . 


 ( israel ) 4 
fax ( 972 ) 3 

ltd .  . 
p.o. box 31 
, israel 

 ( info from ) 
a one handed keyboard .  . 


k . ) . ( 44 ) 276 
fax ( 44 ) 276 

systems 
m . s . a .  . house 
2 court 
park 

, united kingdom 

 ( info from ) 

the is a personal assistant  ( pda ) style machine .  . you 
can carry it along with you. it has input. you can also 
it up to your pc , or even program it. 

it costs just under 200 pounds , with memory. 


thanks go to chris for providing 
the basis for this information. 

thanks to the numerous contributors 

doug martin 



paul 
h . j .  . 
dan 
chris 

leonard h. jr. 
dan dan 
jim 

richard 
paul 
david 
bob 
chris grant 
scott 

and everybody else who i 've probably managed to forget .  . 

the opinions in here are my own , unless otherwise mentioned , and do not 
represent the opinions of any organization or  . 

dan one of the most attractive features of a connection 
machine is the of on the faces 
office 642 of its  . ref. manual , 0 . ,  . 

from  ( vilok kusumakar ) 
subject future of 
reply to 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
lines 23 

i hope this is the correct newsgroup for this. 

what is the on and its future as an alternative for 
how does it compare to 

there was some news about health risks involved. anybody know about 
that. how does the us clean air act impact the use of by the 
year 

i think its which the future will 
use as a for conventional  . 

there is company which produces 12 of the world 's supply of 
 . does anybody know about it 

please reply by e mail as i do not read these newsgroups .  . 

thanks in advance. 

protocols for tomorrow .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
bell northern research , ltd .  . 
phone  ( 613 ) p.o. box , station c 
fax  ( 613 ) ottawa , ontario , 

from  ( douglas fitts ) 
subject re treatment question 
organization university of washington 
lines 24 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

 ( julia eulenberg ) writes 

i'm assuming that you mean arthritis  . i 've never heard 
of the cold treatment you mentioned. i ca n't imagine how it would 
work , since most of us who have  . seem to have more problems 
in cold than in warm  . would be interested to hear more ! 
z 
z 


no , obviously talking about research  . i favor a high protein , 
low fat diet , barely adequate on a fixed time , four hours 
of sleep a night , continuous of , praise 
randomly with anxiety provoking , with 
lowered , promises of publication , and 
every three months a consisting of nothing but ale 
and free  . actually , mine from san diego , and indeed 
has more problems in seattle in cold than in warm .  . 

doug 





from  ( dick king ) 
subject re ca n't wear contacts after rk 
keywords , , contact , 
article i.d. 
organization reasoning systems , inc. , , ca 
lines 22 
nntp posting host drums . reasoning . com . 

in article  ( infospunj  ( dan field ) writes 
i love the faq .  . 

the comment about contact not being an option for any remaining 
correction after rk and possibly after is  . why is 
this does anyone know for sure whether this applies to as well 

also , why is it possible to get a correction in with involvement of 
only about 5 of the depth , while rk is done to a depth of up to 
why such a difference 

in the is too  . there is too much of a in the 
center .  . 

in the laser removes a small amount of material from the center .  . 

in rk the surgeon cuts near the  . they heal , and the 
the  . 

entirely different mechanisms , and the action is in a different place. 

dk 

from 
subject re is there a real 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 87 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article writes 


my biggest is the doctor who makes it seem like most 
people with can be cured .  . that 's definitely not the 
case. in most cases , like i said above , it is a long , tedious 
process that may or may not end up in a  . 


be sure to say , not just  . most 
with or will get better. 
the of 's will also eventually go 
away , however , the patient is left with a ear .  . 

all true. and all good points. 


to anyone suffering with , , or any 
thereof , my best advice to you  ( as a fellow sufferer ) is this .  .  .  . 
just keep searching .  .  . do . n't let the doctors tell you there 's 
nothing that can be done .  .  . do . your own research .  .  . and . let your 

this may have helped you , but i'm not sure it is good general 
advice. the odds that you are going to find some miracle with 
your own research that is secret or hidden from general knowledge 
for this or any other disease are slim .  . when good answers to these 

then , spending a great deal of time and energy on the medical 
problem may that energy from more things 
in life. a limited amount should be spent to yourself 
that your doctor gave you the correct story , but after it becomes 
clear that you are dealing with a problem for which medicine 
has no good solution , perhaps the best strategy is to join 
the support group and keep of new findings but not to 
make a career out of it. 

well , making a career out of it is a bit strong .  . i still believe 
that doing your own research is very , very necessary. i would 
not have progressed as much as i have today , unless i had spent 
the many hours in stanford 's library as i have done. 
and 5 years ago , it was clear that there was no medicine that 
would help me. so should i have stopped searching .  . thank 
goodness i did n't .  . now i found that there is indeed medicine 
that helps me. 

i think that what you 've said is kind of  . that you 
would go to one doctor , get a , maybe get a second 
opinion , and then move on with your life. 
just as an example .  .  .  . having seen 6 of the top in 
this field in the country , i have received 6 different  . 
these are the top names , the ones that people come to from all over 
the country. i have had to sort all of this out myself. going 
to a support group  ( and in fact , heading that support group ) was 
helpful for a while , but after a point , i found it very 
unproductive .  . it was much more to do library research , 
make phone calls and put together the pieces of the puzzle myself. 

a recent movie , 's oil , a perfect example of what 
i'm talking about. if you have n't seen it , you should .  . it 's not 
a put down of doctor 's and neither is what i'm saying. doctors are 
only human and can only do so much. but there are those of us 
out here who are intelligent and able to sometimes find a missing 
piece of the puzzle that might have otherwise gone  . 

i guess i'm biased because is one of those things 
that is still so unknown .  . if i had a broken , or a weak heart , 
or failing , i might not have the same opinion. that 's because 
those things are much more and have much more concise 
definitions and  . with , you just have to 
decide to live with it or decide to live with it while trying to 
find your way out of it. 


i have chosen the latter .  . 









gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from 
subject re intolerance 
organization corporation , seattle , 
lines 8 

in article ,  ( ho ng ) writes 

when i was a kid in primary school , i used to drink tons of milk without 
any problems. however , nowadays , i can hardly drink any at all without 
experiencing some  . what could be responsible for the change 

ho 


from  ( david nye ) 
subject re and 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 16 

reply to  ( gordon banks ) 

if you can get away without ever for a patient with 
an obviously benign headache , i 'd like to hear what your magic 
is. 

i certainly ca n't always avoid it  ( unless i want to be rude , i  . 

i made a decision a while back that i will not be into getting 
studies like a ct or when i do n't think they are indicated .  . if the 
patient wo n't accept my explanation of why i think the study would be a 
waste of time and money , i suggest a second opinion. 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( len howard ) 
subject re foreskin 
summary operation 
article i.d. 
organization , 
lines 11 

in article  ( melissa n .  . matusevich ) writes 
what can be done , short of , for an adult male 
whose foreskin will not retract 

, there is a simpler procedure called a that is 
really the first step of the usual  . it is simpler and 
quicker , but the pain is about the same as after the 
wears off and the aesthetic result post healing is not as 
good. see your friendly for more details. 

. 

subject why it 
from  ( christopher hinsz ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 13 

does anyone on this newsgroup happen to know why was 
first isolated from if you know why , or have an idea for where i 
could look to find this info , please mail me. 

any would be greatly 


is a pretty tricky  . most of it 's up , until you reach 
the very , very top , and then it tends to slope away rather  . 
sir george head ,  ( jc ) 

logic the point is frozen , the is dead , what is the difference 
 ( jc ) 

from  ( mark london ) 
subject  . 
organization mit fusion center 
lines 11 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

for several years i have been dealing with  . there 
does not seem to be much known about the cause of such a problem. my current 
is pretty bad since it is in the middle of the  . if it 's 
bad enough , the usual treatment for it is  . however , my doctor 
this time is trying to let it heal by itself by putting a contact to 
protect the area. apparently the problem is not that common , but i 'd be curious 
if anyone else out there has a similar problem , perhaps to see if a cause can be 
found. 

mark london 


from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re any info .  . on 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 21 

in article writes 
i recently attended an  . were 
discussed .  . on a one on one basis , i asked the speaker what if 
none of the , , , , or work 
nor do any oral work. she replied that she saw an article on 
 . that this is not an allergic reaction and that nothing 
other than the 's and such would work.  ( which in my case is  . 

there has been some recent research on that shows that 
 ( atrovent ) is an effective treatment 
for many  . it has been approved for this use and is available 
with a in canada .  . in the us the has yet to approve this 
use of the drug , but it is available as an oral  ( for copd ) , and 
these can be adapted for use. 




university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( brent h. besler ) 
subject is an oral form of  ( imitrex(sumatriptan ) available in ca 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization university , rochester mi .  . 
lines 9 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( sumatriptan(imitrex ) just became available in the us in a 
form. is there an oral form available in ca a  ( friend(yes 
really not me ! ) has severe about 2 3 times per week. we 
live right by the ca border and he has gotten drugs for prescribed 
by a us and filled in a ca , but not yet approved 
in the us. what would be the cost of the oral form in ca also if 
anyone would have that info 

thanks 

from  ( david a eliezer ) 
subject questions about 
organization lawrence national 
lines 25 
distribution world 
reply to  ( david a eliezer ) 
nntp posting host physics . gov . 
keywords pet , , resolution 


i have become involved in a project to further develop and 
improve the of  ( single 
tomography )  . we will eventually have 
to this stuff somewhere , and so as i move this thing 
along , i would like to know 

what is the current resolution of what kinds 
of jobs is used for , specifically what kind of specific jobs 
could i hope 
that could be used for , if its resolution improved , 
say , to close to that of pet  ( positron tomography ) 
and how much does a machine cost how much does a single 
image cost 

if anyone knows the answer to any or all of these questions , or 
where i could find that answer , i would be very , indeed. 
thanks in advance for any replies 

dave 






from 
subject re and health risk 
organization university of wisconsin academic computing center 
distribution world 
lines 88 

in article ,  ( mark robert thorson ) writes .  .  .  . 

this reminds me of the last graham show i saw. today he 
meat on the in a big pot ! he used a strange 
i 'd never seen before. 

he took a big pot with , and placed a in it made from  . 
the was about the size and shape of a typical coffee table , 
made by a of around the edges .  . 

in the , he placed a couple of brown sugar , a similar 
quantity of brown rice  ( he said any rice will do ) , the contents of two 
of grey tea , and a few  . 

on top of this was placed an ordinary type , with 
two in it. the was put on , and the whole assembly 
went on the at high for 10 or 12 minutes. 

later , he removed what looked like  . what surprises 
and concerns me are 

1 ) no wood  . where does the flavor come from 

2 ) about 5 or 10 years ago , i remember hearing that color 
 ( obtained by sugar a common and 
agent ) had been found to be  . i believe they 
it under the of rats , or something. if the results were conclusive , 
color would not be legal in the u.s. , yet it is still being 
used. was the initial research result found to be incorrect , or what 

3) about 5 or 10 years ago , i remember grey tea being 
as , because it contains oil of  ( an extract 
from the of a type of  . does anyone know whatever 
happened with that story if it were , grey tea 
could not have it as an , yet it apparently continues to do 
so. 

wrt natural wood (i 've a right now , as it happens ) , 
i 've noticed that a food item will have an unpleasant 
taste when directly out of the if the has only recently 
stopped  . i find the best taste to be had by using wood , 
getting lots of right up at the beginning of the process , 
then for hours and hours without adding additional wood  . 

my theory is that the unpleasant are low molecular weight 
stuff , like , and that the flavor are some sort 
of larger more similar to  . the long time after 
the initial drives off the low molecular weight stuff , 
just leaving the flavor behind. does anyone know if my theory is correct 

i also remember hearing that the products of fat 
on the and burning are  . for that reason , and because 
it covers the product with and some unpleasant , i only 
non like directly over hot  . i do stuff like this 
by  . i have a long rectangular , and i put the 
at one end and the meat at the other end. the fat drops directly on the 
below the meat , and next time i use the i make the fire 
in that end to burn off the fat and help the  . 

and yet another reason i 've heard not to or meat is that 
cured meat , like and , contains 
, which are  . i'm pretty sure this claim actually 
has some standing , do n't know about the others. 

an amusing incident i recall was the , when it was 
discovered that the people who make cake mix were putting 
a lot of  ( edb ) into the cake mix to suppress  . 
this is a which is known to be  . 
the guy who represented the company in the press conference defended 
himself by saying that the risk from eating products every day 
for a year would be equal to the risk from eating two 
 . what a great analogy ! when i first heard that , my 
immediate reaction was we should make that a standard ! one 
would be equivalent to 0 . 5 . ! 

i do n't understand the assumption that because something is found to 
be that it would not be legal in the u.s. . i think that 
naturally  ( excluding controlled substances ) are 
pretty much in terms of their use as food , food 
or other . it 's only when the concoct (sp ) an 
that it falls under  . otherwise , if they 
really looked closely they would find a reason to ban almost everything. 
how in the world do you suppose it 's legal to products 
 ( which probably should be banned ) 

dave allen 
space science engr .  .  . 
madison 

from state . edu .  ( jt ) 
subject re ears 
keywords ears , sleep , depression 
nntp posting host bottom . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 50 

in article  ( jim fare ) writes 


a friend of mine has a trouble with her ears  . the is so loud 
that she has great difficulty sleeping at night. she says that she has n't 
had a normal night 's sleep in about 6 months  ( she looks like it too () .  . 
this is making her depressed so her doctor has put her on anti  . 

sometimes i have a problem with doctor 's medicine like 
this. i of course do n't know the exact situation , and 
anti may work , but it is n't helping the at all , is it 


the started rather suddenly about 6 months ago. she is quickly 
sleep , social life and over this. 

mine started about three years back .  . turns out i have 
 ( translation in both ears , basically ) .  . if this 
is what it is , she 'll probably get used to it. it would keep me up 
and drive me nuts too , but nowadays , i have to plug both my ears with 
my fingers to check to see if they are  . usually they are , but 
you get so used to it , it just gets out. yes , this is what i 've 
read about it .  .  .  . not just from my own personal experience. 


does anyone know of any for this any experience 
mechanisms any opinions on the anti drugs 

millions have it , according to my  . you just learn to 
with it  ( like i mentioned earlier ) by ignoring it. it eventually 
becomes  . 

the doc also said it could be caused by diet  ( ie too much caffeine ) 
and , but i have n't changed my lifestyle much , and it just comes 
and goes  ( it is always there somewhat , but now i rarely notice it when 
it really kicks in ) .  . 

also , it does n't necessarily mean there is any hearing loss , either 
caused by it or causing it. i had an  ( ear nose throat ) , and 
passed .  . in fact , my hearing is quite good considering i do n't take as 
good of care of my hearing as i should .  . 

her reaction is normal .  . if it is , chances are good she 'll 
begin to not even notice it. 

this info is taken mostly from a few , my own experience , and 
some readings  ( sorry , it was a few years back and do n't have any 
 . 



from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re h e l p m e with some 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 17 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
summary here 's help. 


in article  ( ming liu) writes 
i have bad luck and got a called , which involves 
the growth of in the  . i found out about it by checking 
medicine books and i found the  . ... 

's main problem is that he has an incompetent 
himself. this has a problem , 
even though he probably has never seen the disease 
before and has no idea of what kinds of problems can present 
similar symptoms .  . this now wants to treat his first 
case of this disease without any help from the medical community. 

the best thing could do is fire his current 
and seek out a better one. 

russell 

from  ( jason chen ) 
subject re is 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
reply to 
organization bell communications research 
lines 61 

in article com . ,  ( chris best ) writes 

jason writes 
now here is a new one  . my guess is that becomes the number one 
suspect of any problem. in this case. it might be just food poisoning .  . but 
if you heard things about , you may think it must be it. 



yeah , it might , if you only read the part you quoted .  . you somehow left 
out the part about we all the same thing. changes things a bit , eh 

food poisoning is only one of the many possible causes .  . yes , even other people 
share the food. 

you complain that people blame automatically , since it 's an unknown and 
therefore must be the cause. it is equally  ( if not more ) unreasonable to 
defend it , automatically assuming that it can t be the culprit .  . 

boy , you computer people only know and , but not much about logic .  . ) 

no. i did not said was not the culprit .  . what i argued was that that 
there was enough reasonable doubt to convict  . 

if you want to convict , show me the evidence , not by suspicion .  . 

pepper makes me  . if it does n't affect you the same way , fine. 
just do n't tell me i'm wrong for saying so. 

nobody is forcing you to change what you believe. but i certainly do n't 
want to see somebody preach to ban pepper because that makes him her 
 . that is exactly what some anti are doing 

these people are n't condemning chinese food , mr. just one of its 
 ( optional )  . try not to take it so personally. 

look , people with a last do n't necessarily own a chinese  . 
i am not interested if you enjoy chinese food or not. my last 
name to discredit me on the issue is hitting below the belt .  . 

what i am interested in is the truth. let me give you an from 
a recent hearing 

is no evidence has any effect 
on the brain , '' said dr. richard of institute 
of technology. the experiences of individuals is 
, not science , '' he said. do n't think 
has made them sick . '' . 

and dr. robert of george washington university conducted an double 
blind test in showing that the 35 people who to also 
had similar reaction when they thought they had but actually not. 

although there are many contradicting personal stories told in this group , 
some of them might have been due to other causes .  . but because the anti 
runs so high , that some blame it for anything and everything. 

my purpose is to present a view on the issue , although i am probably 
20 1 outnumbered .  . 

jason 

from  ( mike medwid ) 
subject question 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution na 
lines 14 

a friend of mine is going in later this week for to see if has 
 . his capacity has over time. his father died 
of the disease. he works in  . i believe he has a very 
occasional , perhaps one a day or even less. he tells 
me this .  . i . 've never seen him light up. he has some pretty healthy 
life style , good diet , exercise , , , 
etc. anyhow .  . he . is very concerned with this check up. i know really 
nothing about the disease. i believe it with the 
of the being able to exchange oxygen .  . 

is a of a death sentence if he were to give up 
entirely would that better his chances for what are some 
modern used in people with this disease i would appreciate 
any information. thanks. 

from  ( isabelle rosso ) 
subject 
x posted from 
organization college 
lines 14 

i have a friend who has a very of his back .  . he 
always walks and this way so i have concluded that he is 
 . 
is this a genetic disorder , or is it something that people can correct. 
i.e. is it just bad that can be changed with a bit of will 
power 









from  ( kiran wagle ) 
subject re and health risk 
organization the sea 
lines 55 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

mark reminds us 

also , do n't forget that it 's better for your health 
to enjoy your than to your ... 

yes ! 

i call this notion psychological health food and , in fact , have 
determined that the four food groups are ice cream , pizza , , and 
 . ideally , every should contain something from at least two 
of these four groups. food does serve functions other than , and 
one of them is keeping the organism happy and thus its immune 
system. 

and i did n't spend a million a study that told me to 
my silly little pyramid in different and with a 
, either.  ( ref consumer reports  back page one of the best 
things ever to turn up there . ) . 

rich young writes of one of impossible things 
to large of meat at a time. 

mackie 
i have to confess that this is one of my few  . 
no matter how much i eat , it still seems  . 

yeah , i want to try one of those  ( cooked over applewood ) at 
's wolf in  . that seems quite 
small .  . and a few of from the east 
texas  ( rip , again ) in is not at all either. 

what say we have a rec . food . at the bar b que in 
 ( it 's all you can eat including lamb mutton for about 
10 . ) . we could as of honor and see if the 
's very hot sauce is too hot for her.  ( it is too hot for me , and i 
do n't say that very often . ) . and she could bring ice cream with 
dried for  . 

and we could see if there is such a thing as an large 
quantity of the owner of the estimates that the 
serve a hundred thousand pounds of meat a week in the 
summer , and forty thousand in the in a town of 50 000 or so. two 
pounds per person per week again , sure sounds to me 
just too meager to be healthy .  . 

 ( now a two of a day , that 's ) . 


fuzzy pink s law never waste  . , , 
cream , or hot fudge may involve you , your 
, your , and other factors .  . but fuzzy pink 's law implies 
do n't eat , or cheap , or fake cream , or an 
inferior hot fudge  . 
larry , s laws , n space 


from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject re and exercise 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 29 

from 
i would not a mild headache that was continuous for weeks 
as , even if the other typical features were there (e . g .  . , 
, and ,  . are , by 
common agreement , rather than constant .  . 

well , i'm glad that you are n't my doctor , then , or i 'd still be suffering .  . 
remember , i was tested for any other cause , and there was nothing. i'm 
otherwise very healthy .  . 
the pain has all of the it 's on one side , and 
frequently included my entire right side right , right , right eye , 
even the right side of my tongue hurt or  . hurt , light hurt , 
thinking hurt. when it got bad , i would lose my ability to read. 

the between and non pain 
is not always important , because some are effective in 
both (e . g .  . , such as , 
non anti inflammatory drugs such as  . other 
may be more specific such as 
work better in than type headache. 

the most important thing , from your perspective , is that you got 
relief .  . also , please understand that a other than 
does not necessarily mean i suspect that 
organic factors play as large a role in type headache as in 
 . 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from  ( david rind ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
organization israel hospital , medical school , boston mass .  . , usa 
lines 40 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( jon noring ) writes 
in article  ( david rind ) writes 
there is no convincing evidence that such a disease exists. 

there 's a lot of evidence , it just has n't been adequately gathered and 
published in a way that will convince the die hard skeptics 
who the word  anecdote  or  empirical  is used. 

no , there 's no evidence that would convince any but the most  . 

the evidence is identical to the sort of evidence that has been 
used to justify all sorts of for diseases 
in the past. 

medicine on the right road. but that some who hold too firmly 
to the party line are who have n't been in the long enough 
actually treating  . 

i like the implication here. it must not be that the making 
millions off such diseases are biased rather that those who 
doubt their existence do n't understand the real world. it seems 
easy to picture a snake oil saying the same 
thing. 

however , i have been in the long enough to have seen multiple 
diseases rise and fall in popularity .  . 
seems to be making a  ( it had fallen off a few years  . 
there will be new such diseases i'm sure with best selling books 
and expensive  . 

if anybody , doctors included , said to me to my 
face that there is no evidence of the  connection  , i cannot 
their safety .  . for their , off their is justified as 
far as i am concerned. 

well this , of course , is convincing .  . i guess i 'd better start 
any illnesses that people want so that i can keep my  . 

david 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re donating 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 24 

in article  ( michael holloway ) writes 

dr. banks , 
i do n't know if you make a point of keeping up with transplant 
research but you 're certainly in the right place for these questions. has 
there been anything recent in transplant or , on 
how about section transplants from living 


i'm sure the pittsburgh group has published the work , but i 
do n't know where .  . in chicago they were doing lobe transplants from 
living , and i'm sure they 've published .  . i do n't read the 
transplant literature .  . i just see the transplant 
when they get into trouble  ( pretty frequent ) , so that 
and the newspapers and is the way i keep up with what 
they are doing. works with them , and can tell you more. 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( g ) 
subject  ( cholistasis(sp ) fat free diet pregnancy ! ! 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 80 
nntp posting host access . net . 

hi , 

i 've just returned from a visit with my ob and i have a few 
concerns that maybe y all can help me with. i 've been seeing 
her every 4 weeks for the past few months  ( i'm at week 28 ) 
and during the last 2 i 've gained 9 to 9 1 2 pounds every 
4 weeks. she said this was unacceptable over any 4 week period. 
as it stands i 've thus far gained 26 pounds .  . also she says that 
though i'm at 28 weeks the baby 's size is 27 weeks , i think she 
mentioned 27 for the top of the  . when i was 13 
weeks the baby 's size was 14 weeks. i must also add , that i had 
an operation a few years ago for and i 've had no 
problems with but apparently it is causing me pain 
in my during the pregnancy , and i have a very 
difficult time moving , and the doc has recommended i not walk or 
move unless i have to. (i have a little for 
when i do need to go out . ) . 

anyway that 's 1 2 of the situation the other is that almost from 
the beginning of pregnancy i was getting sick  ( throwing up ) about 
2 3 times a day and mostly it was that was being eliminated .  . 
(i told her about this) .  . i know this because i was n't eating 
very much due to the and could see the  . well 
now i only get sick about once every 1 2 weeks , and it is still 
related .  . but in addition i had begun to feel movement near my 
right , just below the right , usually when i 
was lying on my right side. it began to get worse though because 
it started to hurt when i on my right side , and then it hurt 
no matter what position i was in. next , i noticed that when i 
or i felt like my entire had 
turned to , and the pain in the area got worse. however if 
i or vinegar or something to  cut  the fat it 
was n't as much of a problem. 

so the doctor says i have , and that i should avoid 
 . this makes sense , and because i was already aware 
of what seemed to me this cause and effect relationship i have 
been avoiding these on my own. but i'm still able to eat 
with cheese for instance and other low fat  . 

but doc wants me to be on a non fat diet .  . this means no meat 
except fish and w o (i do this  . no nuts , 
food , cheese etc. i am allowed milk .  . she said i 
should avoid anything (e . g .  .  . also i must only 
have one serving of something high in a day ( 
, , rice ) ! she said i ca n't even in 
a little bit of oil and that i should eat raw or 
 . i'm concerned because i understand you need to have 
some fat in your diet to help in the process. and if 
i'm not taking in fat , is she expecting the baby will take it 
from my stores and why this on if 
she 's concerned about fat i'm not clear how much of her 
is based on my weight gain and how much on 
, which i ca n't seem to find any information on. she 
originally said that i should only gain 20 pounds during the 
entire pregnancy since i was about 20 when i 
started .  . but my sister gained 60 during her pregnancy and 
she 's taken it all off and has n't had any problems. she also 
asked if any members of my family were , which none of them 
are. anyway i think she is overly concerned about weight gain , 
and feel like i'm being  punished  by a severe diet .  . she did 
want to see me again in one week so i think she the diet may be 
temporary for that one week. 

what i want to know is how reasonable is this non fat diet i 
would understand if she had said low fat diet , since i'm trying 
that anyway , even if she said really low fat diet .  . i think she 
assumes i must be eating a high fat diet , but really it is that 
because of the and the operation i'm not able to 
use the energy from the food i do eat .  . 

any opinions , info and experiences will be appreciated. i'm 
truly going raving mad trying to meet this new strict diet 
because and go through my system in a few 
and i 'll end up having to eat constantly .  . thus far i 
do n't find any satisfying .  . 

thanks 

g 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re use of in  . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 18 

in article  ( steve lancaster ) writes 

3) is there any way around the scheduled drug mess so that he can use 
just the substance that works and not one with 
can the md a year long supply on one his doctor 
basically refused to it , saying his clinic does not 
 . its is  company  rule. ! 

short of changes by the feds , there is no way. alone is very 
difficult to without a lot of hassles .  . 3 is the 
best compromise .  . that way he can get  . the amount of 
he is getting with his wo n't hurt him any. 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from 
subject natural anti aids 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 



the biggest reason why the cost of medical care is so extremely high and 
increasing is that natural methods of treatment and even are still 
being systematically ignored and suppressed by the money and power 
medical  . 
some examples of very low cost natural anti are listed in 
the following article 


natural anti 
a 3rd opinion 

( some of these also work against aids .  . ) 


disclaimer this list was compiled from sources 
that have shown themselves to be reliable .  . the of 
this list is not a doctor of any kind , but is exercising his 
first amendment constitutional right of free speech on the 
subjects of his choice. 


( most of these can be found in any  . 
most of the rest of them can be found in any health food 
 . what is important is how they are used , and what 
else is excluded during their use. ) 


(1) the 7 day fast .  . 
1st day eat as much fruit as you want , one kind 
at a time ,  . 
2nd day eat all the you want , at least half 
raw , including garlic also , whole to help 
clean the  . 
3rd day drink all the fruit and 
you want. start with 16 to 32 of 
with , followed by a of pure  ( not from 
concentrate ) apple , then  .  ( stay close to 
your home bathroom . ) . 
4th day eat all the un nuts  ( no peanuts ) and 
dried fruit you want , and  ( almonds 
contain ) .  . 
day one of  . the from 
two into a of water  ( preferably distilled ) , and 
add 2 to 4 of made honey ,  ( no  . 
drink one glass per hour .  . 
everyone , including healthy people , should do this one day 
every week , by a large glass of with 
 . 
day same as day. 
7th day same as day. 
all 7 days , eat only the listed above for each 
day , along with your usual vitamin and supplements , 
plus as much water as you want. 

(2) the diet .  . 
eat 2 to 3 of every 2 hours , 8 am to 
8 , every day for days. eat nothing else during the 
days , but drink as much water as you want. 

 ( 3 ) apple vinegar .  . 
mix a of pure apple vinegar  ( not apple 
vinegar .  . regular vinegar is harmful . ) . in a 
glass of water  ( preferably distilled ) and drink all of it. 
do this 3 or 4 times per day , for 3 weeks then stop for a 
week. repeat if desired .  . do this along with a normal 
healthy diet of natural  . this is especially 
effective against those types of that a 
, as well as against other kinds of  . 

 ( 4 ) the sea salt soda  . please keep an open mind. 
fill a with warm water so the level 
comes up almost to the when you get in. 
yourself in it for a minute , and then completely 
in the water 1 of sun sea salt 
 ( regular salt wo n't work . ) . and 1 of soda .  . 
in this for 10 to 20 , while exercising 
your fingers , toes , and , turning and onto your 
stomach , your head , sitting up and back down , 
your together , etc .  .  . 
among other things , the sea salt soda 
the effects of x rays , etc. , as described in the 
book born to be magnetic , vol. 2 , by nixon ,  . 
only the one person using each should 
prepare it and it. 
for at least 30 after taking the , stay away 
from , and even out of sight of , other people.  ( your greatly 
expanded energy field during that time could 
other people 's fields . ) . two hours after the , eat at 
least 8 of containing active cultures .  . 
 ( the may kill friendly bacteria also . ) . better yet , take 
a 2 billion bacteria , which is also an 
excellent daily against the effects of a . i . d . s .  . 
 ( because it kills all kinds of harmful bacteria in the 
, taking a big load off the remaining immune 
 . because this external can kill in 
bacteria , it may also be a for disease . 
do not take this within a few hundred of a 
storm , within 3 days of a full moon , nor during major or 
minor periods as listed in the published 
in field magazine ,  ( because of the 
measurable environmental energy fields 
present at those  . 
do not take this more than four times per year .  . 

 ( 5 ) natural anti 

for , apply to the 
affected twice daily , and take 2 to 4 
per day of internally , for 
about 2 months. 

d . m . s . o .  .  ( dimethyl sulfoxide ) causes cells to 
perform normal cell functions .  . 

 ( un , un roasted ) contain  . 
to help prevent , eat several every day. 
to help , eat several of per 
day. 
never take large of  . 
it will kill you ! take it only .  .  ( cancer 
cells contain a certain which converts 
into , which then kills the cell .  . this is 
also present in the system . ) . 

anti are free radical , and include 
vitamin e ,  ( 200  . per day is safe for most 
people . ) . ,  ( up to 100  . per day ) , vitamin a 
 ( 25 , 000 per day is safe for most people . ) . , 
 ( up to 4 , 000 , 000 units per day ) , vitamin c  ( up 
to 3000  . per day ) , and  ( butylated 
toluene ) , 1 to 4 of every night at 
will also make one immune against  ( both types ) , 
suppress symptoms if one already has , 
prevent spreading to other people , but will not 
 . might also do these things against 
a . i . d . s .  . , which is really a form of similar to 
 .  ( see the book life extension , by 
and shaw . ) . 

 .  ( twelve(12 ) drops of 3 
in a glass of pure water  ( preferably 
distilled ) and drink it. do this once or twice per day , 
hours before or after eating or drinking anything else. 
apply 3 directly to 
several times per day. 
use only if you are taking a good 
daily of some of the various anti 
described above. 

vitamin supplements are more effective , and 
much less expensive , when combined together in 
into single tablets made from natural sources. 

cells can not live in a strong  ( 100 , 000 maxwell ) 
north magnetic field , especially if it is on 
and off. a strong south magnetic field is an 
 . in my opinion , all types of 
radiation for should be replaced with 
daily 30 minute of 100 , 000 maxwell north 
magnetic fields .  . 

properly made and operated machines 
can both and all forms of , as well 
as most other medical problems. some 
machines can even take cross x ray like 
of , etc. , with out x rays ! 

tablets .  . 

tea ,  . 

can , and many other medical 
problems  ( even drug ! ) .  . 

50  . per day of can help prevent or 
trouble .  . 

this list is not exhaustive .  . 


the above natural can both and un 
, as well as prevent them , and also prevent 
and many other medical problems including heart 
diseases .  . they are not too simple and to work 
effectively .  . 

besides acting on a person biologically and , these 
, especially the 7 day fast and the diet , send 
a strong message to one 's mind , programming it 
to the  . 

in my opinion , if a person finds out that s he has , 
then s he should try at least the first 4 
described above , in sequence  ( starting with the 7 day fast ) , 
before resorting to the un natural and expensive 
and poison , burn , and ! of orthodox 
treatment ed crime ! . 


disclaimer this list was compiled from sources 
that have shown themselves to be reliable .  . the of 
this list is not a doctor of any kind , but is exercising his 
first amendment constitutional right of free speech on the 
subjects of his choice. 


for more information , contact control society , n .  . 
st. , los , ca , and or other 
listed in the alternative medicine and 
medicine portions of the health and medical organizations 
section  ( section 8 ) of the latest edition of the 
of reference book in your local public or 
university library. 


un altered reproduction and of this 
important information is encouraged .  . 


robert e. 



from  ( julia eulenberg ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington 
lines 2 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

perry asked if low blood could be dangerous. yes. 


from  ( michael holloway ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
keywords science errors 
nntp posting host ic . edu . 
organization state university of new york at stony 
lines 16 

in article  ( lee lady ) writes 

furthermore , the big approach to science promotes what i think is 
one of the most significant errors in science choosing to investigate 
questions because they can be readily by the currently 
 ( or because one can readily get 
or for them) instead of directing attention to 
those questions which seem to have fundamental significance .  . 

shades of james watson ! that 's exactly the way many workers have described 
their misgivings about the human project .  . if you take a 
definition of scientific research , the mere of data is not 
doing science. one of the early arguments against the project were that the 
resources would be better used to focus on specific genetics related 
problems rather than just going off and and sequence .  . 
the project ca n't be so narrowly defined or easily described now though. 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 33 

in article ( denninger ) writes 

1. how dangerous is it from whom is it especially dangerous 

dangerous only to immune suppressed persons and  . to them , 
it is extremely dangerous. most of the rest of us have already had 
it and it is n't dangerous at all. 

2. how is it (i read about raw meat and cats , but i 'd like to 
have more details ) 

cat are the worst .  . pregnant women should never touch the box .  . 

3. what can be done to prevent infection 

your meat .  . watch it with pets. 

4. what are the symptoms and long term effects 

you 'll have to read up on it. 

5. what are 


there is an effective that can keep it in check .  . 
of course , it ca n't reverse damage already done , such as in 
a fetus .  . 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( david considine ) 
subject re is 
organization code , nasa space center 
lines 19 

in article z . edu . z . edu .  ( alex milshteyn ) writes 
this was known long ago. brain produces and uses some naturally , 
but not in it is served at some chinese places. 
having said that , i might add , that in , does not enhance 
flavor for me to miss it. when i go to chinese places , 
i order food without  . places will do it for you. 


i just wanted to point out that some of the food , particularly 
the , are prepared in a big , so the 
wo n't be able to take the out of it. sometimes its 
pretty hard to find out if this is the case or not. 


m. m . d .  . server . edu . 
, in boston , ma .  .  ( 617)724 )  ( 617)726 ) fax 

david b. 


from  ( boutte g ) 
subject m. 
organization the wild world of clones in zero gravity 
lines 16 


i was wondering if anyone had any information about  . 
i acquired it , and fortunately got rid of it , but the question still 
in my mind where did it come from the little bit of info that i have 
received about it in the past states that it can be , but 
also occurs in small children on the hands , feet and  . 

any information will be greatly appreciated. 



i grow old , i grow old 
i shall wear my rolled .  . 

t. s. 


from 
subject re is 
organization utah state university 
lines 37 

in article ,  ( jason chen ) writes 
in article ,  ( doug bank ) writes 

i up at 2 am and my  . 
i threw up for so long that  ( i'm not kidding ) i a in 
my tongue .  . and everything. no one else got sick , and i'm 
not allergic to anything that i know of. 

the funny thing is the stories about reactions to vary so 
greatly .  . some said that their heart up with face. some 
claim their heart beats once in a while. some with 
headache , some stomach  . some had eyes or running nose , some 
had or  . more serious accusations include 
difficulty and brain damage. 

now here is a new one  . my guess is that becomes the number one 
suspect of any problem. in this case. it might be just food poisoning .  . but 
if you heard things about , you may think it must be it. 

surprise surprise , different people react differently to different things. one 
slightly off the subject case in point. my brother got by a bee .  . i know 
he is allergic to bee , but that his reaction is severe localized 
, not  . i could not convince the doctors of that , 
however , because that 's not written in their little rule book. 

i would not be surprised in the least to find out the some people have bad 
reactions to , including , and even  . not that 
the stuff is bad or poison and needs to be , but people need to be aware 
that it can have a bad effect on some people. 

lone wolf 

happy are they who dream dreams , 
ed philips and pay the price to see them come true. 

unknown 


from mackie 
subject re quality control in medicine 
organization 
lines 19 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 86 . 38 . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x mon , 19 apr 93 20 19 29 gmt 

in article , 
writes 
situation. activities are a part of every hospital 's 
administrative function and are required by  . 
there 
are even entire devoted to issues. 


indeed. i spend about 60 of my time dealing with quality stuff. it 
is a hot number .  . 
two worth looking at are 
quality review  . pub on of 
organizations , one , 
, il 
quality in health care. publishing group , box no. , 
, me 

mackie his opinions 
will 

from  ( doug bank ) 
subject re blood 's advice 
reply to 
organization motorola land products 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 35 . 
lines 29 

in article ,  ( george b. clark ) writes 
forget about total when health risk factors .  . 
instead , use a relationship between and 

if your is you need an of at least 

90 35 
100 45 
110 50 
120 55 
130 60 
70 

gee , what do i do my is only 50 60 .  .  ( and my is only 23 25 ) 
i must be something , but is it the same risk as those with 
very high 

if your are above , and your is below 30 , the 
drug of choice is  ( lopid ) taken as a 
thirty before your morning and evening  . 

what about exercise and a low fat diet what are the long term 
effects of this drug 


doug bank private systems division 
motorola communications 
, illinois 


from  ( gary merrill ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
originator 
distribution 
nntp posting host sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 43 


in article ,  ( russell turpin ) writes 

in article  ( charles l. creegan ) writes 
what about 's infamous of the idea of 
from a of snakes in the fire their is this 
specific enough to count certainly it turns up repeatedly in basic 
 . of sci .  . texts as an example of the component of 
 . 

i think the question is what is extra scientific about this 

it has been a long time since anyone has proposed restrictions on 
where one comes up with ideas in order for them to be considered 
legitimate  . the point , in short , is this and 
speculation in science may come from wild of fancy , 
, ancient traditions , modern , or anywhere else. 

russell 


yes , but typically they do n't . not every wild of fancy serves 
 ( or can serve ) in the appropriate relation to a hypothesis .  . it is 
somewhat interesting that when anyone is to provide an 
example of this sort the only one they come up with is the one about 
 . surely , there must be others. but apparently this is regarded 
as an extreme example of a non rational process in science whereby 
a successful hypothesis was proposed .  . but how non rational is it 

of course we ca n't hope  ( currently at least ) to explain how or why 
had the of snakes in the fire their  . 
surely it was n't the only he had. what was special about 
this one could it have had something to do with a perceived 
analogy between the geometry of the snakes and problems concerning 
geometry of is such reasoning extra scientific 
or is it rather at the very heart of science  ( perice 's notion of , 
the use of models within and across disciplines ) upon close examination , 
is there a non rational mystical leap taking place , or is it perhaps 
closer to a formal  ( though often incomplete ) analogy or model 

h. principal systems , c development 
sas institute inc. sas campus dr. , nc  ( 919 ) 
... ! ! sas ! 

from  ( karl dussik ) 
subject re dana institute 
organization , inc. phoenix , arizona usa 
keywords dana institute 
lines 13 

in article  ( salim chagan ) writes 
can anyone send me the to 
dana institute in boston , usa .  . 
missing r 

dana institute 
44 street 
boston , ma 

 ( 617)732 ) 3000 

karl 
( department of and , 1986 ) 

from  ( jamie lubin ) 
subject re eye dominance 
organization , , nj 
lines 14 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( richard silver ) writes 

is there a right eye dominance  ( eyedness ) as there is an 
overall right in the population i mean do most 
people require less corrections for the one eye than the 
other if so , what kinds of can be attached to this 

there is eye dominance same as  ( and usually for the 
same  . it has nothing to do with refractive error , however. 

i recall reading seeing that former baseball star chris  hitting 
abilities were  ( in part ) attributed to a combination of left 
right eye dominance .  . 

from  ( joseph krzeszewski ) 
subject re 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 

i seem to recall that there was an article in radio about this 
subject. in fact i have a copy of the article in front of me , but i ca n't 
find anywhere in the article a as to what month it was in. the system 
they describe uses an automobile for the high  . the 
article even includes some information on what kind of film to use and where 
to get it. 

hope this helps .  . 

joseph m. 



from  ( larry silverberg ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
reply to 
organization university of , 
lines 

in article ,  ( jon noring ) writes 
in article  ( david rind ) writes 
in article  ( david partain ) writes 

someone i know has recently been as having , 
a disease about which i can find no information. apparently it has something 
to do with the body 's of while at the same time being highly 
allergic to  . can anyone out there tell me any more about it 

i have a lot of info about this disease. i am posting a small amount of 
it that i extracted .  . if more is required , e mail me @ 
please , it takes me some time to it , so 
be advised , only request it if you really want it. 

here is some info from health reference center 

also , check you local of library. they most likely have the 
this info was taken from .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


health reference center  89  

heading 
! dictionary definition 

1. 's medical and dictionary , 2nd edition 
1986 the c . v .  . company 



a common , , , 
organism normally present in the of 
the mouth , , and and on the 
of healthy people. under certain circumstances , it may 
cause superficial of the mouth or 
and , less commonly , serious infection 
and reaction. see also  . 



health reference center  89  
the material contained in health reference center  89  is provided 
only for purposes and should not be construed as 
medical advice or  . consult your health 
for advice to a medical problem or condition. 


heading 

1. for  .  ( acidophilus ) il east 
west natural health august   ( p17(1 ) 
text available 
text 
east west partners 1992 
another folk the blessing of medical study .  . 
have found that eating a cup of a day drastically 
reduces a woman 's chances of getting , a infection .  . 
for the year long study , at long island jewish medical 
center in new park , new york , 13 women who suffered from 
 . for the first 6 months , the women each day 
8 of containing  . for the second 
6 months , the women did not eat  . the examined the 
women each month and found that incidents of colonization and infection 
were lower during the period when the women  . 
the can live in the body without doing harm .  . 
it is an of the that leads to infection .  . the 
concluded that the l. bacteria found in some 
brands of of the  . 
and l. are the two bacteria most commonly used 
in production. neither one appears to exert a 
effect against , however. women who want to 
try as a measure should choose a brand that lists 
in its contents .  . 
end 





health reference center  89  
the material contained in health reference center  89  is provided 
only for purposes and should not be construed as 
medical advice or  . consult your health 
for advice to a medical problem or condition. 


heading 

1.  .  ( infections caused by fungi ) 
 ( infectious diseases ) by c. the 
univ .  . coll. of complete home 
medical guide edition 2  89  ( p472(1 ) 
text available 
text 
publishers inc. 1989 
 ( monilia ) 
this disease is usually caused by , a that we 
all carry at one time or another. in some circumstances , though , the 
, producing infection of the mouth , 
, , or  . when the mouth or are , the 
disease is commonly called  . 
caused by often women on birth control 
or  . there is and a white ,  . 
among addicts , can lead to heart 
 . 
of is confirmed by cultures and blood 
 . treatment can be with b or with  . 
there is no evidence that in the of normal individuals 
leads to disease. all people at one time or another have in 
their  . claims for any benefit from special diets or 
is not based on any solid evidence. 
end 




i hope this is  . 
larry 


live from new york , it 's saturday night .  .  .  . 

's special 
lawrence from the state university of new york @ 
aka 


from ( ) 
subject re what are the problems with  ( aspartame ) 
organization university of division of computer 
lines 21 

is a a couple thousand times than 
sugar. some people are concerned about the that the body produces 
when it  . it is thought to form and known to 
for in the that the body uses to eliminate 
 . the real issue is whether the levels of and 
produced are high enough to cause significant damage , as both are to 
living cells .  . all i can say is that i will not it. 

is 
nothing for you to worry about. it is an amino acid , and everyone uses small 
of it for protein in the body. some people have a disease 
known as , and they are missing the necessary to 
degrade this compound and eliminate it from the body. for them , it will 
accumulate in the body , and in high levels this is to growing 
cells .  . therefore , it is only a major problem in young children  ( until around 
age 10 or so ) or women who are pregnant and have this disorder .  . it used to 
be a cause of brain damage in infants , but now it can be easily 
detected at birth , and then one must simply avoid of 
as a child , or when pregnant. 



from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re exercise 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 18 

in article writes 
i took a test a couple weeks back , and results came back 
exercise  . fool that i am , i did n't ask doc what this meant , 
and she did n't explain and now i'm wondering .  . can anyone out there 
enlighten .  . and i promise , next time i 'll ask ! 

probably she meant that your blood pressure went up while you were on 
the  . this is normal .  . you 'll have to ask her if this is 
what she meant , since no one else can answer for another person. 






gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( dan hartung ) 
subject the 
summary how well does it hold up 
organization public access unix 
lines 28 

just had the opportunity to watch this flick on a e some 15 years 
since i saw it last .  . 

i was very interested in the technology demonstrated in this film 
for handling infectious diseases  ( and similar  . 
clearly they faked a lot of the computer technology 
certainly at the time it was made most of that was science fiction 
itself , let alone the idea of a space . 

quite actually this is what got me wanted to see 
the movie again i watched a segment on the otherwise awful how 'd 
they do that dealing with a disease at the 's top 
lab .  . there was description of the elaborate security measures taken 
so that building will never be so to speak by man or 
nature  ( short of deliberate bombing from the air ,  . and 
the used similar to that in the film .  . 

i'm curious what people think about this film short of silly . 
is such a technically today 

as far as the plot , and the structure that is not life 
as we know it , that 's a whole  argument for rec . arts . sf . tech . 
or something. 

next a update ... an ohio prison update ... a bosnia update ... a 
update ... an abortion update ... and a congressional update ... 
here on the news network. all news , all , all day 
daniel a. ask me about 

from  ( ella i baff ) 
subject getting aids from 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 44 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

someone wrote in expressing concern about getting aids from 
 .  .  .  .  . 

unless your friend is fluids with their who 
themselves has aids .  . it . is unlikely  ( not impossible ) they will get aids 
from  . generally , even if accidently , the normal 
immune response should be enough to effectively handle the minimal 
involved with insertion .  . 

most use  .  . use . once and away. they 
do this because you are not the only one concerned about of 
diseases via this route .  .  . so . it 's good business to here. these tend to be of a lower quality however , 
being poorly and too in my opinion. they tend to on insertion compared to higher quality  . 
if i choose to use for a given complaint , that patient will get 
their own set of new which are between  . 
the risk here for , , etc. is that i could mistakenly 
use an persons accidently on the wrong 
patient .  .  . but . clear and paying attention all but 
this risk. better quality tend to slide past and 
avoiding unpleasant painful  . and .  .  . so . i use them. 
come in many lengths and  .  . but . they are all 
solid when compared to their injection style  . in china , western are into 
points purported to have effects and so require 
the same used for fluid medicine .  . this means .  .  .  .  . that . a amount of tissue , the of the bore , will be 
into the body as it would be in a typical shot .  . when the is 
 . on the other hand when the solid 
is inserted , the tends to the 
from the to the level of insertion such that any   that 
have n't been away with before insertion , tend to remain 
on the surface of the invasion from the  . 

of course in  .  . the . body 's is protected by the  ( protective )  . so . infection is unlikely .  .  .  . or . in other words .  .  . there . is a normal inflammatory 
and immune response that tissue damage incurred at the 
site. 


while i'm fairly certain your friend will not have a disease 
to them via insertion , i would like to know for 
what complaint they have the  .  . not . to know if it would be harmful .  .  . but to know if it would be helpful .  . 

john , , ca 




from  ( paul roberts ) 
subject re too many 
organization software , inc. 
lines 11 

in article  ( dick king ) writes 

i recall reading somewhere , during my youth , in some science 
book , that changes do n't normally affect chemistry , a 
of only heavy water would be fatal , and that seeds only with heavy 
water do not  . does anyone know about this 


i also heard this. i always thought it might make a good of 
  for someone to be poisoned with heavy water it would n't 
show up in any chemical test. 

from  ( steve kirchoefer ) 
subject 3rd and vote ack misc . health . 
organization research  ( electronics science and technology division ) 
lines 
nntp posting host net . 

this is the third and final call for votes for the creation of the 
newsgroup misc . health .  . a mass acknowledgement of valid votes 
received as of april 14 00 gmt appears at the end of this 
posting. please check the list to be sure that your vote has been 
 . read the instructions for voting carefully and follow 
them precisely to be certain that you place a proper vote .  . 

instructions for voting 

to place a vote for the creation of misc . health . , send an 
email message to 

to place a vote against creation of misc . health . , send an 
email message to 

the contents of the message should contain the line i vote 
for against misc . health . as proposed . email messages sent to 
the above addresses must constitute unambiguous and 
votes for against newsgroup creation as proposed .  . conditional votes 
will not be accepted. only votes to the above addresses will 
be counted replies to this posting will be returned .  . in the 
event that more than one vote is placed by an individual , only the 
most recent vote will be counted .  . 

voting will continue until 23 59 gmt , 29 apr 93 .  . 
votes will not be accepted after this date. 

any administrative to this may be made by 
email to 

the proposed charter appears below. 



charter 

misc . health . 

1. the purpose of misc . health . is to provide a forum for the 
discussion of issues to , i.e. diet , 
activities , medicine , blood control , exercise , 
medical , etc. this group addresses the issues of 
of both type i  ( insulin dependent ) and type ii  ( non 
dependent )  . both technical discussions and general support 
discussions relevant to are welcome. 

2. postings to misc . are intended to be for discussion 
purposes only , and are in no way to be construed as medical advice. 
is a serious medical condition requiring direct 
by a primary health care  . 

 ( end of charter ) 

the following individuals have sent in valid votes 

bill 
jim 
colin 

jesus s a 

robert w. 
r 
dave 


brian 

bob 
bruce 
brian 
a. 
mike 
com . ! com . thomas 
charles 
! 
m , 
david 
lynn 
douglas bank 
edward 
ed 
eric j. 
ed 


c franklin 


isaac 
isaac 


g. 
thomas 
miller 





b . j .  . 
m 


b. 
edward j. 



james 
john a. 
jerry 


joe 
john e. jr. 


p sum 
john 

peter 
raymond 
aaron l 
rob 
lynn 

stephen 



stephen g. 

maurice h. rich. 
peter 

mark 

michael c. 


f 

michael holloway 



david 
nancy block 
node . org . allen 
, 
bill 

paul 


peter 
glenn 
aaron 

ken 
richard h. miller 

de . 




stuart c. 

a. 
matthew t 
floyd s. 
tim 

w 


s 
l. 
thomas e 
timothy d 
tony 
m. 
stern 
james 
douglas 

william grant 

ralph e. 


steve  ( 202 ) 767 
code 
research technology branch 
washington , sci .  . and tech .  . division 

from  ( herman rubin ) 
subject re science and 
organization university statistics department 
distribution 
lines 28 

in article  ( russell turpin ) writes 

in article  ( lee lady ) writes 
the difference between a prize level scientist and a 
scientist does not lie in the quality of their empirical  . 
it depends on the quality of their thinking. 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

is correct when she asserts that the difference between 
einstein and the average post doc physicist is the quality of 
their thought. but what is the difference between einstein and a 
genius who would be a great scientist but whose great thoughts 
are scientifically 

this example is probably wrong. there is the case of one famous 
physicist telling another that he was probably wrong. as i recall 
the quote 

your ideas are crazy , to be sure. but they are not crazy 
enough to be right. 

the typical is only somewhat  . 

, dept. of statistics , univ .  . , west 
phone  ( 317)494 ) 
 ( internet , bitnet ) 
, ee ! snap . stat . !  ( hrubin(uucp ) 

from  ( peter kaminski ) 
subject re 
lines 
organization the information via netcom san jose , california 

newsgroups m . h . a . added , followups set to most appropriate groups. 

in  ( brian m. 
huey ) writes 

i am looking for any information that will allow 
do it to take pictures .  . 

 ( it 's . pictures are of tiny  . ) 

... 

one might extrapolate here and say that this proves that every object 
within the universe  ( as we know it) has its own energy signature .  . 

i think it 's safe to say that anything that 's not at 0 degrees 
will have its own energy signature the interesting questions are 
what kind of energy , and what it  . 

i 'd check places like edmund scientific  ( are they still in business ) 
or i wonder if you can find ex soviet union equipment for sale somewhere 
in the  .  . 

some on 

from the side , andrew , alternative medicine a guide 
to natural , isbn 0 14 0 , new york viking penguin , 1986 , 
,  . a not overly critical but still useful overview of 32 
alternative health  . 

 .  .  . the . engineer and his wife during the 
 . using alternating of high to   
their subjects , they them. they found that if an object 
was a good  ( such as a metal ) the picture showed only its 
surface , while the pictures of poor showed the inner 
structure of the object even if it were  . they found 
too that these high pictures could distinguish between dead 
and living objects .  . dead ones had a constant outline whilst living ones 
were subject to changes .  . the object 's life activity was also in 
highly patterns .  . 

high has now been practised for twenty years in 
the soviet union but only a few people in the west have taken it up 
seriously. professor douglas dean in new york and professor philips at 
washington university in have produced and 
others have been produced in , austria and germany .  . 

using it is possible to show an around people 's 
fingers , notably around those of healers who are concentrating on 
healing someone .  . normally , blue and white rays from the fingers 
but , when a subject becomes angry or , the turns red and 
 . the are now using to 
diseases which cannot be by any other method. they argue that 
in most illnesses there is a stage during which the person 
is n't actually ill but is about to be. they claim to be able to 
a disease by its  . 

but the most phenomenon illustrated by is 
the effect. during high of a from 
which a part had been cut , the gave a complete picture of the 
with the removed part showing up  . this is extremely 
important because it backs up the experiences of who can  see  
the legs of as if they were still there. the important thing 
about the though is that the pattern 
ca n't possibly represent a secondary phenomenon or the field would 
when the piece of or vanished .  . the energy 
contained in a living object must therefore be far more significant than 
the actual object itself. 

... 

has shown how water mentally  charged  by a healer 
has a much energy field around it than ordinary water .  .  .  . 


from the side , , reality shopping a 
consumer 's guide to new age  . , whole earth review , 1986 , 
 . an excellent article providing common sense for 
evaluating claims , and some of the author 's favorite examples 
of  . 

the crank usually works in isolation from everyone else in his field of 
study , making grand in his  . many 
movements can be back to such people , for 
instance .  . if you high into anything it will 
glowing , common knowledge to electrical workers and 
for a century. it took a lone crank to declare that 
the represent some sort of spiritual  . in fact , 
was to rigorous by john o .  . 
, j. , and david l. , who reported their findings 
in the october 15 , , issue of science. their conclusion the 
variations observed in are due solely to on 
the surface of the body and not to or even 
necessarily to changes in mood or mental state. nevertheless , 
television shows , , and books  ( many by famous 
parapsychologists ) continue to promote as proof of 
the unknown .  . 


peter 


from 
subject 's 
organization university of kansas academic computing services 
lines 3 

how long does it take a 's to clear of the after 
does your chances of getting quickly or does it take 
a amount of time for that to happen 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re ob 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 30 

in article  ( donald mackie ) writes 

who are not citizens are , like all , in a difficult 
situation. only citizens get to vote here , so non citizens are of 
little or no interest to  . also , the non citizen may well 
be in the middle of for resident alien status .  . there is a 
sense that the  . a program ) 
will delay the of that status , perhaps for ever. 


one should be aware that foreign doctors admitted for training 
are to apply for resident alien status .  . in order 
to get the green card they have to return to their country and 
apply at the there. of course , many somehow get around 
this problem. often it is by to practice in a town 
with a need and then the from that district 
a onto a bill saying dr. x will be allowed to have permanent 
in the us. a lot of in congress have such 
attached to them. a us citizen is the most common , although 
now they are even cracking down on that and trying to tell us 
citizens they must follow their spouse back to the , or 
 . 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from 
subject re diet for 's  ( ibd ) 
distribution usa , world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 52 

in article , writes 
in article ,  ( john eyles ) writes 

a friend has what is apparently a fairly minor case of 's 
disease. 

but she ca n't seem to eat certain , such as , 
without , and of course she wants to avoid a  . 

her question is are there any who in the 
problems of people with 's disease 

(i saw the suggestion of like tea and  . 

thanks in advance , 
john 

all your friend really has to do is find a  . while 
most work in hospitals and clinics , many major cities will have 's who 
are in private practice so to speak. many will refer their 
with 's disease to 's for dietary help. if you can get 
your friend 's to make a , medical should pay for 
the 's services just like the services of a physical  . the 
better medical plans will cover this but even if your friend 's 
plan does n't , it would be well worth the cost to get on a good diet to 
control the and help the heal .  . 
's disease is an inflammatory disease of the and 
may help by decreasing formation but 
i'm not aware of tea or containing  . for 


if you do a search on you 'll see that it is a 
which is being investigated in a number of areas .  . 
i'm in and about 4 years ago the lab at my 
hospital compared the effect of a of vs. a 2000 
of in preventing injury in a 
heart .  . the was more effective ) 


a of mine in the school of  . ron kohen ) has a paper in 
press on the free radical activity and activity of tea .  . 





bad , are used but for a mild case , the side effects 
are not worth the small benefit gained by use. is developing 
a new that should greatly help deal with 
inflammatory diseases but it 's not available yet. 

b. 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re update  ( help ! ) was what is this is it 's 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 24 

in article  ( john o'donnell ) writes 

imho , you have disease. 


i sent you in private email a summary of the treatment protocols put 
forth by the disease foundation .  . i suggest that you 
save yourself a great deal of suffering by them for a 
knowledgeable and seek treatment at once. 
you 'll know in 2 weeks if you 're on the right course and the is 
on your 6 weeks if you have it. 1  . 

if these folks are who i think they are , knowledgeable may 
mean a to whom everything that walks in the door is 
disease , and you will be treated for , whether or not 
you have it. hope you have good  . 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( joel b levin ) 
subject re selective 
lines 19 
nntp posting host fred . com . 

 ( ron roth ) writes 

 ( ella i baff ) writes 

ron once you have your confirmed through the 
proper , you might consider the following ... 
diet 

1 ) ron .  .  . what . do you consider to be proper  .  .  . this . sounds 

i'm glad it caught your eye. that 's the purpose of this forum to 
those , eager to learn , about the facts of life. that phrase 
is used to the frenzy of all the would be respondents , who 
otherwise would feel being left out as the proper authorities to be 
on that topic. in short , it means absolutely nothing. 

an description of the content of just about all 's posts to 
date. at least there 's value  ( though it is 
 . 

subject 's 
from  ( josh schwimmer ) 
distribution world 
organization wesleyan university , , ct usa 
nntp posting host consultants . con . wesleyan . edu . 
lines 20 

i 've recently to a by dr. , in which he 
claims to have discovered a series naturally with anti 
properties that he names  . says that his 
work has met with hostility in the united states , despite the 
responses of his subjects during trials .  . 

what is the generally accepted opinion of dr. 's research he 
himself as a lone with a new an 
medical , but i have no basis from which to judge 
his claims .  . two weeks ago , however , i read that the 's department of 
alternative medicine has decided to focus their attention on 's 
work. their is so small that i imagine they would n't investigate a 
treatment that did n't seem promising .  . 

any opinions on 's or information about the current 
status of his research would be appreciated. 


joshua 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 20 

in article  ( beth mazur ) writes 
in article () writes 

on the other hand , we do a good job of implying that the person who 
is when in fact , the body probably does n't 
make any moral judgements about its composition .  . , the 
body works just as hard maintaining its weight at 400 as someone else 's 
does at 200. 


it does , to maintain such a weight. and it does so 
primarily by  . if it did n't , the weight would drop 
back to normal .  . 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re  ( vagus nerve ) 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 16 

in article  ( brian w. barker ) writes 

mostly right. is there a connection between 
and that has something to do with the 

of the the heart and drops the blood 
pressure .  . 






gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from 
subject re pointer for info  ( long shot ) 
distribution world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 49 

in article , m writes 
this is something of a long shot .  .  .  . but what the hell. the net is 
full of people with strange knowledge .  .  .  . 

i'm looking for suggestions as to what could be causing health 
problems one of my relatives is having .  . 

one of my has had health problems for much of her life. 
around the age of 10 she had some problems. now she 's 
in her early mid and she is going blind .  . 

her eyes are not producing enough  ( if any)  . she 's been going 
to mass eye and ear and the doctors there have no clue what the actual 
cause is. they have apparently tried and such. she is just 
about completely blind in one eye and the other is 
deteriorated .  . 


's has been known to in tissue as well 
as primary  . otherwise the could be 
due to a of 's known as which can produce 
a  ( enlarged  . she should definitely see a  . 

since you do n't mention disorder , , or pain you 'd probably 
rule out or  . 







also , and this may or may not be related , she is having some changes 
in her  . her stomach has  ( i'm not sure if this is 
stomach the or stomach teh area of the  . 

i guess the step they 're going to take next is to do a whole 
of to check all the other internal besides just the 
eyes .  .  .  . 

but just because the net is a source of large of bizarre 
knowledge , i'm going to ask has anyone ever heard of anything like 
this suggestions of things to ask about  ( since much of my knowledge 
about her state comes second or third hand ) 

thanks. 




from  ( john de armond ) 
subject re do we need a to read an 
organization communications public access. the mouth of the south .  . 
lines 28 

e . j .  . writes 

if it were my wife , i would insist that a be involved in the 
process. are trained in the process of 
interpreting data and are aware of many things that 
other are n't aware of. 

maybe , maybe not. a new graduate would obviously be well trained  ( but 
perhaps without sufficient  . a trained 10 or 
15 years ago who has not kept his continuing education current is a 
whole  matter. a ob who has trained in modern technology 
is certainly more qualified than the latter and at least equal to 
the former .  . 

would you want a to 
deliver your baby if you would n't , then why would you want a ob to 
read your study 

if the is also trained in ob , why not 

john 


john de , interested in high 
engineering  ( magazine(tm ) interested in high tech and computers 
, send mail address to 
for a free 
where are when we need 

from 
subject how to prevent formation 
lines 154 
nntp posting host vms . edu . 
organization college of medicine 

i got asked in sci .  .  . about vitamin c and  ( production 
, formation ) .  . i decided to post my answer here as well 
because of the recent question about stones .  . not long after i got 
into sci .  .  . i got flamed by a medical fellow for stating that 
would prevent formation .  . i'm going to state it again here. 
but the best way to prevent stones from forming is to take 
supplements .  . read on to find out  ( why(i have my suit on now  . 

vitamin c will form acid .  . but large are needed  ( above 6 
per  . 

1. review article factors in containing 
stones with particular emphasis on vitamin c  .  .  . rev. 
 ( 5(3 ) 110  . 

but also forms  ( acid(d amino acid  . for both 
and vitamin c , one of the best ways to drastically reduce this 
is not to cut back on dietary of vitamin c or , 
but to increase your of vitamin  . 

2. control of with large of in 
with stones  .  .  .  ( 20(4 )  ( 59(1988 ) 
200 to of each day the 
of over the 18 month treatment program .  . 

3. the action of in primary  . sci .  . 38 
 . receiving at least each day 
showed a significant in levels .  . 

for , this effect is due to increased  ( activity(b6 is 
required for activity ) which makes less available for 
 ( deamination(d amino acid  . for vitamin c , the effect is 
quite different. there are different for vitamin c  . 
the that leads to acid formation will usually have 17 to 40 
of the going into acid .  . but this is highly 
and the vitamin c review article pointed out that unless the gets 
6 per day , not too much vitamin c gets to form 
acid .  . at very high of vitamin  ( c(above 10 per day ) , more of the 
extra vitamin c  ( more than 40 conversion ) can end up as acid .  . in a 
very early study on vitamin c and  . soc .  .  .  . 
 . 85  ( 92(1954 ) , of 2 per day up to 9 per day 
increased the average acid from per day up to 
per day. until 8 per day was reached , the average was 
increased by only 3 to per  ( day(2 , 4 , 8 
and  . 8 it to over the average 
before and 9 it to 150 over the average 
before  . 

is required by more than any other vitamin in the body. there 
are probably some that require vitamin that we do n't know about 
yet. vitamin c is still not completely understood but the 
speculation is that this other that does not form acid must 
have an in it that requires  . differences in levels could then 
explain the very of acid from a vitamin c 
 ( challenge(this is not the preferred route of  . increasing your 
of would then result in less acid being if you 
take vitamin c supplements .  . since the typical american diet is deficient 
in , some believe that the main cause of 
stones is  ( deficiency(especially since so little acid gets 
absorbed from the  . diets providing 0 to of acid per day 
showed absolutely no change in of  ( oxalate(urol 35 . 
15 ,  . if was present each day , there was a significant increase 
in  . 

here are the high 

1. , coca , instant coffee , , , and tea .  . 
contain at least 

2. , , , , , , , 
, pepper ,  . 
contain 10 to 25  . 

if the is per day , you can see that you really have a lot 
of in food selection .  . a recent n . eng . j .  .  . article also points 
out that one good way to prevent formation is to increase your 
of which will prevent most of the dietary from being 
absorbed at all. if you also increase your of , you should n't 
have to worry about stones at all. the for is per day for 
males and 1 . per day for  ( females(directly related to protein  . 
can be  ( toxic(nerve damage ) if it is in of or more 
per day for an extended  ( peroid(weeks to  . 

the food survey done in 1986 had an average of 1 . 87 . per day 
for males and 1 . per day for living in the u.s. coupled with 
this low was a high protein  ( diet(which greatly increases the 
requirement ) , as well as the presence of some of the 40 different drugs that 
either block , are of , or promote 
in the  . common ones are birth control , , 
, , and  . i tell my students to 
all their that are going to get any of the drugs that 
increase the requirement .  . the recommended for taking 
birth control is 10 per day and this should work for most of the 
other drugs that increase the  ( requirement(this would be on top of your 
dietary of  . any patient that has a history of 
formation should be given supplements .  . 

one other good way to prevent formation is to make sure your 
ca dietary ratio is 2 1. is much more than is 
 . 

4. the ratio in the of 
with  . 10  ( 147(1972 ) 

5. effect of and on the 
of in changes by food 
interaction j.  .  ( 143(2 )  . 

6 . review . article , in the and treatment 
of stones j.  .  ( 161(1 ) 25  . 

there are actually about three times as many articles published in the 
medical literature on the role of in preventing 
formation than there are for  . i thought that i was being pretty safe in 
stating that would prevent formation in an earlier 
post in this news group but good old john a. in mass .  . all over me. i 
guess that he does n't read the medical literature .  . oh well , since 
stones can be a real pain and a lot of people suffer from them , i thought 
i 'd tell you how you can avoid the pain and stay out of the doctor 's office. 

martin , d .  . 
professor of biochemistry and chairman 
department of biochemistry and 
college of medicine 
w. 17th street 
, ok. 

without discourse , there is no remembering , without remembering , there is 
no learning , without learning , there is only ignorance . from a wise man 
who lived in china , many , many years ago. i think that it still has 
meaning in today 's world. 
























from  ( rob geraghty ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
article i.d. 
organization centre , university of queensland 
lines 45 

 ( steve dyer ) writes 
snort .  . ah , there go my again. 
oh , wow. a classic textbook .  . hey , they laughed at einstein , too ! 
yeah , i 'll bet. tomorrow , the world. 
listen , studies like this are worthless .  . 
i'm sure you are. you sound like the typical who 
responds to miracle  . 
yeah , it makes sense to me , so of course it should be taken seriously. 
snort .  . 
yeah , it sounds reasonable to me . 
oh , really what immune , my ass. 
more like  . this is a  . 
you know , it 's a that a drug like is being misused 
in this way. it 's expensive , and  . 
the trouble is that it is n't enough , so it gets by  . 
the only good thing about is that it 's  ( relatively ) cheap 
and when taken , non  . but oral is without any 
effect , so unless it were given , it would be without 
any effect on your  . i wish these would first use 
or b on people like you. that would solve 
the problem once and for all. 
perhaps a little would go a long way towards 
your symptoms .  . 
are you paying for this treatment out of your own i 'd hate 
to think my are going towards this. 

steve , take a look at what you are saying. i do n't see one 
word here. if you do n't have anything constructive to add , why waste 
the bandwidth yeah , sure , flame me for doing it myself. is this 
sci . or alt . flame . like it or not , medical science does not know 
everything about everything. i'm not flaming your 
knowledge , just asking you to sit back and ask yourself what if 

minds are like they only function when they are open. 

oh and if you do want to flame me or anyone else , how about using 
email 

rob 
who does n't claim any relevant , just interest 


rob 3 things are important to me 
the gift of love , the joy of life 
and the making of music in all its forms 

from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 14 

in article  ( fiberman ) writes 
is effective in treating 




not only is it effective , it is in fact the drug of choice for 
cases of community acquired  . 



university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


from () 
subject  .  . please . provide info 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 9 

i am currently doing a group research project on the drug  . i would 
be gracious to receive any and all information you could 
provide 
me regarding its usage , history , mechanism of reaction , side effects , and 
other pertinent information. i do n't care how long or how short your 
response is. 

thanks in advance ! 
e. 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject should read  ( pdr ) 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 48 

in article  ( ruth ginzberg ) writes 

hmmmm .  .  .  . here 's one place where i really think the patient ought to take more 
responsibility for him or herself .  . there is absolutely no reason why you 
ca n't ask the filling the prescription for the  
insert for the when you pick it up at the  . make sure to 
tell the that you want the  insert not the 

if people are going to do this , i really wish they would tell me first. 
i 'd be happy to go over the insert  ( in the pdr ) with them and explain 
everything. all too many read the insert and panic and then 
on the next visit admit they were afraid to take the drug 
and we are starting over again at square one. some of them probably 
did n't even come back for followup because they did n't want to admit 
they would n't take the drug or thought i was trying to kill them or 
something. what people do n't understand about the is that they 
report every adverse side effect ever reported , without 
that the drug was responsible .  . the insert is a legal document to 
from the to the if something was to 
happen. if want to have the most useful and reliable information 
on a drug they would be so much better off getting hold of one of the 
drug evaluation books or something similar that is much more scientific .  . 
there are very few drugs that someone has n't reported a death from taking .  . 
do n't realize that and do n't usually appreciate the risks 
to themselves properly. i'm sure is going to go , 
but so be it. another problem is that probably most drugs have been 
reported to cause  . half the males who read that will falsely assume 
it could cause them to lose sexual function and so will 
refuse to take any drug like that. this can be a real problem for 
readers .  . there needs to be some way of providing with 
tools to them that allow them to get the information they need. 
i am involved in a research project to do that , with as the 
domain .  . it involves a computer system that will provide answers to questions 
about as well as the prescribed for the patient .  . 
for common illnesses , such as and , this may help 
quite a bit. the patient could spend as much time as needed with the 
computer and this would then not burden the  . clearly , 
in large part fail to answer all the questions have , 
as is demonstrated over and over here on the net where we get asked 
things that the should have found out from their 
but did n't .  . why they did n't is n't always the 's fault either. 
sometimes the are afraid to ask. they wo n't be as afraid to 
ask the system , we hope. 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( rathmann , e) 
subject re eye dominance 
organization , , nj 
lines 40 

in article ,  ( jamie lubin ) writes 
in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( richard silver ) writes 

is there a right eye dominance  ( eyedness ) as there is an 
overall right in the population i mean do most 
people require less corrections for the one eye than the 
other if so , what kinds of can be attached to this 

there is eye dominance same as  ( and usually for the 
same  . it has nothing to do with refractive error , however. 

i recall reading seeing that former baseball star chris  hitting 
abilities were  ( in part ) attributed to a combination of left 
right eye dominance .  . 

i was part of a study a few years ago at the university of arizona to 
see whether cross dominant individuals  ( those with a particular 
but who had dominance in the opposite eye ) were better than 
those with same side dominance of hand and eye. i was picked from 
my class because i was cross dominant  ( right hand , left eye ) 
which put me in a small minority  ( and the student was trying to get 
an equal number of cross dominant and same side dominant  . to 
control the study , she used a machine fast pitch .  . since 
i was used to slow pitch , i did n't come close  ( actually i think 
i foul a few ) to hitting the ball .  . if there were a lot of people 
like me in her study (i . e .  . , those who ca n't hit fast pitch , or are 
not used to hitting off a machine ) , i would seriously question the 
results of that study ! ! i think there have been some studies of major 
league  ( across a fairly large cross section of players ) to test 
whether eye dominance being the same or opposite side was better 
but i do n't know the results.  ( the woman who the study i was in 
said that there was a higher of in major 
than across the general population but i'm not sure 
whether i 'd believe her . ) . 






from  ( gary merrill ) 
subject re 
originator 
nntp posting host sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 62 


i may not be the world 's greatest expert on (a type of 
indigenous to the south ) , but i certainly have spent a lot 
of time the little over the past years 
 ( since we moved to n . c . ) .  . here are some observations gained from 
painful experience 

1. reactions to vary greatly from person to person. 
some people get tiny red  . others  ( like me ) are more 
sensitive and get fairly large sore like affairs .  . 

2. are the gift that keeps on giving .  . i swear 
that these things will for months. 

3. there is a lot of about  . i think most of 
it is fiction .  . i have tried to do research on the , 
since they have such an effect on me. the only book i could 
find on the subject was a single book in unc 's special 
collections library. i have not yet gone through what is 
required to get it. 

4. based on my experience and that of my family members , the old 
folk of simply does n't work. i recall 
reading that the theory upon which it is based  ( that the 
into your and continue to party there ) is false .  . i 
think it is more likely that the reaction is to of some 
sort the little release .  . but this is speculation .  . 

5. the best approach is  . a couple of things work well. 
a good  ( deet ) such as deep woods off 
applied to , , etc. is a good start. there is 
another called away that is a combination of 
and some kind of cream  ( cortisone ) that originally was 
prepared for the army and is not available. in 
the summer i put this on my every morning when i get 
up on weekends since i literally ca n't go outside where we 
live  ( in the country ) without serious consequences .  .  ( they 
apparently do n't like much at all. you can use 
as a on your body or clothing to them . ) . 

6. no amount of will be completely successful .  . forget 
the  . i have finally upon a treatment 
that involves application of a combination of 
 ( reduces the and swelling ) and 
 ( relieves the  . i wo n't tell you all the things i 've tried. 
nor will i tell you some of the things my wife does since this 
as minor and is best not mentioned (i also think 
it  . 

7. the and can also be 
by the application of hot , and this seems to speed 
as well. 

doctors seem not to care much about  . the and 
doctors apparently do n't them much. and the doctors 
seem to regard them as a force of nature that one must  . i 
suspect that anyone who could come up with a good treatment for 
would make a lot of money. 

h. principal systems , c development 
sas institute inc. sas campus dr. , nc  ( 919 ) 
... ! ! sas ! 

from  ( gene c. miller ) 
subject for miscarriage 
organization worldbank . org . 
lines 17 


following a series of , my wife was given a of 
my white cells .  .  ( the theory as i understand it is that there is some kind 
of immune blocking that prevents the body from attacking the pregnancy as 
it normally would a foreign body. where this blocking is deficient , the 
body the , resulting in a miscarriage .  . the white cells 
apparently enhance the blocking capability . ) . following the , she 
successfully carried the next pregnancy to term , and is now an active 
9 month old who cannot wait to walk .  . 
we 're now thinking about having another child , but no one  ( including 
the who the first transfusion ) really seems to know 
whether or not the process needs to be repeated for 
 . 
is there anyone in net land who has experience with this 
thanks .  .  . gene .  ( and and jake ) 

p.s. i 've also posted this in misc . kids .  . 

from  ( marty ) 
subject 
reply to 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

i recently had a case of and my doctors wanted to give me 
 . 

it was a pain finding sites in my  .  . can . i have some facts about 
how it is to give rather than oral 



from mackie 
subject re seeking advice experience with back problem 
organization 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 86 . 38 . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x fri , 16 apr 93 15 41 32 gmt 

in article janet . m . cooper . , 
writes 
the mother of a friend of mine is experiencing a back 
pain. after , ct , and doctors she has been 
presented 
with 2 alternatives 
(1) live with the pain 
or (2) a somewhat 
operation which may leave her  . she also has a 

since her symptoms are only pain she would do to seek the 
advice of a good , pain clinic .  . it is 
to think that people are being told they have to live with the 
pain when many options for pain  ( rather than treating 
findings ) are available. a good pain clinic will accept that 
this 's problem is her pain and set about finding ways of 
that. 

mackie his opinions 
will  .  .  . 

from  ( marc grant ) 
subject adult 
organization tx communications services , tx 
distribution usa 
lines 13 

i am 35 and am from a case of which i 
from my 5 year old daughter .  . i have quite a few of these little 
all over my  . at what point am i no longer infectious my 's 
office says when they are all over. is this true 

is there any which can promote healing of the speed up 
healing please e mail replies , and thanks in advance. 


grant internet 
amateur radio station 
, tx voice fax 
.... . ... . .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  . . .  .  .  . . ... 

from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re any info .  . on 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 15 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 

 ( disclaimer i'm a sufferer , not a doctor . ) . 

i'm not sure there 's a really distinction between allergic and 
 . basically , means your nose is 
when it has no reason to be  ( not even an  . 

and work for  . also , 
i can get surprising relief from purely superficial measures such as 
and  . 


michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  ( david e. scheim ) 
subject re 's 
organization 
lines 

in article  ( josh schwimmer ) writes 

i 've recently to a by dr. , in which he 
claims to have discovered a series naturally with anti 
properties that he names  . says that his 
work has met with hostility in the united states , despite the 
responses of his subjects during trials .  . 

what is the generally accepted opinion of dr. 's research he 
himself as a lone with a new an 
medical , but i have no basis from which to judge 
his claims .  . two weeks ago , however , i read that the 's department of 
alternative medicine has decided to focus their attention on 's 
work. their is so small that i imagine they would n't investigate a 
treatment that did n't seem promising .  . 

any opinions on 's or information about the current 
status of his research would be appreciated. 


joshua 


there 's been extensive discussion on the compuserve forum about dr. 
's treatment as a result of the decision of a forum member 's father 
to undertake his treatment for brain  . this disease is 
universally and usually rapidly fatal .  . after in june 1992 , the 
was growing rapidly despite radiation and  . the forum 
member checked on dr. 's track record for this disease. 
he spoke to a few in complete for a few years from 
following this treatment and to an who had 
other such case histories and found them valid and impressive. 
after the forum member 's father began dr. 's treatment in 
september , all subsequent performed under the of his 
in chicago have shown no growth with possible signs of 
or  . 

the patient 's , although telling him he would probably not live 
past december 1992 , was opposed to his trying dr. 's 
treatment .  . since the stopped its growth under dr. 's 
treatment , she 's since changed her attitude continuing these 
, saying if it ai n't broke , do n't fix it. 

dr. is an m . d .  . , d .  . with a research background who found a 
protein that is at very low levels in , it , 
and administers it to with certain types .  . there is little 
understanding of the actual mechanism of activity. 


david e. 
bitnet none 
internet phone 
compuserve , fax 402 

disclaimer these comments are offered to share knowledge based 
upon my personal views. they do not represent the positions 
of my employer .  . 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re sudden in 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 48 

in article  ( tom molnar ) writes 
i experienced a sudden in my left this morning. just after 
i my 4th set of deep  . today was my weight training 
day and i was just beginning my  . all of a sudden at the end of 
the 4th set my felt like it had gone to sleep .  . it was cold , turned pale , 
and lost 60 of its strength .  . the weight i used for was n't that 
heavy , i was working hard but not at 100 effort .  . i waited for a few 
, trying to the back to life and then continued with 
 ( flyes ) with than i normally use. but 
i dropped the left during the first set , and experienced continued 
weakness into the second .  . so i quit training and decided not to do my 
usual hour on the machine either. i 'll take it easy for the rest of 
the day. 

my is still somewhat and weaker than normal 
my hand still a bit down to the  . color has returned to normal 
and it is no longer cold .  . 

thoughts of of blocking a major course through 
my brain .  . i'm 34 , vegetarian , and pretty fit from my daily exercise 
 . so that ca n't be it. could a from the bar 
cause these symptoms (i hope ) 

it likely has nothing to do with of but it sounds like 
you may have a compromise to your and you need medical 
attention before doing any more weight lifting .  . 



















gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( dale webb ) 
subject re the back machine update 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 15 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 

i have a back machine and have had one since  . while i have not 
found it to be a for my back pain , i think it has helped somewhat .  . 
it mainly acts to stretch in the back and prevent associated 
with pain. i am taking less pain than i was previously .  . 
the folks at back are very reluctant to honor their return 
policy. they extended my period rather than allow me to return 
the machine when , after the first month or so , i was not with it. 
they encouraged me to continue to use it , less  . 
like i said , i ca n't say it is a all , but it keeps me out 
and i am in less pain. 


m. , , of the body is water .  . the 
center other 3 keeps you from drowning .  . 
university of nebraska , lincoln 

from  ( peter kaminski ) 
subject re what about sci . chemistry . 
article i.d. netcom . 
organization the information via netcom san jose , california 
lines 19 

in  ( antero 
julkunen ) writes 

there is this newsgroup sci . physics . and there has been quite a lot 
discussion in this group about many chemical items e.g. 
, etc. should there also be a newsgroup sci . chemistry . 

it 's got potential. instead of  . chemistry . , how about the 
into  . biochemistry .  ( which are probably the 
you 're thinking of ) and  .  ( which otherwise might end up 
in  . 

 ( this is separate from the issue of whether there is sufficient potential 
news volume to support either or both groups . ) . 

i 'll add 'em to my medical health newsgroup wish list  ( which i'm looking 
forward to posting and discussing but not for another 10 days or  . 



from mackie 
subject re ob 
organization 
lines 21 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 86 . 38 . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x tue , 20 apr 93 16 46 24 gmt 

in article david nye , 
writes 

i believe it is illegal for a to discriminate against 
 . 

is that true i know some that wo n't even  . 

i think a case could be made that this is discriminatory , 
particularly 
if an had good board scores and but was n't 
offered an , but i do n't know if it has ever gone to court. 

who are not citizens are , like all , in a difficult 
situation. only citizens get to vote here , so non citizens are of 
little or no interest to  . also , the non citizen may well 
be in the middle of for resident alien status .  . there is a 
sense that the  . a program ) 
will delay the of that status , perhaps for ever. 

mackie his opinions 

from  ( kathleen j turner ) 
subject mystery with eye problems 
organization university of at denver 
lines 29 


a friend has the following symptoms which have occurred periodically 
every few months for the last 3 years. an begins with extreme 
followed by 

1. pains and affecting mostly the , 
, and  . 
2. pains 
3. and a feeling of pressure in her ears 
4. severe sweating both at night and during the day 
5. in both eyes. her calls it 
and says it looks similar to  .  ( she 
is n't they checked .  . 
6. color vision and vision in general  ( telephone 
poles do not appear to be straight ) 
7. loss of vision .  . 

many have been run and all are normal except for something 
called bright objects found on a of her brain .  . the only 
thing that seems to one of these is  . at 
times she had been on 60 per day. whenever she gets down to 10 15 
the symptoms become again. 

she is quite concerned because the are becoming 
worse with each and her vision is suffering .  . none of the she 
has seen have any idea what this condition is or what can be done to stop 
it. any suggestions or advice would be greatly appreciated. thanks in 
advance. turner 


from  ( walter f. lundby ) 
subject re is 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , group 
distribution na 
lines 29 

as nobody in the food industry has even bothered to address my previous 
question why do you need to put in almost every food i must assume 
that my wife 's answer is closer to the truth than i hoped it was. 

she believes that is added to food to cause people to eat more of it 
and not quit when they shoud be  . to put it a different way , she 
believes that for some people causes them to act food like an  . 
 ( eat all the , chow down on several of .... you get the 
idea ! if she is right , then the moral and ethical standards of the 
food , chemical and groups need to be addressed ! ! ! can 
be considered a substance  ( not but sort of habit 
forming ) 

this brings up a side question of mine. i have noticed that cats  ( my 
children 's and my parent 's ) seem to on a particular brand of pet 
food. the cat will eat any product within one brand and not any other 
brand .  . i have wondered if this is not a case of preference , but , some 
sort of chemical training or  . my questions , for the net , are 
does the the contents of pet food is it allowed for pet 
food to contain or is put in 
pet food 


i speak for myself and not motorola 



walter 


organization arizona state university 
from 
subject re 's 
distribution world 
lines 16 

a good source of information on 's method is in the industry 
by prize nominee ralph  . also , a non profit organization called 
people against , which was formed for the purpose of allowing 
to access information regarding not by the 
industry , but which have shown highly promising results  ( all of which 
are non  . anyone interested in should contact this 
people against 
po box 10 
ia 
 ( 515)972 ) 
fax  ( 515)972 ) 


peace 

greg 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re , et .  . al. side effects 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
lines 15 

in article writes 
can someone tell me whether or not any of the following 
has been linked to excessive weight gain and or a 
sense of taste or smell (a to 
prevent asthma )  . 

 ( astemizole ) is most definitely linked to weight gain .  . 
it really is peculiar that some have this effect , 
and even more so an like which purportedly 
does n't cross the blood brain and so tends not to cause 
 . 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( david rind ) 
subject re  ( was good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
organization israel hospital , medical school , boston mass .  . , usa 
lines 24 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 
 ( mccurdy m . ) . writes 
my  ( who sees a fair amount of thrush ) recommended 
after i began taking on a daily basis , the ceased .  . 
when i quit taking the , the periodically resumed .  . 
i resumed taking the with no further since then. 

this is the second post which seems to be the distinction 
between real disease caused by and the disease 
that was being asked about ,  . 

there is no question that causes  . it also 
seems to be the case that active cultures with 
may reduce of at least for i 've 
never heard of anyone taking it for oral before  ( though 
presumably it would work by the same  . 

is clearly a common minor pathogen and a less common major 
pathogen .  . that does not mean that there is evidence that it causes 
the . 


david 


from  ( matthew q de la mancha ) 
subject infant immune development question 
nntp posting host missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 10 

as an animal science student , i know that a number of animals 
to thier young through thier milk .  . in fact , a must 
have a sufficient amount of  ( early milk ) within 12 hours to 
effectively develop the immune system , since for the first  ( less than ) 
24 hours the are open to the passage .  . my question is , 
does this apply to human infants to any degree 

thanks for your time responding , 
matthew 


from  ( berthe y .  . choueiry ) 
subject french to english translation of medical terms 
organization de 
lines 41 
nntp posting host 

dear netters , 

i am not sure whether this is the right place to post my , but i 
thought there may be some in this newsgroup that 
could help. please , excuse me for the bandwidth .  . 

i am trying to build a resource program for managing a 
surgical operating in a hospital .  . the user interface is in 
english , however the terms of medical i was given are in 
french ( i have no medical dictionary , mine is a technical 
university  (  

i need to get the translation into english  ( when there is one) of the 
following words. they refer to medical categories of operating 
 . i admit they may not be universally used . 

1 
2 
3  
4 
5 pre 
6 pre  
7  ( neuro ) 
8 
9 
10  ( urology ) 

thank you for you help. 
cheers , 


y .  . 


, de , 
, 
voice 41 21 52 . and 41 21 66 . 78 . fax 41 21 52 . 25 . 


ps please reply by e mail if possible since i too quickly 
through the messages of this newsgroup .  . 

from  ( infospunj  ( dan field ) 
subject re too many 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 19 

in article  ( paul roberts ) writes 
in article  ( dick king ) writes 

i recall reading somewhere , during my youth , in some science 
book , that changes do n't normally affect chemistry , a 
of only heavy water would be fatal , and that seeds only with heavy 
water do not  . does anyone know about this 


i also heard this. i always thought it might make a good of 
  for someone to be poisoned with heavy water it would n't 
show up in any chemical test. 

that would be a very expensive indeed ! 

daniel r. field , aka joe are you late 
dan no , but i'm working on it ! 
biochemistry , 
california polytechnic state u 

from  ( richard ottolini ) 
subject re 
organization corporation 
lines 20 

living things maintain small electric fields to (1) enhance certain 
chemical reactions , (2) promote of states with in a cell , 
 ( 3 ) communicate between cells  ( of which the nervous system is a 
example) , and perhaps other uses .  . these electric fields change with 
and time in a large organism .  . special techniques such as applying 
external fields in interact with these fields or the 
caused by these fields to make interesting pictures .  . perhaps such pictures will 
be of disease problems in when better understood .  . perhaps not. 

studying the overall electric activity of biological systems is several hundred 
years old , but not a popular activity. perhaps , except in the case of a few 
like and the electric senses of , it is hard to reduce the 
investigation into small pieces that can be clearly  . there are some 
hints that electric fields is a useful such as speeding 
the healing of broken bones , but not understood why. 

has a long association with  . ideas such as 
go back to the most early electrical experiments on tissue such as 
when invented the  . i personally do n't care to to supernatural 
cause to explain things we do n't yet understand. 

from  ( julie kangas ) 
subject re is 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
organization , pasadena , ca 
lines 34 

in article  ( michael m. huang ) writes 
is common in many food we eat , including chinese  ( though some oriental 
might put a too much in them) .  . i 've noticed that when i 
go out and eat in most of the chinese food , i will usually get 
a slight headache and an thirst afterwards. this happens to many 
of my friends and relatives too. and , , we eat chinese food all the 
time at home )  ( but we do n't use when we 're for ourselves ) 

so , when we put one and one together , it can be safely assumed that 
may cause some allergic reactions in some people. 

stick with natural things. does n't do body any good  ( and possibly 
, for that  . so , why bother with it taste food as it should 
be tasted , and do n't cloud the flavor with an imaginary of  . 

as i understood it , is natural. is n't it found in 


anyway , lots of people are terribly allergic to lots of natural 
things , , , milk , etc. just because something 
is  natural  does n't mean it wo n't cause problems with some folks .  . 

as for how taste if i'm not allergic to and i like 
the taste of it , why should n't i use it saying i should n't use 
it is like saying i should n't eat food because my neighbor 
has an  . 

people have long modified the taste of food by , whether 
they be , black pepper , salt , cream , etc. all of these 
things cloud the flavor of the food. why do we bother with them 
how should food be tasted is n't it better left to the 


disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re need info on 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 13 

in article writes 
i just started working for a rehabilitation hospital and have seen 
come up as a several times. what exactly is and what is 
the nature of it if there is a faq on this subject , i 'd really 
appreciate it if someone would mail it to me. while any and all 

 . i'm sure there 's an faq , as i have 
made at least 10 answers to questions on it in the last year or so. 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( ken mitchum ) 
subject re 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( ken mitchum ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 31 

in article  ( andrea m free kwiatkowski ) writes 
i would like to know if there is any new information out there about the 
subject or any new studies being conducted .  . i am confident in my 
and her with the people in hill , but 
since this is a life long disorder and genetically transferred i would 
like keep current .  . i do realize that since this is a relatively new 
disorder  ( first documented in in a clinic in scandanavia ) 
and is therefore . 

i do not know a lot about this , except from seeing one patient with 
's , which is a form of 
in which there is , , and 
 . means that are on the wrong 
side of the body , and can be complete or  . it is interesting 
because the normal of is caused in part 
by the normal associated with motion , so that in 
absence of this , can be random .  . people with 
are quite popular at medical schools , because of their 
, and the fact that most doctors get a bit upset when they 
ca n't find the patient 's heart sounds  ( because they 're on the wrong 
 . 

according to 's , is an 
, which should imply that on average one child in four 
in a family would be affected .  . but there may be much more current 
information on this , and as usual in medicine , we may be talking 
about more than one  . i would suggest that you ask your 
about a medical , of 
which there is probably one at  . 



from  ( doug bank ) 
subject re is 
reply to 
organization motorola land products 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 35 . 
lines 39 

in article ,  ( david thomas ) writes 
 ( claire ) writes 

is there such a thing as  ( monosodium glutamate ) 
i saw in the ny times sunday that scientists have before 
an that about are 
 . anybody here have experience to the contrary 

i'm old enough to remember that the issue has come up at least 
a couple of times since the 1960s .  . then it was called the 
chinese because chinese has 
always used it. 

so far , i 've seen about a dozen posts of evidence , but 
no facts .  . i suspect there is a strong psychological effect at 
work here. does anyone have results from a scientific study 
using double blind trials 

here is another story. i am a and never wanted to 
try chinese food , however , i finally tried some in order to please a 
girl i was seeing at the time. i had never heard of chinese 
 . a group of us went to the and all shared 6 different 
dishes. it did n't taste great , but i decided it was n't so bad. we went 
home and went to early .  . i up at 2 am and my  . 
i threw up for so long that  ( i'm not kidding ) i a in 
my tongue .  . and everything. no one else got sick , and i'm 
not allergic to anything that i know of. 

suffice to say that i wont go into a chinese unless i am 
physically threatened .  . the smell of the food makes me ill  ( and that is 
a  . when i have been in to suffer 
through beef and without any , i insist on no  . 
i have n't gotten sick yet. 


doug bank private systems division 
motorola communications 
, illinois 


from  ( ravi or menon ) 
subject re eye dominance 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 38 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( david nye ) writes 

reply to  ( richard silver ) 

is there a right eye dominance  ( eyedness ) as there is an overall 
right in the population i mean do most people require less 
corrections for the one eye than the other if so , what kinds of 
can be attached to this thanks. 

there is an analogous to but it has nothing to do 
with refractive error. to see whether you are right or left eyed , roll 
up a of paper into a and hold it up to either eye like a 
 . the eye that you feel more comfortable putting it up to is 
your dominant eye. refractive error is often different in the two eyes 
but has no correlation with  . 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 


what do you mean more comfortable putting it up to. that seems a bit 
hard to  . at least for me it is. 

straight point with both hands together and so that only the 
pointer fingers are pointing straight forward to a a on the about 
eight feet away. first at the with both eyes open. now 
close your left eye. now open your left eye. now close your right eye. 
now open your right eye. 

if the image more when you closed your right eye , you are right 
eye dominant .  . 

if the image more when you closed your left eye , you are left eye 
dominant .  . 




from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re vs.  ( was re endoscopy ) 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 16 

in article  ( john lauger ) writes 
in article ,  ( gordon banks ) wrote 

what 's the best approach to getting off the  . is there something 

two approaches that i 've used , 50 ,  . 
the does n't seem to be as bad as things like in promoting 
the abuse headache. for about 3 days  ( in 
 . cold is the only way i think. does n't 
help. i would n't know how you can do this without your doctor .  . i have n't 
seen anyone successfully do it alone. does n't mean it ca n't be done. 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( ralph yozzo ) 
subject re how to  .  .  . really 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host king watson . ibm . com . 
organization ibm t . j .  . watson research center 
lines 29 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 

in article  ( marc gabriel ) writes 

now , i'm not saying that is the best way to it 's very 
hard to culture bb in most cases. the point is that dr. n has developed a 
feel for what is and what is n't  . this comes from years of experience. 
no can match that. unfortunately , some would call dr. n a 
and accuse him of trying to make a quick  . 

why do you think he would be called a the do n't do cultures .  . 
they doing more lab this is , believe me , i 've 
seen it many times. the lab are n't accurate. we 'll treat it 
now. also , is dr. n 's practice almost exclusively devoted to treating 
i do n't know any who fit this 
pattern. they are usually  . 


are you arguing that the lab test is accurate 
the books that i 've read say that in general the 
have a 50 50 chance of being correct.  ( the 
result in a large number of both false and 
false  . i am in the latter case . ) . 

we could get those same odds by the dice . 


ralph 
from the beautiful and new york state mid  . 

from  ( anthony wallis ) 
subject and the great nt war. 
organization york university 
lines 64 

cross posted from alt . psychology . since it talks about 
's personalities .  . apologies to sci . readers not 
familiar with the nt terms. but , 
in a word or two , the  ( intuitive thinkers ) are approximately your 
philosophy science tech pragmatic types , and the nfs  ( intuitive feelers ) 
are your social science theology types .  . they 
hate each others  (  ) but tend to inter marry .  . 
the letter j is a reference to  . 

jon typical type stuff 
are just responding in their natural way 
 .  .  .  . 
 .  . it . is fascinating that a number of 
will type out as nt  .  .  . 
one driving characteristic of an nt , especially an , is their obvious 
behavior  ( driver , type a , etc . ) . the extreme emotional need to 
control , to lead , and or to be the best or the most  .  .  .  . 

please get it right , jon .  . 
 ( this has a strong desire to correct mistakes , 
because the nfs of this world are the once nt 
intellectual nest with their verbal ) . 

the dominant correlation is nt  ( and not nt  . 
one of the roots of is the idea of hot  ( emotional ) 
and one of the roots of is cold  . 

here is a sketch  ( taken from , refering to wundt ) 
the ancient greek with modern terms 

emotional 

( ) ( ) 

suspicious quickly 
unhappy worried 
anxious 
serious active 

calm 
reasonable 
steadfast persistent 
highly controlled controlled easy going 

( ) ( ) 

v 
non emotional 


i suspect that your of as is what 
you psych types call a of your own onto us. 

maybe we need more doctor 's .  . ) 

perhaps in serious and my little boy 's got a 
nose , doctor general practice , but , please god , not in , 
, , etc. etc. and should 
from nt (i . e .  . real ) and be given a new name  .  .  . something 
like ) .  . 


tony , york university , , canada 


from  ( joel malard ) 
subject bone marrow  . 
summary information sought .  . 
keywords severely low blood cell count 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization university , montreal , canada 
lines 10 

i am looking for information on possible causes and long term effects 
of bone marrow  . i would also be if anyone reading 
this newsgroup could list some recognized treatment if anything 
else than massive blood can be effective. if you plan on 
a go to the library style reply , please be kind enough to add a list 
of suggested or readings medicine is not my field .  . 

regards , 
joel  . 


from  ( sharon paulson ) 
subject food related 
organization nasa research center , va , usa 
lines 45 
distribution world 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

i am posting to this group in hopes of finding someone out there in 
network who has heard of something similar to what i am going 
to describe here. i have a year old who experienced 
a on 3 , 1992 at 6 after eating 's 
 . she is perfectly healthy , had never experienced anything like 
this before , and there is no history of in either side of the 
family. all the  ( eeg , , ekg ) came out negative so the decision 
was made to do nothing and just wait to see if it happened again. 

well , we were going along fine and the other morning , april 5 , she had 
a bowl of another 's kind of , fruit loops (i am 
embarrassed to admit that i even bought that junk but every once 
in a while .  .  . ) . so i pour it in her bowl and think oh , oh , this is the 
same kind of junk she was eating when she had that  . ten 
later she had a full blown  . this was her first exposure 
to a sugar since the last  . 

when i mentioned what she the first time as a possible reason for 
the the basically that as an idea. now 
after this second , so similar in nature to the first , even 
he is his head. once again her looks normal which i 
understand can happen even when a person has a  . 

once again we are waiting. i have been thinking that it would be good 
to get to as large a group as possible to see if anyone has any 
experience with this kind of thing. i know that members of the medical 
community are sometimes to admit the importance that diet and 
play in our general health and well being. anyway , as you can 
guess , i am worried sick about this , and would appreciate any ideas 
anyone out there has .  . sorry to be so but i wanted to really get 
across what is going on here. 

thanks. 









nasa research center 
 . , work  ( 804 ) 
, virginia .  . home  ( 804 ) 

from edu . !  ( stephen holland ) 
subject re diet for 's  ( ibd ) 
organization univ .  . of 
distribution usa 
lines 48 

in article , 
wrote 

in article ,  ( john eyles ) writes 

a friend has what is apparently a fairly minor case of 's 
disease. 

but she ca n't seem to eat certain , such as , 
without , and of course she wants to avoid a  . 

her question is are there any who in the 
problems of people with 's disease 

(i saw the suggestion of like tea and  . 

thanks in advance , 
john 

all your friend really has to do is find a  . while 
most work in hospitals and clinics , many major cities will have 's who 
are in private practice so to speak. many will refer their 
with 's disease to 's for dietary help. if you can get 
your friend 's to make a , medical should pay for 
the 's services just like the services of a physical  . the 
better medical plans will cover this but even if your friend 's 
plan does n't , it would be well worth the cost to get on a good diet to 
control the and help the heal .  . 
's disease is an inflammatory disease of the and 
may help by decreasing formation but 
i'm not aware of tea or containing  . for 
bad , are used but for a mild case , the side effects 
are not worth the small benefit gained by use. is developing 
a new that should greatly help deal with 
inflammatory diseases but it 's not available yet. 

b. 

be sure a is up to date on 's and  . 
previously , low diets were recommended , but this advice has 
now changed. also , there will be differences in advice in with 
and without remaining , so by the will be 
important. i find the very important in my practice , and 
i send most of my to a in the course of seeing 
them , since know so much better how to get diet histories 
and the contents of a diet than i do. 

steve holland 

from news nasa . gov .  ( usenet news system ) 
subject re problem 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution sci . 
organization engineering sciences co .  . 
lines 17 

in article tech . edu . , tech . edu . writes 

hi there , 

i have a very  . my problem is when i my face , it becomes 
in half an hour .  . especially in the nose  . is this an how 
can i prevent it from in such short time is there a out 
there that will do a better job that is after cleaning , my face wo n't become 
in such a short time. 

thank you for any suggestion .  . 

if this is a disease , everyone should have it. my has always been 
i used to say if i were hot enough , you could an egg on my face . 
i am now 50 old and my looks  ( i'm told ) than some people 's 
at 30  ( it 's still  . i have only a very few tiny  . thank 
your lucky stars for that  . 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re high 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 12 

in article  ( john e. rodway ) writes 
any comments on the use of the drug for high in the blood 


it can suppress of  . is useful in cases of  . 
some of the secret too much. 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re quality control in medicine 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 20 

in article writes 
does anybody know of any information regarding the of total 
quality , quality control , quality in the of 
health care service .  . i would appreciate any information. if there is enough 
interest , i will post the responses. 


this is in fact a hot topic in medicine these days , and much of the 
medical literature is devoted to this. the most funded studies 
these days are for outcome research , and  ( and others ! ) are 
constantly whether what we do it truly effective in any given 
situation. activities are a part of every hospital 's 
administrative function and are required by  . there 
are even entire devoted to issues. 



university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( michael holloway ) 
subject transplant newsletter , april d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d newsletter , april 
nntp posting host ic . edu . 
organization state university of new york at stony 
lines 

this will be the first of monthly postings of the newsletter of 
the long island chapter of the transplant 
international organization  . unfortunately , i was unable 
to post it before the date of this month 's meeting. i'm 
posting it anyway , and posting it world wide instead of 
regional , in the hopes that some of the information may be 
useful or illustrative .  . also , i hope it can be used as an 
example and inspiration for the posting of other 
and data related to and  . 

mike 

transplant 
international organization 
long island chapter 
p.o. box 
, ny newsletter 

april 1993 
volume no. 8 


next meeting 


the next meeting is april 14 at 8 at the 
of , avenue in  . 
our speaker will be dr. lewis  . dr. 
trained in pittsburgh under dr. and is now the assistant 
director of the transplant program at new york university 
medical center .  . dr. will discuss current trends in 
and treatment and will answer questions. he is 
a long time friend of , surgeon to many of our members , and 
always a gracious and delightful  . it is sure to be a 
very , interesting and engaging evening. our 
, and and jim 
will be well prepared , and at last the should be 
cooperative .  . we hope to see a very large to welcome 
dr.  . 

april 14 k of c 


last meeting 

it has been noted here before that the long island chapter of 
has extraordinary power in bad , being 
able to rain , and fully a month in advance. 
no tv can match us. this time we not only 
again , but we were also able to the long island 
, making travel really difficult. none the less , many 
the and we had an interesting meeting and good 
conversation. our scheduled speaker , mrs .  . , 
a , had a family emergency and was not 
able to  . she hope she will be with us in the fall to 
discuss diet and  . however ,  . , 
an image and sister of a transplant 
was kind enough to step in on very short notice.  . 
gave us a lot of good advice about choosing clothes and makeup , 
 ( even a bit for men ) to help us look well and healthy and to 
minimize some of the effects of some of the medicine 
and drugs we take .  . we are most to and thank 
her for an entertaining evening. 



meeting 

in addition to dr. , the april meeting is 
also the meeting of the chapter .  . this is the official 
notice of the meeting as required by our by laws .  . the main 
purpose of the meeting is to review the past year , 
member views and ideas for better ways to meet their needs , and 
to elect members of the board of for the coming two 
year term .  . the has prepared the following 
for the board. 

anne  ( liver recipient ) and 
robert  ( heart recipient ) and smith 
 ( kidney recipient ) and 
 ( liver recipient ) 
jan  ( kidney recipient ) 
larry  ( kidney recipient ) 
david  ( director public education litp ) 

those remaining on the board for another year are 

robert  ( liver , recipient ) 
jerry  ( kidney recipient ) and 
ron  ( kidney donor ) and healy 
peter smith  ( bone marrow recipient ) 
patricia ann  ( kidney and recipient ) 
walter  ( kidney recipient ) 

this may seem to be a big board , but many hands make light work 
and with our various medical uncertainties , it is good to have 
for all the jobs on the board. therefore , in addition 
to the being presented for voting , will also 
be accepted from the  . there is no set number of board 
members and there is plenty of work. 

in addition , brief 's and membership reports will be 
given and the will be open for any new business , 
suggestions , or comments anyone would like to bring up. 

we will keep the formal meeting short so that we can spend the 
majority of the time with dr.  . 

future meetings 

remember the scheduled for the rest of the year .  . 

may 12 dr. peter , chief of 
medical center 

june 9 dr. , director of the stony 
transplant program .  . 

plan on being with us the second of each month .  . 



the week of april 18 24 is national and tissue 
awareness week.  . while we are planning news , 
speaking and meetings with and 
, we have decided not to have our game 
because of two year 's experience with miserable  . 

we all can help spread the word on awareness , however. we 
have found it effective to ask your , or rabbi to publish 
a letter or announcement in the , allow you to 
address the , or include mention of the gift of 
life in his  . attached to this newsletter is a 
letter and fact you can use. thank you. 

dr. to be 

the long island chapter of the american foundation will 
hold its and dance on may 7th at the 
on in  . dr. thomas 
will be the  . are 50 person and 
are going fast .  . if you 'd like to meet dr. , call anne 
at  ( 516 ) for details. 

membership news 

to al  . al received his heart transplant 
in pittsburgh after waiting 3 1 2 years. he is home and doing 
well after only 12 days in hospital .  . 

, , is planning to run the boston 
in april .  . what proof that 
works ! we hope the national press  . 

bob , after a persistent with infection , had his 
removed. he is home now , back on 
and feeling better. 

healy , and daughter of ron and , 
spent the past several weeks in hospital in miami with problems 
encountered on  . has been with her in florida .  . 
they are back in new york where 's treatment will 
continue. we wish a  . 

, , is now after a bad fall 
that resulted in a broken and a broken  . is a 
candidate for the board so we need her well soon. 

and best wishes to all coming out of the flu .  . it was a tough 
for many , but the are just under the  . 

see you .  .  .  .  .  . april 14 8 k of c 
dr. lewis 








from  ( roger haaheim ) 
subject re sex problem. 
article i.d. news . 
organization california design center , santa , ca 
lines 15 
nntp posting host hammer . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

larry wrote 
out there , 

she suggested we go to a sex , but i really do n't want to  ( just  . 

interesting. does she know you have placed this info request on the 
net for the world to see if not , how do you think she would react 
if she found out why would you accept the advice of unknown entities 
rather than a 

any suggestions would be appreciated. 

see the  . 

well , you asked. 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re of and 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 27 

in article writes 
i thought i will the net wisdom with the following questions 

is there any better way to control the pain than what the surgeon suggested 
how long will such pain last will the pain in the future 

no one can answer that. if she gets , 
it could last forever. just hope she does not. most do n't .  . 

do  ( partially cut ) heal completely and is all of the finger 
strength how long does it take for the complete healing process 


sometimes they do and sometimes they do n't .  . you just have to do the 
best job you can and hope. you should know in a few 
months. 








gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from 
subject help 
reply to 
organization 
keywords information 
lines 9 

help ! 
maybe anybody know names of in 
please help me find any information for next keywords 
and 
i no on this subjects 2 years i leave in 
 . 
sorry for my bad english ! 
my 


from  ( michael holloway ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
nntp posting host ic . edu . 
organization state university of new york at stony 
lines 54 

in article  ( mark fulk ) writes 
in article  ( gary merrill ) writes 

in article ,  ( mark fulk ) writes 
what is wrong with the above observation is that it explicitly gives the 
impression  ( and you may not in fact hold this view ) that the common  ( perhaps 
even the correct ) approach for a scientist to follow is to sit around 
having of fancy and on the basis of his and 
petty  . 

of fancy , and other irrational approaches , are common .  . the crucial 
thing is not to sit around just having fantasies they are n't of any use 
unless they make you do some experiments .  . i 've known a lot of scientists 
whose fantasies lead them on to creative work usually they wo n't admit 
out loud what the fantasy was , prior to the of a few  . 

the danger in philosophizing about science is that theory and generalization 
can end up being far removed from the actual day to day of the at the 
 . yes , its great to be involved in a process were i can walk into the 
lab after a heavy night of and just do something for the hell of it 
 ( as long as my does n't me which is easy enough to do ) , but 
out such behavior seems to be the purpose in life of grant review 
and the peer review process in general. in today 's world that 's 
what determines what science is what gets funded .  . and a damn good thing to. 
of fantasy just do n't have much chance of producing anything , at 
least not in research .  . the way for a graduate student to 
ruin their life is to work in a lab where the boss is more concerned with 
out his her fantasies than with having the student work on a project 
that actually has a good chance of producing some results. md 's seem to 
be particularly prone to this behavior. 

 ( simple example warren noticed an extremely heavy on a dna 
of human fragments .  . he got very , that 
he 'd seen some essential part of the control mechanism for 
genes .  . this fantasy led him to sequence samples of the and carry out 
binding  . the result was a well conserved , 400 or so , sequence 
that occurs about , 000 times in the human  . unfortunately for 
warren 's fantasy , it turns out to be a that is present in 
so many copies because it replicates itself and copies itself back into 
the  . on the other hand , the characteristics of were 
much the necessity of a reverse was 
recognized and the standard method of recognizing human dna was created. 
other species have different sets of  . fortunately for me , 
warren and i used to eat at t . g . i .  . all the time . ) . 

i have to agree with 's response to this. i 've read alot of the 
and middle sequence work and it 's really very interesting , 
good work with implications for many fields in molecular genetics .  . it 's 
really an example of how a well reasoned project turned up interesting 
results that were  . 

mike 



from  ( richard clark ) 
subject re is 
organization trusted information systems , inc. 
lines 30 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( charles packer ) writes 

is there such a thing as  ( monosodium glutamate ) 
i saw in the ny times sunday that scientists have before 
an that about are 
 . anybody here have experience to the contrary 

i'm old enough to remember that the issue has come up at least 
a couple of times since the 1960s .  . then it was called the 
chinese because chinese has 
always used it. 


my blood pressure , my heart pounds , and i ca n't get to sleep 
for the life of me .  .  .  . about like i just drank 8 cups of coffee .  . 

i avoid it , and sugar , flavor , , and 
whatever other names it may go under .  . i read the , and 
if i do n't know what they all are , i do n't buy the product .  . 

is definately real . 



relativity 
richard h. clark my opinions are my own , and 
watch for me on the road .  .  .  . ought to be yours , but under 
it 's not my fault .  .  .  . i voted ! no circumstances are they 
those of my company .  .  .  . 


from  ( john , d . ) . 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization little scraps of paper , mostly 
lines 10 


i think he means  . a good place to find it is in 
non little places that usually just say books on the 
outside of the building in black and white. 




john 


from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re is 
organization wide field camera 
lines 28 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

in article com . ,  ( chris best ) writes 

jason writes 
now here is a new one  . my guess is that becomes the number one 
suspect of any problem. in this case. it might be just food poisoning .  . but 
if you heard things about , you may think it must be it. 



yeah , it might , if you only read the part you quoted .  . you somehow left 
out the part about we all the same thing. changes things a bit , eh 

perhaps. now , just what leads you to believe that it was and not some 
other in the food that made you ill 

these people are n't condemning chinese food , mr. just one of its 
 ( optional )  . try not to take it so personally. 

and you 're condemning one particular without any evidence that 
that 's the to which you  . 

j internet 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

subject need help in research 
from  ( thomas thompson ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 8 

i am doing a term paper on , actually the scientist who 
helped the drug .  . i discovered that joseph is one of the 
who helped create  . the only information on 
this person i know is he was a that did research in the 's .  . 
i already did research at my local , but i still need more 
information. my is requiring resources from the computer 
 . please write back concerning my subject , any books , articles , 
etc. , will be appreciated. 

from  ( brian k. yoder ) 
subject re is 
organization quake public access , san , ca  ( 818)362 ) 
lines 

have you ever met a a food industry you must 
personally know a lot of them for you to be able to be so certain that they 
are evil whose only goal is to inflict as much pain and disease 
as possible into the general public. a break .  . 

in article  ( walter f. l 
undby ) writes 

is there such a thing as  ( monosodium glutamate ) 
 . anybody here have experience to the contrary 

person who is very sensitive to and whose wife and kids are 
too , i want to know why the food industry wants to put in food ! ! ! 

because it makes the food taste better ! why does it put salt in food 
same reason. 

i really t understand ! ! ! 

obviously. 

somebody in the industry give me some reasons why ! 

is it an industrial that needs getting get rid of 

of course not !  ( although i would think that a person like you would be a 
big fan of such if that were the  . 

is it to cover up the fact that the are not very good or the 
food is poor quality 

on that 's probably the case , but in general the idea is that 
the flavor of certain  . 

do some of you get a sadistic pleasure out of making some of us sick 

no. 

do the taste have some defect in their flavor  ( mouth etc .  .  . ) . 
that 

no. 

i really t understand ! ! ! 

obviously. 

also ...  ( sp ) 

as i recall , these are natural by products of heating up certain  . 
they do n't put it in there . 


have a number of in choosing how to process food. they want to 
make it taste good , look good , sell for a good price , etc. the fact that they 
use it tells me that they think that it to those goals they are 
interested in. one of those goals is not making people sick . such a goal 
quickly drive them out of business and for no benefit .  . 

i think 
1 ) outlaw the use of these without warning as 
large as those on  .  . 

warning of what in california there is a law requiring that anything which 
contains a be labeled .  . that includes every , most 
, and even money cleaning machines  ( because is a mild  . 
the result is that now nobody any attention to any of the warnings .  . 

2 ) require 30 of comparable products on the market to be free of these 
and state that they are free of , , and 
on the  . 

why what if not 30 of people wanted to buy this , , not as 
food i guess it will just be , huh how terribly efficient .  . 

3) while at it outlaw 5. for that matter why food 

because it makes food look better. i like food that looks good. 
if vitamin want to do that it is fine , but who are you to 
tell them how to make vitamins who are you to tell me whether i should 
buy vitamins for my kids  ( who ca n't swallow the conventional ones 
 . 

keep food food ! quit putting in junk ! 

how do you define junk is putting salt in food bad what about 
pepper what about as a what about 
with what about vinegar you seem to think that are 
somehow different than food . the fact is that all are 100  . 
you are just expressing an irrational prejudice against food  . 

brian 

from  ( chris black ) 
subject disease 
organization , inc. 
lines 18 

my mom has just been with disease a big 
relief , as it was a that could have been  . her doctor says 
she should go off and for 6 months , as well as 
stopping the she 's been taking for related reasons. 
she 's not with this , i think especially because she just gave 
up soon she wo n't have any left ! now , i thought 
i 'd heard that were common and not really a health risk. 
is this accurate if so , why is she being told to make various 
sacrifices to treat something that 's not that big of a deal 

thanks for any information. 

chris 




note my mailer tends to subject lines. 

from  ( ella i baff ) 
subject re selective 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 37 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

ron once you have your confirmed through the 
proper , you might consider following ... 
diet 

1 ) ron .  .  . what . do you consider to be proper  .  .  . this . sounds 
like a blood chemistry .  .  . tolerance and the like .  .  . suddenly . chemistry 
exists you know perfectly well that this person can be saved trouble 
and expense with simple and hair analysis to  .  . no . 
any  .  . but . then again .  .  . maybe . that 's what you proper  . 

2 ) were you able to understand dick king 's post that 90 of diseases is not thing as 90 of which was a reply to your inability to 
the statistic you cited from the new england journal of medicine .  . figure out what is implied by the remark of course are bound to not knowingly  .  .  . 

3) ron .  .  . have . you ever thought about why you never post in misc . health . 
 .  . and . insist instead upon insinuating your , non medical , often 
delusional notions of health and disease into this forum i suspect from your 
apparent and medicine that there may be an 
underlying  father  .  . of . course i can this by 
one of my while they ponder my theory to see if one of their 
previously weak    .  . or . do you have 
about my unique methods of oh .  . i . forgot what you said in an earlier 
post .  .  . neither am i concerned of whether or not my study designs meet your or 
anyone else 's of acceptance .  . 

john , , ca 









ideas 



from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 

in article  ( jon noring ) writes 
there is no convincing evidence that such a disease exists. 
there 's a lot of evidence , it just has n't been adequately gathered and 
published in a way that will convince the die hard skeptics 
who the word  anecdote  or  empirical  is used. 

snort .  . ah , there go my again. 

for example , dr. , who wrote the book survival , always gives , 

oh , wow. a classic textbook .  . hey , they laughed at einstein , too ! 

before any other treatment , a anti  ( such as nizoral ) to his 
new if they 've been on spectrum anti 4 or more times 
in the last two years. he 's kept a record of the results , and for over 
2000 found that over 90 of his get significant relief 
of allergic symptoms .  . of course , this is only the beginning for his 
program .  . 

yeah , i 'll bet. tomorrow , the world. 

listen , studies like this are worthless .  . 

in my case , as i reported a few weeks ago , i was developing the classic 
symptoms in  the connection  (i agree it is a poorly 
written book ) e.g. , extreme to , , etc. which 
i never had before  ( started in  . within one week of full 
of , the to has fully disappeared i can 
now sit on my at home without dying after two minutes. i'm also 
greatly improved in other areas as well. 

i'm sure you are. you sound like the typical who 
responds to miracle  . 

of course , i have symptoms , etc. i am especially allergic to 
, , etc. it does n't take a rocket scientist to figure out that 
if one has excessive colonization of in the body , and you have a 
natural to , that a would be reached where you 
would have symptoms .  . 

yeah , it makes sense to me , so of course it should be taken seriously. 
snort .  . 

also , do produce of various 
sorts , and again , you do n't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that 
such can cause problems in some people. 

yeah , it sounds reasonable to me . 

of course , the 60 , 000 
question is whether a person who is immune  ( as showed i was 
from over 5 years of , because of the 
of and , etc . ) . , 

oh , really what immune , my ass. 
more like  . this is a  . 

can develop excessive 
colonization somewhere in the body. it is a tough question to answer since 
for excessive colonization is not easy .  . one almost has to 
take an empirical approach to  . fortunately , is relatively 
safe unlike past anti  ( still have to be careful , however ) so there 's 
no reason any longer to treatment for empirical reasons. 

you know , it 's a that a drug like is being misused 
in this way. it 's expensive , and  . 
the trouble is that it is n't enough , so it gets by  . 

btw , some would say to try  . unfortunately , most grows 
too deep into tissue for to have any permanent affect .  . you 'll find 
a lot of people who are on all the time. 

the only good thing about is that it 's  ( relatively ) cheap 
and when taken , non  . but oral is without any 
effect , so unless it were given , it would be without 
any effect on your  . i wish these would first use 
or b on people like you. that would solve 
the problem once and for all. 

in summary , i appreciate all of the attempts by those who desire to keep 
medicine on the right road. but that some who hold too firmly 
to the party line are who have n't been in the long enough 
actually treating  . if anybody , doctors included , said to me to my 
face that there is no evidence of the  connection  , i cannot 
their safety .  . for their , off their is justified as 
far as i am concerned. 

perhaps a little would go a long way towards 
your symptoms .  . 

are you paying for this treatment out of your own i 'd hate 
to think my are going towards this. 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( daniel paul checkman ) 
subject re is 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 22 

com .  ( bruce reynolds ) writes 

evidence is worthless .  . even doctors who have been using a drug 
or treatment for years , and who swear it is effective , are often suprised 
at the results of trials .  . whether or not causes , 
, symptoms should be pretty simple to discover .  . 

i tend to disagree i think evidence , provided there is a lot of it , 
and it is fairly consistent , will is very important. first , it points to the 
necessity of doing a study , and second , it at least says that the effects are 
all psychological  ( or possibly in this  . as i 've pointed out 
before , effects are no less real than other effects .  . one 
person 's make believe can easily be another person 's reality. using 
drugs in a bizarre and twisted example , the one 
person experiences on an acid trip cannot be guaranteed to another person on 
an acid trip there is no evidence that those effects are always going 
to happen. anyhow , that was a pretty example , but i made my 
point it 's all a matter of perception , and as long as someone 
it as causing bad effects , then s he can definitely experience those 
 . on the other hand , it could just be an to the food it 's in , or something. still , evidence is not worthless it 's the stuff that 
leads to the study being done. 
dan 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re general information , references , etc. 
keywords , blood 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 20 

in article  ( larry yeagley ) writes 
i have an acquaintance who has been as having blood and 
. i searched the latest edition of the medical 
encyclopedia and found nothing. 's medical dictionary gives a very brief 
description which suggests it 's an condition. can someone point me  ( an 

occurs when happens in a 
by  . the pressure in the and blood 
supply and are  . the treatment is to open the 
 . the most common places for 
are the and  . it is an emergency , since 
if the pressure is not , stuff will die. 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


subject re 
from  ( alexis perry ) 
organization university science center 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 18 

in article tech . edu . tech . edu . writes 

doctors said that he could die from it , and the caused 

is it that serious my often comes back with a few 
beats .  . another question is a low blood level very bad my 
doctor seems concerned , but she tends to worry too much in general. 



perry the less i want the more i get 
make me , but not just yet. 
house box it 's a promise or a lie 
 ( 617 ) i 'll before i die. 
work have you lost your mind ! 
sting 

nobody really admits to my opinions last of all college 

from c . 
subject looking for a doctor 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
keywords san francisco 
lines 9 


i was kind of half watching street stories last night 
and one of the was about this doctor in 
s . f .  . who provides a service of investigating treatment 
for various diseases .  . i'm pretty sure his name is 
dr. mark (sp ) or close to that. 
did anyone else watch this i 'd like to get his 
correct name and address phone number if possible. 
thanks. 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re non  ( was too many ) 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 18 

in article  ( russell turpin ) writes 

how does the get i would have thought that failure 
to contain it perfectly would result in its  .  .  . back into 
the atmosphere .  . sounds like a cycle to me. obviously , it takes 
energy to run the cycle , but i seriously doubt that 
is a resource issue. 

it 's not a cycle .  . free will escape from the atmosphere due to 
its high  . it wo n't be practical to it. it has 
to be  . 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


subject broken 
from 
organization the old 's , , b.c. 
keywords advice needed 
summary long term problems 
lines 17 

, i am not sure if this is the right conference to ask this 
question , however , here i go .  .  . i am a and i 
about 3 weeks ago down into the hold of the and broke or 
a and and bruised my back and left  . 
my question , i have been to a doctor and was told that it was 
best to do nothing and it would heal up with no long term effect , and 
indeed i am about 60 better , however , the work i do is very 
hard and i am still not able to go back to work. the thing that me 
is the movement or i feel and hear back there when i move 
certain ways .  .  .  . i heard some one talking about the they broke 
years ago and that it still bothers them. . any opinions 
thanx and cheers 

 ( john cross ) 
the old 's  ( home of the unix users group ) 
 ( 604 )  ( v32 ) public access usenet  ( 604 )  ( 2400x4 ) 
vancouver island , british 1 . 64 . 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re is 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
lines 78 

in article  ( opirg ) writes 
so far , i 've seen about a dozen posts of evidence , but 
no facts .  . i suspect there is a strong psychological effect at 
work here. does anyone have results from a scientific study 
using double blind trials 

check out , just some 20 posts before your own. 

, i hate to break this to you , but article numbers are unique per site. 
they have no meaning on other machines .  . 

maybe you missed it the of responses 

you mean the responses some of which pointed to double blind 
which show no such chinese effect unique to 
 ( it 's by the as well . ) . 

yet again , the use of this 
newsgroup is by people not their posts to matters 
they have substantial knowledge of. 

like someone who can read a scientific paper and apparently 
come away from it with ideas which have nothing to 
do with the use of this substance in human 

for cites on , look up almost anything by john w. , a 
who has studied the effects of on the brain and on 
development .  . it is undisputed in the literature that is an 
food , 

no , it 's undisputed in the literature that is an amino acid 
which is an  . there is also evidence that 
excessive release of may be involved in the of certain 
conditions like , drowning and 's disease , just to name a few. 
this is a completely different issue than the use of this ubiquitous amino acid 
in  . people are not receiving of  . 

and that its major , 
is essentially the in the brain 
 ( humans  . 

i do n't know about , but it 's certainly an important one. 

too much in the diet , and the system gets thrown off. 

you. such an effect in humans has not been demonstrated in any 
controlled studies .  . infant and other models are useful as far 
as they go , but they 're not relevant to the matter at hand. which is 
not to say that i favor its use in things like baby food a patently 
ridiculous use of the  . but we have no reason to believe 
that in the diet effects humans adversely .  . 

and , also an are necessary in 
small , and are freely available in many , but the 
added by industry are far above the that would normally be 
encountered in a ny single food. 

wrong. do you know how much or is in a soft drink 
worth .  . compare that to a glass of milk .  . do you know how much 
is present in most protein containing compared to that 
added by the use of 

by eating lots of junk food , 
, and diet soft , it is possible to jack your 
blood levels so high , that anyone with a to these 
will suffer numerous real effects .  . 

notice the subtle covering of her ass here anyone with a ... 
we 're the size of that class .  . 

read 's review paper in  . brain , 1988 , and check his 
sources. they are  . there is no dispute .  . 

 . there most certainly is a dispute .  . 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re and fact 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 26 

in article writes 

my wife cannot donate blood because she has been to a 
in the past three years. in fact , she tried to have her bone marrow 
typed and they would n't even do that ! why 

the , i believe. rules say no blood or blood products 
from anyone who has been in a area for 3 years. i was a 
until my trip and my blood bank was very 
to find out they could n't use me for 3 years. 


when the of state asked me if i wanted to donate my 
i said no because i that no one would want them 
given my history. was i correct 

not necessarily .  . the same rules may not apply to 
as to blood  . in fact , i'm sure they do n't .  . 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( brian delaney ) 
subject re questions 
keywords 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 47 

in article writes 
okay , this is a long shot .  . 

my friend has of type symptoms , very 
regularly. this has been going on for a number of years. she 's seen a 
number of doctors was the last count , i think. most of them have 
said either you have or you 're full of it there 's nothing wrong 
with you. one has admitted to having no idea what was wrong with her , 
and one has claimed that it is  . 

now , what she told me about is that very few doctors even believe that 
it exists.  ( obviously , this has been her experience . ) . so , what 's the 
story is it real does the medical profession believe it to be real 

has anyone had success is treating or is it just something to live 
with thanks for your assistance .  . 

of a like entity were originally called  ( or 
some variant thereof ) because most of the people with this disease had 
levels of antibodies to the virus .  . but not all of them 
did , which prompted an official of the disease to 
 ( this took place in the of internal 
medicine , jan .  . 1988 , i  . now it 's also called 
and immune  ( cfids ) , since it seems clear that 
some sort of immune is causing the  . 

, there are still who tell people with 
, and , etc. , that there 's 
nothing wrong with them. this is not the same thing as saying that the 
may have a  ( at least partly ) psychological cause. the 
disagreement among people whose thoughts are worth considering 
on just what the cause is. no one knows , but theories include 
psychological , some sort of virus (a , say most 
maybe one of the discovered viruses ) , environmental 
, bacteria  ( and , yes , candida ) , genes ,  ( and or ) some of 
these. 

there 's no outright at the moment , but different try 
different things , some of which seem to help. 

massive of info on the condition are available these days. 
post your q to alt . , and you will be flooded w facts .  . 

note there are lots of far better understood  ( and better treatable ) 
diseases that look like  . make sure these get ruled out by a good 
doc .  . 


from  ( david nye ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 29 

reply to  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 

medicine is not a totally scientific  . 

the of scientific knowledge is completely scientific .  . the 
application of that knowledge in individual cases may be more art than 
science. 

there are diseases that have n't been described yet and the root cause 
of many diseases now described are n't known.  ( read a book on 
sometime if you want to see a lot of them . ) . after 
scientific methods have run out then it 's the patient 's freedom of 
choice to try any experimental method they choose .  . and it 's well 
recognized by many doctors that medicine does n't have all the answers. 

certainly we do n't have all the answers. the question is , what is the 
most reliable means of further medical knowledge the 
scientific method has proven itself to be reliable .  . the only reason 
alternative are by is that their 
refuse to submit their theories to rigorous scientific 
scrutiny , that tradition or evidence are 
sufficient .  . these have been shown many times in the past to be very 
unreliable ways of reliable knowledge. 's ideas have 
never been backed up by scientific evidence. his to do 
good science makes the rest of us doubt the veracity of his  . 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( howard r doyle ) 
subject re donating 
article i.d. blue . 
organization pittsburgh transplant institute 
lines 31 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( michael holloway ) writes 

there been anything recent in transplant or , on 
how about section transplants from living 


i'm sure the pittsburgh group has published the work , but i 
do n't know where .  . in chicago they were doing lobe transplants from 
living , and i'm sure they 've published .  . 



the case report of the first was published in 1993 65  . 
i can send you a if you are interested .  . 
there was another paper , sort of a of the , written by and 
published in the resident 's edition of the of  ( vol 216 , october 1992) .  . 
it 's in the surgical resident 's newsletter section , so you wo n't find it in the regular 
issue of the  . i do n't have any of that one. 
a paper has been accepted for publication by today , though i'm not sure 
when it 's coming out , describing our experience with the two done to date. 


as for transplants from living related i must confess to a total 
ignorance of that literature .  . we are philosophically opposed to those , and i do n't keep 
up with that particular field .  . 






from  ( paul johnson ) 
subject poisoning with heavy water  ( was re too many ) 
reply to  ( paul johnson ) 
organization research centre , great , uk 
lines 61 

in article  ( paul roberts ) writes 
in article  ( dick king ) writes 

i recall reading somewhere , during my youth , in some science 
book , that changes do n't normally affect chemistry , a 
of only heavy water would be fatal , and that seeds only with heavy 
water do not  . does anyone know about this 


i also heard this. i always thought it might make a good of 
  for someone to be poisoned with heavy water it would n't 
show up in any chemical test. 

no one else seems to know , so i 'll post this. 

this topic came up on sci . physics . fusion . shortly after the cold fusion 
started .  . as i recall , its been done to some experimental  . 
they showed various ill effects and eventually died. the reason is 
that does not have exactly the same reaction as 
due to its extra mass  ( which causes lower , 
constant ,  . this throws various bits of body biochemistry out 
of , and you get sick and die. 

i 've never heard of anyone being this way , in or out of real 
life. the process takes quite a while. if anyone wants to write this 
book , i would imagine you would have to 

1 replace a significant of the water in the body with heavy 
water .  . 

2 wait while normal and processes cause other 
in the body to be using the  . 

during this process the victim would gradually and 
eventually die , but i imagine it would take weeks during which the 
would have to ensure that a significant of the 
water the victim was heavy .  . 

you would get such a mess of symptoms that the doctors would be both 
and confused .  . why should every in the body suddenly 
begin to if you can figure out how the gets the 
heavy water into the victim in a hospital then you could have a real 
story here. 

come to think of it , 2 would continue even after the heavy water was 
no longer being , so might be too late. 

the most detectable effect would be that the victim 's body fluids 
would literally be heavy . water has a molecular weight of 18 and 
heavy water has a mw of 20 .  . thus the victim 's weight will increase by 
about 1 for every 10 of body water replaced by heavy water .  . maybe 
the occurs because some in the lab that 
the victim 's is strangely  . is there any medical test 
involving the specific gravity of a body fluid 

paul .  . 

paul johnson  ( paj@gec co .  . tel 44 

these ideas and others like them can be had research is not 
for 0 . 02 . each from any  . responsible for my opinions 

from  ( chris schaeffer ) 
subject re 
summary it will be difficult. 
organization university , cambridge , ma 
distribution world 
lines 28 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
probably within 50 years , a new type of will be possible. 
 .  .  . should . we do this should we make a race of disease free , long lived , 
arnold , even if we can. 

gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


two thoughts. 

i think that psychologically it will be easier for the next 
generation to accept genetic  . it seems that people 
upon  with nature  , ignoring our eons old practice of doing just that. 
any new human intervention is  arrogance and  and 
we routinely do is  natural  and certainly  not a big  . 

most interesting human traits will probably be 
and be full of trade  . in addition , without a positive 
social environment for the of genetic , having them wo n't 
be the advantage it 's made out to be. some people will certainly pursue it 
as if it is the , but we know how most of those turn out. 

chris 





from  ( robert woodworth ) 
subject re can men get 
organization open systems solutions inc. 
lines 16 
distribution na 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( jon noring ) writes 

in article  ( tammy vandenboom ) writes 

here 's a stupid question to possibly the wrong news group , but .  . . 

can men get spread them what kind of symptoms 
similar as women 's i have a infection and my husband  ( who is a 
natural on a good day ) is sure he 's gonna it and keeps 
asking me what it 's like. i'm not sure what his symptoms would be. . 

the answer is yes and no. i'm sure others on sci . can expand on this. 

recently someone posted an account of this. 
unfortunately it was posted to alt . tasteless . so the gross details were emphasized 
instead of e actual scientific facts .  . 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re sleeping pill 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 22 

in article  ( daniel federman ) writes 

a friend of mine took 60 sleeping , each 
containing of , i think. that 's , total .  . 

i'm worried , though , about the long term effects .  . since he 
never had his stomach , will he have or brain damage any 
information would be greatly appreciated. 

should n't have. but he may need to see the about why he 
wanted to kill himself. depressed people can be treated 
usually .  . 







gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( lee lady ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
summary asking the wrong question is the most fundamental error. 
keywords science errors 
organization university of hawaii  ( mathematics dept ) 
expires mon , 10 may 1993 10 00 00 gmt 
lines 80 


avoiding mistakes is certainly highly desirable .  . however it is also 
widely acknowledged that is to  . 
and in ordinary life , carried beyond a certain point is 
of a psychological disorder .  . in the extreme case , a 
becomes so by all the possible mistakes he might 
make that he is unable to even leave the house. 

in science , we want to discover as much truth about the world as possible 
and we also want to have as much certainty as possible about these 
 . usually there is some trade off between these two 
the search for and the search for certainty .  . 

if century had demanded total from newton and 
then there would probably be no today , because neither 
of the two could explain in a way that really made sense , since 
they the concept of a limit .  . and in fact , because of the lack of 
a rigorous foundation , they made a number of errors in their use of  . 
it was only a hundred years later that was able to give a solid 
for the ideas of newton and  . nonetheless , what newton 
and did was science and mathematics gained a great 
deal more from the application of their important ideas than it lost 
through the mistakes they made. 

in article 
 ( dick king ) writes 
somebody writes 
i doubt if einstein used any formal  . .... 
.... 
he also proposed numerous experiments which if performed would distinguish a 
universe in which special relativity holds from one in which it does not. 
.... 
einstein played by the rules , which demand that only be put out 
there if there exists a specific experiment that could disprove them. 

these are not the rules according to many who post to sci . and 
sci . psychology .  . according to these posters if it 's not supported by 
carefully designed controlled studies then it 's not science. 

taken to the extreme , i believe that the attitude that empirical studies 
are everything and ideas are nothing results in a complete 
of science. 

for one thing , an on an elaborate and expensive 
results in a sort of scientific trade , where those outside 
the and lacking or support have 
no chance to obtain a hearing .  . (i do n't in the least believe that this 
is the intention of the of scientific  . nonetheless , 
it is one of the results . ) . and although science has 
certainly produced many wonderful results , i think it is a foolish 
arrogance for scientists to believe that no one outside the 
and using less than perfect empirical will ever come 
with anything worthwhile .  . 

furthermore , the big approach to science promotes what i think is 
one of the most significant errors in science choosing to investigate 
questions because they can be readily by the currently 
 ( or because one can readily get 
or for them) instead of directing attention to 
those questions which seem to have fundamental significance .  . 

for instance , certain questions cannot be easily investigated with 
statistical methods because the relevant factors are not quantitative .  . 
 ( one could argue that this is the case for almost all questions in many 
areas of psychology .  . in my opinion , a of many of the papers 
resulting from the attempt by psychologists to force these questions 
into a statistical gives the lie to russell 's 
assertion that current scientific methods avoid all known errors. ) 

i think that asking the wrong question is probably the most fundamental 
error in science.  ( ignoring valuable ideas is one of the 
others . ) . and i think that scientific are full of all 
too many studies done with empirical methods but which are 
worthless because the wrong question was asked in the first place. 


in the arguments between and , psychology seems 
less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects .  . 



from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 16 

in article  ( daniel prince ) writes 

i only have on my  . is there any medical 
significance to that finding thank you in advance for all 
replies .  . 


try the back at the base of your other 
 ( not too hard , now , do n't want to hurt  . you 'll find 
nice little there if you can it back enough. 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( bill barry ) 
subject 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 16 
nntp posting host access . net . 
summary fast of re cells 
keywords , , 

i'm looking for good background and review paper references that can help me 
understand the of in normal and cells .  . in 
particular , i'm not interested in behavior and cell , 
but rather in the internal motions of the and its components 
under normal and circumstances .  . 

also , i 'd appreciate any data on force , , and 
properties of , and properties of  . any other 
info relevant to the or properties of these would 
be useful to me. 

thanks .  .  .  . 

bill 



from 
subject re help me  .  .  . 
organization oxford university vax 
lines 12 

the best way of self injection is to use the right size 
and choose the correct  . for , usually given 
, use a thin  ( 23 24 guage ) and select a on 
the , outer  ( no major or blood  . 
clean the area with before injection , and after. make 
sure to deeply (a different kind of pain is felt when the 
enters the contrasted to the   when it 
the  . 

ps try to go to a doctor .  . self treatment and self injection should 
be avoided as far as possible. 


from  ( 51351 robert  ( feddeler(mt4799)t343 ) 
subject re 
organization at t n . j .  . u . s . a .  . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution usa 
lines 16 

mr. blue wrote 
could somebody explain to me what a is and what it is 
used for i it being something that test 
around really fast but i remember why want to do that 


purely  . they get bored sitting in that 
all the time. 




bob .  . i only when i lie , 
you can learn more in a bar and i 'll tell you why .  .  .  . 
than you can in a lawyer 's office. 
were these more than just my opinions , they would have cost a bit more. 

from  ( robert greenstein ) 
subject re and aids 
organization strawman incorporated 
lines 21 

in article  ( euclid k . ) . writes 
 ( alice taylor ) writes 

a friend of mine is seeing an and 
wants to know if there is any danger of getting 
aids from the  . 

ask the whether he uses the pre 
, or if he , them between use. in the 
former case there 's no conceivable way to get aids from the  . in 
the latter case it 's highly unlikely  ( though many use the 
variety  . 

it is illegal to perform with  . no 
would dare do this. also there is not a single documented case 
of of aids via  . i would n't worry about it. 


robert what the fool cannot learn he at , thinking 
that by his laughter he shows superiority instead 
of latent m. 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 14 

in article  ( mark fulk ) writes 
in article  ( h hecimovic ) writes 
or are localized to the too rare to be able 
to tell 

extremely rare in humans. usually so much else is involved you 'd 
just have a mess to sort out. birds do all vision in the , 
do n't they 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( keith f. lynch ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
organization express access public access unix , , maryland usa 
lines 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
keith is the only person i have ever heard of that keeps the weight 
off without any conscious effort to control eating behavior. ... most 
of us have to diet a lot to keep from going back to obesity .  . 

i attribute my success to several factors 

very low fat .  . except when someone else has a for me , 
i only eat fruit , , and whole grain or  . i 
estimate i only get about 5 to 10 percent of my from fat .  . 

very little sugar or salt .  . 

very high  . most americans get about 10  . 25 to 35 are 
recommended .  . i get between 50 and 150 .  . sometimes 200. (i 've heard 
of people taking  . it seems unlikely that can 
contain enough to make a difference. it would be about as 
likely as someone getting fat by fat  . tablets are 
just too small , unless you down hundreds of them daily . ) . 

my clean your works for me. eating the last 
10 takes half my eating time , and gives a chance to 
up , so i do n't still feel and go start eating something else. 

i do n't eat when i'm not  ( unless i'm sure i 'll get 
shortly , and eating wo n't be practical  . 

i to work , 22 a day , year round. fast .  . i also to 
stores , , and everywhere else , as i 've never owned a car. 
i estimate this about 1000 a day. it also helps 
build and maintain mass , prevent resistance  ( diabetes 
runs in my family ) , and increase my  .  ( even so , my 
is so low that when i'm at rest i'm most comfortable 
with a in the  ( f ) , and usually wear a if 
it drops to 80 . ) . also motivates me to avoid every excess 
 .  ( cyclists routinely pay a for products that 
slightly less than others. but it 's easier and to trim 
weight from the than from the ) . 

there 's no question in my mind that my is 
different from that of most people who have never been fat .  . fortunately , 
it is n't different in a way that excellent health .  . 

obviously , i ca n't swear that every person who does what i 've 
done will have the success i did. but i 've never yet heard of one who 
did try it and did n't succeed .  . 

i think all of us cycle .  . one 's success depends on how large the 
in the cycle are. some people can cycle only 5 pounds .  . 

i'm sure everyone 's weight , whether or not they 've ever been fat .  . 
i usually eat extremely little salt .  . when i do eat something , 
my weight can increase overnight by as much as ten pounds .  . it comes 
off again over a week or two .  . 

keith , 

f p 2 , 3 2 s q 1 x f f 3 2 q f f p !  q s q p f w q p , x 8 1 8 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re could this be a 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 34 


in article  ( jim zisfein ) writes 

that seriously interfere with activities of daily living 
affect about 15 of the population .  . does n't that sound like 
something a primary care should know something about i 
tend to agree with administrators family should 
learn the basics of headache  . 

absolutely .  . unfortunately , most of them have had 3 weeks of 
in medical school and 1 month  ( maybe ) in their  . most 
of that is done in the hospital where rarely are seen. 
where are they supposed to learn those who are and 
read do learn , but most do n't , unfortunately .  . 

sometimes i wonder what type have to do with 
anyway. 

we are the only ones , sometimes , who have enough interest in 
to spend the time to get enough history to them. too often , 
the primary care hears headache and loses interest in 
anything but giving the patient and getting them out of 
the office so they can get on to something more interesting. 


(i am excepting , which is arguably  . 

i hope you meant . 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( barbara hlavin ) 
subject re is 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 38 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( walter f. lundby ) writes 
as nobody in the food industry has even bothered to address my previous 
question why do you need to put in almost every food i must assume 
that my wife 's answer is closer to the truth than i hoped it was. 
i do n't mean to be to your concerns , but it seems to me 
that you 're getting all wound up in a non issue. 

as many knowledgeable people have pointed out , is a naturally 
substance in a lot , if not most ,  . when food 
add it to a , they do so because it 's a 
known flavor  . 

your wife 's theory , that is added to food to , 
may well be true. but i do n't believe it 's always the reason it 's 
added .  . people are  ( largely , for the most part ) in charge of their 
own  . 

children 's and my parent 's ) seem to on a particular brand of pet 
food. the cat will eat any product within one brand and not any other 
brand .  . i have wondered if this is not a case of preference , but , some 
sort of chemical training or  . my questions , for the net , are 
does the the contents of pet food is it allowed for pet 
food to contain or is put in 
pet food 

you do n't know much about cats , do you 

cats will take advantage of you. yourself you will never 
understand a cat .  . their are  . 

i also suspect , though it 's been a while since i 've checked 
on cat food , that there are much more requirements 
on pet food than human. 

see , the has this stupid idea that human beings have the intelligence 
to look out after their own interests .  . 

, wondering how her cat would take care of her 

from  ( tom b. carey ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization corporation 
lines 31 

 ( gary merrill ) writes 

 ( ted grusec ) writes 
by extra scientific i did not mean to imply that hypothesis 
generation was not , in most cases extremely closely to the 
state of knowledge within a scientific area. i meant was that there 
was no scientific logic involved in the process. it is inductive , 
not deductive .  . 

i am further by the proposed distinction between scientific 
logic and inductive logic . at this point i do n't have a clue 
what you mean by extra scientific unless you mean that at some 
times someone seems to come up with an idea that we ca n't trace to 
prior theories , concepts , knowledge , etc. this is a fairly common 
observation , but just for i 'd like to see some genuine examples .  . 

ok , just for 
a structure for the 
after from a dream in which a snake was his tail .  . 
the principle of while in 
his  . 

in neither case was there no connection to prior theories , concepts , etc. 
as you above. what there was was an intuitive leap beyond 
the current way of thinking , to develop ideas which subsequently proved 
to have power (e . g .  . , they stood the test of experimental 
 . 

pardon my  .  .  . 

tom 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 15 

in article  ( steve dyer ) writes 

responds well , if you 're not otherwise  . 's 
on having a infection in his 
is not even in the same category here , nor are these walking 
who are convinced they have from reading a book. 

speaking of which , has anyone else been impressed with how much the 
descriptions of published a century ago sound like 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from 
subject re , et .  . al. side effects 
organization state university 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( steve dyer ) writes 
in article writes 
can someone tell me whether or not any of the following 
has been linked to excessive weight gain and or a 
sense of taste or smell (a to 
prevent asthma )  . 

 ( astemizole ) is most definitely linked to weight gain .  . 
it really is peculiar that some have this effect , 
and even more so an like which purportedly 
does n't cross the blood brain and so tends not to cause 
 . 

it also gave me lots of problems with and pain. seemed to 
arthritis like problems. 





steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( david dodell ) 
subject medical newsletter , part 2 4 
reply to  ( david dodell ) 
distribution world 
organization stat gateway service , 
lines 


cut here 









medical newsletter page 13 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

, 1985 1992 

source  ( 42(14 ) date apr 16 , 1993 

the number of reported cases of in increased 19 . 9 . 
from 1991 to 1992 after steadily during the  . in comparison , in 
the united states , reported cases of in 1992 continued an overall 
decreasing trend (1) .  . this report summarizes an analysis of the increase in 
in in 1992 and trends in the occurrence of 
this disease from 1985 through 1992 .  . 
in 1992 , cases of were reported to the department 
of health  ( cdh ) compared with cases reported in 1991. during 1992 , 
reported cases increased 22.7 and 17 . 5 . among and males , respectively 
 ( table  . similar increases occurred among blacks , , and 
6 . , 15 . 1 . , and 15 . 9 . , respectively ) however , the number of reported cases 
with race not increased 88 from 1991 to 1992 and constituted 9 . 7 . 
of all reported cases in 1992 .  . although the largest proportional increases by 
age groups occurred among persons 35 44 years 4 . ) and greater than or 
equal to 45 years 7 . ) , these age groups accounted for only 11 . 0 . of all 
reported cases in 1992 .  . persons in the 15 19 year age group accounted for the 
largest number of reported cases of during 1992 and the highest age 
group specific rate  ( 639 per 100 ,  . 
reported cases of increased 32 . 9 . in the five denver 
area  ( 1990 population 1 , , 466 ) but elsewhere in the 
state  ( table  . half the cases of in the denver area 
occurred in 8 . 4 .  ( 34 ) of the these represent 
considered by diseases  ( stds ) acquired 
 ( aids ) field to be the focus of and drug activity. 
when compared with 1991 , the number of cases among 
men in the denver health clinic  ( dmhc , the primary public clinic in 
the denver area ) increased 33 in 1992 , and the number of 
by males to the clinic increased 2 . 4 . . , the number of cases 
among women increased by 1 . among self identified heterosexual men , 
the number of cases at increased 33 and comprised 
94 of all cases in males , while the number of cases among 
self identified homosexual men remained low  ( 71 and 74 in 1991 and 1992 , 
 . 
four laboratories in the denver area (i . e .  . , , 
university hospital , family planning , and commercial ) were 
to determine whether culture increased .  . 
culture in three of four laboratories increased 
23 33 from 1991 to 1992 , while the rate was virtually in the 
fourth (i . e .  . , family  . 
from 1985 through 1991 , reported cases of among and 
in in comparison , reported cases among blacks 

medical newsletter page 14 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

increased since 1988  ( figure  . during 1988 1992 , the population in 
increased 9.9 for blacks , 9 . 8 . for , and 4 . 5 . for  . in 1992 , 
the rate for blacks  ( 1935 per 100 , 000 persons ) was 57 times that for 
 ( 34 per 100 , 000 ) and 12 times that for  ( 156 per 100 , 000 ) 
 ( table  . among black , reported cases of increased from 
1988 through 1992 in the 15 19 year age group among black males , cases 
increased from 1989 through 1992 in both the 15 19 and 20 24 year age groups. 

reported by , md , finn , , , aids program re 
hoffman , md , state , dept of health .  . douglas , md , 
denver dept of health and hospitals .  . surveillance and information systems , 
of diseases and , national center for 
,  . 

note the increase in reported cases in in 1992 
may represent an overall increase in the occurrence of this disease or more 
complete reporting by to laboratories by 
surveillance during 1991 1992 .  . the increases in confirmed 
cases at and in culture in three of four laboratories 
suggest a real increase in rather than a reporting artifact .  . 
however , the stable culture rate in the family planning 
 ( which serves a network of clinics statewide ) indicates that the 
increase did not affect all of the population .  . 
one possible explanation for the increased occurrence of in 
may be and drug related sexual behavior , as in a 
recent of drug and other in 
(2) .  . although the high in the denver area 
coincide with areas of and drug activity , this hypothesis requires 
further  . to examine the possible role of drug use 
previously as a factor contributing to the national increase in (3 6 ) 
the aids program is information from all persons in whom 
is regarding drug use , exchange of sex for money or drugs , 
and  . 
the rate for blacks in the 
national health objective for the year 2000  ( 1300 per 100 , 000 )  ( objective 
19 .  . race is likely a risk rather than a risk factor for 
and other  . risk may be useful for groups at 
greatest risk for and for targeting efforts .  . moreover , race 
specific in may reflect differences in factors such as 
status , access to medical care , and high risk behaviors .  . 
in response to the increased occurrence of in , 
initiated by the aids program include 1 ) targeting 
in the denver area to persons in groups at 
increased risk (e . g .  . , 15 19 year old black and 20 24 year old black 
males ) 2 ) a media campaign (e . g .  . , public service radio 

medical newsletter page 15 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

, signs on city buses , newspaper , and posters in 
schools and clinics ) to promote awareness of risk and targeted 
primarily at high risk groups , and 3) developing teams of peer to 
perform in high risk  . the 
are being developed and implemented with the assistance of 
members of the target groups and with from a forum of community leaders 
and health care  . 

references 

1.  . table ii. cases of diseases , united states , weeks 
ending december 26 , 1992 , and december 28 , 1991  ( 52nd  . 1993 41  . 

2.  . related of producing 
and other diseases , , 1989 
1991. 1993 42 25 8. 

3.  . relationship of to drug use and prostitution 
and philadelphia ,  . 1988 37 8 ,  . 

4. , m ,  . risk factors for cocaine use 
and prostitution .  . am j public health 1990 80 7. 

5. , , dr , et al. can it 
control ann 1990 43 .  . 

6. ,  . and trends in the 
are they real am j public health 1991 7. 

7. public health service .  . healthy people 2000 national health and 
disease objectives full report , with commentary .  . washington , 
us department of health and human services , public health service , 1991 
publication no.  ( phs)91 )  . 












medical newsletter page 16 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

in disease and injury 
impact of adult safety belt use on use among 
children less than 11 years of age states , 
1988 and 1989 

source  ( 42(14 ) date apr 16 , 1993 

are the cause of death among children and 
young adults in the united states and account for more than 1 million years of 
potential life lost before age 65 (1) .  . child safety and safety 
can reduce this loss (2) .  . from 1977 through 1985 , all 50 
states passed legislation requiring the use of child safety or safety 
for children. although these laws reduce to young children by 
an 8 59 (3 , 4 ) , crash related remain a major 
cause of and death among u.s. children (1) , while the use of 
among children inversely with age  ( 84 usage for 
those 0 4 years 57 , 5 11 years and 29 , 12 18 years )  . in 
addition , parents who do not use safety themselves are less likely to 
use for their children  . to characterize the association between 
adult safety belt use and adult reported consistent use of 
for the child less than 11 years within a , 
data obtained from the risk factor surveillance system 
 ( brfss ) during 1988 and 1989. this report summarizes the findings from this 
study .  . 
data were available for 20 , respondents greater than or equal to 
18 years in 11 states that participated in a population based , 
random telephone survey and a standard injury 
control and child safety developed by  . of these respondents , 
 ( 26 ) had a child less than 11 years in their  . each 
was asked to the child 's age and the of use for 
that child. the two categories of child and adult safety belt use in 
this analysis were 1 ) consistent use (i . e .  . , always up ) and 2 ) less than 
consistent use (i . e .  . , almost always , sometimes , rarely , or never  . 
data were to provide estimates representative of each state. software 
for survey data analysis  ( sudaan )  ( 7 ) was used to point estimates 
and  . statistically significant differences were defined 
by p values of less than 0 . 05 .  . 
each of the 11 states had some type of child law. of these , 
 ( arizona , , , nebraska , island , and west virginia ) had no 
law requiring adults to use safety four  ( idaho , maryland , , 
and washington ) had a secondary enforcement mandatory safety belt law (i . e .  . , a 
had to be stopped for a traffic violation before a citation for 
of safety could be issued ) and one state  ( new york ) had a primary 
enforcement mandatory safety belt law (i . e .  . , could be stopped for a 
safety belt law violation  . in states , child protection 

medical newsletter page 17 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

laws included all children less than 5 years , but the other two states 
used both age and size of the child as for mandatory use. 
the analysis in this report states into 1 ) those having a law 
requiring adult safety belt use  ( law states ) , and 2 ) those without such a law 
 ( no law  . 
overall , 21 of children less than 11 years were not 
during automobile travel .  . both child use and 
adult use were higher  ( p less than 0 . 05 . , square 
test ) in law states than in no law states 1 . versus 74 . 3 . and 7 . versus 
43 . 2 . ,  . 
high of use for children less than or equal to 1 
year were reported by both adults indicating consistent and less than 
consistent safety belt use  ( figure  . adults with consistent use reported 
high of child use regardless of the child 's age 
 ( range 5 . for 1 year to 7 . for 10 year  . in comparison , for 
adults reporting less than consistent safety belt use , the rate of child 
use declined by the age of the child  ( range 93 . 1 . 
for 1 year to 28 . 8 . for 10 year  . when comparing children of 
consistent adult safety belt users with children of less than consistent adult 
safety belt users , for the two age 
groups (i . e .  . , less than 1 and 1  . 
reported child use in law states generally 
that in no law states , regardless of age of child  ( table  . in addition , 
higher adult was associated with 
increased use for children , a factor that has also been associated 
with increased adult safety belt use  . 

reported by national center for injury and control national 
center for disease and health ,  . 

note the findings in this report are consistent with others 
indicating that adults who do not use safety themselves are less likely 
to for their children  ( 6 ,  . because these 
adults are at increased risk of and more likely to exhibit 
other risk taking behaviors , children with them may be at greater 
risk for injury  . 
of adult respondents was inversely associated with 
child use in this report. , protection programs 
should be among parents with low  . because low 
is often associated with low status , such 
programs should be offered to adults through health care facilities that serve 
low communities or through federal programs (i . e .  . , head start ) that are 
directed at parents with young children. 
injury programs young children. in 
addition , however , efforts must be to protect child as 

medical newsletter page 18 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

they become older .  . parents , especially those with low , 
those who do not wear safety , and those from states that do 
not have mandatory safety belt use laws , should be encouraged to wear safety 
and to protect their children by using approved child safety and 
safety  . finally , the increased use of among children may 
increase their likelihood of using safety when they become 
the age group characterized by the lowest rate of safety belt use and the 
highest rate of fatal  . 

references 

1.  . childhood in the united states. am j child 1990 627 
46 .  . 

2.  . papers on child and use. washington , 
us department of transportation , national traffic safety 
, 1988 report no.  . 

3. d , d. an of the california child 
requirement .  . am j public health 1985 75 4. 

4. hall w , b , d , et al. progress report on increasing child 
usage through local education and distribution programs. 
hill , north university of north at hill , 
safety research center ,  . 

5. national traffic safety  . protection trends 
in 19 cities .  . washington , us department of transportation , national 
traffic safety , 1991. 

6. ac , ,  . characteristics of child safety 
users. 1988 20 22 .  . 

7. , , hunt ,  . software for survey data 
analysis  ( sudaan ) version 5 . 50 . software documentation .  . research triangle 
park , north research triangle institute , 1991. 

8.  . voluntary belt use among u.s. drivers , 
and  . 1986 18 43 50 .  . 

9. , ac ,  . use and misuse of automobile child 
devices .  . am j child 1992 6. 

10. , jc , jr ,  . characteristics of 
users and non users in a state with a mandatory use law. health education 

medical newsletter page 19 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

research 1990 5 73 .  . 

arizona , , , , maryland , nebraska , new york , , 
island , washington , and west virginia .  . 









































medical newsletter page 20 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

publication of surveillance 

source  ( 42(14 ) date apr 16 , 1993 

since , has published the surveillance under 
separate cover as part of the series .  . each report published in the 
surveillance on public health surveillance surveillance 
findings are reported for a broad range of risk factors and health conditions .  . 
for each of the reports published in the most recent  ( march 19 , 
1993 ) issue of the surveillance (1) are provided below. all 
to receive the surveillance , as well as the 
and reports , as part of their  . 

surveillance for and comparison of birth defect 
in two 
areas united states , 88 

problem condition and some states have developed surveillance 
systems to the birth of major  . 
reporting period covered this report covers birth surveillance 
in , , and in california for 
the years 1988. 
description of system the california birth program 
and the program are two population 
based surveillance systems that similar data collection methods .  . the 
estimates for 44 categories were based on data for 
1988 for , 837 births in california and , births in 
 . the in the two areas were compared , for race , 
sex , and age by using  . 
results regional differences in the of , 
, hip , , of the 
, and may be to general 
 . however , differences in the of hand 
limb , , , or 21  ( down syndrome ) are 
probably not to differences in , because these 
are relatively easy to  . 
interpretation regional differences in and pregnancy 
may affect of 21 and  . however , 
the reason for differences in hand is unknown , but may be 
related to in environmental exposure , in the gene 
pool , or random  . 
actions taken because of the similarities of these data bases , several 
studies are being implemented .  . in particular , the differences in 
the birth of and down will focus attention on 
the impact of  . authors , d .  . , nancy 

medical newsletter page 21 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

, m . p . h . , m. shaw , dr . p . h .  . , california birth 
program , march of birth foundation .  . larry d. , m . s . p . h .  . , 
anne b. , division of birth and disabilities , 
national center for environmental health ,  . 

united states , 1988 89 

problem condition the emergence and spread of new 
virus variants and the impact of on and 
from october through may .  . 
reporting period covered this report covers u.s. surveillance 
conducted from october 1988 through may 1989. 
description of system weekly reports from the vital statistics offices 
of cities provided an index of 's impact on who 
laboratories reported weekly of 
viruses weekly reports were received both from the state and 
and from family practice  . 
reports of and unusual illnesses were received 
throughout the year .  . 
results during the 1988 89 ,  ( a(h1n1 ) and b 
viruses were identified in the united states with essentially equal 
overall , although both regional and patterns of 
over the course of the  . throughout the increases in the 
of in regions where  ( a(h1n1 ) were 
similar to increases in regions where b  . only 7 of 
identified viruses were  ( a(h3n2 ) , but of this 
increased as the , and it subsequently during the 
1989 90  . during the 1988 89 in homes were 
reported in association with b and  ( a(h3n2 ) but not 
 . 
interpretation the alternating and of 
 ( a(h1n1 ) and b during the 1988 89 emphasizes the 
importance of attention to regional viral surveillance , since 
is effective only for treatment and of a. 
actions taken weekly analyses of surveillance data produced 
throughout the allow and public health to make 
informed choices regarding appropriate use of  . 's 
surveillance allows the observed viral variants to be assessed as 
for as components in used in subsequent  . 
authors e. , m . d .  . , m . s . p . h .  . , activity , office of 
the director , division of viral and diseases , national center for 
infectious diseases margaret a. , m . d .  . , division of , 
national center for services ,  . , m . p . h .  . , 
health branch , division of health studies , agency for 
and disease  . maurice , d .  . , 

medical newsletter page 22 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

laboratories , company , ,  . p. 
, d .  . , european regional office , world health organization , 
, denmark .  . nancy j. , d .  . , branch , division of viral 
and diseases , national center for infectious diseases lawrence b. 
, m . d .  . , m . p . h .  . , activity , office of the director , 
division of viral and diseases , national center for infectious 
diseases ,  . 

reference 

1.  . surveillance  ( march  . 1993  .  . 


































medical newsletter page 23 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 




research news 


research news for 
arizona 

vol. 4 , no. 4 , april 1993 tucson , arizona 

published monthly by the office of public affairs at the university of arizona 
health sciences center .  . 
1993 , the university of arizona 

high tech assisted 

following the birth of the first in  ( ivf 
et ) baby in , a host of assisted have been 
developed that include et ,  ( gift ) , 
 ( freezing ) and  . together , 
these are referred to as the high tech assisted 
technology  ( art )  . 

induction , sperm and for disease and or 
still are the of the available for 
 . however , when these fail , it almost always is appropriate to 
proceed with one of the art  . 

therefore , in addition to a comprehensive basic and general 
service at the university of arizona center for and 
, there is a program of assisted reproduction that in 
art  . this program serves as a for those 
in the state of arizona whose problems cannot be by the 
traditional  . 

the following article  ( on back ) describes the art available in our 
center , appropriate applications for each , and considers the 
expectations for their success. included are 

o in 
o  ( ivf et ) , 

o  ( gift ) , of human and  . 
this article also considers research in our program that is directed 
towards improved success of these  . 


medical newsletter page 24 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

future areas of research 

in addition to research that is directed exclusively the 
of , we are developing the technology to assist 
who are at risk for producing with a serious 
disease. 

this technology involves the human and then 
the cells to genetic analysis using either dna 
or in  . 

there are recent reports of the successful application of dna by 
other , for example , for of the genes for and 
 . we hope to apply and further focus in 
technology for the x , the of 
which will provide a scientific basis for who exhibit 
sex linked disorders .  . 

the application of such technology lies in the fact that 
it the need for , in addition to the possibility 
of a subsequent of affected , in order to avoid the birth 
of affected children. 


, d .  . 
associate professor and director of research 
department of and 
college of medicine 
university of arizona 
tucson , arizona 

applications , success and advances for the 
of 

the following are the art available at the university of arizona 
center for and  . 

in is the core art procedure of our 
assisted reproduction program .  . this procedure involves of 
eggs from the , their in in a , and 
the culture of for 1 or 2 days , before they are transferred 
to the patient 's  . all cultures are in an under 
strictly controlled and conditions .  . before being 
for use in , samples are evaluated in our 
using both subjective light and computer 

medical newsletter page 25 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

assisted analyses .  . to ensure an adequate number of eggs with which to 
perform et , or indeed , gift , development is typically 
, with  ( perganol , metrodin ) , 
 ( gnrh , , lutrepulse ) and or  ( lupron , 
,  . , however , et is accomplished with eggs 
obtained in non  . while some programs 
egg in the operating room with the patient under general , 
we undertake the less approach of in our 
, with the patient  . 
who resort to et exhibit such as 
, , , and or mild forms of male 
factor  . according to the united states , the overall 
success rate for et has at about 14 percent per 
cycle .  . results from our program , involving 86 who have 
et , reflect a comparable success rate .  . 
nevertheless , the overall of success with this procedure is 
low and emphasizes the need to address those 
factors that limit achievement of a higher percentage of  . well 
recognized of outcome include patient age , response to 
, quality of sperm and number of repeated et cycle 
attempts .  . however , among these , age is the single most significant 
of conception .  . therefore , it is critical that such are referred to an 
assisted reproduction program at the earliest opportunity following failure of 
traditional  . 
the underlying basis for the negative effect of age on has not 
been clearly beyond recognition that 1 ) the number of eggs 
available for with age 2 ) 
in eggs from who are over 40 years 
and 3) provided the appropriate background is present , age is 
unrelated to to pregnancy .  . research in our 
center , therefore , is investigating changes in the egg that may 
be by age. we have determined that more than 50 percent of eggs that 
fail to in are abnormal , and that a significant 
of these are accountable to patient age. currently , 
the only recourse for such is to use eggs obtained from a  . our 
program has initiated of egg to the needs 
of a list of interested in this form of  . 

gift this high tech art procedure is performed in the operating room , 
usually with the use of a and , in to et , involves 
introducing sperm and eggs into the of the 
 ( an average of 3 eggs  . under these circumstances , 
occurs in and , if excess eggs are , the remainder , 
with subsequent options for in that cycle , or for 
in a subsequent cycle .  . this art procedure is applied to cases in 

medical newsletter page 26 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

which there is at least one but the couple has such 
as , , male factor 
and or  . 
the data reported in the united states for 1985 through 1990 
indicate that the overall success rate with gift is higher than that obtained 
with the et  ( range of for gift is 24 to 36 
percent and for et 14 to 18  . in view of this fact , one might 
expect more to be treated with gift than et .  . however , in our 
program we have taken into account three basic concerns which , while 
reducing the number of gift performed , benefit the 
patient .  . these concerns are 1 ) the increased costs associated with 
a procedure in the operating room 2 ) the risks , minimal , of 
general and 3) the benefits to be from 
obtaining direct information on the quality and of the eggs , 
and the of  . 
the increased success with gift reflects the artificial 
environment provided by the in the et procedure .  . between 
1 , 1991 , and december 31 , 1992 , we have performed a total of 12 gift 
, with an overall success rate of 20 percent .  . 
, or , is applied in our program when 
result from gift eggs or from non transferred  . 
this procedure not only provides with a subsequent opportunity for 
success at much reduced costs , but also the legal and ethical 
issues to of  . therefore , as 
by the american society ethical for art programs , from 
both a practical and an ethical standpoint , all assisted reproduction programs 
should have the capability of human  . 
this art procedure , which is still very new , 
is applied to who are of with but 
who have severe male factor  ( less than 10 million sperm in 
combination with than 20 sperm , and or less than 10 
percent sperm with normal  . we are currently developing the 
procedure of sub insertion  ( szi ) , which entails sperm under 
the around the egg , the normally penetrated by the sperm 
through enzymatic  . 
available data from programs world wide indicate that only 5 to 10 
percent of result in a pregnancy .  . this statistic 
relates to imposed by inherent in the sperm .  . 
therefore , we are currently focusing on the development of improved techniques 
for the recognition and selection of sperm chosen for  . such 
efforts are unquestionably worthwhile in view of the fact that this technology 
the only opportunity for severe male factor to 
establish conception .  . 

, d .  . 

medical newsletter page 27 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

associate professor and director of research 
department of and 
college of medicine 
end of part 2 


internet fax 1 (602) 
bitnet 1 114 15 
amateur packet 

from mark 
subject , et .  . al. 
organization software 
lines 7 
reply to ! 
nntp posting host gilgamesh . com . 

is there some difference between the purposes behind 
and they sound 
similar to me , but are intended to detect different 
things 

thanks. 


from  ( michael trofimoff ) 
subject request  ( souvlaki ) sauce 
organization computing corporation , los , california 
distribution usa 
lines 12 


hi all , 

would anyone out there in  net land  happen to have an 
authentic , sure fire way of making this great sauce that 
is used to 's and 

thanks , 


e mail , , 


from  ( vida morkunas ) 
subject inner ear problems from too much flying 
organization , commerce , , , canada 
lines 6 

can one develop inner ear problems from too much flying i hear that 
and have a limit as to the number of flying hours 
what are these limits what are the main problems associated with too many 
long  ( over 4 hours ) trips 

frequent flyer .  . 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re travel outside us  ( bangladesh ) 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 17 

in article  ( just george ) writes 
i will be to this summer , and am wondering 
if there are any i should get before going .  . 


you can probably get this information by calling your public health 
department in your  ( in pittsburgh , they give the shots free , 
as  . there are in medical that give 
, or you could call the infectious diseases section 
of the medicine department of your local medical school. you also 
will probably want to talk about  . you will 
need your doctor to get the prescription .  . 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( opirg ) 
subject re is 
organization university , ottawa , canada 
lines 43 

in article  ( david thomas ) writes 

in article ,  ( charles packer ) writes 
is there such a thing as  ( monosodium glutamate ) 
i saw in the ny times sunday that scientists have before 
an that about are 
 . anybody here have experience to the contrary 

i'm old enough to remember that the issue has come up at least 
a couple of times since the 1960s .  . then it was called the 
chinese because chinese has 
always used it. 

so far , i 've seen about a dozen posts of evidence , but 
no facts .  . i suspect there is a strong psychological effect at 
work here. does anyone have results from a scientific study 
using double blind trials 

check out , just some 20 posts before your own. maybe you missed 
it the of responses yet again , the use of this 
newsgroup is by people not their posts to matters 
they have substantial knowledge of. 

for cites on , look up almost anything by john w. , a 
who has studied the effects of on the brain and on 
development .  . it is undisputed in the literature that is an 
food , and that its major , 
is essentially the in the brain 
 ( humans  . too much in the diet , and the system gets thrown 
off. and , also an are necessary in 
small , and are freely available in many , but the 
added by industry are far above the that would normally be 
encountered in a ny single food. by eating lots of junk food , 
, and diet soft , it is possible to jack your 
blood levels so high , that anyone with a to these 
will suffer numerous real effects .  . 
read 's review paper in  . brain , 1988 , and check his 
sources. they are  . there is no dispute .  . 




from  ( harry matthews ) 
subject re getting aids from 
reply to  ( harry matthews ) 
organization computing center , at , , ny 
lines 22 

in article  ( ella i baff ) writes 

someone wrote in expressing concern about getting aids from 
 .  .  .  .  . 

unless your friend is fluids with their who 
themselves has aids .  . it . is unlikely  ( not impossible ) they will get aids 
from  . generally , even if accidently , the normal 
immune response should be enough to effectively handle the minimal 
involved with insertion .  . 

is n't this what is about the normal immune response to an exposure 

most use  .  . use . once and away. 

i had electrical done a while back .  . the were taken 
from a in an instrument and were most certainly not 
sterile or even clean for that matter. more than likely they were 
from the previous patient .  . i was concerned , but i kept my mouth shut .  . i 
probably should have raised hell ! 

any comments no excuses .  . 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re x rays 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 22 

in article ( lin ) writes 


first question how bad is x ray i 've heard that it 's nothing 
compared to the amount of time spent under the sun and i 've also heard that it 
is very harmful .  . second question is there anyway out of this test for 
me 

the x ray provides a minute amount of radiation .  . it is 
a drop in the as far as increased risk is concerned. who can 
tell you whether you can get out of it or not no one here 
that. it may well be a matter of the law , in which case , write your 
, but do n't hold your  . 






gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( greg w. luft ) 
subject relief of pain caused by 
organization 
lines 51 


i am not sure if this is the proper group to post this to but here goes anyway. 

about five years ago my mother was with having in the 
under one of her  . after the doctors removed the area she had full movement 
of her with only slight under her when she moved it. over the course of 
the next two years the got more severe and her complaining to the doctors produced 
the explanation that it was tissue causing the pain. at this time her doctor 
suggested that some should be employed to break up the tissue .  . 

while one of her , while her was being 
, some damage occured  ( nerve ) which caused the level of pain to 
increase  ( controlled by 3s ) and some loss of use of the ( 
and almost no  . with great on her part 
the doctors looked further into the issue and discovered that not all of the had 
been removed and another had grown under the  . this was removed also but the 
pain in the has not  . the doctors are not sure exactly why the pain is 
but feel some sort of damage has occured and they have employed 3 
and soon to the pain. she has tried by this only provides 
minor in pain and is only short term .  . 

my questions are 

has anyone has heard of similar cases and what , if anything , was done to reduce the 
levels of pain 

are their methods to block so that the pain can be reduced 

are their methods to so that loss of function can be 


any general suggestions on pain would be greatly appreciated. 


please respond by email because i do not always get chance to read this group. 

if anyone knows of some literature that may be useful to this case or another newsgroup 
that i should be posting this to it would also be appreciated. 









w. internet 
company tel  ( 403 ) 
,  . s . w .  . fax  ( 403 ) 
, , canada 

from  ( steve giammarco ) 
subject re is 
organization public access unix , tx 
lines 27 

in article  ( andrew rogers ) writes 
in article writes 
chinese , and many other asians  ( japanese , , etc ) have used 
as flavor for two thousand years. do you believe that 
they knew how to make from chemical processes not. they just 
extracted it from natural food such sea food and meat  . 

and to add further to the flame war , i read about 20 years ago that 
the natural extracted from the sources you mention above does not 
cause the reported it 's only that nasty artificial 
extracted from or whatever that causes chinese 
 . i find this pretty hard to believe has anyone else heard it 

i was under the  ( possibly incorrect ) assumption that most of the on 
our was made from sugar  . is this not true are 
there other sources of 

i am one of those who react , sometimes strongly , to  . however , 
i also react strongly to  ( table salt ) in excess .  . each 
causes different symptoms except for the common one of 
and an uncomfortable feeling of pressure in my , left  . 



steve tx 

 . 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re  ( was eugenics ) 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 

lines 41 

a person posted certain stuff to this newsgroup , which were highly 
quotes of their context. here is the complete 
posting which was quoted  ( lacking the context of other postings in 
which it was made ) 

probably within 50 years , a new type of will be possible. 
maybe even sooner .  . we are now mapping the human  . we will 
then start to work on of that  . using genetic 
engineering , we will be able to insert whatever genes we want. 
no breeding , no , etc. the ethical question is , should 
we do this should we make a race of disease free , long lived , 
arnold , even if we can. 

probably within 50 years , it will be possible to and 
re our bodies at the molecular level. not only will 
be possible , but  . 

what will it be like to all the of shelf bar 
in your head , and all the errors they make in the 's 
favor at what will it be like to mentally edit and 
check your responses to the questions posed by a phone selling 
time share options 

indeed , we are today a nation at risk ! the threat is not from bad genes , 
but bad memes ! memes are the basic units of culture , as opposed to genes 
which are the units of genetics .  . 

we stand on the of new meme ! harmful 
memes which were restricted in their destructive power will 
run rampant over the , waste to the real benefits that 
future technology has to offer .  . 

for example , jeremy has been busy trying to whip up emotions 
against the new genetically engineered under development at 
 . this guy is harmful memes , a virtual memetic 
mary .  . 

we must expand the public health laws to include of people 
with harmful memes .  . they should not be allowed to other people 
with their memes against genetically engineered food , 
fields , and the space solid rocket  . 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re what are the problems with  ( aspartame ) 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
lines 30 

in article ( ) writes 
is a a couple thousand times than 
sugar. some people are concerned about the that the body produces 
when it  . it is thought to form and known to 
for in the that the body uses to eliminate 
 . the real issue is whether the levels of and 
produced are high enough to cause significant damage , as both are to 
living cells .  . all i can say is that i will not it. 

is the of a , so a product of its 
is going to be , which can then be to 
 . the of formed from the of 
containing are completely in the , 
since you 're forming equally minute of from other 
components of food all the time. in studies involving 
of high of the , blood levels were  . 
is a poison only in seen in human , 
say and above. this is a consequence of its to 
and acid , two quite which at high enough levels 
can damage like the and , because at such high 
the body 's system is  . interestingly , one 
treatment for early poisoning is to get the person on 
or an equivalent .  . that 's because is 
over by the in the  . 
if the as and is n't to , 
it is actually relatively non  . 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( jon noring ) 
subject great post !  ( was re  ( yeast )  .  . ) .  ( very long) 
summary warning , lots of words in typical fashion 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 


great post martin .  . very , well balanced , and 
without the need for scientific  . 


 ( cross posted to alt . psychology . since some typing 
will be discussed at the beginning note i 've set all followups to sci . 
since most of my comments are more sci . oriented and i'm sure most of the 
replies , if any , will be related . ) . 


in article writes 

i can not believe the way this thread on  ( candida(yeast ) has progressed .  . 
steve and i have been words over the same topic in sci .  . 
 . when he his typical reserve and attacked a woman 
poster for being treated by a for a disease that did 
not exist. calling this a was reprehensible , steve , and i 
see that you and some of the others are doing it here as well. 

they are just responding in their natural way  . 
oops , that is not a recognized in the psychological community , 
better not say that since it therefore must not , and never will , exist. ) 

actually , it is fascinating that a number of 
will type out as nt  ( for those not familiar with the system , 
just e mail me and i 'll send a summary file to you) .  . in the general 
population , nt 's only about 12 of the population , but among 
it is much much higher (i do n't know the exact percentage 
any help here a . p . p . er . 's ) 

one driving characteristic of an nt , especially an , is their obvious 
behavior  ( driver , type a , etc . ) . the extreme emotional need to 
control , to lead , and or to be the best or the most  . if they are 
also , they are best described as field . this trait 
is very valuable and essential in our society we need people who want to 
lead , to to overcome the elements , to seek and thirst for knowledge , 
to raise the level of , etc. the great in science and 
technology are in large part due to the vision  ( an n trait ) and scientifically 
minded approach  ( t trait ) of the nt  ( of course , the other types 
and have their own positive contributions as  . however , 
when the nt person has self image challenges , the dark side of this 
type usually comes out , which should be obvious to all. 

a who is a strong nt and who has not learned to their 
will be extremely business like  ( lack of or feeling ) , 
and is very compelled to have total control over their patient  ( the patient 
must be obedient to their and prescription without question) .  . i 've 
known many m . d .  . 's of this and suffice to say i do n't them 
with a followup visit , no matter how i think they are  ( and they 
usually are very from a knowledge viewpoint since that is an 
extreme drive of theirs to know the most , to know it  . 

maybe we need more doctor 's .  . ) 

enough on this subject let 's move on to  . 


let me tell you who the really are , these are the who have 
no idea how the human body interacts with it 's environment and how that 
can be altered by diet and  .  .  . could it just be 
i could n't help or jon but somebody else did. 

you 've helped me already by your post. of course , i believe that i have 
been on the net as suffering from   , but being 
the i am , maybe i was just a little too harsh on a few people 
myself in past posts. let 's all try to raise the level of this discussion 
above the level of  . 


 .  .  . humans . have all 
kinds of different living in the system  ( mouth , stomach , small 
and large intestine ) , , and on the  . these are 
because they do not cause disease in people unless the immune 
system is  . they are also called because unlike 
the that cause human disease , they do not produce 
as they live out their existence in and on our body. but any of 
these will be considered if it manages to take up 
within the body. a poor can let this 
happen and vitamin a is mainly responsible for setting up this  . 

in my well described situation  ( in prior posts ) , i definitely was immune 
stressed .  . blood showed my vitamin a levels were very low. my 
were a mess no doubt the and the were  . 
i also was on 15 times in 4 years ! in the end , even two weeks 
of did not work and i had confirmed of a bacterial 
infection of the via cat , color  ( wo n't get into the 
details ) , and other symptoms .  . three very traditional 's made this 
(i did not have any cultures done , however , because of the 
difficulty of doing this right and because my other symptoms clearly showed 
a bacterial  . enough of this background  ( provided to help you 
understand where i was when i make comments about my anti 
below) .  . 


the first question i have is this. can a little way into poor 
tissue , maybe via , thus causing symptoms , without being 
considered   in the classic sense it is sort of an 
infection .  . 


steve got real upset with 's doctor because he was using anti 
and vitamin a for her problems. if steve really what 
vitamin a does in the body , he would  ( not(or at least should not ) be calling 
's doctor a  . 

i was concerned , too , because of the of vitamin a. my doctor , after 
my blood , put me on 75 , 000 of vitamin a for one week only , then 
dropped it down to 25 , 000 for the next couple of weeks. i also received 
and other , since all of these in fairly 
complex ways as my doctor explained  ( he 's one of those  evil  
 . i had a blood test three weeks later and vitamin a was normal , 
he then stopped me on all vitamin a  ( except for some in a vitamin ) 
supplement ) , and made sure that i maintain a 50 , 000 day of  . 
call me face. ) 

, 's doctor will take a similar , careful approach and to 
all supplements .  . i'm even some supplements i'm taking , for 
example , in fairly large , 1 day , which steve had 
good information about on sci .  . if only has second order 
improvement in relief of my , then it probably is 
not worth taking such a large long term and damage. 


 . if it gets access to a lot of , it and over rides 
the other living with it in the , or  . in 

though i do now believe , based on my successful with , that 
i definitely had some excessive growth of  ( unknown species ) in my 
, i still want to ask the question have there been any studies that 
demonstrate in the with associated 
 ( sinusitis rhinitis )  ( my reduced after one 
week of and no other new were implemented during this 
time i did not have any track problems before starting on 
, but some for a few days after which then went away considered 
 . 

btw , my doctor out one of his medical reference books  ( sorry , ca n't 
remember which one) , and found an obscure comment dating back into the 1950 's 
which stated that people can develop contained  ( non lethal or non serious ) 
 ( aspergiliosis ) of the to 
symptoms .  . i 'll have to dig out that reference again since it 
is relevant to this discussion. 


some people do really develop a bad inflammatory process at the 
or site. whether this is an allergic like reaction to 
the or not is n't certain .  . 

my doctor tested me (i believe a or similar test ) for allergic 
response to , and i showed a strong positive .  . 
another question , would everybody show the same strong positive so this test 
is essentially useless and , assuming it is true that can grow 
part way into the tissue , and the concentration a 
amount , could not a person who as having an to 
definitely develop allergic symptoms , such as 
due to the body 's allergic response as i said in an earlier post , 
one does not need to be a rocket scientist , or have a m . d .  . degree or a 
d .  . in biochemistry to see the of this hypothesis .  . 

btw , and i 'll repost this again. dr. , in his book , survival , 
has routinely given , before anything else , (a pre 
anti , not as safe and not as good as sporanox ) to his new 
if they have been on four or more times in 
the last two years. he claims that out of 2000 or so , well over 
90 notice some relief of and other symptoms , but it 
does n't it by any means , implying the so called infection 
is not the primary cause , but a later  . he 's also found that 
, whether taken internally , or put into a , does not help. 

this implies  ( of course assuming that excessive is 
the inflammation ) that the has grown 
into the tissue since will not kill other than by 
direct contact it is not absorbed into the blood  . again , i admit , 
lots of   , and  implies  , which does n't please the hard core nt who 
has to have the double blind study or it 's a non issue , but one has to start 
with some plausible hypothesis explanation , a strawman , if you will. 


if it 's internal , only symptoms can be used and these symptoms are pretty 
 . 

this brings up an interesting observation used by those who will deny 
and reject any and all aspects of the  hypothesis  until the 
appropriate studies are done. and that is if you ca n't observe or culture 
the in the gut or , then there 's no way to or 
even recognize the disease. and i know they realize that it is virtually 
impossible to test for in any part of the body that cannot 
be easily observed since is everywhere in the body. 

it 's a real 22 .  . 

another 22 those who totally reject the  hypothesis  say that 
no studies have been done  ( actually studies have been done , but if it 's not 
up to a certain standard then it is , from their perspective , a non study which 
should not even be  . i agree that the appropriate studies should 
be done , and that will take big to do it right. however , in order to 
convince the funding in these times to open their , 
you literally have to give them evidence , and the only acceptable evidence to 
with other is to do almost the exact study 
needed funding .  . that is , you have to do 90 of the study before you even get 
funding  ( as a scientist at a national lab , i'm very aware of this for the 
smaller funded  . i'm afraid that even if dr. and 100 other 
doctors got together , their practice 's case histories and 
into a compelling picture , and approach the funding , they would get 
nowhere , even if they were able to publish their statistical results. 

it is obvious from the comments by some of the doctors here is that they have 
decided excessive colonization in the gut or to 
non lethal symptoms does not exist , and is not even a 
hypothesis , so any amount of case histories or compiled evidence 
to the contrary will never change their mind , and not only that , they would 
also oppose the needed studies because in their minds it 's a done issue 
excessive growth to allergic symptoms does not , will 
not , and cannot exist. period. kind of tough to with those who hold 
such a viewpoint .  . kind of reminds me of  .  .  . 


is kept in check in most people by the normal bacterial in 
the , the  ( tract(mouth , stomach and intestines ) and in the 
which with it for food. the human immune system 
does not bother itself with  ( these(nonpathogenic organisms ) unless 
they the . if they do , an inflammatory 
response will be set up. most americans are not getting enough vitamin a 
from their diets .  . about 30 of all american 's die with less vitamin a than 
they were born s .  .  . while this low level of vitamin 
a does not cause  ( pathology(blindness ) it does the 
system. this would then be a factor for a strong 
inflammatory response after a  . 

are n't there also other necessary to the proper working of the 
and 


while can suffer from a the most common cause of 
this type of is the use of broad spectrum which 
knock down many different kinds of bacteria in the body and remove the main 
competition for as far as food is concerned. while drugs are 
available to handle , many find that their doctor will not 
use them unless there is evidence of a infection .  . the of 
the anti drugs does warrant some  . but if the or 
is suspected to be  ( candida(and recent use of a broad spectrum 
is the gun ) , then anti use should be 
just as the anti are an appropriate treatment for 
, in spite of what mr. steve says .  . 

again , the evidence from studies indicate that many 
species can grow ( roots ) into deep tissue , similar to growing 
in bread .  . you can continue to kill the surface , such as does , but 
you ca n't kill that which is deeper in the tissue without using a 
anti such as  ( sporanox ) or some of the older ones such 
as which are more and not as effective. this is why , as has 
been pointed out by recent studies  ( sent to me by a doctor i 've been in 
e mail contact with thanks ) , that is not effective in the long 
term treatment of . it 's like trying to a garden 
by cutting off what 's above the ground but leaving the roots ready to come 
out again once you walk away. 

the question is whether a contained can 
grow into tissue through the , causing some types of symptoms 
in susceptible people (e . g .  . , allergy ) , without becoming in the 
classical sense of the word something in between strictly an excessive 
not causing any problems and the full blown infection that 
is lethal .  . 


in the system , the seems to be a particularly good 
for and the use of by many women creates a very 
environment around the for  ( transfer(through and 
humidity ) of to the  . one of the most ways to 
this is to wear  . 

also , if one is an   , like i 've been in a prior 
post , that can also provide more sites for excessive growth .  . ) 


if the occurs in the area , the burning , , pain and even 
blood make many think that they have  . if the 
manages to move further up the , very 
 ( occurs(abdominal and blood in the  . this positive stool 
for blood is what sent to her family doctor in the first 
place. after extensive , he told her that there was nothing wrong 
but her gut still hurt. on to another doctor , and so on. richard 
has told me e mail that he considers blood in stool 
to be a waste of time and money because of the very large number of 
false  ( positives(candida guys ) .  . if my gut hurt me on a constant 
basis , i would want it fixed. yes it 's nice to know that i do n't have 
colon but what then is causing my when i finally find a 
doctor who treats me and gets me 90 better , steve calls him a  . 

as i 've said in private e mail , there are flaws in our current medical system 
that make it difficult or even impossible for a to attempt 
alternative after the approved proven accepted do n't work. 
for example , i went to three 's , who all said that i will just have to live 
with my after the 's failed  ( they did mention 
to open up the , but my were n't and it would not 
get to the root cause of my  . after three months of aggressive and 
fairly non standard  ( sporanox , body level and 
, vitamin c , , , etc . ) . , my health has 
improved to where i was two years ago , before my health greatly deteriorated .  . 
of course , skeptics would say that maybe if i did nothing i would have 
improved anyway , but that view is things quite far because of the 
experience of the three 's i saw who said that i 'd just have to live with 
it . i'm confident i will reach what one could call a total . the 
anti program i was one necessary step in that direction 
because of my overuse of 's for the last four years.  ( note for those 
having problems , may i suggest the book by dr. i mention above. 
be sure to get the revised edition . ) . 


 .  .  . i . have often wondered what an m . d .  . with 
or problems would do about the problem that he tells his 
is a non existent  . 

dr. started off having and severe problems , and his 
to several 's totally him when they said you 'll just have 
to live with it . he spent several years trying everything standard and 
non standard , until he was essentially cured of  . he now 
shares his approach in his book and i can honestly say that i am on the road 
to following some parts of it. his one to take a 
anti at the beginning of treatment if you have a history of 
anti overuse has been proven to him time and time again in his own 
practice. i'm sure if i commented to him of the hard core beliefs of the anti 
hypothesis posters that he would have definite things to say , such as , 
it 's worked wonders for me in almost two thousand cases , to put it mildly .  . 
i also would not be surprised if he would say that they are the ones violating 
their moral to help the patient .  . 

maybe those doctors who are reading this who have a practice and are 
by a patient having symptoms that could be due to the hypothetical 
(e . g .  . , they fit some of the the pro people 
have identified ) , should consider anti if all other 
have been  . remember , theory and practice are two different things 
you cannot have one without the other , they are  . if a doctor does 
something non standard yet produces relief in over a 
thousand of his , should n't you at least sit up and take notice 
maybe you ought to trust what he says and begin why it works 
instead of why it should n't work. i'm afraid a lot of doctors have become 
so with scientific correctness that they are ignoring the 
they have to help. you have to do both both have to be balanced , which 
we do n't see from some of the posters to this group. there comes a point when 
you just have to use a little common sense , and maybe an empirical approach 
 ( such as trying a good anti such as sporanox ) after having 
all the other  . i was one of those who the traditional 
medical was not able to help , so i did the natural thing i 
went to a couple of doctor 's who are  ( somewhat ) outside this , 
and as a result i have found significant relief .  . 

would it not be better if the traditional medical can set up 
some kind of mechanism where any doctor , without fear of being or having 
his license , can try experimental and unproven  ( beyond a doubt ) 
for his her that finally reach the point where all the 
accepted are ineffective i 'd like to hear a doctor tell me 
well , i 've tried all the that are approved and accepted in this 
country , and since they clearly do n't work for you , i now have the authority 
to use experimental , unproven techniques that seem to have helped others. i 
ca n't promise anything , and there are some risks .  . you will have to sign 
something saying you understand the experimental and possibly nature of 
these unproven , and i 'll have to your case at the state 
board. anyway , if my had suggested this to me , i would 've on this 
instead of going to one of those doctors who , for either altruistic 
reasons , or for greed , is practicing these alternative with much 
risk to him her  ( risk meaning their license ) and possibly to the 
patient .  . such a mechanism would keep control in the more mainstream medicine , 
and also provide valuable data that would essentially be free. it also would 
be morally and better than the current system by showing the 
compassion of the medical community to the patient that it 's doing everything 
it can within reason to help the patient .  . it is the lack of such a mechanism 
that is large numbers of people to try alternative , some of 
which seem to work  ( like my case ) , and others of which will never work at all 
 ( true  . 

i better get off my soapbox before this post in size. 


if taken , it can also become a major bacteria in the gut .  . through 
, it has also been used to the  . 
but before this occurs , the system 
needs to be  . this is accomplished by vitamin a , vitamin c and 
some of the b complex vitamins .  . diet repeatedly show that americans 
are not getting enough and  . these are probably the of 
the population that will have the greatest problem with this non existent 
 ( disorder(candida after  . 

what of appears to be necessary to promote the healing and proper 
working of the 


some of the above material was obtained from natural healing by mark 
, published by press , as well as notes from my human 
course. i will be posting a discussion of vitamin a sometime in 
the future , along with reference to point out the extremely 
important role that vitamin a plays in the defense system in 
the body and why vitamin a should be effective in dealing with 
 . another effective dietary treatment is to restrict 
during the treatment , this is especially important if the 
system is involved. if can not get , it 's not going to out 
grow the bacteria and you then give bacteria , which can use amino and 
for energy , a chance to take over and keep the in check 
once is returned to the gut .  . 

i 'd like to see the role of complex , such as  . 


if steve and some of the other want to jump all over this post , 
fine. i all over steve in sci .  .  . because he 
a poster who was seeking advice about her doctor 's use of vitamin 
a and anti for a in her gut .  . people seeking advice 
from should not be treated this way. those of us giving of our 
time and knowledge can it out to our heart 's content. if you saved 
your venom for me steve and left the helpless posters who are 
seeking help alone , i would n't have a problem with your behavior. 

soul you are. the venom on usenet can be quite unless one 
develops an to it. one year ago , my self would have 
backed down right away from an attack of  . but my immune 
system , and my computer system , have been from gradual 
 . i now kind of like being called it has 
a nice to it. i also was very impressed by how it just into the 
post truly classic , worthy of a blue  ( or maybe brown )  . i might 
even cross post it to alt . best . of . internet .  . hmmm .  .  .  . 


martin , d .  . 
professor of biochemistry and chairman 
department of biochemistry and 
college of medicine 

thanks again for a great and post. i hope others who have 
researched this area and are lurking in the background will post their 
thoughts as well , no matter their views on this subject. 

jon 




charter member club. 

if you 're dying to know what means , be , e mail me , i 'll send info .  . 

jon 
international 100 . 100 . fred s 
place phone  ( 510 ) world 's best ! 
, ca v mail  ( 510 ) 

who are you read alt . psychology . ! that 's where the action is. 

from  ( david rind ) 
subject re 
organization israel hospital , medical school , boston mass .  . , usa 
lines 11 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( fiberman ) writes 
is effective in treating 

it depends on the cause of the  . for treating bacterial 
in young otherwise healthy non , 
is usually considered the of choice , since it covers 
the two most common pathogens and 
 . 

david 


from  ( nathan siemers ) 
subject re with 
in reply to 's message of tue , 6 apr 1993 03 28 57 gmt 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization department of chemistry , univ .  . 
lines 34 

on tue , 6 apr 1993 03 28 57 gmt ,  ( steve dyer ) said 

in article lawrence writes 
i sometimes see for back that 
aspirin with a  . 

you certainly do not see as such. 
the only such ridiculous are for 
, to treat headache and simultaneously .  . 
they 're worthless .  . 

the idea seems to be to reduce 
by getting rid of fluid .  . does this actually work 

that 's not the idea , and no , they do n't work. 

i believe there is a known between certain 
and  . for treating pain , not  . 

now that i am an convert i have n't taken it for some 
time , but really works !  ( grin ) 






steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . bb ` , 
... . ` 
 .  .  . , `  . p 
. . , . `  . 

from  ( jon noring ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 32 

in article  ( steve dyer ) writes 
in article  ( jon noring ) writes 

good grief again. 

why the i must have really a raw  . 

let 's see i had symptoms that resisted all other  . 
totally them within one week. hmmm , i must be  . ! 
that 's it my was all in my mind. thanks steve for your correct 
you must have a lot of experience being out there in , 
treating hundreds of a week. thank you. i'm forever in your 
debt .  . 

jon 

 ( oops , gotta run , the men in white are ready to take me away , , 
to the happy home , where i can go my , , and 
about my ) . 



charter member club. 

if you 're dying to know what means , be , e mail me , i 'll send info .  . 

jon 
international 100 . 100 . fred s 
place phone  ( 510 ) world 's best ! 
, ca v mail  ( 510 ) 

who are you read alt . psychology . ! that 's where the action is. 

from  ( david wright ) 
subject re name of md 's 
organization computer products , division 
lines 21 
nntp posting host hi . com . 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( ed clarke ) writes 
it 's not an  . it is called a head  . all doctors never 

a 

the is the little that fits on the end of the  . 
there are also that and are 
all too familiar with. 

in fairness , we should note that if you look up in the 
dictionary  ( which i did when this question first surfaced ) , the first 
definition is a or polished metal used as a in 
 . 

which does n't mean the name fits in this context , but it 's not as far 
off as you might think. 

david , computer products  ( america ) , inc. , ma 
these are my opinions , not necessarily 
's , though they are the opinions of all right thinking people 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re and 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 12 

in article  ( peggy wageman ) writes 
i read that can contribute to , could 
taking  ( ert ) cause any information 

i'm not sure it is the so much as the level. 
taking can certainly cause in some women. 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( mike e. romano ) 
subject home medical 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 21 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i am looking for current sources for lists of all the home 
medical currently legally available. 
i believe this trend of allowing at home where 
, medical costs by a factor of 10 or 
more and allows the patient some time and to 
consider the best action from the results of such  . 
in fact i believe home medical and certain basic 
for serious diseases such as , heart disease , 
should be offered free to the american public. 
this could actually help to reduce national medical costs 
since many would have an earlier opportunity to know 
about and work or  . 
mike 



sir , i admit your gen rule 
that every poet is a fool 
but you yourself may serve to show it , 
that every fool is not a poet .  . a. pope 

from ca . us . 
subject 
keywords information wanted 
article i.d. 
reply to ca . us . 
lines 12 


i have a friend who has just been with , and i know nothing 
about this disease. the only thing i do know is that this is some sort of 
disease , and my friend shows no in fact , they used a 
blood test to determine what had been wrong with an on going 
problem. 
i am finding a hard time finding information on this disease. could 
anyone please enlighten me as to the particulars of this disease. 
please feel free to e mail me at 
ca . us . 

thanks in advance. 

from  ( tom molnar ) 
subject sudden in 
organization 
lines 30 

i experienced a sudden in my left this morning. just after 
i my 4th set of deep  . today was my weight training 
day and i was just beginning my  . all of a sudden at the end of 
the 4th set my felt like it had gone to sleep .  . it was cold , turned pale , 
and lost 60 of its strength .  . the weight i used for was n't that 
heavy , i was working hard but not at 100 effort .  . i waited for a few 
, trying to the back to life and then continued with 
 ( flyes ) with than i normally use. but 
i dropped the left during the first set , and experienced continued 
weakness into the second .  . so i quit training and decided not to do my 
usual hour on the machine either. i 'll take it easy for the rest of 
the day. 

my is still somewhat and weaker than normal 
my hand still a bit down to the  . color has returned to normal 
and it is no longer cold .  . 

thoughts of of blocking a major course through 
my brain .  . i'm 34 , vegetarian , and pretty fit from my daily exercise 
 . so that ca n't be it. could a from the bar 
cause these symptoms (i hope ) 

has this happened to anyone else 
nothing like this has ever happened to me before. does it come with age 

thanks , 
tom 

tom 
unix systems group , university of computing communications .  . 

from  ( doug s. caprette ) 
subject cs chemical 
organization 
lines 10 



can anyone provide information on cs chemical the tear gas used recently 
in  . just what is it , and what are its effects on the body 


regards , code 9 . 
doug , maryland , md 

a path is laid one at a time the giant 

from 
subject should i be angry at this doctor 
lines 26 
organization space science institute 
distribution na 

am i justified in being off at this doctor 

last saturday evening my 6 year old son cut his finger with a knife .  . 
i took him to a local and general care clinic at 5 50  . the 
clinic was open till 6 00  . the went to the back and told the 
doctor that we were there , and came back and told us the doctor would not 
see us because she had to go at 6 00 and did not want to be 
here. during the next few , in response to my questions , with several 
trips to the back room , the told me 
the doctor was doing paperwork in the back , 
the doctor would not even look at his finger to us on going 
to the emergency room 
the doctor would not even speak to me 
she would not tell me the doctor 's name , or her own name 
when asked who is in charge of the clinic , she said i do n't know. 

i realize that a private clinic is not the same as an emergency room , but 
i was quite angry at being turned away because the doctor did not want to 
be bothered .  . my son did get three at the emergency room. i'm still 
trying to find out who is in charge of that clinic so i can write them a 
letter. we will certainly never set foot in that clinic again. 


mary ryan 
space science institute 
baltimore , maryland 

from  ( gary merrill ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
originator 
nntp posting host sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 16 


in article ,  ( mark fulk ) writes 

i do n't think extra scientific is a very useful phrase in a discussion 
of the of science , except as a proposed  . extra rational 
is a better phrase .  . in fact , there are quite a number of well known cases 
of extra rational driving science in a useful direction .  . 

yeah , but the problem with holding up the extra rational examples as 
, or as refutations of well founded , is that you 
run smack up against such as  . such extra 
rational cases are not to  . 

h. principal systems , c development 
sas institute inc. sas campus dr. , nc  ( 919 ) 
... ! ! sas ! 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re patient diplomacy 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 18 

in article  ( carl witthoft ) writes 

what is unacceptable about this is that hospitals and by law 
have no choice but to treat you if you show up sick or mangled from 
an accident. if you are n't rich and have no , who is going 
to foot your do you actually intend to tell the 
no , let me die in the because i ca n't afford the treatment 

by law , they would not be allowed to do that anyhow .  . 






gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( dick king ) 
subject re selective 
organization reasoning systems , inc. , , ca 
lines 20 
nntp posting host drums . reasoning . com . 

in article  ( ron roth ) writes 

, who are we kidding , the new england medical journal in 1984 
the heading percent of diseases are not by 
drugs or , which has been by several other reports .  . 
no wonder are not with alternative medicine , since 
the 20 magic of the effect would award alternative 
twice the success rate of conventional medicine .  .  .  . 

1 90 of diseases is not the same thing as 90 of . 

in a world with one disease that strikes 100 people , and 
diseases which strikes one person each , medical science will 
91 of the and report that 90 of diseases have no  . 

2 a disease would be counted among the 90 if nothing better than 
a were known. of course are bound to not knowingly 
 .  .  . 

dk 

from  ( melissa n .  . matusevich ) 
subject foreskin 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( radford ) 
lines 3 

what can be done , short of , for an adult male 
whose foreskin will not retract 


from  ( jason chen ) 
subject re is 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
reply to 
organization bell communications research 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( mary e. allison ) writes 

two different  ( two weeks apart we used the same day of the 
week just for sake ) we ordered food from the local 
chinese take out same exact food except one of the days we had them 
hold the  . i did not know which time the food was ordered without 
the but one time i had the reaction and one time i did not. 

now you can try to tell me that it was n't scientific enough and 
that i have not proven beyond the of a doubt that i have a 
reaction to but it was proof enough for me and i 'll have you 
know that i do not wish to get sick from eating food thank you very 
much. 

if you could not tell which one had , why bother to 
use it at all 

if you can taste the difference , psychological reaction might play a role .  . 

the fact is , is part of natural substance .  . everyone , i mean everyone , 
consumes certain amount of every day through regular diet without 
the  . 

chinese , and many other asians  ( japanese , , etc ) have used 
as flavor for two thousand years. do you believe that 
they knew how to make from chemical processes not. they just 
extracted it from natural food such sea food and meat  . 

is just like sugar which many people react to. 

jason 

from  ( nemo ) 
subject method for 
reply to 
distribution na 
organization , florida state university 
lines 22 

does the method work i first heard about it in this newsgroup 
several years ago , and i have just got hold of a book , how to improve your 
sight simple daily in , by margaret d. , 
 ( 'authorized of the method ) , published in  . it 
talks about vision improvement by and exercise .  . has there been 
any study on whether this method actually works if it works , is it by 
actually the previously , or by increasing 
the 's ability to itself in order to for the 
too long 

since is the result of , seems to me the most 
logical approach for correction is to find a way to reverse the process , 
i.e. , it somehow  ( preferably non  . has there been 
any recent studies on this where can i find them i know rk works by 
changing the of the to for the shape of 
, but if there is a way to train the to the 
back to its correct length that would be even better  ( bates 's 
idea , right ) 

thanks for any information. 



from  ( len howard ) 
subject re 
summary not that rare a condition 
organization , 
lines 17 

in article  ( naomi t courter ) writes 

can anyone give me more information regarding i heard 
it 's a very common disease among women and if anyone can provide names 
of a surgeon in the north research triangle park 
area  ( raleigh hill ) who is familiar with the condition , 
i would really appreciate it. 
thanks. 


, your best bet is to look in the pages and find a listing 
for doc in the area you wish. any doc is familiar with 
and its  . 
md 




from  ( marc gabriel ) 
subject  .  .  . 
organization university 
lines 22 

the following 4 addresses are on the mailing list , but are rejecting 
mail .  . since the list server originally accepted these addresses successfully , 
i assume these addresses have since been eliminated .  . improperly 
mail might also be responsible .  . 

if you are listed here and would still like to remain on the list , please 
write to me. otherwise , i will remove these addresses from the list before the 
next newsletter goes out. 

as a general rule , please remember to from all your mailing 
lists before your account is closed. this will save the 
from many  . 


r 
! 
com . ! 



c. u . c .  . box 
 ( 215 ) university 

from  ( william turnbow ) 
subject re discussions on alt . 
organization sun inc. , view , ca 
lines 39 
reply to  ( william turnbow ) 
nntp posting host athena 

in article com .  ( bill claussen ) writes 

this group was originally a from sci .  . the reason for 
the formation of this group was to discuss prescription 
drugs .  .  .  . such . as ... 

oh well , obviously , no one really cares .  . 


then let me ask you for a workable solution .  . we have a name 
here that implies certain things to many people. rather than trying 
to each and every person that comes to the group is there 
some name that would imply what this group was originally 
intended for 

my was a lawyer as such i grew up with being a 
for meaning . in my reality , technically could 
range from to to the drugs you mention to more 
standard drugs .  . in practice i had hoped to see it 
limited to those that were above some level like 
some of the drugs you mention , but also possibly including some 
drugs but with conversation limited to their 
effects the recent about water , i thought was a bit 
off topic so i just hit k . 

but back to the original question what is a workable solution 
what is a workable name that would imply the topic you with to 
discuss it sounds like there should be a alt . , or something 
similar i do n't feel would generally be used to 
describe alot of those drugs .  . there is a big difference between a 
drug that if taken in certain , over a period of days may have 
a effect in some people , vs. many of the drugs in 
which are  . 





if pro choice means choice after conception , does this apply to men too 

from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re  ( was eugenics ) 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 17 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
summary lousy idea. 


cross posted and with followups directed to talk . politics . theory .  . 


in article  ( mark robert thorson ) writes 
indeed , we are today a nation at risk ! the threat is not from bad genes , 
but bad memes ! memes are the basic units of culture , as opposed to genes 
which are the units of genetics .  . 

we must expand the public health laws to include of people 
with harmful memes .  . ... 

in other words , we should jail people who say the wrong 
things. in this , we can see a truly meme .  . 
does mark robert advocate himself 

russell 

from  ( jim fare ) 
subject ears 
keywords ears , sleep , depression 
reply to  ( jim fare ) 
distribution world 
organization systems division , corp , ,  . , canada 
lines 15 



a friend of mine has a trouble with her ears  . the is so loud 
that she has great difficulty sleeping at night. she says that she has n't 
had a normal night 's sleep in about 6 months  ( she looks like it too () .  . 
this is making her depressed so her doctor has put her on anti  . 

the started rather suddenly about 6 months ago. she is quickly 
sleep , social life and over this. 

does anyone know of any for this any experience 
mechanisms any opinions on the anti drugs 

j . f .  . 


from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re food related 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 27 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( david ozonoff ) writes 

many of these are based .  . after your post i looked in the 
literature and two articles that  ( contains 
tryptophan ) and  . the idea is that in the diet might 
an already existing or latent disorder , not cause it. 
check to see if the two are based .  . i 'd be interested .  . 

years ago when i was an , an young woman was brought into 
the er after having been reported to have grand 
why a . we her stomach and obtained 
what seemed like a couple of of , much of it  . 
after a few hours she up and was fine. i was tempted to sign her out as 
 . 

gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 

how about on the , e.g. 




michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re great post !  ( was re  ( yeast )  .  . ) .  ( very long) 
summary how virtually 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 30 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


in article  ( jon noring ) writes 
... if you ca n't observe or culture the in the 
gut or , then there 's no way to or even recognize 
the disease. and i know they realize that it is virtually 
impossible to test for in any part of the body 
that cannot be easily observed since is everywhere in 
the body. 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
you 've just discovered one of the requirements for a good theory. 
find something that no one can disprove and then write a book saying 
it is the cause of whatever. since no one can disprove it , you can 
in the for quite some time. 

i hope gordon banks did not mean to imply that notions such as 
hard to see causing various problems should not 
be investigated .  . many have made by 
out how to investigate things that were previously thought 
virtually impossible to test for. 

indeed , i would be surprised if were such a 
phenomena .  . i would think that would produce signature 
whose measure would then set a lower bound on the 
extent of recent infection .  . i realize this might get quite 
tricky and difficult , probably expensive , and likely 
or uncomfortable to the subjects , but that is not the same as 
virtually impossible. 

russell 

from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 

 ( steve dyer ) writes 

in article  ( jon noring ) writes 
there is no convincing evidence that such a disease exists. 
there 's a lot of evidence , it just has n't been adequately gathered and 
published in a way that will convince the die hard skeptics 
who the word  anecdote  or  empirical  is used. 

snort .  . ah , there go my again. 

for example , dr. , who wrote the book survival , always gives , 

oh , wow. a classic textbook .  . hey , they laughed at einstein , too ! 

before any other treatment , a anti  ( such as nizoral ) to his 
new if they 've been on spectrum anti 4 or more times 
in the last two years. he 's kept a record of the results , and for over 
2000 found that over 90 of his get significant relief 
of allergic symptoms .  . of course , this is only the beginning for his 
program .  . 

yeah , i 'll bet. tomorrow , the world. 

listen , studies like this are worthless .  . 

in my case , as i reported a few weeks ago , i was developing the classic 
symptoms in  the connection  (i agree it is a poorly 
written book ) e.g. , extreme to , , etc. which 
i never had before  ( started in  . within one week of full 
of , the to has fully disappeared i can 
now sit on my at home without dying after two minutes. i'm also 
greatly improved in other areas as well. 

i'm sure you are. you sound like the typical who 
responds to miracle  . 

of course , i have symptoms , etc. i am especially allergic to 
, , etc. it does n't take a rocket scientist to figure out that 
if one has excessive colonization of in the body , and you have a 
natural to , that a would be reached where you 
would have symptoms .  . 

yeah , it makes sense to me , so of course it should be taken seriously. 
snort .  . 

also , do produce of various 
sorts , and again , you do n't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that 
such can cause problems in some people. 

yeah , it sounds reasonable to me . 

of course , the 60 , 000 
question is whether a person who is immune  ( as showed i was 
from over 5 years of , because of the 
of and , etc . ) . , 

oh , really what immune , my ass. 
more like  . this is a  . 

can develop excessive 
colonization somewhere in the body. it is a tough question to answer since 
for excessive colonization is not easy .  . one almost has to 
take an empirical approach to  . fortunately , is relatively 
safe unlike past anti  ( still have to be careful , however ) so there 's 
no reason any longer to treatment for empirical reasons. 

you know , it 's a that a drug like is being misused 
in this way. it 's expensive , and  . 
the trouble is that it is n't enough , so it gets by  . 

btw , some would say to try  . unfortunately , most grows 
too deep into tissue for to have any permanent affect .  . you 'll find 
a lot of people who are on all the time. 

the only good thing about is that it 's  ( relatively ) cheap 
and when taken , non  . but oral is without any 
effect , so unless it were given , it would be without 
any effect on your  . i wish these would first use 
or b on people like you. that would solve 
the problem once and for all. 

in summary , i appreciate all of the attempts by those who desire to keep 
medicine on the right road. but that some who hold too firmly 
to the party line are who have n't been in the long enough 
actually treating  . if anybody , doctors included , said to me to my 
face that there is no evidence of the  connection  , i cannot 
their safety .  . for their , off their is justified as 
far as i am concerned. 

perhaps a little would go a long way towards 
your symptoms .  . 

are you paying for this treatment out of your own i 'd hate 
to think my are going towards this. 

steve 

, you 're rude .  . medicine is not a scientific  . it 's 
often practiced in a manner. most early treatment of 
non life threatening is done on a guess , after 
evidence given by the patient .  . it 's an guess , by a trained person , 
but it 's still no more than a guess. 
it 's and simpler to first and only deal further with those 
people who do n't respond .  . 

there are diseases that have n't been described yet and the root cause of many 
diseases now described are n't known.  ( read a book on 
sometime if you want to see a lot of them . ) . after scientific methods have 
run out then it 's the patient 's freedom of choice to try any experimental 
method they choose .  . and it 's well recognized by many doctors that medicine 
does n't have all the answers. 

this person said that they had relief by taking the medicine .  . maybe it 's a 
miracle , maybe it 's valid .  . how do you know 

you might argue with the reasoning , the conclusions .  . but your 
attack is  . why do n't you present an convincing argument for you 
r beliefs , instead of wasting our time in an ad hominem attack .  . 




from  ( cliff tomplait ) 
subject re sex problem. 
organization 
lines 34 

 ( larry silverberg ) writes 
i have question that i hope is taken seriously , despite the subject content. 

problem my long time lately has not been any sexual 
activity. for the last four months things have changed  . 
... 
to make this summary nothing that i can think of has 
changed .  .  .  .  . 
... 
she suggested we go to a sex , but i really do n't want to  ( just  . 
any suggestions would be appreciated. 
if you think you can help me , please contact me by e mail for further info .  . 
please serious replies only .  . 
thanks , larry 

larry 

the subject content is serious as is the question. 

on one hand you state that things have changed but , at the 
same time nothing you can think of has changed . your seems 
to want to see a , but you do n't .  . 

i 'd recommend that you examine your to see a  . it 's 
a very good environment to examine issues. 

the fact of the matter is your has a different perception than 
you. the two of you need to address the issue in order to resolve it. 

please consider going to a with your  . what could it 
possibly hurt 

 ( the paramedic ) 


from  ( doug pan ) 
subject re is 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 1993 19 41 40 gmt 
organization group , stanford university 





lines 26 

in article  ( amy mossman ) writes 

i had a similar reaction to chinese food but came to a different 
conclusion .  . i 've chinese food for ages and never had problems. i went 
with some chinese friends to a rest. and they ordered 
lots of stuff i had never seen before. the only thing i can remember of that 
was the first course , served in the shell with a type sauce .  . 
i thought , well , i 've only had once and i was sick after but that 
could have been a coincidence . that night as i sat on the bathroom , 
sweating and my stomach the hard way , i decided i would never touch 
another  . i may not be allergic but i do n't want to take the chance. 

i do n't react to , but did have with clam 
served at  ( american )  . i do n't know whether 
the is or from  . 

the following is my first with the chinese 
 . ten years ago , about an hour after having won i 
collapsed in a chair with my face feeling up , my 
, my feet too weak to stand up. the symptoms lasted for about 
20 minutes. determined to find out the cause of my first reaction , i 
went back to the chinese and ordered the same  . the 
same thing happened. a quick look inside the kitchen revealed nothing 
out of the ordinary .  . 

i 've also had a mild attack after having at a  . 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 18 

in article werner  ( john werner ) writes 
in article ,  ( gordon banks ) wrote 

explain. i thought there were 3 types of , equivalent to  . 

you 're basically right , but i think there are just 2 types .  . one is 
sensitive to red and green , and the other is sensitive to blue and  . 
this is why the two most common kinds of color are red green and 
blue  . 


yes , i remember that now. well , in that case , the are indeed 
color sensitive , contrary to what the original had claimed .  . 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( david nye ) 
subject re 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 21 

reply to  ( brian m. huey ) 

i think that 's the correct  .  . 

 . 

the picture will show energy patterns or around the object 
, and depending on what type of object it is , the or 
energy patterns will vary .  . one might extrapolate here and say that this 
proves that every object within the universe  ( as we know it) has its 
own energy signature .  . 

there turned out to be a very simple , conventional explanation for the 
phenomenon .  . i ca n't recall the details , but i believe it had to do with 
the object between the plates altering the field because of purely 
properties like  . the was caused by direct 
exposure of the film from variations in field strength .  . 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( nancy p. milligan ) 
subject re need advice with doctor patient relationship problem 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 15 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

i 'd dump him. rude is rude and it seems he enjoys and 
humiliating you. but do n't just dump him , write to him and tell 
him why you are firing him. if you can , think about sending a copy 
of your letter to whoever is in charge of the clinic where he works , 
if applicable , or maybe even to the  . do n't be in 
your letter , be but very firm .  . 

but do n't be a victim and just put up with it. take control ! it 'll 
make you feel great ! 

nancy m. 

nancy p. 
or 


from  ( mark fulk ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization university of rochester 

in article  ( gary merrill ) writes 

in article ,  ( mark fulk ) writes 

i do n't think extra scientific is a very useful phrase in a discussion 
of the of science , except as a proposed  . 
extra rational 
is a better phrase .  . in fact , there are quite a number of well known cases 
of extra rational driving science in a useful direction .  . 

yeah , but the problem with holding up the extra rational examples as 
, or as refutations of well founded , is that you 
run smack up against such as  . such extra 
rational cases are not to  . 

as has been noted before , there is the distinction between motivation 
and method . no experimental result should be accepted unless it is 
described in sufficient detail to be , and the 
do indeed reproduce the result. no argument should be 
accepted unless it is presented in sufficient detail to be followed , and 
reasonable , , people agree with the force of the logic .  . 

but people try experiments , and pursue arguments , for all sorts of crazy 
reasons. irrational motivations are not just they are a 
large part of the history of science. 

there are a couple of negative points to make here 

1 ) a theory of could , , become accepted without direct 
of the existence of  . for example , are an accepted 
part of the standard model of physics , with no direct  . what 
would be needed would be a theory , based on , that predicted medical 
reality better than the alternatives .  . the central claim could 
lie forever beyond experiment , as long as there was a sufficient body of 
experimental data that the theory predicted better than any other. 

(i would n't hold my waiting for the of , though. 
i do n't think that there is even a theory based on it , much less 
a theory that explains anything at all better than modern biology .  . and it 
is hard to imagine a theory that would not some way of rather 
directly the existence of ) . 

2 ) science has not historically progressed in any sort of rational 
experiment data theory sequence .  . most experiments are carried out , and 
interpreted , in pre existing  . the 
of the day determine which experiments get done. overall , 
there is a huge affair of personal , crazy motivations , 
petty , and the like that determines which experiments , and which 
, get done. what keeps it going forward is the critical 
function of science results do n't count unless they can be  . 

the whole system is a sort of mechanism for generate and test. the generate 
part can be totally irrational , as long as the test part works properly. 

could believe whatever he liked about chemical activity and 
but even had to agree that acid were handed 
that when you separate them by , you get two that 
light in opposite and the right version was 
from acid .  . 's irrational motivation had 
led to a , and important , result. 

this is where , creationists , etc. fail .  . they have usually not 
even produced theories that much of anything. when their 
theories do , and are contradicted by experiment , they do not 
concede the point and their theories rather they try to suppress 
the results  ( lysenko ) or try to attention to other evidence they 
think supports their position  . 

mark a. university of rochester 
computer science department 

from  ( peter cash ) 
subject re need advice with doctor patient relationship problem 
nntp posting host com . 
organization the 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 16 

in article  ( michael covington ) writes 
sounds as though his heart 's in the right place , but he is not at 
expressing it. what you received was meant to be a profound apology .  . 
apologies by overworked people often come out like that .  .  .  . 

his heart this jerk does n't have a heart , and it beats me why you 're 
for him. in my book , behavior like this is , 
inexcusable , and beyond the pale .  . if he 's overworked , it 's because he 's too 
busy in the  . more likely , he just likes to push women around. 
i 'd fire the s . o . b .  . , and get myself another doctor .  . 



die ist , was ist .  . 
peter cash  ( apologies to wittgenstein ) 


from  ( ken mitchum ) 
subject re how about a crash program in basic research 
organization vax pittsburgh , pa 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( gary kronk ) writes 
i have been this idea for some time as well. i am not a 
doctor , but my wife is a and i know a lot of doctors and  . 
the point here being that doctors and do not seem to get sick 
nearly as much as people outside the medical profession .  . 

this is a area for , but i am sure you are on to something. 
as a , i almost never get sick usually , when something 
is going around , i either do n't get it at all or get a very mild case. 
when i do get really sick , it is always something unusual .  . 

this was not the situation when i was in medical school , particularly on 
 . i never had myself , and when i went on the 
i suddenly found myself confronting all sorts of infectious 
challenges that my body was not ready for. for me was three solid 
months of , and i had a of when i took the final ! 

i think what happens is that during training , and beyond , we are constantly 
exposed to new things , and we have the usual reactions to them , so that later 
on , when challenged with something , it is more likely a re exposure for us , 
so we deal with it well and get a mild  . i do n't think it is that 
the immune system is up in any way. also , do n't forget that the 
hospital is very different from the home , and we carry a lot of that 
around. 



from  ( marlena libman ) 
subject need advice with doctor patient relationship problem 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 64 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

i need advice with a situation which occurred between me and a 
which upset me. i saw this doctor for a problem with pain. 
he suggested and a course of treatment , and told me that i 
need to call him 7 days after i begin the so that he may 
its , as well as my general health .  . 

i did exactly as he asked , and made the call  ( reaching his  . 
i explained to her that i was following up at the doctor 's request , 
and that i was worried because the pain were becoming more 
frequent and the did not seem effective. 

the doctor called me back , and his first words were , whatever you want , 
you 'd better make it quick .  . i'm very busy and do n't have time to 
chat with you ! i told him i was simply following his instructions to 
call on the 7th day to status him , and that i was feeling worse. i 
then asked if perhaps there was a better time for us to talk when he 
had more time. he responded , just it out now because no time is 
a good time.  ( said in a raised voice . ) . i started to feel upset and 
tried to explain quickly what was going on with my condition but my 
with my choice of words and i kind of 
and then said well , never mind and he said he 'll talk to various 
colleagues about other and he 'll call me some other time. 

this doctor called me that evening and said because i did n't express 
myself well , he was confused about what i wanted .  . at this point i 
was pretty upset and i told him  ( in an amazingly polite voice considering 
how angry i felt ) that his earlier manner had hurt my feelings. he told 
me that he just does n't have time to with and thought 
that was what i wanted .  . i told him that to assume i was calling to 
was insulting , and said again that i was just following through 
on his orders .  . he responded that he the implication that he 
felt i was making that he was not interested in learning about what his 
have to say about their condition status .  . he then gave me 
this apology i am sorry that there was a and you 
mistakenly thought i was insulting .  . i am not trying to insult you 
but i am not that knowledgeable about pain , and i do n't have a lot of 
time to deal with that. he then told me to call him the next day 
for further instructions on how do deal with my pain and  . 

i am still upset and have not yet called .  . 

my questions (1) should i continue to have this doctor my care 
(2) since i am in pain off and on , i realize that this may cause me to 
be more so am i perhaps over or overly sensitive 
if this doctor refers me to his who knows more about the type 
of pain i have , he still wants me to status him on my condition but 
now i am afraid to call him. 


















from  ( chuck wa7kgx ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
organization technology , rain 
lines 38 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( chuck wa7kgx ) writes 

can you provide a reference to substantiate that back 
the lost weight does not constitute weight until it 
the starting weight or is this oral tradition that 
is shared only among you obesity 

of ny  . sci .  . 1987 

hmmm .  . these do n't look like references to me. is passive aggressive 
behavior associated with weight ) 

i left off the page numbers to encourage the reader to 
study the volumes mentioned , and benefit  . 


good story , , but it wo n't  . i have read the ny sci 
one  ( and have it) .  . this am i could n't find any reference to 
weight . i'm not saying it is n't there , but since you 
cited it , it is your responsibility to show me where it is in there. 
there is no index .  . i suspect you your knowledge base , 
as usual .  . 

gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


it 's on page , about 2 1 2 up from the bottom and an in 
from the right. 

at least we know what some people have n't read and  . 


... ! tektronix ! reed ! ! 
author of , , , , and 
technology the high reliability software 
v is or 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re is there a real 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 39 

in article writes 


my biggest is the doctor who makes it seem like most 
people with can be cured .  . that 's definitely not the 
case. in most cases , like i said above , it is a long , tedious 
process that may or may not end up in a  . 


be sure to say , not just  . most 
with or will get better. 
the of 's will also eventually go 
away , however , the patient is left with a ear .  . 


to anyone suffering with , , or any 
thereof , my best advice to you  ( as a fellow sufferer ) is this .  .  .  . 
just keep searching .  .  . do . n't let the doctors tell you there 's 
nothing that can be done .  .  . do . your own research .  .  . and . let your 

this may have helped you , but i'm not sure it is good general 
advice. the odds that you are going to find some miracle with 
your own research that is secret or hidden from general knowledge 
for this or any other disease are slim .  . when good answers to these 
problems are found , it is usually in all the newspapers. until 
then , spending a great deal of time and energy on the medical 
problem may that energy from more things 
in life. a limited amount should be spent to yourself 
that your doctor gave you the correct story , but after it becomes 
clear that you are dealing with a problem for which medicine 
has no good solution , perhaps the best strategy is to join 
the support group and keep of new findings but not to 
make a career out of it. 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from 
subject , et .  . al. side effects 
organization college , , nc 
lines 22 

can someone tell me whether or not any of the following 
has been linked to excessive weight gain and or a 
sense of taste or smell (a to 
prevent asthma )  . 

also 
you may have guessed , i'm an sufferer but i'm beginning to 
suspect i'm also the victim of a dr. with the prescription 
p. the i went to last  . simply about my 
( i was suffering attacks ) , gave me a of 
, and went down a of drugs (a 
 . i 've gained out 30  . since then though i have n't 
more or much differently than before i depression , 
and i 've experienced a foul smell and sense of taste for 
about the last two months. i mentioned the lack of smell and taste to 
this dr. in feb .  . and he said my did look a bit  ( he 
just looked up my nose with his little light the same one used for 
ears ) , and prescribed and  ( severe 
and a resulted , particularly after my week 's worth of 
 . now he wants to do a to see if i have a 
or in my  . i'm considering seeing another 
doctor .  . any suggestions advice i 'd really appreciate it ! 

from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re science and 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 67 
distribution 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


in article  ( lee lady ) writes 
the difference between a prize level scientist and a 
scientist does not lie in the quality of their empirical  . 
it depends on the quality of their thinking. 

it really bothers me that so many graduate students seem to believe that 
they are doing science merely because they are conducting empirical 
studies .  . ... 

and i'm especially offended by russell 's repeated assertion that 
science to nothing more than avoiding mistakes .  . simply avoiding 
mistakes does n't get you anywhere. 

i think that and i are talking at cross purposes. 
above , seems concerned with the between great 
science that makes big advances in our knowledge and 
science that makes smaller steps .  . in most of this thread , i have 
been concerned with the difference between what is science and 
what is not. 

is correct when she asserts that the difference between 
einstein and the average post doc physicist is the quality of 
their thought. but what is the difference between einstein and a 
genius who would be a great scientist but whose great thoughts 
are scientifically  ( some would give or 
as examples .  . if you do n't like these , choose your 
own . ) . i say it is the same as the difference between the 
physicist and the of  . both einstein and 
the have their work from the 
knowledge of how previous went wrong. 
both and the of have failed to 
do this. 

let me approach this from a second direction .  . when one is asked 
to review a paper for a journal or conference , there are many 
kinds of criticism that one can make. one kind of criticism is 
that the work is just wrong or misinformed .  . another kind of 
criticism is that the work , while technically correct , is either 
not important or not interesting. the first difference is the 
one that i have been pointing to. the second difference is the 
one that seems to be discussing .  . 

if good empirical research were done and showed that there is some merit 
to , this would certainly be valuable information. 
but it would still not mean that as a science. this 
is where you and i disagree with  . 

i have often pointed out that for to be considered 
scientific , what is needed is a test of its claims , 
not just of some of its proposed  . similarly , i suspect 
that traditional chinese medicine has many that work 
what it lacks  ( as one example) is any experiment that the 
presence of  . 

... in order to have science , one must have a 
structure that makes sense , not a mere collection of 
random  . 

certainly a structure that makes sense is the goal. 
in areas where we do not yet have this , i see nothing wrong with 
forming and smaller  . let 's face it we cannot 
always wait for an einstein to come along and make everything 
clear for us. sometimes those of us who are not einstein have to 
plug along and make small of progress as best we can. 

russell 

from  ( kenneth colby ) 
subject re and 
keywords , , 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization , computer science department 
distribution na 
lines 9 

if the nose culture shows , then or even 
are better. does not kill  . treating bacterial 
involves a lot of try and fail because the 
often involve multiple with many 
 . some 60 of are now 
 . what works for me and my may not work 
for you and yours. keep  . 
ken 


from  ( david nye ) 
subject re need advice with doctor patient relationship problem 
article i.d. 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 12 

reply to  ( michael covington ) 

sounds as though his heart 's in the right place , but he is not at 
expressing it. what you received was meant to be a profound apology .  . 
apologies by overworked people often come out like that .  .  .  . 

the guy did n't sound too to me. he like a jerk .  . i say 
him for someone more knowledgeable and  . 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( sue miller ) 
subject re 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 7 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
we do this should we make a race of disease free , long lived , 
arnold , even if we can. 


sure , as long as they 'll make one for me. 


from  ( steve kirchoefer ) 
subject re ca n't 
article i.d. 
organization research  ( electronics science and technology division ) 
lines 17 

getting back to the original question in this thread 

i experienced difficulties a few years ago similar to those 
described .  . in my case , it turned out that i was developing type i 
 . although i never sought direct of this from my 
doctor , i think that the problem was associated with the 
presence of due to the  . 

i think that can occur in lesser degree if one is 
their food drastically .  . i do n't know if this relevant in this 
case , but you might ask your daughter if she has been eating 
properly. 

steve  ( 202 ) 767 
code 
research technology branch 
washington , sci .  . and tech .  . division 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re eye dominance 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 16 

in article  ( richard silver ) writes 

is there a right eye dominance  ( eyedness ) as there is an 
overall right in the population i mean do most 
people require less corrections for the one eye than the 
other if so , what kinds of can be attached to this 

there is eye dominance same as  ( and usually for the 
same  . it has nothing to do with refractive error , however. 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( ken mitchum ) 
subject re disorders and of fingers 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( ken mitchum ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 36 

in article writes 
can anyone out there enlighten me on the relationship between 
disorders and , or and widening , of the 
what is the mechanism and why would a 
call for to the cause of the 

often distinguish between true and pseudo 
, the difference being that with true the 
angle of the nail when viewed from the side is constantly 
negative when proceeding  ( towards the  . 
with pseudo , the angle is initially positive , then 
negative , which is the normal situation. real 
can talk for hours about  . i'm limited to a couple 
of minutes. 

whether this distinction has anything to do with reality is 
entirely , but it is one of those things that 
love to over during  . supposedly , only true 
is associated with disease. the problem is that the list of 
diseases associated with is quite long , and includes 
both conditions and acquired disease. since many of 
these diseases are associated with problems 
to right to left and , it is 
very reasonable to get a  . however , many of the 
would only be with a 
 . 

the cause of is , but presumably relates to 
some factor causing blood in the to 
 . 

is one of those things from an examination which is 
a to do more extensive examination .  . often , however , 
the cause of the is quite apparent .  . 



from  ( martin e. lewitt ) 
subject re 
article i.d. cs . 
organization , park , 
lines 31 

in article  ( vida morkunas ) writes 
i live at sea level , and am called upon to travel to high cities 
quite frequently , on business. the cities in question are at to 
feet of  . one of them especially is very polluted .  .  .  . 

often i feel the first two or three days. i feel , and 
my heart seems to a lot more than at sea level. also , it is very 
in these cities , so i will tend to drink a lot of water , and keep 
away from , such as those containing or  . 

thing is , i still have symptoms .  . how can i ensure that my short trips there 
 ( no , i do n't usually have a week to acclimatize ) are as comfortable as possible 
is there something else that i could do 

i saw a lifetime medical television show a few months back on travel 
medicine .  . it mentioned some drugs which when started two or 
three days before getting to could assist in  . 

unfortunately all that i can recall is that the drug 
at night i do n't know if that makes sense , it seems 
to me that the new drug which red blood cell 
would be a more logical approach , (sp ) .  . 

, i did n't record the program , but wish i had , since i live 
at over  . and my mother gets sick when  . 

please let me know if you get more responses. 

phone  ( 505 ) martin e. my opinions are 
domain p.o. box my own , not my 
park , employer 's .  . 

from  ( dale cook ) 
subject re is there a real 
organization 
lines 19 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
a recent movie , 's oil , a perfect example of what 
i'm talking about. if you have n't seen it , you should .  . it 's not 

i saw it. it is almost a unique case in history. first , 
is a rare but fatal disease. ... 
their accomplishment was significant .  .  ( of course , it was 
in the movie for effect. the oil is not , and does n't even 
prevent progression , only it . ) . 

there 's a pretty good article in the the march 6 , 1993 new scientist titled 
cold water on 's oil . the article states that research 
has shown that the oil has no effect on the progression of the 
disease in in which has begun .  . in with 
(a less form of the same disease ) there is some improvement 
seen in the ability of to conduct  . in 
who have not yet begun , the jury is still out. 



from  ( rathmann , e) 
subject re vs.  ( was re endoscopy ) 
organization , , nj 
summary and 
lines 


i noticed several years ago that when i took fairly regularly , 
 ( motrin at the time) , i seemed to get a lot of  . but had 
forgotten about that until i started reading some of the posts here. 
i generally do n't take or for , because i 've 
found them to be ineffective .  . however , i have two other pain sources 
that force me to take  ( currently  . first , is some 
pain that i get at the beginning of my period , and then much 
worse at  . i have had for in the past 
( 12 years ago ) , so the  . tell me that my pain is probably due 
to the coming back .  . i 've tried , it reduced 
the pain while i took it (3 mos ) , but the pain returned immediately 
after i stopped .  . three doctors have suggested as the 
only real solution to my problem. although i do n't expect to have 
any more children , i do n't like the idea of having my and 
one remaining removed  ( the first was removed when i had 
the for  . one of the that suggested 
i get a is an expert in laser , but perhaps thinks 
that type of procedure is only worthwhile on women who still plan 
to have children. so basically all i'm left with is out 
the pain. this would be impossible without  ( or something 
similar but not aspirin , that does n't work , and gave me 
horrible a few years ago , so i'm through with it) .  . in 
fact , works very well at the pain if i take 
it regularly as i did when i had severe back pain  ( and pain in both 
legs ) as i 'll discuss in a moment .  . generally though , i wait until 
i have the pain before i take the , but then it takes 
several hours for it reduce the pain  ( it 's actually quite effective 
at reducing the pain , it just takes quite a  . in the meantime 
i'm frequently in severe pain. 

the other pain source i have is lower back pain resulting in 
 . i 've had , , ct , and 
(i 've had 2 of them , and do n't intend to ever do that again ) with 
 . the have not been conclusive as to 
what is causing my back and pain. the reports both say i have 
several , , and from the  ( and , i think) 
it is apparent that i have arthritis .  . the reading on the ct 
was that there are two  ( l3 , and l5 ) , but others 
hav looked at the films and concluded that there are no  . 
the second and studies shows significant 
compared to the first  . oh yeah , i had some other horrible test , 
called something like response which showed that the 
internal are working fine. anyway , the bottom line is that 
i sometimes have severe pain in both legs and back pain. the back pain 
is there all the time , but i can live with it. when the pain is there , 
i need some anti inflammatory to reduce the pain 
to a level where i can work. so i took for 6 9 
months  ( every time i tried to stop the pain got worse , so i 'd 
always  . since last i have taken it much less frequently , 
and primarily for the pain. i have been going to physical 
for the last 8 months  ( 2 3 times a  . after the first month 
or so , my put me on  ( she had tried it earlier , 
but it had caused a lot of pain in my back , this time she tried it at 
a lower  . after a month or two , the pain in my legs began going 
away  ( but the caused in my lower back , which 
could be reduced with and  . so now , i do n't have 
nearly as much pain in my legs , in fact my took me off 
about 2 weeks ago. 

getting back to my original reason for this post .  .  .  . even if i can avoid 
taking for , i really ca n't avoid them entirely because 
i have other pain sources , that force me to use them  ( oh , i forgot 
to mention that it has been suggested to me that i have back , 
but i'm avoiding that too) .  . i find the difficult to deal with , 
i have to take off work , but usually i can work , but at 
a reduced capacity  ( i'm a systems engineer and do a lot of reading 
and  . when the pain is bad , i ca n't concentrate much , 
i usually end up jumping out of my chair every few , because 
the pain is so  . when the pain in my back is bad , it can 
cause severe burning in both legs , shooting pains in my legs , electric 
type of pain in my feet and toes , and basically when it gets bad 
i ca n't really sit at all. then i end up spending most of my time home 
and in bed. so even if the contribute to the , the 
are more than the other pain sources. i get a lot 
of , an average of 3 to 4 a month , which last 1 3 days. 
i 've taken  ( the first time the really got to me so 
i reduced the dosage ) , but i do n't like the side effects  ( if i take 
more than two i get  . if i get a very bad headache , i will 
eventually take the  . my was n't very helpful when 
i told him my problems with , he said that when 
becomes available , i should try that. i 've tried several other 
 ( fiornal , , with , , and inderal ) but 
they either did n't work , or i could n't tolerate them. so what can i do 
my doctor 's seem to be satisfied with me just trying to tolerate the 
pain , which i agree with most of the time , but not when i have a lot of 
pain. i 've had some bad experiences with  ( my heart stopped 
once from the i was told that it was likely the 
succinylcholine ) , and i 've already had several times. 

anyway , the point of what i'm saying is that even if can contribute 
to , some people need to take them to tolerate other pain. 




from  ( mike medwid ) 
subject re question 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution na 

lines 11 

thanks to all who replied to my initial question. i 've been away in 
new jersey all week and was surprised to see all the responses 
when i got back .  . 

to the person asking about , there are four on the 
market 


 ( alza made ) 
 ( cygnus made ) 
made by and by 

from  ( ron roth ) 
subject selective 
x by usenet gateway 
organization rose media , , ontario .  . 
lines 34 

from  ( ella i baff ) writes 

i do n't doubt that the effect is alive and well with 
every medical by some to be around 20 , 
but why would it be higher with alternative versus conventional 
medicine 

because most the the time , closer to 90 in my experience , there is no 
substance to the  alternative  intervention beyond the good intentions of the 
, which in itself is quite  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

john , , ca 


well , if that 's the case in your practice , i have a hard time 
out how you even managed to make it into the bottom half 
of your class , or did you create your with 

if someone runs a medical practice with only a 10 success rate , 
they either problems for which they are not qualified to 
treat , or they have no conscience and are only in business for 
purposes. 

, who are we kidding , the new england medical journal in 1984 
the heading percent of diseases are not by 
drugs or , which has been by several other reports .  . 
no wonder are not with alternative medicine , since 
the 20 magic of the effect would award alternative 
twice the success rate of conventional medicine .  .  .  . 

ron 

2 . 00 . the fear your cat is up to something 
2 . 10 . usenet rose media  ( 416 ) 

from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 123 
distribution 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
summary more in response to  . 
keywords science errors 


i think that part of the problem is that i have proposed a 
definition of science that i intended to be interpreted broadly 
and that has interpreted fairly narrowly .  . my definition 
is this science is the investigation of the empirical that avoids 
mistakes in reasoning and discovered from previous 
work. writes 

i do n't think that science should be defined in a way that some 
of the activities that lead to really important science namely 
thinking and informal exploration are not recognized as 
scientific work. 

unless one thinking and informal exploration as a 
mistake , they fall under my definition .  . i hope no one would 
consider speculation , thinking , and informal exploration as 
unscientific .  . 

in article  ( lee lady ) writes 
seriously , i'm not sure whether i misjudged you or not , in one respect. 
i still have a major problem , though , with your that science 
is mainly about avoiding mistakes .  . ... 

here is where i think we are talking at cross purposes. it is not 
clear to me that the kind of definition i have proposed should be 
taken as describing what science is mainly about. consider , 
for example , a definition of as all animals lacking 
a  . this fairly tells what is an and 
what is not an , but it hardly tells you what 
are all about. one can read this definition and 
still not know that of all animal species are , 
that a broad range of form , that 
some groups such as insects and are 
ubiquitous in all , etc. in short , knowing the 
definition of does not tell one what they are 
mainly about. 

the misunderstanding here is my fault. i did not give sufficient 
context for people to understand my proposed definition .  . 

okay , so let 's see if we agree on this first of all , there are degrees 
of certainty .  . it might be appropriate , for instance , to demand carefully 
controlled trials before we accept as absolute scientific truth  ( to the 
extent that there is any such thing ) the of a certain 
treatment .  . on the other hand , highly experience , even 
if , can be adequate to justify a preliminary judgement that 
a treatment is useful. ... 

secondly , it makes sense to be more tolerant in our standards of 
evidence for a effect than for one that is marginal .  . 

i agree on both  . as an example of the second , it would only 
take a few cases of to convince most 
that a treatment was effective , despite a lack of  . 

as to the first , i do not think it is useful to talk about 
absolute scientific truth. i think it is more useful to talk 
about the kinds of evidence that various claims have and the 
kinds of evidence in particular fields that in the past have 
proven faulty or reliable .  . the latter is obviously a matter of 
degree , and in each field , try to discover the 
relevance of different kinds of evidence. 

one of the primary mistakes that marks the of an idea as 
science is that the lacks any sense of 
regarding the kinds of evidence related to the proposed claim , 
the kinds of evidence that are actually relevant to it , and the 
historical reasons in the field that certain kinds of evidence 
are given more weight than others. it is perfectly to 
speculate .  . i have read quite a few papers that 
left and right. but the authors were careful to 
identify the notions as , to list what little evidence 
was presently available for them , and to describe how research 
could proceed to either put the notion on more firm or to 
its problems. often what distinguishes whether a paper 
of this sort passes is the with which the 
author sets the context and the way for future work.  ( it 
is in this area that many of ideas fail . ) . 

the folks over in sci . psychology . have a hundred and one excuses not to 
make this simple test. they claim that only an elaborate outcome study 
will be a study of the sort that , 
many of whom make a barely marginal living from their practice , can ill 
afford to do.  ( most of them are also just plain not interested , because 
the whole idea seems  . and since they 're not part of the 
scientific , they have no rewards to gain 
from scientific acceptance . ) . 

i think a lot of scientists away from things that 
or not a of  . when 
of some practice see no value in more careful 
investigation of that practice , that sets in many 
 minds .  . 

this is unfortunate , because there is some 
between things that are worth investigating and 
things that are advocated by those who seem careless or 
unreasonable in their  . on the other hand , i can 
understand why many scientists would just as soon select other 
for research .  . as gordon banks has pointed out , no one 
wants to become this generation 's  . 

one academic in sci . psychology . said that it would be completely 
unscientific for him to test the phobia since it has n't 
been described in a scientific journal .  . ... 

i think this is absurd .  . 

actually , at least one fairly careful academic study has been done 
 ( with results ) , but it 's apparently not acceptable because 
it 's a and not published in a journal .  . 

i wonder why the results were not published .  . in my field , 
results are typically summarized in papers that are 
to  . often the papers are accepted for 
publication before the is finished .  .  ( this certainly 
one 's defense . ) . 

finally , i hope will forgive me from commenting either 
on or the discussion of it in sci . psychology .  . i know little 
about either and so have nothing to offer .  . 

russell 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re is 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
lines 22 

in article  ( daniel myers ) writes 
i am under the impression that flavor by causing the 
taste to  . 

no , that 's not how it works. 

if this is correct , i do not find it unreasonable 
to assume that high of can cause other mouth to  . 

this may be through a different mechanism .  . 

also , as the many of the  ( including two of the above) 
involved beef , and as beef is frequently with , this is 
what i suspect as being the cause. 

beef involves or it in , an  . 
meat might contain and and , but 
does n't act as a  . 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re do we need a to read an 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 31 

in article writes 
my wife 's ob has an machine in her office. when 
the doctor could n't hear a  ( 13 weeks ) she used 
the to see if everything was ok.  ( it was ) 

on her next visit , my wife asked another doctor in the office if 
they read the themselves or if they had a 
read the pictures .  . the doctor very insisted that they 
were qualified to read the and were not ! 

stuff deleted 

this is one of those areas of medicine where battles frequently 
rage .  . with respect to your ob , i suspect that she has been in 
, and is thus allowed to use it and bill for its 
use. many also use  ( echocardiography ) , and are 
in fact considered by many to be the  . i am not sure where 
stand in this regard , but i suspect that they are at least as good as the 
 ( flame suit  . 









university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( len howard ) 
subject re quality control in medicine 
summary kaiser has been doing it for a while 
article i.d. 
organization , 
lines 14 

in article writes 
does anybody know of any information regarding the of total 
quality , quality control , quality in the of 
health care service .  . i would appreciate any information. if there is enough 
interest , i will post the responses. 
thank you 
, , md 
president ac 

dr , you might contact kaiser health plan either in the area 
to you or at the central office in ca .  . we have been 
doing , , , and for some time now in the hawaii 
, and i suspect it is in the system. 
md 

from  ( wansaicheong lin ) 
subject re lasers for 
organization national university of singapore 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 12 

it is not true that gave not reached the laser age , in 
fact , lasers in is a very new and field .  . 

it probably wo n't be effective in because the laser is 
usually a superficial burn  ( to avoid any deeper  . limited 
can be cured sometimes by as 
well as i.e. tablets .  . finally , a self is 
not always reliable , can look like a 
infection and requires very different treatment .  . 




from  ( the new , improved brian scearce ) 
subject re 
organization australian national university 
lines 44 
nntp posting host 150 . 203 . 9 . 
in reply to 's message of mon , 19 apr 93 20 56 15 gmt 

in reply to 's message of mon , 19 apr 93 20 56 15 gmt 
newsgroups sci . energy . , sci . image . , sci . , alt . sci . physics . new . theories , sci . skeptic . , sci . , alt . alien . 
subject re 
references 
distribution 
text follows this line 
 ( brian m. huey ) writes 

i am looking for any information that will allow 
do it to take pictures .  . i'm thinking 
that education for schools might have a for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the  . any info is greatly 
appreciated. 
in case you do n't know , , to the best of my 
knowledge , involves taking pictures of an  ( most of the time) organic 
object between charged plates .  . the picture will show energy patterns 
or around the object , and depending on what type 
of object it is , the or energy patterns will vary .  . one might 
extrapolate here and say that this proves that every object within 
the universe  ( as we know it) has its own energy signature .  . 

there have been a number of scientific papers  ( in peer journals ) 
published about in the early  . sorry i ca n't be 
more specific but it is a long time since i read them. they would describe 
what is needed and how to set up the  . 

these papers demonstrate that the obtained by can 
be completely explained by the effect of the electric used on the 
in the object being  . it has nothing to do with the 
energy signature of organic objects .  . 

i did a science project on when i was in high school. 
i was able to obtain wonderful from and and the like by 
first them in water .  . 








i generally avoid unless i ca n't resist it. 
mae west 

from () 
subject re eye 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 4 


i had this one time. i attributed it to a lack of sleep since it disappeared 
after a few nights of good 's .  . 


from  ( mark fulk ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization university of rochester 
lines 53 

in article  ( gary merrill ) writes 

in article ,  ( mark fulk ) writes 
genes .  . this fantasy led him to sequence samples of the and carry out 
binding  . the result was a well conserved , 400 or so , sequence 

but why do you characterize this as a of fancy or a fantasy 

the fantasy was that he had found something of fundamental importance to 
one of the hot questions of the day  . he really had very little 
reason to believe it , other than raw hope. by fantasy , i certainly do n't 
mean  . 

some other theory or  . i would offer some rather well known examples 
such as 's de experiment done for the sake of his 
sea of air hypothesis .  . 

i'm not familiar with the history of this experiment , although , arguably , 
i should be. 

surprising 
well , given the prior explanations of the phenomena involved it certainly 
be counted as so. was the theory constructed  ( and the experiment designed ) 
out of perfectly rational grounds well , there was a pretty successful and 
well know theory of fluids .  . the analogy to fluids by is explicit .  . 
the was in thinking of air as a fluid  ( but this was quite a 
at the time) .  . was the theory interesting yes. was it new well , one 
could argue that it was merely the extension of an existing theory to a new 
domain , but i think this begs certain questions. we can debate that if you 
like. 

i think that it is enough if his contemporaries found the result surprising .  . 
that 's not what i 'd quibble about. what i 'd like to know are 's 
reasons for doing his experiment not the post hoc constructed reasons , 
but the thoughts in his head as he considered the problem. it may be 
impossible to know much about 's thoughts that 's too bad if 
it is so. one of root 's services to science is that he has gone 
about in 's and 's  ( and other people 's ) notes , and has 
discovered some surprising clues about their motivations .  . never 
publicly admitted his plan to create image life , but the dreams are 
right there in his  ( finally public after many years ) , ready for 
anyone to read. and i and my friends often have the most ridiculous 
reasons for results one of my best came because i was mad at 
a for a poorly written claim (i disproved the claim) .  . 

of course , 's case may be an example of a where the 
fantasy not only motivates the experiment , but turns out to be right 
in the end. 

mark 

mark a. university of rochester 
computer science department 

from  ( lee lady ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
summary ultimately , ideas come from exploration and informal thinking. 
organization university of hawaii  ( mathematics dept ) 
expires mon , 10 may 1993 10 00 00 gmt 
lines 65 

in article 
 ( gary merrill ) writes 

in article , 
 ( mark fulk ) writes 

of fancy , and other irrational approaches , are common .  . the crucial 
thing is not to sit around just having fantasies they are n't of any use 
unless they make you do some experiments .  . .... 

 ( simple example warren noticed an extremely heavy on a dna 
of human fragments .  . he got very , ..... 

but why do you characterize this as a of fancy or a fantasy 
while i am with the scientific context here , it appears obvious 
that his speculation  ( for lack of a better or more neutral word ) was 
at least in significant part a consequence of his knowledge of and acceptance 
of current theory coupled with his observations .  . it would appear that 
something quite rational was going on as he attempted to fit his observation 
into that theory  ( or to the theory to cover the  . ... 

whether a scientific idea comes while one is out the , or 
, or having a fantasy , or watching an apple fall  ( newton ) , or 
sitting in a  ( archimedes ) ... it is ultimately the result of a lot of 
intense scientific thinking done  . letting one 's mind 
freely and giving to one 's intuition can be a useful way of coming 
up with new ideas , but only when one has done a lot of rational analysis 
of the problem first. 

scientific intuition is not something one is born with. it is something 
that one learns .  . maybe we do n't understand completely how it is learned , 
but training in scientific thinking is certainly one of the 
key elements in developing it. 

informal exploration is also often an important element in finding new 
scientific ideas. one thinks , for instance , of darwin 's naturalistic 
studies in the islands , which led him to the ideas for the 
theory of evolution .  . 

this is why i am offended by a definition of science that emphasizes 
empirical and does not recognize thinking and informal 
exploration as important scientific work. i agree that mere speculation 
does not to be called science. i also think that mere empirical 
studies not directed by good scientific thinking are at best a very 
poor kind of science. 

in article 
 ( russell turpin ) writes 
... 
i think that and i are talking at cross purposes. 
... seems concerned with the between great 
science that makes big advances in our knowledge and 
science that makes smaller steps .  . in most of this thread , i have 
been concerned with the difference between what is science and 
what is not. 

i do n't think that science should be defined in a way that some of the 
activities that lead to really important science namely thinking and 
informal exploration are not recognized as scientific work. 


in the arguments between and , psychology seems 
less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects .  . 



from (s .  . aden ) 
subject re diet for 's  ( ibd ) 
organization data and evaluation office 
distribution usa 
lines 72 

in article edu . edu . !  ( stephen holland ) writes 
in article ,  ( john eyles ) 
wrote 

a friend has what is apparently a fairly minor case of 's 
disease. 

but she ca n't seem to eat certain , such as , 
without , and of course she wants to avoid a  . 

her question is are there any who in the 
problems of people with 's disease 

if she is having problems with , the guess is that there 
is some of the  . without knowing more it is not 
possible to say whether the is permanent due to , 
or temporary due to of  . in general , there are 
no dietary in with 's except as they relate 
to  . there is no evidence that any will bring on 
of 's .  . 

interesting statements , simply because i have been told otherwise. i'm 
certainly not questioning steve 's claims , as for one i am not a doctor , and i 
agree that do n't bring on the of 's .  . but 
can be either mildly or drastically enhanced due to food. 

having had one major resulting in  ( is that a good enough 
) , i was told that a low diet is called for. basically , 
the idea is that if there is of the gut  ( which may not be 
realized by the patient ) , any in the system can be caught in the 
of and constantly , thus the problem. 
therefore , anything that does n't digest completely by the point of common 
should be avoided .  . with what i 've been told is typical 's , 
of the terminal , my diet should be low , consisting of 

completely out never again items 
o  ( kernel does n't digest ... most of us know this ) 
o popcorn  ( same ) 
o dried  ( dehydrated ) fruit and fruit 
o nuts  ( very tough when it comes to giving up some fudge ) 

discouraged greatly 
o raw  ( too fibrous ) 
o and raw grain 
o  ( iceberg is ok since it 's apparently mostly water ) 
o  ( turnip , , , etc .  .  . ) . 
o little seeds , like  ( try getting an 's without it ! ) 
o long grain and wild rice  ( husky ) 
o  ( you 'll generate enough gas alone without them ! ) 
o basically anything that requires heavy 

i was told that the more the food the better !  ( rather ironic in this 
day and  . the whole point is ... you want to give your 
system as little chance to as possible. i was told that among the 
numerous things that were discouraged (i only listed a few ) , to try 
the ones i wanted and see how i felt .  . if it 's bad , do n't do it again ! 
remember though that this was while i was in  . for the 
out of them. i prefer ... i think it 's more 
thoroughly you 're mileage may vary .  . 

as with anything else , check with your doctor .  . do n't just take my word. but 
this is the info i 've been given , and it may be a starting point for 
discussion. good luck ! 





s. engineering and sciences co .  .  ( 713 ) 
nasa data and evaluation office johnson space center , houston 
 ( internet ) opinions are mine alone. 
 ( if above bounces )  . unknown 

from  ( jason chen ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host wind . com . 
organization 
lines 13 

in article  ( keith f. lynch ) writes 
in article  ( lawrence d. sher ) writes 
from the n . e . j .  . the amino acid 
is not only an essential amino acid ... 

is not an essential amino acid .  . people can survive quite well 
without ever eating any. 

there is no contradiction here. it is essential in the sense that your 
body needs it. it is non essential in the sense that your body can 
produce enough of it without  . 

jason 

from  ( euclid k . ) . 
subject re getting aids from 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 19 

 ( harry matthews ) writes 

i had electrical done a while back .  . the were taken 
from a in an instrument and were most certainly not 
sterile or even clean for that matter. more than likely they were 
from the previous patient .  . i was concerned , but i kept my mouth shut .  . i 
probably should have raised hell ! 
could you describe in more detail the above procedure i 've never 
heard about it. 
and yes , if they pierced you with the you probably should have 
 . 




k. standard disclaimers apply 
it is a bit ironic that we need the wave model of light to understand the 
propagation of light only through that part of the system where it leaves no 
trace .  . ( university physics ) 

from edu . !  ( stephen holland ) 
subject re diet for 's  ( ibd ) 
organization univ .  . of 
distribution usa 
lines 36 

in article ,  ( john eyles ) 
wrote 


a friend has what is apparently a fairly minor case of 's 
disease. 

but she ca n't seem to eat certain , such as , 
without , and of course she wants to avoid a  . 

her question is are there any who in the 
problems of people with 's disease 

(i saw the suggestion of like tea and  . 

thanks in advance , 
john 


if she is having problems with , the guess is that there 
is some of the  . without knowing more it is not 
possible to say whether the is permanent due to , 
or temporary due to of  . in general , there are 
no dietary in with 's except as they relate 
to  . there is no evidence that any will bring on 
of 's .  . it is important to distinguish from 
symptoms .  . a would think of new as 
, while pains from raw just imply a of the 
 . 

your friend should look into membership in the 's and 
foundation of america .  . 1 

good luck to your friend. 

steve holland 

from mark w. 
subject re ears 
originator 
keywords ears , sleep , depression 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization univ .  . of boulder 
lines 31 

 ( jim fare ) writes 

a friend of mine has a trouble with her ears  . etc. 


a. folks , do we have an faq on yet 

b. as a lo o o time sufferer of and as a 
who has looked over the literature carefully i believe the following 
are reasonable conclusions 

1. millions of people suffer from  . 
2. the cause it not understood .  . 
3. there is no accepted treatment that it. 
4. some experimental may have helped some people a bit , but 
there have be no reports even of massive good results with 
any of these experimental drugs .  . 
5. some people with loud use blocking to get to sleep .  . 
6. sudden loud can be caused by and sometimes 
or goes away after a few months. 
7. aspirin is well known to in some people. 
8. there is a national association of in the us. 
9. one usually gets used to it. especially when concentrating on 
something else the becomes  . 
10. and lack of sleep make more , sometimes. 
11. i'm sure those of us who have it wish there was a , but there 
is not. 

mark 
the ol' professor 


from  ( mark fulk ) 
subject re baby info needed 
organization university of rochester 
lines 89 

in article  ( kate gregory ) writes 
in article  ( mark fulk ) writes 

another problem is  . i do n't remember the 
, but it is something like 1 in 1 , 000 or 10 , 000 births .  . it is hard 
to see how you could handle it at home , and you would n't have very much time. 

thing you might consider is that people 's risk vary .  . i consider 
a 1 1 , 000 risk of loss of a loved one to require effort in 
the avoiding .  . 

mark , you seem to be of the birth process 

that 's ridiculous ! 

and unable to 
believe that women 's bodies are actually designed to do it. 

they are n't designed , they evolved .  . and , much as it us , in 
humans a trouble free birth process was sacrificed to increased brain and 
size. wild animals have a much easier time with birth than humans do. 
domestic horses and typically have a worse time. to give you an idea 
my family tree is complicated because a few of my great great 
had several wives , and we never could figure out which wife 
had each child. one might ask why this happened. my great great 
were , by the time they reached their , quite 
 . nonetheless , they lost several wives each to the of 
the in , , and , north dakota , 
contain quite a few like ida ,  . of , and 
baby , may 6 ,  . 

you wanted 
to section all women carrying in case one in a hundred or a 
thousand babies get up in second stage , 

more like one in ten .  . and the consequences can be devastating i have 
direct experience of more than a dozen victims of a up birth. 

and now you want 
all babies born in hospital based on a guess of how likely 
is and a false belief that it is fatal .  . 

it is n't always fatal .  . but it is often fatal , when it happens out of 
reach of adequate help. more often , it one 's health .  . 

clearly women 's bodies evolved to give birth (i am no believer in divine 
design ) however , evolution did not favor trouble free births for humans. 

you have your kids where you want. you encourage your wife to 
get holes cut through her stomach , herself 
to and infection , and whatever other just in case measures 
you think are necessary. 

my , are n't we ! i have n't read a more outrageous straw man attack 
in months ! i can practically see your mouth  . 

we 're statistically sophisticated enough to the risks .  . although 
i ca n't produce exact statistics 5 years after the last time we looked 
them up , rest assured that we balanced c section risks against other risks .  . 
i would n't encourage my wife to have a unless it was clearly 
indicated on the other hand , i am opposed  ( on obvious grounds ) to waiting 
until an emergency to give in. 

and bear this in mind my wife took the lead in all of these decisions. 
we talked things over , and i did a lot of the work , but the main 
decisions were really  . 

but i for one am bothered by your continued 
suggestions , especially to the misc . pregnant for the first 
time , that birth is dangerous , even fatal , and that all these 
unpleasant things are far better than the risks you run just doing 
it naturally .  . 

i do n't know of very many home birth advocates , even , that think that 
a first time mother should have her baby at home. 

i'm no  . i 've had a section .  . i'm planning a hospital birth 
this time. but for heaven 's sake , not everyone needs that ! 

but people should bother to find out the relative risks .  . my wife was 
unwilling to take any significant risks in order to have nice surroundings .  . 
in view of the of the birth experience , i doubt surroundings 
have much importance anyway. somehow the values you 're advocating seem 
all to me taking risks , even if fairly small , of serious 
permanent harm in order to preserve something that is , after all , 
an consideration .  . 

mark a. university of rochester 
computer science department 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re request for information on essential and 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 12 

in article writes 

essential is a progressive that gets worse 
when the patient tries to use the member. all , vocal 
, and head can be involved. is a and 
is usually effective in the  . and 
are also effective , but is too to use as a treatment .  . 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re question 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 14 

in article  ( melissa n .  . matusevich ) writes 
thanks for all your assistance .  . i 'll see if he can try a 
different brand of , although he 's tried two brands 
already. are there more than two 

the brands i can come up with off the top of my head are , 
and  . there may be a fourth as well. 




university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( peter cash ) 
subject 
nntp posting host com . 
organization the 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 8 

what causes those little brown on older people 's hands are they 
called because they 're sort of , or do they 
indicate some actual 


die ist , was ist .  . 
peter cash  ( apologies to wittgenstein ) 


from  ( simon n mcrae ) 
subject re b 
x posted from 
organization college , , nh 
lines 38 

in article 
russell .  ( russell day ) writes 

what we are really worried about is not knowing the facts .  . the doctor 
has stated that things will not be good if she is a and avoids 
further questions on the subject. we really would like to know so we 
can take steps and plan in advance for any  . 

thank you for your very post. right now i am just trying 
to find out everything that i can. 

 . 

unfortunately , b infection can in and 
subsequent  . although not many with b go on to 
, it does still occur in a good number  ( 20 ) and is 
something to keep in mind. c  ( was non a , non b hep ) much 
more frequently leads to and  . there is also an 
that mostly women which 
also leads to  . 

of course , is a most disease. the most dangerous 
effects relate to portal and loss of function. 
develop life threatening and , 
among many other problems , as a result of in 
circulation .  . less , they can exhibit the effects of 
which often characterize with  . 
these effects include  ( small red lesions ) and , in 
men ,  ( breast  . the only real treatment for 
is transplant .  . 

keep in mind that is not expected , at least statistically , in 
your friend 's case. nevertheless you might want to bring up the 
subject of disease and with the doctor .  . he 
or she can then carefully explain these of b infection to 
you , and offer you support .  . 

simon .  . 

from () 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 27 
nntp posting host carina . unm . edu . 


gordon banks 

a lot to keep from going back to obesity .  . i think all 
of us cycle .  . one 's success depends on how large the 
in the cycle are. some people can cycle only 5 pounds .  . unfortunately , 
i'm not one of them. 


this certainly describes my situation perfectly .  . for me there is 
a constant between my tendency to eat , which appears to 
be totally , and the purely conscious desire to not 
put on too much weight. when i get too fat , i just diet exercise 
more  ( with degrees of success ) to take off the 
extra weight. usually i cycle within a 15 range , but 
smaller and larger occur as well. i'm always afraid 
that this method will stop working someday , but usually 
i seem to be able to hold the weight gain in check .  . 
this is one reason i have a hard time accepting the notion 
of some associated with cycle 
 ( that results in long term weight  . i have been cycle 
for at least 20 years without seeing such a change .  . 

i think a exercise program can go a long way 
keeping the smaller and the weight low. 

brian 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re  ( was good grief !  ( was re what is it  ) 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
lines 34 

in article  ( mccurdy m . ) . writes 
is beyond rude .  . 

yeah , yeah , yeah. i did n't threaten to your off , did i 
snort .  . 

there have been and always will be people who are by their own 
knowledge and to anything that is n't already established .  . given what 
the medical community does n't know , i'm surprised that he has this  . 

 . 

for the record , i have had several of during the several 
past few years , with no indication of or 
 . i had not taken any  . 

listen is a recognized with definite 
characteristics .  . if you have , you have , because you can 
see the and do a culture and when you treat it , it generally 
responds well , if you 're not otherwise  . 's 
on having a infection in his 
is not even in the same category here , nor are these walking 
who are convinced they have from reading a book. 

my  ( who sees a fair amount of thrush ) recommended 
after i began taking on a daily basis , the ceased .  . 
when i quit taking the , the periodically resumed .  . 
i resumed taking the with no further since then. 

so 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from node . org .  ( nigel allen ) 
subject water vulnerable to milwaukee type disease 
organization r node public access unix 1 
lines 

here is a press release from the natural resources defense council .  . 

new data show about 100 major u.s. water vulnerable to 
milwaukee type disease 
to national , environment writer 
contact or silver , , both 
of the natural resources defense council 

washington , april 14 internal data released 
today by the natural resources defense council reveals that about 
100 large water systems serving cities from boston to san 
francisco do not filter to remove disease carrying 
leaving those communities vulnerable to a disease 
similar to the one affecting milwaukee .  . 
the list is attached .  . 
these internal documents reveal that the safety of water 
in many american cities is threatened by 
pollution or , said , a 
with  . water contamination is n't just a problem in 
bangladesh , it 's also a problem in and boston .  . 
as of june 29 , 1993 , about 100 large surface water systems on 
's list probably will be breaking the law. the 1986 safe 
drinking water act requires all surface water systems to either 
filter their water or fully protect the or they use 
from pollution , continued .  . some systems are moving 
towards eventually systems but are 
expected to miss the law 's  . 
pointed out that the threat of contamination is already 
a reality in other cities .  . a 1991 survey of 66 u.s. surface 
water systems by water utility scientists found that 87 percent 
of raw water samples contained the milwaukee organism 
, and percent contained a similar 
called  . 
adding to the level of concern , a general accounting office 
study released today by house health and environment 
chairman henry indicates serious in the 
nation 's system for conducting and following through on 
of water systems. 
this new information raises a huge warning sign that millions 
of americans can no longer simply turn on their and be 
assured that their water is safe to drink. we must immediately 
put into place programs to protect water sources from 
contamination and where this is not assured , equipment 
must be to protect the public , noted .  . the time 
has come for many of the nation 's water to stop 
their feet and to protect their water from 
contamination are prepared to pay the costs 
needed to their water is safe to drink. 
is a national non profit environmental organization .  . 

systems indicates require and do not adequately 
protect 



co .  . 


boston resource author  ( mwra ) 
water dept 
water dept 
water dept 
water division 
newton water dept. 
water dept 
water dept 
water dept 
water 
cambridge cambridge water dept 
water dpw 
water dept 
water dept 
 ( puo wrks ) 
lynn lynn water co 
water division 
water dept 
water dept 
water dept 
water dept 
water dept 
water dept 
water dept 
same as above 
water division 
water division 
water dept 
district 
water 
water dept 
boston boston water co 
s. south fire 
arlington arlington water dept 
water dept 
clinton clinton water dept 
water dept 
water dept 
water dept 
north adams north adams water dept 
amherst amherst water division dpw 
water dept 
dpw , water 
water dept 
water supply co 
water dept 
water co 
water dept 


water co 
water district 

new hampshire 
city of 
salem salem water dept 


city city water system 
city city water dept 

new york 
falls falls city 
yorktown yorktown water 
rochester rochester city 

rochester system 
rochester consolidated 
new york sys  ( croton ) 
new 
city 
water works 


bethlehem bethlehem public water sys 
greater water 
lock haven city of lock haven water dept 
roaring water 
city 
city water dept 
wind gap blue mt consolidated 

water 
w 
w 
w 
w hill 
w relief 
city 
water 

co 

virginia 
city of 
south river sa 

south 
water sys 

michigan 




water co 
city 

california 
san francisco city of san 





falls falls city 

washington 
water dept 
water dept 

30 

allen , , ontario , canada node . org . 

from 
subject re intolerance 
organization corporation , seattle , 
lines 27 

in article , writes 
in article ,  ( ho ng ) writes 

when i was a kid in primary school , i used to drink tons of milk without 
any problems. however , nowadays , i can hardly drink any at all without 
experiencing some  . what could be responsible for the change 

ho 



oops .  . my original message died. i 'll try again .  .  .  . 
i always understood  ( perhaps wrongly .  .  .  .  ) that the bacteria in our 
help us break down the components of milk .  . perhaps the normal of 
the changes as one passes from childhood .  . 
is there a or in the house 

anne 
e mail 
 ( please note that these opinions are mine , and only mine . ) . 








from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re grants for alternative medicine 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 30 

in article  ( robert greenstein ) writes 
in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
one problem is very few scientists are interested in alternative medicine .  . 

so gordon , why do you think this is so 


probably because most of them come with some absurd theory 
behind them. e.g. like like. the more you 
things , the more powerful they get , even if you them so much 
there is no but water left. all 
from of by  . such 
systems are so patently absurd , that any good they do is accidental 
and not related to the theory. the only exception is probably , 
because scientists recognize the drugs that derive from plants 
and are always interested in seeing if they can find new plants 
that have active and useful  . but that is n't what 
is meant by alternative medicine , usually .  . if you get into the , 
, etc , you are now back to silly theories that 
probably have nothing to do with why works in some cases. 

perhaps another reason they are reluctant is the experience. 
was a scientist who wanted to investigate the 
and his lab was filled with so much and that 
people do n't want to be associated with that sort of thing. 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( david rind ) 
subject re  ( candida(yeast ) , fact or fiction 
organization israel hospital , medical school , boston mass .  . , usa 
lines 17 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 
writes 
poster for being treated by a for a disease that did 
not exist. calling this a was reprehensible steve and i 
see that you and some of the others are doing it here as well. 

do you believe that any exist how about is 
being a enough to that someone is not 
a , or is it just that even if a is a , 
other people should n't say so can you give an example of a 
commonly that you think is a , 
or have we gotten to the point in civilization where we no longer 
need to worry about healers taking advantage of 
people. 

david 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 13 

in article  ( peter cash ) writes 
what causes those little brown on older people 's hands are they 
called because they 're sort of , or do they 
indicate some actual 

 . have nothing to do with the  . 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( havok impersonated ) 
subject re is 
article i.d. reed . 
organization reed college , , or 
lines 35 

in article writes 
in article , writes 
surprise surprise , different people react differently to different things. one 
slightly off the subject case in point. my brother got by a bee .  . i know 
he is allergic to bee , but that his reaction is severe localized 
, not  . i could not convince the doctors of that , 
however , because that 's not written in their little rule book. 
of course , bee venom is n't a single chemical .  . could be your brother is 
to a different component than the one that causes 
in other people. 

hmmm .  . the last time i got by a bee i experienced the same reaction 
the first poster 's brother did. we went off to the doctor to see if i 
should worry about the fact that my foot was now about 3 times it 's normal 
size.  ( and ! ! ! ! ) he basically said i should n't this time , but 
that bee sting was not something you tended to get to , 
but were something that each time got worse generally and that 
next time could be the time i go into  . admittedly this 
was many years ago when i was young. since then i just make sure i do n't 
get  . i also should carry a bee sting with me , but i do n't .  . 

this is n't scientific or proof , but this would lead me to believe it 's not a 
different reaction , just a different degree of reaction. work 
that way. people have various reactions .  . sort of like , some 
people can get by with just their diet , others have to 
their diet and use sometimes while others have to watch their diet 
like a and use regularly. 

i think is probably similar .  .  . some . people have allergic reactions to 
it. some people are allergic to things and ca n't use 
sauce .  .  . but . the chinese have been using it for centuries .  .  .  . that does n't 
necessarily mean that it 's safe for everyone. 




from  ( jose thekkumthala ) 
subject 
organization department of computer science , , canada 
keywords 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 35 




this is regarding which our little boy 
has been suffering from ever since he was an infant .  . he had 
a when he was one year old .  . another had 
to be performed one year after , when he was two years old .  . 
he turned three this february and he is still getting 
afflicted by this , like having to get 
for and accompanying stomach pain . he . managed 
not having a third so far. 

one thing me and my wife noticed is that his 
around the time he was born , on , like in 
march every year .  . any significance to this 

why does this me and my family go through severe pain 
when our little boy have to  . why does 
not the situation 

also , which hospital in us or canada in this 

what will be a good book explaining this disease in detail 

will keeping a particular diet keep down the probability of 


as time goes on , will the probability of go down 
considering he is getting stronger and and probably 
less prone to attacks or is this assumption wrong 

any help throwing light on these will be highly appreciated. 
thanks very much ! 



from  ( rayaz jagani ) 
subject re a respectable medical tradition 
nntp posting host 21 
organization corporation , city ca 
lines 27 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( robert gasch ) writes 

in many european countries is accepted as a method of 
 ( or at least alleiating ) many conditions to which modern medicine has 
no answer. in most of these countries for the 
 . 


accepted by whom not by scientists .  . there are people 
in every country who waste time and money on  . 
in britain and , where i have worked , it was not paid for. 
what are most of these countries i do n't believe you. 



when were you in britain , my information is different. 

from , the complete handbook , 
isbn 0 2 , published in britain in 1990. 

from page 10 , 
 .  .  . and in , when the national health service was established , 
was included as an approved method 
of treatment .  . 



from  ( ken mitchum ) 
subject re 
organization vax pittsburgh , pa 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( ruth ginzberg ) writes 

but i 'll be damned , his rights to be sick to fail to treat his disease to 
spread it all over the place were , indeed preserved .  . happy 

several years ago i tried to commit a patient who was growing out of his 
stool , blood , and an open for treatment .  . the idea was that the guy was a 
walking public health risk , and that forcing him to receive for 
a few days was in the public interest .  . i will make a long story short by saying 
that the judge laughed at my idea , at me for wasting his time , and let 
the guy go. 

i found out that appears to be the only medical  ( as to psychiatric ) 
condition that one can be committed for , and this is because very specific laws were 
many years ago regarding  . i am certain these vary from state to state. 

any legal out there to help us on this 



from  ( david ozonoff ) 
subject re food related 
lines 22 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

wrote 

much deleted 


the fact that this happened while eating two sugar made 
by 's makes me think she might be having an allergic reaction to 
something in the or the  . of the four of us in our 
immediate family , shows the least signs of the hay , running 
nose , eyes , etc. but we have a lot of in our family history 
including some food nuts , mushrooms .  . 


many of these are based .  . after your post i looked in the 
literature and two articles that  ( contains 
tryptophan ) and  . the idea is that in the diet might 
an already existing or latent disorder , not cause it. 
check to see if the two are based .  . i 'd be interested .  . 

david , md , boston university school of public health 
edu . 80 east st. , 
 ( 617 ) boston , ma 

from 
subject re is 
organization utah state university 
lines 35 

between who over what i would be most interested in seeing you 
provide peer non food industry funded to articles 
that has no effects whatsoever. 

you mean asserting . you 're being intellectually dishonest  ( or just 
plain confused ) , because you 're reports which do not necessarily 
have anything to do with each other. 's reports would argue a potential 
for problems in human infants , but that 's not to say that this says anything 
whatsoever about the use of in most , nor does he provide any 
studies in humans which indicate any effects  ( for obvious 
reasons . ) . it says nothing about 's to the phenomenon 
of the chinese . it says nothing about the frequent 
inability to replicate reports of in the lab .  . 


okay mr. , we 're properly impressed with your philosophical and 
ability to insult people. you 're a wonderful speaker and an  . 
however , i believe that all you were asked to do , was simply provide scientific 
research refuting the work of  . i do n't think the original poster sought 
to start a debate. she wanted some information. given a little 
effort one could justify that shooting oneself with a  . 45 . before is a 
healthy practice. but we 're not interested in what you can 
prove disprove or  . where 's the research where are the 
studies 

i if this sounds  . i simply would like to see the thread get 
back on track .  . 


lone wolf 

happy are they who dream dreams , 
ed philips and pay the price to see them come true. 

unknown 

from  ( daniel prince ) 
subject re is 
lines 12 

to z . edu .  ( alex milshteyn ) 

am having said that , i might add , that in , does not enhance 
am flavor for me to miss it. when i go to chinese places , 
am i order food without  . 

to me , just like a mixture of salt and sugar. i do n't 
think that is the case with most people. what does it taste like 
to you 

... if wishes were horses , we 'd all have to wear hip ! 
origin one world los 310 372  ( 1 102 129 . 

from  ( betty harvey ) 
subject re is 
reply to  ( betty harvey ) 
organization division , , , md 
lines 30 

in rec . food . ,  ( charles packer ) writes 
is there such a thing as  ( monosodium glutamate ) 
i saw in the ny times sunday that scientists have before 
an that about are 
 . anybody here have experience to the contrary 

i know that there is  . when i eat with i get 
very and my hands and get a terrible  . i first 
experienced this problem when i worked close to and chinese 
food almost everyday for lunch .  . now i ca n't tolerate at all. i can 
notice immediately when i have any. i try to avoid completely. 

interesting fact though is that all three of my children started experiencing 
the exact same on their hands. i could n't understand why because i 
do n't in and we ask for no when we do eat chinese (i still 
love it) .  . after some investigation i knew that of where 
one of their favorite  . one of the main in the flavor 
is  . now i look at all  . you would be surprised at 
places you find  . 



david model 
, and division 
branch surface warfare 
code center 
, md .  . , , 

 ( 301)227 ) fax  ( 301)227 ) 


from  ( brian delaney ) 
subject brain treatment  ( thanks ) 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 12 

there were a few people who responded to my request for info on 
treatment for through email , whom i could n't thank 
directly because of mail  ( sean , , and  . so 
i thought i 'd publicly thank everyone. 

thanks ! 

 ( i'm sure glad i accidentally hit instead of when i was 
trying to delete a file last september .  . hmmm .  .  .  .  news ' what 's 
this  .  .  .  . ) . 

brian 

from  ( stephen kelley ) 
subject re should i be angry at this doctor 
organization university 
distribution na 
lines 32 

in article writes 
am i justified in being off at this doctor 

last saturday evening my 6 year old son cut his finger with a knife .  . 
i took him to a local and general care clinic at 5 50  . the 

story deleted 

be bothered .  . my son did get three at the emergency room. i'm still 
trying to find out who is in charge of that clinic so i can write them a 
letter. we will certainly never set foot in that clinic again. 


the people in charge already know what kind of  care  they are 
providing , and they do n't give a rat 's ass about your repeat business. 

you are much more likely to do some good writing to local newspapers , 
and news shows .  . if you do , keep the letter short and to the point 
so they do n't discard it out of hand , and exactly what you 
are upset about. 

it 's possible that the local health department can help you complain to 
someone official , but really , that  clinic  exists for the sole purpose 
of walk in through , and nothing you can do 
will change them all you can hope for is to help someone else avoid them. 

i'm glad it sounds like your son did ok , anyway. 

my opinion only , of course , 
steve 



from  ( steven zikopoulos ) 
subject re 
organization university 
lines 14 

in  ( adriana gilmete ) writes 

can anyone help me find any information on the drug i am writing 
a report on the , and co .  . , and the product .  . i need as 
much help as i can get .  . thanks a lot ,  . 

and are good places to starts .  . 

do a search .  .  .  . lots of interesting going on  ( remember 
when was in behaviour ) 

steve z 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re with 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 

in article lawrence writes 
i sometimes see for back that 
aspirin with a  . 

you certainly do not see as such. 
the only such ridiculous are for 
, to treat headache and simultaneously .  . 
they 're worthless .  . 

the idea seems to be to reduce 
by getting rid of fluid .  . does this actually work 

that 's not the idea , and no , they do n't work. 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( jon noring ) 
subject good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 

in article  ( david rind ) writes 
in article  ( david partain ) writes 

someone i know has recently been as having , 
a disease about which i can find no information. apparently it has something 
to do with the body 's of while at the same time being highly 
allergic to  . can anyone out there tell me any more about it 

can cause severe life threatening , usually 
in people who are otherwise quite ill .  . this is not , however , the sort 
of that you are probably discussing .  . 

where the body is allergic to 
is considered a by mainstream medicine .  . there 
is a book the connection which talks about this . 

there is no convincing evidence that such a disease exists. 

there 's a lot of evidence , it just has n't been adequately gathered and 
published in a way that will convince the die hard skeptics 
who the word  anecdote  or  empirical  is used. 

for example , dr. , who wrote the book survival , always gives , 
before any other treatment , a anti  ( such as nizoral ) to his 
new if they 've been on spectrum anti 4 or more times 
in the last two years. he 's kept a record of the results , and for over 
2000 found that over 90 of his get significant relief 
of allergic symptoms .  . of course , this is only the beginning for his 
program .  . 

in my case , as i reported a few weeks ago , i was developing the classic 
symptoms in  the connection  (i agree it is a poorly 
written book ) e.g. , extreme to , , etc. which 
i never had before  ( started in  . within one week of full 
of , the to has fully disappeared i can 
now sit on my at home without dying after two minutes. i'm also 
greatly improved in other areas as well. 

of course , i have symptoms , etc. i am especially allergic to 
, , etc. it does n't take a rocket scientist to figure out that 
if one has excessive colonization of in the body , and you have a 
natural to , that a would be reached where you 
would have symptoms .  . also , do produce of various 
sorts , and again , you do n't have to be a rocket scientist to realize that 
such can cause problems in some people. in my case it was 
since that 's the center of my allergic response. of course , the 60 , 000 
question is whether a person who is immune  ( as showed i was 
from over 5 years of , because of the 
of and , etc . ) . , can develop excessive 
colonization somewhere in the body. it is a tough question to answer since 
for excessive colonization is not easy .  . one almost has to 
take an empirical approach to  . fortunately , is relatively 
safe unlike past anti  ( still have to be careful , however ) so there 's 
no reason any longer to treatment for empirical reasons. 

btw , some would say to try  . unfortunately , most grows 
too deep into tissue for to have any permanent affect .  . you 'll find 
a lot of people who are on all the time. 

in summary , i appreciate all of the attempts by those who desire to keep 
medicine on the right road. but that some who hold too firmly 
to the party line are who have n't been in the long enough 
actually treating  . if anybody , doctors included , said to me to my 
face that there is no evidence of the  connection  , i cannot 
their safety .  . for their , off their is justified as 
far as i am concerned. 

jon 



charter member club. 

if you 're dying to know what means , be , e mail me , i 'll send info .  . 

jon 
international 100 . 100 . fred s 
place phone  ( 510 ) world 's best ! 
, ca v mail  ( 510 ) 

who are you read alt . psychology . ! that 's where the action is. 

from lawrence 
subject with 
organization student , public policy and , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 6 
nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

i sometimes see for back that 
aspirin with a  . the idea seems to be to reduce 
by getting rid of fluid .  . does this actually work 

thanks , 
larry c. 

from  ( david dodell ) 
subject medical news part 3 4 
reply to  ( david dodell ) 
distribution world 
organization stat gateway service , 
lines 


cut here 
university of arizona 
tucson , arizona 



suggested reading 

tan , p , campbell s , , j , b ,  . 
conception and after in  . 
 . 

for further information , call 
 resource line 
1 
in tucson 



























medical newsletter page 28 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 




articles 


low levels of particles linked 
to serious attacks 
american association 

a new study published by the american association has shown that 
surprisingly low of particles can send people with 
to emergency for treatment .  . 
the seattle based study showed that roughly one in eight emergency 
for in that city was linked to exposure to air pollution .  . 
the actual exposure levels recorded in the study were far below those deemed 
under federal air quality laws .  . 
people with have , and particles tend to 
that , said joel , d .  . , of the environmental 
protection agency , who was the lead author of the study .  . when people are on 
the of having , a serious attack , particles can push them over 
the  . 
the seattle study correlated 13 months of emergency room 
with daily levels of , , , . or matter with an 
of 10 or less. these particles are considered because 
they are small enough into the  . cities are considered out of 
with clean air laws if the 24 hour average concentration of 
150 per of air. 
in seattle however , a link between fine particles and was found at 
levels as low as 30  . the authors concluded that for every 30 
increase in the four day average of , the odds of someone with 
emergency treatment increased by 12 percent .  . 
the findings were published in the april american review of 
disease , an official journal of the american society , the 
association 's medical section .  . 
the study is the latest in a series of recent reports to suggest that 
matter is a greatly under health threat .  . a 1992 study 
by dr. and douglas , d .  . , of found that particles 
may be causing roughly 60 , 000 premature deaths each year in the united states. 
other studies have linked matter to increased symptoms 
and in children. 
government and the media are still very on , 
says dr.  . but more and more research is showing that particles are 
bad as well. one problem in setting , standards for 
air pollution is that is difficult to study .  . unlike other 
such as and carbon , matter is a complex 
and mixture of , including carbon , , , and 

medical newsletter page 29 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

acid  . 
ca n't put people in exposure to study the effects 
of air pollution , says dr.  . we have no way of 
the typical mix of particles .  . consequently , most of what 
is known about has been learned through population based research 
like the seattle study .  . 
given that the 's current priority is to review the and 
standards , the agency is unlikely to the standard any 
time soon. until changes are made , there appears to be little people with 
can do to protect themselves from particles .  . 
in some areas , you can get reports on air quality , but the reports only 
cover the that is to violating its standard , and that 's 
rarely matter , says dr.  . however , does n't have 
to be near its violation range to be  . 































medical newsletter page 30 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

consensus development conference on 

the national of health consensus development conference on 
and treatment of early brought together in 
, , , public education , surveillance 
techniques , and potential new as well as other health care 
and the public to address (1) the and 
characteristics of early (2) the appropriate , , 
and followup of with early  ( 3 ) the role of 
and their significance and  ( 4 ) the role of education and in 
preventing and  . following 2 days of 
by and discussion by the audience , a consensus 
weighed the scientific evidence and prepared their consensus statement. 

among their findings , the recommended that (1) in is a 
distinct entity effectively treated with 0 . 5 . 
(2) thin , less than 1 thick , has the potential 
for long term survival in more than 90 percent of after surgical 
with a 1 margin  ( 3 ) node and 
extensive are not recommended in early  ( 4 ) 
with early are at low risk for but may be at high 
risk for development of subsequent and should be followed closely 
 ( 5 ) some family members of with are at increased risk for 
and should be in surveillance programs and  ( 6 ) education 
and programs have the potential to and 
from  . 

a copy of the full text of the consensus 's statement is available by 
calling the office of medical applications of research at  ( 301 ) 
or by writing to office of medical applications of research , national 
of health , federal building , room , , md  . 














medical newsletter page 31 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 



the program is comprised of 55 
actively engaged in research efforts to reduce 
, , and  . within the program , there are four types 
of basic science  ( 14 ) , which engage primarily 
in basic research  ( 12 ) , which focus on 
research comprehensive  ( 28 ) , which a 
approach to research , patient care , and community 
and (1) , which in 
and control research .  . 

although some existed in the late 1960s and the , it was 
the national act of 1971 that the of 15 new 
, as well as continuing support for existing ones. the passage 
of the act also the  structure and 
the of their mission to include all aspects of basic , , and 
control research .  . over the next two decades , the  program grew 
 . 

in 1990 , there were 19 comprehensive in the nation .  . today , 
there are 28 of these , all of which meet specific 
for comprehensive status .  . 

to recognition from the as a comprehensive center , an 
institution must pass rigorous peer review .  . under 
established in 1990 , the eight for include the 
requirement that a center have a strong core of basic research in 
several scientific fields , such as biology and molecular genetics , a strong 
program of research , and an ability to research findings 
into practice. 

moreover , five of the for comprehensive status go 
beyond that required for a center support grant  ( also 
referred to as a or core grant ) , the mechanism of choice for supporting 
the of a center 's  . these encompass 
strong participation in high priority trials , 
significant levels of and control research , and important 
and activities all of which are funded by a variety of 
sources. 

the other types of also have special characteristics and 
capabilities for organizing new programs of research that can 
important new findings or address research questions. 


medical newsletter page 32 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

of the 55 , 14 are of the basic science type .  . 
these engage almost entirely in basic research , although some 
engage in research with outside research 
and in cooperative with industry to generate medical applications 
from new in the  . 

, in , focus on both basic research and 
research within the same , and frequently 
incorporate nearby research into their 
overall research programs. there are 12 such today. 

finally , , of which there is one , are 
and concentrate on research and and 
control research .  . these interface with state and local public health 
for the purpose of the of effective 
and control techniques from their research findings to those 
responsible for population wide public health programs. 
also are engaged in with 
that conduct trial research and coordinate community 
hospitals within a network of in trials .  . 

together , the 55 continue to work 
creating new and approaches to research , and through 
efforts , to effectively move this research from the 
into trials and into practice. 

comprehensive  ( internet addresses are given where available ) 

university of at comprehensive center 
basic health sciences building , room 
university 
, 
 ( 205 ) 

university of arizona center 
north campbell avenue 
tucson , arizona 
(602) 
internet 

comprehensive center 
university of california at los 
200 medical 
los , california 
 ( 213 ) 

medical newsletter page 33 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

internet 

t. jr. comprehensive center 
university of southern california 
avenue 
los , california 
 ( 213 ) 226 

yale university comprehensive center 
street 
new haven , 
 ( 203 ) 

research center 
university medical center 
road , n . w .  . 
washington , d . c .  . 
 ( 202 ) 

comprehensive center 
university of miami medical school 
avenue 
miami , florida 
 ( 305 ) 
internet 

johns hopkins center 
600 north street 
baltimore , maryland 
 ( 410 ) 

dana institute 
44 street 
boston , 
 ( 617 ) 
internet 

l. comprehensive center of 

110 east warren avenue 
, michigan 
 ( 313 ) 
internet 

university of michigan center 

medical newsletter page 34 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

drive 
ann arbor , michigan 
 ( 313 ) 
bitnet 

mayo comprehensive center 
200 first street 
rochester , minnesota 
 ( 507 ) 

center 
medical center 
one medical center drive 
, new hampshire 
 ( 603 ) 646 
bitnet 

park institute 
and streets 
buffalo , new york 
(716) 

university comprehensive center 
college of and 
west street 
new york , new york 
 ( 212 ) 
internet 

memorial center 
york avenue 
new york , new york 
 ( 800 ) 

center 
new york university medical center 
first avenue 
new york , new york 
 ( 212 ) 

unc comprehensive center 
university of north school of medicine 
hill , north 
 ( 919 ) 


medical newsletter page 35 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

duke comprehensive center 
p.o. box 
, north 
 ( 919 ) 

center of wake university at the gray school 
of medicine 
south road 
salem , north 
 ( 919 ) 
internet 

ohio state university comprehensive center 
west avenue 
, ohio 
 ( 614 ) 
internet state . edu . 

fox center 
avenue 
philadelphia , 
 ( 215 ) 
internet s 

university of center 
street 
philadelphia , 
 ( 215 ) 

pittsburgh institute 
200 avenue 
pittsburgh , 
 ( 800 ) 

the university of texas m . d .  . center 

houston , texas 
 ( 713 ) 

center 
university of 
1 south street 
, 
 ( 802 ) 


medical newsletter page 36 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

fred research center 
street 
seattle , washington 
 ( 206 ) 
internet 

university of wisconsin comprehensive center 
600 avenue 
madison , wisconsin 
(608) 
bitnet 






university of california at san diego center 
street 
san diego , california 
 ( 619 ) 
internet 

city of hope national medical center 
research institute 
east road 
, california 
 ( 818 )  . 

university of center 
east avenue , box 
denver , 
 ( 303 ) 

university of chicago research center 
south maryland avenue , box 
chicago , illinois 
 ( 312 ) 702 
internet 

albert einstein college of medicine 
1300 park avenue 
bronx , new york 
 ( 212 ) 


medical newsletter page 37 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

university of rochester center 
avenue , box 704 
rochester , new york 
(716) 
internet 

ireland center case western reserve university 
university hospitals of cleveland 
road 
cleveland , ohio 
 ( 216 ) 844 

roger center 
brown university 
avenue 
, island 
 ( 401 ) 

st. children 's research hospital 
north street 
, 
 ( 901 ) 
internet 

institute for research and care 
medical drive 
san , texas 
(512) 

utah regional center 
university of utah health sciences center 
50 north medical drive , room 
salt city , utah 
 ( 801 ) 
bitnet 

center 
medical college of virginia 
virginia commonwealth university 
1200 east broad street 
, virginia 
 ( 804 ) 




medical newsletter page 38 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 


center 
d . b .  . 
, 
 ( 615 ) 








































medical newsletter page 39 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 




general 


the medical education software 

this is to announce the of an ftp site at the university of 
california , for the collection of , public domain software and other 
information to medical education. 

specifically , we are interested in establishing this site as a 
for personally developed software that has been developed for local medical 
education programs. we welcome all contributions that may be shared with 
other users. 

to connect to the medical education software , ftp to 

ftp . edu . 

the currently both and software , and we hope 
to support other operating systems  ( unix , , ) .  . 

are welcome. we actively information and software which you 
have developed or have found useful in your local medical education 
efforts , either as an or student .  . 

once you have connected to the site via ftp ,  ( change directory ) to either 
the ed mac or the ed , change the 
mode to and send or put your files. note that you wo n't be able to 
see the files with the ls or commands .  . please your files as 
appropriate to the operating system  ( zip for or something 
similar for macintosh ) to save space .  . 

after , please send email to steve  ( for 
msdos ) or albert  ( for mac ) describing the  ( file(s ) you 
have and any other information we might need to describe it. 

note that we can only accept software or information that has been 
as , public domain or that may otherwise be freely .  . 
please do not software ! doing so may the 
existence of this ftp site. 

if you wish to software for other operating systems , please contact 
either steve , m . l . s .  . or albert , m . d .  . at the addresses above. 

medical newsletter page 40 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 




aids news 


aids daily summary 

the for disease control and  ( cdc ) national aids 
makes available the following information as a public service 
only .  . providing this information does not constitute endorsement by the , 
the , or any other organization .  . reproduction of this text 
is encouraged however , copies may not be sold .  . 1993 , information , 
inc. , , md 


april 12 , 1993 


set to test multiple aids  ( 04 08 93 )  ( frank , 
jacqueline ) 

washington the clinton will the national 
of health to test multiple aids instead of only allowing 
the army to test a single , sources said thursday .  . the 
decision ends the controversy between army aids who had hoped to 
test a made by inc. and the national of 
health , which that multiple should be tested .  . health and 
human services said a final announcement on the 
trials was expected to be made last friday .  . 
including inc. , corp .  . , and ag have already told 
that they are prepared to participate in the  . the is 
intended to demonstrate whether aids are effective in the 
replication of in already  . refuted last week 's 
reports that the clinton had decided the army 's test of the 
should proceed without of others at the same time. 
the report was , and i expect there to be some announcement in the 
next 24 hours about that particular aids research project , said  . 
sources subsequently confirmed that director dr. 
healy and food and drug david had 
convinced the white house that multiple should be tested 
simultaneously .  . but president frank said a test of 
multiple could the cost of the trial and delay it by two 
years. 




medical newsletter page 41 
volume 6 , number 10 april 20 , 1993 

the limits of 's impact on u.s. news world report  ( 04 12 93 ) vol. 
114 , no. 14 , p. 18 

has become the most widely used drug to fight aids since it was 
approved by the food and drug in 1987 .  . , 
the of , made million last year alone from sales of the 
drug .  . however , a team of european recently reported that 
although positive taking demonstrated a slightly lower risk 
of developing aids within the first year of treatment , that benefit 
disappeared two years later. the published preliminary findings of 
the three year study , which could give more reason for to argue the 
drug 's cost , side effects , and general  . even though u.s. 
concede the study was more comprehensive than american trials , 
many argue the european  suggestion that positive 
experience little improvement in their before the development of 
aids symptoms .  . in addition , have long been familiar with the 
end of part 3 


internet fax 1 (602) 
bitnet 1 114 15 
amateur packet 

from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject food related 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 27 

sp from  ( sharon paulson ) 
sp to describe here. i have a year old who experienced 
sp a on 3 , 1992 at 6 after eating 's 
sp  . 

sp well , we were going along fine and the other morning , april 5 , she had 
sp a bowl of another 's kind of , fruit loops (i am 

sp when i mentioned what she the first time as a possible reason for 
sp the the basically that as an idea. now 
sp after this second , so similar in nature to the first , even 
sp he is his head. 

there 's no data that sugar cause  . i have n't 
even seen anything on it. given how common they are 
do you know any child or who does n't eat the stuff 
i think that if there were a relationship we would know it by now. 
also , there 's nothing in those  . as far as the brain 
is concerned  ( except for a few infantile disorders such as 
galactosemia ) , sugar is sugar , regardless if it is on , 
onto , or in soda , coffee or whatever. 

there was some interest a few years ago in 
, but i do n't believe anything ever came of it. 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


subject origin of 
from  ( christopher hinsz ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 20 

i am sorry to once again bother those of you on this newsgroup .  . 
if you have any suggestions as to where i might find out about the subject 
of this letter  ( the origin of , ie .  . who first it , and why 
he she attempted such an  . once any suggestion would be 
appreciated. 

p.s. my insists that i get 4 from this newsgroup , so 
please send me and info you think may be helpful .  . facts that you know , 
but do n't know what book they 're from are ok. 
attention if you do not like seeing letters such as this one on your 
newsgroup direct all to my at 



is a pretty tricky  . most of it 's up , until you reach 
the very , very top , and then it tends to slope away rather  . 
sir george head ,  ( jc ) 

logic the point is frozen , the is dead , what is the difference 
 ( jc ) 

from  ( gary merrill ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
originator 
nntp posting host sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 55 


in article ,  ( mark fulk ) writes 

of fancy , and other irrational approaches , are common .  . the crucial 
thing is not to sit around just having fantasies they are n't of any use 
unless they make you do some experiments .  . i 've known a lot of scientists 
whose fantasies lead them on to creative work usually they wo n't admit 
out loud what the fantasy was , prior to the of a few  . 

 ( simple example warren noticed an extremely heavy on a dna 
of human fragments .  . he got very , that 
he 'd seen some essential part of the control mechanism for 
genes .  . this fantasy led him to sequence samples of the and carry out 
binding  . the result was a well conserved , 400 or so , sequence 

but why do you characterize this as a of fancy or a fantasy 
while i am with the scientific context here , it appears obvious 
that his speculation  ( for lack of a better or more neutral word ) was 
at least in significant part a consequence of his knowledge of and acceptance 
of current theory coupled with his observations .  . it would appear that 
something quite rational was going on as he attempted to fit his observation 
into that theory  ( or to the theory to cover the  . this 
does not seem like an example of what most would normally call a of 
fancy or a fantasy .  . 


it is not clear to me what you mean by rational vs. irrational .  . perhaps 
you can give a few examples of surprising experiments that were tried out 
for perfectly rational reasons , or interesting new theories that were first 
advanced from logical grounds .  . the main examples i can think of are from 
modern high energy physics which is not typical of science as a whole .  . 

well , i think someone else in this thread was the first to use the word  ( also , 
extra scientific , etc . ) .  . nor am i prepared to give a general account of 
rationality .  . in terms of examples , there is some danger of beginning to quibble 
over what a surprising experiment is , what as surprising , etc. 
the same may be said about logical grounds . my point is that quite frequently 
 ( perhaps even most frequently ) the roots of a new theory can be to 
previously existing theories  ( or even to previously rejected of 
some other theory or  . i would offer some rather well known examples 
such as 's de experiment done for the sake of his sea of air 
hypothesis .  . was this theory  ( and the resulting experimental test ) surprising 
well , given the prior explanations of the phenomena involved it certainly must 
be counted as so. was the theory constructed  ( and the experiment designed ) 
out of perfectly rational grounds well , there was a pretty successful and 
well know theory of fluids .  . the analogy to fluids by is explicit .  . 
the was in thinking of air as a fluid  ( but this was quite a 
at the time) .  . was the theory interesting yes. was it new well , one 
could argue that it was merely the extension of an existing theory to a new 
domain , but i think this begs certain questions. we can debate that if you 
like. 

h. principal systems , c development 
sas institute inc. sas campus dr. , nc  ( 919 ) 
... ! ! sas ! 

from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re food related 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 

my comments about the diet have no relevance to your 
daughter 's purported related  . i ca n't imagine 
why you included it. 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( jason austin ) 
subject re and health risk 
organization nasa research center , , va 
lines 28 
reply to jason c. austin 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
in reply to 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 15 02 18 gmt 

in article  ( richard silver ) writes 

some recent postings me that i had read about risks 
associated with the of , namely that 
are generated .  . is this a valid concern if so , is it a function 
of the or the is it a function of 
the elements , wood or vs. i wish 
to know more. thanks. 

i 've read opinions on this. meat can contain 
, but unless you eat meat every , you 're 
probably not at much risk. i think i will live life on the and 
my food. 

i 've also read that using based can 
put some unwanted in your food , or at least unwanted  . 
i 've been using egg cups in for fire starters , 
and it actually and easier than fluid .  . several 
people have told me that they have excellent results with a , 
basically a with in the side. i 've been 
meaning to get one of these , but one has n't presented itself while 
i 've been out shopping .  . you can make one from a coffee can , but i buy 
my coffee as whole in a , so i have n't had a big enough can 
around. 

jason c. austin 



from  ( candee p885 ) 
subject re help for stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization bnr inc. , nc 
lines 8 

if you think you have stones or your doctor tells you that you do , 
definitely follow up on it. my sister was with stones 
1 1 2 years ago and given to take to them. after that 
failed and she continued to be in great pain , they decided she had 
 . when they did , they discovered she 
had a , which turned out to be a very rare 
and agressive  . i realize this is not what happens in the majority 
of cases , but you never know what can happen and should n't take chances ! 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject re foreskin 
lines 3 

this is generally called  . usually . it is due to an , and ca 
n be in the 's rather  . one should see a 
, or in complicated cases , a  . 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re a respectable medical tradition 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 26 

in article  ( rayaz jagani ) writes 


from , the complete handbook , 
isbn 0 2 , published in britain in 1990. 

from page 10 , 
 .  .  . and in , when the national health service was established , 
was included as an approved method 
of treatment .  . 

i was there in  . i suppose it must have died out since , 
then. certainly i never heard of any or in 
the of the  . perhaps the law codified it but the authorities 
refused to any  . a similar law in the us allows 
to practice in va hospitals but i 've never seen one 
there and i do n't know of a single va that has a  . 
there are a lot of on the net , so someone should be able to 
tell us if the provides for you. 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from dan 
subject faq typing  ( 1 4 ) changes since last month monthly posting 
supersedes typing injury faq changes 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 51 
expires 22 may 1993 04 18 16 gmt 
reply to dan 
nntp posting host elmer cs . berkeley . edu . 
summary what 's new and happening with dan 's faq and ftp archive 
originator cs . berkeley . edu . 

archive name typing injury faq changes 
version revision 1 . 3 . date 1993 04 13 04 12 33 

this file details changes to the soda . berkeley . edu . archive and summarizes 
what 's new in the various faq  ( frequently asked questions ) documents .  . 
this will be posted monthly , along with the full faq to the various net 
groups. the various mailing lists will either receive the full faq 
every month , or every third month , but will always get this file , once 
per month .  . ! 


changes to the typing faq and soda . berkeley . edu . archive , this month 


a few new files on the soda . berkeley . edu . archive 
the for your document 
network 11 
advice about adverse 
more details about the new apple keyboard 
more info about 
more general info about details . , 

info on the 
article the 

new details on a normal pc keyboard to an rs 6000 

updated info on the and comfort 

half now available for anonymous ftp on edu . 

new ! 
the apple keyboard 
the key 
another picture of the 
the 
the tony ! 



if you 'd like to receive a copy of the faq and you did n't find it in the 
same place you found this document , you can either send e mail to 
, or you can anonymous ftp to soda . berkeley . edu . 
32 . and look in the pub typing injury directory .  . 

enjoy ! 


dan one of the most attractive features of a connection 
machine is the of on the faces 
office 642 of its  . ref. manual , 0 . ,  . 

from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re request  ( souvlaki ) sauce 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 19 

in article  ( donald mackie ) writes 
in article michael , 
writes 
would anyone out there in  net land  happen to have an 
authentic , sure fire way of making this great sauce that 
is used to 's and 

i'm not sure of the exact recipe , but i'm sure is one of 
the major  . ) 


the only i 've ever seen for this include plain , 
and a couple of of garlic  . 



university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( opirg ) 
subject re is 
organization university , ottawa , canada 
lines 

in article  ( steve dyer ) writes 
in article 
 ( opirg ) writes 

maybe you missed it the of responses 

you mean the responses some of which pointed to double blind 
which show no such chinese effect unique to 
 ( it 's by the as well . ) . 

many people responded with more stories i think its safe to 
say the original poster is already familiar with such stories. 
presumably , he wants hard info to substantiate or refute claims about 
making people ill .  . 

similarly , debunking such claims without doing research  ( whether 
literature and lab ) , is equally beside the point. the original poster 
no doubt already knows that some people think  chinese 
 is bogus .  . 

are all very interesting , but irrelevant to the question of 
what effects has .  . you could have real effects and 
effects people may have in addition .  . 


yet again , the use of this 
newsgroup is by people not their posts to matters 
they have substantial knowledge of. 

like someone who can read a scientific paper and apparently 
come away from it with ideas which have nothing to 
do with the use of this substance in human 

have you read 's work i fail to see how results from 
peer studies as . 

for cites on , look up almost anything by john w. , a 
who has studied the effects of on the brain and on 
development .  . it is undisputed in the literature that is an 
food , 

no , it 's undisputed in the literature that is an amino acid 
which is an  . there is also evidence that 
excessive release of may be involved in the of certain 
conditions like , drowning and 's disease , just to name a few. 
this is a completely different issue than the use of this ubiquitous amino acid 
in  . people are not receiving of  . 

have been done on , as well. i have never seen a 
study where the mode of was  . the 
and were  . some studies used and  . 
is not a normal admin .  . method for food  . studies , 
for obvious reasons. you must not have read the peer works 
that i referred to or you would never have come up with this brain 
injection bunk .  . 

too much in the diet , and the system gets thrown off. 

you. such an effect in humans has not been demonstrated in any 
controlled studies .  . infant and other models are useful as far 
as they go , but they 're not relevant to the matter at hand. which is 
not to say that i favor its use in things like baby food a patently 
ridiculous use of the  . but we have no reason to believe 
that in the diet effects humans adversely .  . 

pardon me , but where are you getting this from have you read the 
have you done a literature search 

but , you 're right , are n't the best to study this on. they 're four 
times less sensitive than humans to  . 

and , also an are necessary in 
small , and are freely available in many , but the 
added by industry are far above the that would normally be 
encountered in a ny single food. 

wrong. do you know how much or is in a soft drink 
worth .  . compare that to a glass of milk .  . do you know how much 
is present in most protein containing compared to that 
added by the use of 

the point is the  . of course , they 're amino  . 
note that people with cannot tolerate any  . 

's research compared infant human diets .  . specifically , the amount 
of freely available in mother 's milk versus baby , 
vs. typical lunch items from the standard american diet such as 
 . he found that one could the safety margin 
for infant humans by at least four in a single of 
 . mother 's milk was well below the effective  . 


read 's review paper in  . brain , 1988 , and check his 
sources. they are  . there is no dispute .  . 

 . there most certainly is a dispute .  . 

between who over what i would be most interested in seeing you 
provide peer non food industry funded to articles 
that has no effects whatsoever. 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

hmm .  .  . com . . why am i not surprised 




from  ( george b. clark ) 
subject re 
organization university of maryland 
lines 6 
nntp posting host eng . umd . edu . 

you may want to about taking as a  . it 's 
supposed to be a new treatment , and it 's described in nov. 1992 
issue of j. of  . and  . 

is taken as a monthly injection , whereas other drugs such 
as are taken daily as  . 

from  ( brian m. huey ) 
subject 
originator 
organization university of at , college of engineering 
lines 20 

i think that 's the correct  .  . 
i am looking for any information that will allow 
do it to take pictures .  . i'm thinking 
that education for schools might have a for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the  . any info is greatly 
appreciated. 
in case you do n't know , , to the best of my 
knowledge , involves taking pictures of an  ( most of the time) organic 
object between charged plates .  . the picture will show energy patterns 
or around the object , and depending on what type 
of object it is , the or energy patterns will vary .  . one might 
extrapolate here and say that this proves that every object within 
the universe  ( as we know it) has its own energy signature .  . 



d i s c l a i m e r i can neither nor deny any opinions 
expressed in this article directly reflect my own personal or 
political views and furthermore , if they did , i would not be at 
liberty to such an explanation of these alleged opinions. 

from  ( opirg ) 
subject re is 
organization university , ottawa , canada 
lines 

in article writes 


the funny thing is the stories about reactions to vary so 
greatly .  . some said that their heart up with face. some 
claim their heart beats once in a while. 

both of these symptoms are related  . getting a 
face is due to the heart the blood than a regular 
 . i suspect this is related to an increase in levels in 
the blood , since note  . both are 
 . our bodies require , but like everything else , 
one can get too much of a good thing. 

some with headache , 

again , this could be related to increased blood from increased 
heart rate , from the in the  . , 
essentially .  . one of many causes of  . there is no 
her , necessarily .  . 


some stomach  . 

well stomache and tend to be related .  . again , not 
necessarily a  . more likely a related reaction. 
occurs as a response to get rid of a compound an organism has 
 . if a person ca n't digest the stuff  ( entirely possible the 
list of stuff people are allergic to is quite long) , and lacks an 
to break it down ,  ( stomach or belly 
ache ) would be expected .  . 


some had eyes or running nose , 


these are reactions , and are now considered to be similar 
to  . they are a way for the body to of 
 . they are responses. of course , it is possible 
some other food or environmental compound could be responsible for the 
symptoms .  . but it 's important to remember that a lot these 
can be , , , etc , etc. it would be 
necessary to know exactly what was in a , and what else the person 
was exposed to. does sound suspicious but 
and heart rate are connected .  . things in the body are far from 
simple .  .  . very . place , the body. 

some 
had or  . 

people respond in a of ways to the same compound .  . it depends 
upon what it is about the compound that off their body. 
, for example , of some plants in many 
people , because , when , it sets of the immune system , and an 
attack is  . the immune system goes overboard , 
causing the allergic person a lot of misery .  . and someone with an 
to some will have trouble with some that 
contain  ( chamomile , ,  . drinking the substance can 
that person 's system as much as it. 

more serious accusations include 
difficulty 

see above. and do n't think that heart rate changes , and 
problems are not serious. they can be  . 

and brain damage. 

the area of the brain is the system 
controlling the release of , the controlling 
the cyclical release of and , as well as , 
and other  . for effective would be , uh , a bit  . 


now here is a new one  . my guess is that becomes the number one 
suspect of any problem. in this case. it might be just food 
poisoning .  . 

absolutely .  . but it could also be some mess from eating , 
say , or mushrooms  ( to which many are allergic ) , plus 
too much , and too much home , 
plus , let 's say , having flu from one 's sig .  . other 3 days 
before from drinking out of the same glass. could be all sorts of 
things. 

but it might be the  . 

if you heard things about , you may think it must be it. 

if noone else got sick , its likely not food poisoning .  . probably 
stomach flu or an thing the guy 's allergic to. 


anyway , the human body 's not a machine people vary widely in their 
responses , and a lot of reactions are due to combinations of things. 





from  ( janet jakstys ) 
subject exercise and 
nntp posting host 
organization northern , view , ca 
lines 24 

we were talking about and exercise  ( i'm the one who ca n't 
the thought of exercise during  .  . ) .  . anyway , turning 
the thread around , the other day i played during my lunch 
hour .  . i'm out of shape so it was very intense exercise .  . i 
got , and  . afterwards , i noticed a 
all over my head then about 2 hours later , i could feel 
a start. (i continued to drink water in the afternoon . ) . 
i took , but it did n't help and the pain started although 
it was n't as intense as it usually is and about that night , the 
pain  . 

this is n't the first time that i 've had a occur after exercise .  . 
i'm wondering if anyone else has had the same experience and i wonder 
what the in this situation  ( heat ) .  . 
i'm not giving up so is there anything i can do  ( besides get into 
shape and do n't play at high noon ) to prevent this 

thanks , 


janet uucp ames , ! ! janet 
northern internet 
 . view , ca .  . 


from  ( chuck wa7kgx ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
organization technology , rain 
lines 33 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 

in article  ( chuck wa7kgx ) writes 

weight is a term used in the medical literature on 
obesity to denote weight beyond what was lost in a diet 
cycle .  . there are any number of terms which mean one thing to 

can you provide a reference to substantiate that back 
the lost weight does not constitute weight until it 
the starting weight or is this oral tradition that 
is shared only among you obesity 

not one , but two 

obesity in europe 88 , 
of the 1st european congress on obesity 

of ny  . sci .  . 1987 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 




... ! tektronix ! reed ! ! 
author of , , , , and 
technology the high reliability software 
v is or 

from  ( euclid k . ) . 
subject re anti viral 
article i.d. news . 
distribution na 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 38 

 ( kenneth gilbert ) writes 

unfortunately it was rather poorly researched , and would not be available 
today if it were just invented .  . keep in mind however that those were 
the days when a bottle of coca really did contain coca extract and 
a certain amount of active cocaine .  . times have changed , and our attitudes 
need to change with them. 
well , yes. that was a part of my point. aspirin has its problems , but 
in some situations it is useful. stuff like root .  . taking 
anything as a drug for purposes implicitly carries the idea 
of taking a where the benefits are not by any unwanted , 
additional effects .  . taking any drug when the potential ill effects are 
not known is a risk assumed by the parties involved , and it may be that 
in a given situation the risk is worthwhile .  . 
like , for instance has been shown to be in 
some cases where the tri fail .  . but has n't been in use 
that long , and it really is n't clear what if any effects it may have 
when taken over long periods of time , even though it has been tested 
by present day standards. should be taken off the market because 
long term effects , if any , are not known imho , i 'd say no. 




university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine pittsburgh , pa 
 .  .  . , not a programmer ! 



university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine pittsburgh , pa 
 .  .  . , not a programmer ! 

k. standard disclaimers apply 
it is a bit ironic that we need the wave model of light to understand the 
propagation of light only through that part of the system where it leaves no 
trace .  . ( university physics ) 

from  ( david ozonoff ) 
subject re food related 
lines 24 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

wrote 

once again we are waiting. i have been thinking that it would be good 
to get to as large a group as possible to see if anyone has any 
experience with this kind of thing. i know that members of the medical 
community are sometimes to admit the importance that diet and 
play in our general health and well being. anyway , as you can 
guess , i am worried sick about this , and would appreciate any ideas 
anyone out there has .  . sorry to be so but i wanted to really get 
across what is going on here. 


i do n't know anything specifically , but i have one further anecdote .  . a 
of mine had a child with a serious disease , 
 . along with mental comes a serious disorder .  . 
the parents noticed that one thing that would a was 
a with in it. i have always wondered about the connection , and 
further about other dietary that might  . 
other experiences would be interesting to hear about from netters .  . 


david , md , boston university school of public health 
edu . 80 east st. , 
 ( 617 ) boston , ma 

from  ( rich young ) 
subject re blood test 
originator 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization division , company 
lines 38 

in article  ( chuck wa7kgx ) writes 

in article writes 

human 70 110  .  .  ( fasting ) 2 

are these numbers for whole blood , or 

, actually , but numbers are the same. whole blood 
numbers for humans tend to be somewhat lower  ( roughly 5 to 10 
percent  . i find the following range for whole blood in 
of chemistry n .  . w. , editor w. b. 
, 1987 

human  ( whole blood , levels ) 60  .  . 

which are the for  ( obviously they measure whole blood ) 

indeed , they do measure whole blood levels , although they are not 
as accurate as a test done in a  . one problem is 
that cells in the continue to after the 
is drawn , reducing the apparent level. according to , 
however , results compare reasonably well with results , 
although values below 80  .  . tend to be lower with strip , 
whereas values above 240  .  . can be very  . 

what is the conversion factor between human and 
whole blood  ( pin prick ) concentration 

as stated above , whole blood levels tend to be roughly 5 to 10 
percent lower than levels .  . will affect 
whole blood levels , however. i do n't believe there is a well 
defined conversion factor , since cell will affect 
samples to degrees .  . the test is much 
preferred for any except general ball park  . 


rich young  ( these are not 's opinions . ) . 

from  ( david nye ) 
subject re mental 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 13 

reply to  ( derek abbott ) 

are there any case histories of severe mental cases 
after a tragic accident or trauma  . through nobody 's fault , 
being in a fire and your legs , say ) 

i know of a patient who was severely and depressed and tried 
to kill himself with a bullet to the temple .  . he essentially gave 
himself a lobotomy , the depression .  . 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from tech . edu . 
subject 
lines 11 
organization institute of technology 

i do n't know if anyone knows about this topic electrical heart 
failure .  . one of my friends has had to go to the doctor because 
he had pains .  . the doc said it was  . so he had to 
go to a new york hospital for a lot of money to get treated .  . his 
doctors said that he could die from it , and the caused 
( that he was  . well , i suggested that he run , 
and eat more , ( he is very skinny ) but he says that has nothing 
to do with it. does anyone know what causes and how 
it can be treated 
thanks 


from  ( fiberman ) 
subject 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 4 
nntp posting host edu . 

is effective in treating 




subject 
from  ( adriana gilmete ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 3 

can anyone help me find any information on the drug i am writing 
a report on the , and co .  . , and the product .  . i need as 
much help as i can get .  . thanks a lot ,  . 

from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject re acne 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 57 

 ( pat churchill ) writes 


my 14 y o son has the usual and nose .  . i 
bought him face and  . i think that is probably 
enough , along with the usual good diet .  . however , he is on at me to 
get some product called t , which used to be a 
doctor 's prescription only treatment but is not available over the 
's counter .  . i have asked a couple of who say 
either his acne is not severe enough for t , or that 
is ok. i had the odd as a , nothing serious. his 
father was the same , so i do n't figure his acne is going to escalate 
into something  . but i know kids are about 
their appearance. i am wary because a 's son had this 
that was eventually put down to an of vitamin a from 
acne treatment .  . i want to help but with appropriate treatment .  . 

my son also has some around the on his  . sort 
of cap .  . any advice on this we have tried a 
couple of anti and some of these are inclined to 
make the condition worse , not better. 

shall i bury the kid till he 's 21 ) 

) no .  .  . i . was one of the lucky ones. very little acne as a  . i 
did n't have any luck with  . even though my gets it 
really only gets miserable when it 's  . 

frequent water on the face might help. getting the 
thing under control might help  ( that could be as simple as under 
the till it 's and it  . taking a one a day 
vitamin might help. i 've heard causes trouble and that it 
is used in fast food to equipment which might be 
where the belief that cause acne came from. i notice 
on my face , not immediately removed will cause acne  ( even from eating 
 . 

keeping hair , , , and off the face will help. warm 
water or on the face to the oil in the will 
help prevent  . body oil is , loves water and it 
and off when it has a chance. that 's why hair goes with 
 . 

becoming convinced that the best thing to do with 
a is leave it alone will save him days of misery .  . any 
of black or can cause , the red of 
 . usually a will break naturally in a day and there wo n't 
be an infection afterwards. 

tell him that it 's normal to have some but the industry 
makes it 's money off of selling people on the idea that they are an 
incredible defect to be hidden at any cost  ( even that of causing more  . 






from 
subject left side pains 
organization university of , 
lines 21 

to everybody , 
i write here because i am kind of  . for about weeks , i 've been 
suffering on pains in my left head side , the left and sometimes the left 
 . i made many (e . g .  . computer , negative , , 
negative , all in the blood in their correct range ) , they 're 
all o.k. , so i should be healthy .  . as a matter of fact , i am not feeling so. 
i was also at a 's too , he considered me healthy too. 

the blood have shown that i have little too much of 5 . , 
common range is 14 to 17 , i unfortunately do not know about the  . 
could these pains be the result of this or of a also possible 
block of the 

i have no , and i am not feeling entirely sick , but neither entirely 
healthy .  . 

please answer by direct email on 

thanks for every hint 



from  ( stephen d brener ) 
subject japanese for scientists and 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 


japanese at the university of pittsburgh this summer 



the university of pittsburgh is offering two japanese language 
this summer .  . both , elementary japanese and 
japanese , are ten week , ten credit 
each equivalent to one full year of japanese language study .  . they begin 
june 7 and end august 13 .  . the meet five days per week , five hours 
per day. there is a flat rate charge of per course. 
available for science and engineering students .  . contact 
, program of the japanese science and technology 
program , at the university of pittsburgh at the number or 
address below. 
all interested individuals are encouraged to apply , this is not limited to 
university students .  . 






new program announcement 



japanese science and technology program 

the japanese science and technology program  ( jstmp ) is a new 
program developed by the university of and carnegie mellon 
university .  . students and in the engineering and scientific 
are encouraged to apply for classes in june 1993 and 
1994. 


program objectives 
the program intends to promote technology between japan and the 
united states. it is also designed to let scientists , , and 
experience how the japanese proceed with development .  . this is 
by extended in japanese research facilities and 
laboratories that provide participants with the opportunity to develop 
long term relationships with their japanese  . 


program design 
to fulfill the objectives of the program , participants will be required to 
develop advanced language capability and a deep understanding of japan and 
its culture .  . , consists of three major components 

1. training in the japanese language 
several japanese language will be offered , including 
designed to language for scientists and in a 
relatively short time. 

2. education in japanese business and social culture 
a particular is placed on a deep understanding of the 
cultural and basis of japanese approaches in 
manufacturing and information technology. will be available in a 
variety of throughout both universities including , 
, history , and political science. moreover , and 
will be conducted .  . further , a field trip to japanese manufacturing or 
research facilities in the united states will be scheduled .  . 


3. an or a study mission in japan 
upon completion of their language and cultural training at pitt and cmu , 
participants will have the opportunity to go to japan and observe , 
and participate in the of technology. in japan 
will generally run for one year however , ones are possible. 


covering for language and culture , as well as 
for living are available. 

for more information and application materials contact 

brown 
carnegie mellon university , 
university of pittsburgh pittsburgh , pa 
telephone  ( 412 ) 
pittsburgh , pa fax  ( 412 ) 
telephone  ( 412 ) 
fax  ( 412 ) 





interested individuals , and should respond by phone or 
mail .  . please do not via e mail .  . 
please note that this is directed at and , however , advanced 
will be considered .  . further , funding is to us citizens 
and permanent residents of the us. 

steve 






from  ( barry d benowitz ) 
subject  ( photo refractive keratostomy ) 
organization co systems , inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 21 

for those of you interested in the above procedure , i am able to add the 
following facts 

1 ) this procedure is not done in philadelphia .  . 

2 ) it is performed in maryland at johns hopkins for corrections between 
0 and 5 and from 10 to 20  ( diopters , i think are the  . 

3) it is performed in new york city at manhattan eye and ear for corrections 
between 0 and 6. 

the magic words to use when requesting information on this is not  ( they 
think you mean rk ) but the laser study  ( or  . this will get 
you to the proper people. 



d. 
email ( .  .  .  . ! ! ! bbenowit ) 
phone 1 1000 
co systems , new , , nj , 

from  ( webster homer ) 
subject mind machines 
summary do mind machines work 
keywords mind sleep light sound 
organization , inc. 
lines 19 

i recently learned about these devices that supposedly specific 
brain wave in their users simply by wearing them. mind machines 
consist of led , head , and a that them. 
they the  ( closed ) eye and send sound in with the 
 . i understand that these devices are experimental , but they are available. 
i 've heard claims that they can sleep , and light states for 
 . essentially they are supposed to work without aid of drugs etc .  .  .  . 
i would think that if they work as reported they would be incredibly useful , 
the few sources i 've seen are biased  ( they are selling the things , and a 
friend who has tried them claims that every home should have one ) .  . so 
do these mind machines  ( aka light and sound machines ) work can they 
, , and or delta in a person wearing them what research if 
any has been done on them could they be used in of a 
or are they just another bit of 






from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re need advice with doctor patient relationship problem 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 9 

sounds as though his heart 's in the right place , but he is not at 
expressing it. what you received was meant to be a profound apology .  . 
apologies by overworked people often come out like that .  .  .  . 


michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  ( ron roth ) 
subject selective 
x by usenet gateway 
organization rose media , , ontario .  . 
lines 23 

 ( l  ( joel b levin ) writes 
 ( l john wrote 
 ( l 1 ) ron .  .  . what . do you consider to be proper ... 
 ( l 
 ( l i'm glad it caught your eye. that 's the purpose of this forum to 
 ( l those , eager to learn , about the facts of life. that phrase 
 ( l is used to the frenzy of all the would be respondents , who 
 ( l otherwise would feel being left out as the proper authorities to be 
 ( l on that topic. in short , it means absolutely nothing. 
 ( l 
 ( l an description of the content of just about all ron 's 
 ( l posts to date. at least there 's value  ( though it 
 ( l is  . 

well , that 's easy for you to say. all you have to do is sit 
back , it all in , try it out on your , and then 
to all your colleagues about that incredibly success rate you 're 
having all of a sudden .  .  .  . 

ron 

2 . 00 . for real sponge cake , borrow all  . 
2 . 10 . usenet rose media  ( 416 ) 

from state . edu .  ( james m hoskins ) 
subject cost of 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution na 
lines 5 


does anyone know the approximate prescription cost 
of a 250 bottle of  ( morphine ) 

thanks. 

from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re ca n't 
article i.d. blue . 
lines 23 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

david nye wrote 
reply to  ( ron roth ) 

while you 're right that the s are attached to each other , 
the , to my knowledge , can be either directly , or 
by applying pressure on the bone .  .  .  . 

ron , you 're an endless source of misinformation ! there are no 
 . there is a bone called the at the end of the  . 
it is a single , solid bone except in a few who have a 
as a normal variant .  . how do you a solid bone , 
break it no , do n't tell me , i do n't want to know. 

oh come now , surely you know he only meant to measure the of 
energy about the and then these 
with a of applied to the right great toe .  . do n't 
you know anything 



university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( ken mitchum ) 
subject re update  ( help ! ) was what is this is it 's 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( ken mitchum ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 15 

in article  ( john o'donnell ) writes 
imho , you have disease. i told you this in private email and predicted 
that you might next start having the pains and further 

imho , the original poster has no business off the net , 
nor does dr. mr. o have any business same. this is one 
major reason real avoid this newsgroup like the plague .  . it is 
also another example of the double standard if i as a offered 
to and treat on the net , i can be  . but people without 
are free to do whatever they want and it all with 
i'm not a doctor .  . 

get and keep this crap off the net. period. 



from  ( jacquelin aldridge ) 
subject re what are the problems with  ( aspartame ) 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 36 

( ) writes 

is a a couple thousand times than 
sugar. some people are concerned about the that the body produces 
when it  . it is thought to form and known to 
for in the that the body uses to eliminate 
 . the real issue is whether the levels of and 
produced are high enough to cause significant damage , as both are to 
living cells .  . all i can say is that i will not it. 

is 
nothing for you to worry about. it is an amino acid , and everyone uses small 
of it for protein in the body. some people have a disease 
known as , and they are missing the necessary to 
degrade this compound and eliminate it from the body. for them , it will 
accumulate in the body , and in high levels this is to growing 
cells .  . therefore , it is only a major problem in young children  ( until around 
age 10 or so ) or women who are pregnant and have this disorder .  . it used to 
be a cause of brain damage in infants , but now it can be easily 
detected at birth , and then one must simply avoid of 
as a child , or when pregnant. 



if i remember in infants is about 1 1200 they lack 
two genes .  . and people who lack one gene are supposed to be 1 56 persons 
those with have to avoid naturally  . and those 
who only have one gene and whatever it is they are supposed to 
be producing are supposed to be less tolerant of  . 

the , thing was supposed to occur with heating 

i do n't drink it. i figure sugar was made for a reason. to quickly and 
easily people. if you do n't need the it 's just as 
easy to drink water .  . used to drink a pack a of soda .  . do n't 
even drink one a day when  . 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re update  ( help ! ) was what is this is it 's 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 30 

in article  ( carl brenner ) writes 
see the motive here. it is easy for me to see it the 
those who call everything and treat everything. 
there is a lot of money involved. 

you keep bringing this up. but i do n't understand what 's in it 
for the to go ahead and treat .  . unless the 
has an investment in  ( or is involved in some scheme with ) the 
home company , where is the financial gain for the doctor 

well , let me put it this way , based on my own experience. a 
general with no training in infectious diseases , 
by establishing links to the community , treating 
who come to him wondering about or having decided they 
have as if they did , saying that diseases such as 
are probably , if not , giving talks at meetings 
of users groups , the feelings of even delusional 
, etc. this can go from being a run of the mill 
to someone with lots of in the hospital 
and getting expensive that need in his 
office , and making lots of bread .  . also getting the 
of many who believe his is their only hope  ( if not of , 
then of control ) and seeing his name in put out 
by support groups , etc. this is a definite  . 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re can t 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 23 

in article  ( paul schmidt ) writes 
i think it is important to verify all with proper studies to 
show their and risk. i just read an interesting tidbit that 
80 of the medical are unproven and not based on scientific 
fact. for example , many of are unproven and 
the treatment may be more dangerous than the disease  ( according to the 
article i read . ) . 

where did you read this i do n't think this is true. i think most 
medical are based on science , although it is difficult 
to prove anything with  . it is true that there are some 
things that have just been found to work , but we have no good 
explanation for why. but almost everything does have a scientific 
rationale .  . the most common treatment for is 
probably  . it has been proven to work. so have 
radiation and  . what did the article say 
are not proven 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 14 

in article  ( eric roberts ) writes 
could someone please tell me , what effect an  ( 900 1000mg ) of 
would have 

probably would not be fatal in an adult at that , but could kill 
a child. patient would be very , with , low 
blood pressure .  . possibly  . 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re and health risk 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 33 

i do n't understand the assumption that because something is found to 
be that it would not be legal in the u.s. . i think that 
naturally  ( excluding controlled substances ) are 
pretty much in terms of their use as food , food 
or other . it 's only when the concoct (sp ) an 
that it falls under  . otherwise , if they 
really looked closely they would find a reason to ban almost everything. 
how in the world do you suppose it 's legal to products 
 ( which probably should be banned ) 

no , there is something called the amendment which makes 
food illegal in any amount .  . this was passed by congress in the 
1950 's , before stuff like mass became available , which increased 
detectable levels of by a couple orders of magnitude .  . 

this is why things like and red 2 were banned. they are very 
in huge in rats , so under the act they are 
banned. 

this also applies to natural  . some of you might remember a 
time back in the 's when root beer suddenly stopped so good , 
and never tasted so good again. that was the time when was banned. 
this is the active in leaves .  . 

if it were possible to market a root beer good like the old days , someone 
would do it , in order to make money. the fact that no one does it indicates 
that enforcement is still in effect. 

an odd exception to the rule seems to be the product known as file  . 
this is nothing more than ground dried leaves .  . this 
is not only a natural product , but a natural product still in its natural 
form , so maybe that 's how they  . or maybe a special 
was made , to powerful louisiana  . 

from  ( marc anderson ) 
subject miracle anyone 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 47 

from , j . w .  .  .  ( 1992 ) biological psychology . publishing co .  . 
, ca .  .  .  . without permission .  . 



digression 6 . 1 . miracle and the of taste 

although the miracle , a plant native to west africa is practically 
tasteless , it temporarily changes the taste of other  . miracle 
contain a protein , , that in 
such a way that they can be by  ( bartoshuk , gentile , 
, ,  . if you ever get a chance to a miracle 
 ( and i do recommend it) , for about the next half an hour all 
 ( which are normally sour ) will taste  . they will continue to taste 
sour as well. 

was , for a time , available in the united states as a 
diet aid .  . the idea was that could coat their tongue with a 
pill and then eat and drink , slightly  . such 
would taste without providing many  . 

a and i once spent an evening with miracle  . 
we drank straight , , even vinegar .  . all tasted 
extremely  . somehow we forgot how these are. we 
the next day to find our mouths full of  . 

... continued discussion of a couple other taste altering ... 




, l . m .  . , gentile , r . l .  . , , h . r .  . , , h . l .  .  ( 1974 ) 
taste by miracle fruit ( ) .  . 
behavior .  ( 12(6 )  . 





anyone ever hear of these things or know where to get them 








from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re effects 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 39 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
summary yes , bias is a great problem. 


in article  ( daniel prince ) writes 
is there an effect where the doctor believes so strongly in a 
medicine that he she sees improvement where the is none or sees 
more improvement than there is if so , what is this effect 
called is there a reverse of the above effect where the doctor 
does n't believe in a medicine and then sees less improvement than 
there is what would this effect be called have these effects 
ever been studied how common are these effects thank you in 
advance for all replies .  . 

these effects are a very real concern in conducting studies of new 
 . try to limit this kind of effect by 
studies that are blind in various ways. some of these 
are 

o the subjects of the study do not know whether they receive a 
or the test treatment , i.e. , whether they are in the 
control group or the test group. 

o those the treatment do not know which subjects 
receive a or the test treatment .  . 

o those evaluating individual results do not know which subjects 
receive a or the test treatment .  . 

obviously , at the point at which the data is , one has to 
the test group from the control group. but the analysis 
is public the describes it and presents the data on 
which it is based so that others can verify it. 

it is worth that in biological studies where the subjects are 
animals , such as , there were many cases of skewed results because 
those who performed the study did not blind themselves. it is not 
considered so important to make more ignorant than they already 
are , though it is important that in all respects except the one tested , 
the control and test groups are treated alike. 

russell 

from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject need advice with doctor patient relationship problem 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 13 

from  ( marlena libman ) 
i need advice with a situation which occurred between me and a 
which upset me. 

my questions (1) should i continue to have this doctor my care 

that 's easy no. you would n't take your computer into a 
where they were rude to you , even if they were in 
their business. why would you take your own body into a 
where the has such a bad attitude 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from  ( doug bank ) 
subject do we need a to read an 
reply to 
organization motorola land products 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 35 . 
lines 28 

my wife 's ob has an machine in her office. when 
the doctor could n't hear a  ( 13 weeks ) she used 
the to see if everything was ok.  ( it was ) 

on her next visit , my wife asked another doctor in the office if 
they read the themselves or if they had a 
read the pictures .  . the doctor very insisted that they 
were qualified to read the and were not ! 

my wife is concerned about this. she saw a tv show a couple months 
back  ( something like 20 20 or nbc , etc . ) . where an expert 
on (a radiologist ) was showing all the different 
that could be detected using the  . 

should my wife be concerned should we take the pictures to a 
for a second opinion  ( and if so , where would we find 
such an expert in chicago ) we do n't really have any special medical 
reason to be concerned , but if a will be able to see 
things the ob ca n't , then i do n't see why we should n't use one. 

any thoughts 



doug bank private systems division 
motorola communications 
, illinois 


from  ( brandon brylawski ) 
subject re should i be angry at this doctor 
organization national library of medicine 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 30 

writes 
am i justified in being off at this doctor 

last saturday evening my 6 year old son cut his finger with a knife .  . 
i took him to a local and general care clinic at 5 50  . the 
clinic was open till 6 00  . the went to the back and told the 
doctor that we were there , and came back and told us the doctor would not 
see us because she had to go at 6 00 and did not want to be 
here. during the next few , in response to my questions , with several 
trips to the back room , the told me 
the doctor was doing paperwork in the back , 
the doctor would not even look at his finger to us on going 
to the emergency room 
the doctor would not even speak to me 
she would not tell me the doctor 's name , or her own name 
when asked who is in charge of the clinic , she said i do n't know. 

i realize that a private clinic is not the same as an emergency room , but 
i was quite angry at being turned away because the doctor did not want to 
be bothered .  . my son did get three at the emergency room. 

speaking as a who works in an care center , the above 
behavior is completely inappropriate .  . if a patient who requires extensive 
care shows up at the last minute , we always see them and give them appropriate 
care. it is reasonable for a clinic to refuse to see outside of its 
posted hours , but what you describe is  . ask to speak to the 
clinic director , and complain. whatever their attitude , they have nothing to 
gain from  . 



from  ( nigel ballard ) 
subject re adult 
distribution world 
organization inc. 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1 . 90 .  ( ka9q 1 . 
lines 19 


i am 35 and am from a case of which i 
from my 5 year old daughter .  . i have quite a few of these little 
all over my  . at what point am i no longer infectious my 's 
office says when they are all over. is this true 

i have been in the same as you last year .  . i 've tried four times to 
send you an email response , but your end does n't seem to accept my mail 
please let me know if you receive this. 

cheers 


lot 
uk cis radio for 

of the famous .  .  .  . 
 .  . by , just when i a chinese ! 


from  ( lee lady ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
summary is subjective judgement more reliable than statistics 
organization university of hawaii  ( mathematics dept ) 
expires mon , 10 may 1993 10 00 00 gmt 
lines 76 

in article 
 ( russell turpin ) writes 
... 
not imply that all their are ineffective .  . it does 
imply that those who rely on faulty and reasoning are 
incapable of which are effective and 
which are not . ) . 

to start with , no or form of reasoning is infallible .  . so 
there 's a question of how much certainty we are willing to pay for in a 
given context. on too much science down completely 
and makes progress impossible.  ( expenditure of sufficiently large sums 
of money and of time can sometimes overcome this . ) . on the other 
hand , with too little much is lost by basing work on results which 
eventually turn out to be false .  . there is a of studies 
contradicting other studies and start saying you people call 
this science  ( my opinion , for what it 's worth , is that one sees both 
these phenomena happening simultaneously in some parts of psychology . ) . 

some subjective judgement is required to decide on the level of 
appropriate for a particular investigation .  . i do n't believe it is 
ever possible to subjective judgement from science. 


my second point , though , is that highly capable people can often make 
extremely reliable judgements about scientific validity even when using 
considered by the usual standards. i think this 
is true of many scientists and i think it is true of many who approach 
their discipline in a way that is not generally recognized as scientific .  . 

within mathematics , i think there are several examples , especially before 
the twentieth century. one case is that of , who is 
famous for many he stated but did not prove .  .  ( later 
did prove them , of course . ) . 

i think that for a good scientist , empirical investigation is often not 
so much a matter of determining what is true and what 's not as it is a 
matter of convincing other people.  ( people have proposed lots of 
incompatible definitions of science here , but i think the ability to 
objectively convince others of the validity of one 's results is an 
essential element .  . not that one can necessarily do that at every step 
of the scientific process , but i think that if one is not moving 
that goal then one is not doing science . ) . 

when a person other than a scientist is quite good at what he does and 
seems to be very successful at it , i think that his judgements are also 
worthy of respect and that his assertions are well worth further 
investigation .  . 

in article i wrote 
namely , is there really justification for the belief that 
science is a superior path to truth than non scientific approaches 

admittedly , my question was not at all well posed .  . a 
amount of effort in a serious scholarly investigation such as i 
suggested would be required simply to formulate an 
specific question to try and answer. 

the science i was thinking of in my question is the actual science 
currently practiced now in the last of the twentieth century. 
i certainly was n't thinking of some science or the mere use 
of reason and observation .  . 

one thing i had in mind in my suggestion was the question as to whether 
in many cases the subjective judgements of and experienced 
might be more reliable than statistical studies .  . 

since russell seems to be much more familiar than i am with 
the study of scientific , perhaps he can tell us if there 
is any existing research related to this question. 


in the arguments between and , psychology seems 
less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects .  . 



from  ( bill claussen ) 
subject re should i be angry at this doctor 
organization division 
lines 5 
distribution na 
nntp posting host com . 


report them to your local  ( better business  . 

bill 


from  ( russ brown ) 
subject re 
organization 
lines 22 

in article  ( vida morkunas ) writes 
i live at sea level , and am called upon to travel to high cities 
quite frequently , on business. the cities in question are at to 
feet of  . one of them especially is very polluted .  .  .  . 

mexico city , , la 

often i feel the first two or three days. i feel , and 
my heart seems to a lot more than at sea level. also , it is very 
in these cities , so i will tend to drink a lot of water , and keep 
away from , such as those containing or  . 


thing is , i still have symptoms .  . how can i ensure that my short trips there 
 ( no , i do n't usually have a week to acclimatize ) are as comfortable as possible 
is there something else that i could do 

go three days early .  . preliminary takes 3 4 days. it 
takes weeks or months for full  . could you be 
experiencing some , too 



subject treatment 
from 
organization and company 
lines 9 

a relative of mine has recently been with stage 3 cell 
. we are seeking the best place in the country for 
treatment for this. 

does anyone have any suggestions 

as you might suspect , time is of the essence .  . 

thanks for your help. bob 

from  ( melissa n .  . matusevich ) 
subject re help me  .  .  . 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( radford ) 
lines 5 

according to a previous poster , one should seek a doctor 's 
assistance for  . but what about sp 
does n't one have to oneself immediately upon the 
of a 


from  ( ted lehr ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
originator 
distribution 
organization ibm austin 
lines 47 


writes 
 .  .  . not every wild of fancy serves 
 ( or can serve ) in the appropriate relation to a hypothesis .  . it is 
somewhat interesting that when anyone is to provide an 
example of this sort the only one they come up with is the one about 
 . surely , there must be others. but apparently this is regarded 
as an extreme example of a non rational process in science whereby 
a successful hypothesis was proposed .  . but how non rational is it 

indeed , an extreme example. it came out of nowhere .  . the connection 
saw between it and his problem is fortunate but not extraordinary .  . 
i , for example , often receive solutions  ( hypotheses for solutions ) 
to my everyday problems at when i appear to myself to be 
with activities quite removed. for that new software feature come 
when i the on my occasional runs .  . alternative  ( better ) ways 
to and my sons arrive while i the garden .  . i 'll swear i am 
not thinking about any of it when ideas come. 

these ideas are not the stuff of great , of course , but my 
connecting them to particular problems is with and 
occasional fits of rationality .  . 

surely it was n't the only had. what was special about 
this one could it have had something to do with a perceived 
analogy between the geometry of the snakes and problems concerning 
geometry of 

yes. and he was lucky to have such a , image. i , , will 
never figure out why returning worms to the loose of my garden brought , 
have him count objects instead of merely count to mind regarding my 2 
year old 's arithmetic skills. 

... upon close examination , 
is there a non rational mystical leap taking place , or is it perhaps 
closer to a formal  ( though often incomplete ) analogy or model 

the latter .  . worms around in the my son. 

regards , 



 .  .  . my . thoughts , opinions and questions .  .  .  . 
future systems technology group , 
ibm internet 
austin , tx 

subject re broken 
from 
organization the old 's , , b.c. 
keywords advice needed 
summary thanx for the 
lines 7 

, i think you are right , in spite of the movement 
it is getting better each day. cheers 

 ( john cross ) 
the old 's  ( home of the unix users group ) 
 ( 604 )  ( v32 ) public access usenet  ( 604 )  ( 2400x4 ) 
vancouver island , british 1 . 64 . 

from  ( gong tong ) 
subject re is 
article i.d. 
organization health sciences university 
lines 48 

in article  ( opirg ) writes 
in article  ( david thomas ) writes 

in article ,  ( charles packer ) writes 
is there such a thing as  ( monosodium glutamate ) 
i saw in the ny times sunday that scientists have before 
an that about are 
 . anybody here have experience to the contrary 

i'm old enough to remember that the issue has come up at least 
a couple of times since the 1960s .  . then it was called the 
chinese because chinese has 
always used it. 

so far , i 've seen about a dozen posts of evidence , but 
no facts .  . i suspect there is a strong psychological effect at 
work here. does anyone have results from a scientific study 
using double blind trials 

check out , just some 20 posts before your own. maybe you missed 
it the of responses yet again , the use of this 
newsgroup is by people not their posts to matters 
they have substantial knowledge of. 

for cites on , look up almost anything by john w. , a 
who has studied the effects of on the brain and on 
development .  . it is undisputed in the literature that is an 
food , and that its major , 
is essentially the in the brain 
 ( humans  . too much in the diet , and the system gets thrown 
off. and , also an are necessary in 
small , and are freely available in many , but the 
added by industry are far above the that would normally be 
encountered in a ny single food. by eating lots of junk food , 
, and diet soft , it is possible to jack your 
blood levels so high , that anyone with a to these 
will suffer numerous real effects .  . 
read 's review paper in  . brain , 1988 , and check his 
sources. they are  . there is no dispute .  . 



in order to effects of , that in blood must go through 
blood brain that i am not sure can go through or not. in normal condition , the concentration of in the fluid is about 
2 that is high enough to one type of the 
 . but the question is and cell in the brain have a lots of transport to get into or  . so no one know exact concentration of is around neurons .  . 

is most important in the central nervous system. it is involved in not only in daily life like the of movement , it is in , memory and learn  ( it is involved in term that be thought is the basis of  . 

from com .  ( bruce reynolds ) 
subject re is 
organization data i o corporation 
lines 31 

 ( jeff miller ) writes 
even properly controlled studies (e . g .  . double blind studies ) are almost 
useless if you are trying to prove that something does not affect anyone. 

and 

in article  ( steve pope ) writes 
the mass of evidence , combined with the lack of 
a properly constructed scientific experiment disproving 
the hypothesis , makes the reaction hypothesis the 
most likely explanation for events. 


good grief has no one ever heard of the university of 
washington  ( plus 3 or 4 others , unc ) has a department and 
advanced degree program in  . my wife has an , and 
there are plenty of , , and doing work. 
people do this for a living. really bright people study for decades to do 
this sort of study well. 

evidence is worthless .  . even doctors who have been using a drug 
or treatment for years , and who swear it is effective , are often suprised 
at the results of trials .  . whether or not causes , 
, symptoms should be pretty simple to discover .  . 

the last study on which my wife worked employed 200 , 100 doctors , 
and a dozen at one university and at 70 hospitals in five nations .  . i 
would think the question could be by one 
student in a thesis. 

bruce 

from  ( pete phillips ) 
subject and particle size 
x address , s. , 
reply to 
organization surgical materials 
x fax 44 
x phone 44 
lines 25 


hi , 

we are just a project on , and have a 
wealth of data on particle size and output which we are going to use 
to a contract next week. 

although the output data is easy for us to present , there seems to be 
little concensus on the of the for 
straightforward  ( eg for  . 

some say that the must be smaller than 5 , whilst 
others say that if they are too small they will not be effective. 

anyone up on this topic who could the current status 

cheers , 


, director , surgical materials lab , 
general hospital , s.  . 

the four horse oppressors of the were 
, state of , widespread condition 
and terminal official politically correct dictionary 

from  . 
subject re 's 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution na 
organization at t 
lines 15 

in article , writes 
how long does it take a 's to clear of the after 
does your chances of getting quickly or does it take 
a amount of time for that to happen 



seems to me that i read in either a recent ny times 
science times or maybe it was science news that there is 
evidence that ex 's risk of never returns 
to that of a person who has never (i think it may 
get  . i 'll find the article and post it since my 
memory is on the if you are interested .  . 

michael 

from  ( sarah anne brundage ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of 
lines 14 
nntp posting host edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

i did a science project on when i was in high school. 
i was able to obtain wonderful from and and the like by 
first them in water .  . 

i know this is a little , but i know that world magazine  ( you know , 
national  . for children ) did a very simple and concise article on 
 . they had some neat pictures , too. a friend of mine 's mother had 
a book on , only it 's took a to 
interpret .  . they  ( world magazine ) warned us all that it was very dangerous , 
probably to stop curious children from with it. mind you , this 
was 10 years ago , at least.  ( and boy , does that say something about my age ) 




from  ( keith f. lynch ) 
subject 
organization express access public access unix , , maryland usa 
lines 10 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( lawrence d. sher ) writes 
from the n . e . j .  . the amino acid 
is not only an essential amino acid ... 

is not an essential amino acid .  . people can survive quite well 
without ever eating any. 

keith , 

f p 2 , 3 2 s q 1 x f f 3 2 q f f p !  q s q p f w q p , x 8 1 8 

from d . 
subject what 's the difference between an m . d .  . and a d . o .  . 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

my wife and i are in the process of a for our 
first child  ( due june  . we a young doctor last week 
and were very impressed with her. however , i discovered that she is 
actually not an medical doctor d . ) . but rather a doctor of 
o . ) .  . what 's the difference i believe the 
i went to for many years was a d . o .  . and he did n't seem different from 
any other doctor i 've seen over the years. 

my dictionary says that is a medical that emphasizes 
techniques for correcting thought 
to cause disease and  . 

, this sounds like  . i remember getting shots and 
medicine from my d . o .  . , and do n't remember any 
techniques . perhaps someone could enlighten me as to 
the real , practical difference between an m . d .  . and a d . o .  . also , i'm 
interesting in hearing any opinions on choosing a who 
follows one or the other medical philosophy .  . 

readers of sci . please respond directly to 
i do not read this group regularly and probably wo n't see your response 
if you just post it here. sorry for the cross posting , but i'm 
there 's some expertise here. 

a t d h v a a n n k c s e 


scott d. at t consumer communications services 
, new jersey 


from  ( walter f. lundby ) 
subject re is 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , group 
lines 23 

in article  ( julie kangas ) writes 

as for how taste if i'm not allergic to and i like 
the taste of it , why should n't i use it saying i should n't use 
it is like saying i should n't eat food because my neighbor 
has an  . 

nobody is saying that you should n't be allowed to use  . just 
do n't force it on others. if you have food that you want to 
enhance with just put the on the table like salt .  . it is 
then the option of the to use it. if you make a 
product , just leave it out. you can include a packet  ( like some 
salt packets ) if you desire .  . 

salt , pepper , , , ..... are table options .  . 
treat the same way. i would n't shove my down your 
throat , do n't shove yours down mine. 




walter 


from  ( euclid k . ) . 
subject re and aids 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 18 

 ( alice taylor ) writes 

a friend of mine is seeing an and 
wants to know if there is any danger of getting 
aids from the  . 

ask the whether he uses the pre 
, or if he , them between use. in the 
former case there 's no conceivable way to get aids from the  . in 
the latter case it 's highly unlikely  ( though many use the 
variety  . 



k. standard disclaimers apply 
it is a bit ironic that we need the wave model of light to understand the 
propagation of light only through that part of the system where it leaves no 
trace .  . ( university physics ) 

from  ( sharon paulson ) 
subject re food related 
organization nasa research center , va , usa 
lines 53 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 93 16 18 19 gmt 

in article  ( david ozonoff ) writes 

path news . nasa . gov . ! darwin . net . ! zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! edu . ! ! ! edu . ! 
from  ( david ozonoff ) 
newsgroups sci . 
date 21 apr 93 16 18 19 gmt 
references 
sender 
lines 22 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

wrote 

much deleted 


the fact that this happened while eating two sugar made 
by 's makes me think she might be having an allergic reaction to 
something in the or the  . of the four of us in our 
immediate family , shows the least signs of the hay , running 
nose , eyes , etc. but we have a lot of in our family history 
including some food nuts , mushrooms .  . 


many of these are based .  . after your post i looked in the 
literature and two articles that  ( contains 
tryptophan ) and  . the idea is that in the diet might 
an already existing or latent disorder , not cause it. 
check to see if the two are based .  . i 'd be interested .  . 

david , md , boston university school of public health 
edu . 80 east st. , 
 ( 617 ) boston , ma 


a couple of folks have suggested the connection . in the five month 
period between the two , my daughter had a fair amount of 
and in the mornings and never had a problem. i checked 
the and the first is  . she has also never had a problem 
eating or on the but of course , that is usually later in the day 
with a full stomach so the would not be so high. i do believe that 
have in them but i will have to check the fruit loops .  . but 
the fact that she has this other in the morning makes me 
wonder .  . 

thanks for checking into this. all information at this point is valuable to me. 




nasa research center 
 . , work  ( 804 ) 
, virginia .  . home  ( 804 ) 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 19 

in article  ( douglas s. rand ) writes 

so i 'll ask this , my just prescribed and 
as some alternatives for me to try. he stated that 
the tablets of were no longer available. 
any idea why he also suggested trying  . 


i just found out about the too. i do n't 
know why. perhaps because they were n't as as  . 
too bad , since tablets are sometimes up by 
and they do n't do any good down the toilet .  . i suspect 
we 'll be moving those more and more to the 
, which is far more effective. 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( shazad barlas ) 
subject need help on please 
organization university of 
distribution sci . 
lines 18 

hi .  .  .  . 

i need information on  . particularly as a result of the 
i really wanted to know of 

1. would a occur as a result of 
2. if yes , then would it disappear 
3. how long does a take to heal 
4. will hair grow on it once it has healed 
5. what is  tissue  
6. should cream be applied to it regularly 
7. is it better to keep it exposed and let air at it 

please help any info no matter how small will be greatly .  . 

but please e mail me directly because i dont read this newsgroup often  ( this 
is my first time) .  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( renato ghica ) 
subject seek information 
originator 
organization 
lines 11 



has any one heard of a called made by , 
i believe. any info as to side effects or equivalent 

thanks .  .  .  .  . 


this will just take a minute. 
i'm 90 done. 
it worked on my machine .  . 

from  ( beverly m. zalan ) 
subject re frequent 
reply to  ( beverly m. zalan ) 
organization 
lines 24 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

in article , 
 ( robert allison ) writes 



i have between 15 and 25 each week , as a result of a genetic 
predisposition to weak walls  ( osler  . 
fortunately , each is of short duration .  . 

does anyone know of any method to reduce this my 
brothers each tried a transplant  ( thigh to nose lining ) , but their 
soon returned .  . i 've seen a reference to an called 
that is supposed to help , and i 'd like to hear of experiences with it , 
or other techniques .  . 



my 6 year son is so  . lots of up his nose each night seems 
to keep it under control. but let him get there , and he 'll for 
days ! also , , air all seem to contribute .  . but again , the 
, or a d , or all seem to keep them from  . 




from  ( melissa n .  . matusevich ) 
subject re question 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( radford ) 
lines 13 

thanks for all your assistance .  . i 'll see if he can try a 
different brand of , although he 's tried two brands 
already. are there more than two 






after a time you may find that having is not so a thing 
after all as wanting .  . it is not logical , but it is often true. 

to 

from  ( sharon paulson ) 
subject re food related 
organization nasa research center , va , usa 
lines 52 

nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
in reply to 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 18 43 05 gmt 

in article  ( steve dyer ) writes 

newsgroups sci . 
path news . nasa . gov . ! primate . edu . ! zaphod . mps . ohio . state . edu . ! edu . ! cs . utexas . edu . ! uunet ! think . com . ! ! ! 
from  ( steve dyer ) 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
references 
date sat , 17 apr 1993 18 43 05 gmt 
lines 18 

in article  ( mark robert thorson ) writes 
i remember hearing a few years back about a new for 
which involved artificial and 
from the diet .  . the theory which was backed up by interesting 
results is that certain people are just way more sensitive to these 
than other people. i do n't remember any connection being made 
with , but it certainly could n't hurt to try an all natural diet .  . 

yeah , the diet is a load of crap. children with add 
who are placed on this diet show no improvement in their intellectual and 
social , which in fact continue to decline .  . of course , the parents 
who are enthusiastic about this approach it up at the expense of their 
children 's development .  . so much for the value of interesting 
results . people will believe anything if they want to. 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 


thanks for all the interest in this problem of mine. i do n't think it 
is a reaction to sugar or junk food per since has never shown 
any signs of or changes in behavior in response to food. 
she has always been very calm and dare i say , a neat , smart kid .  . 

the fact that this happened while eating two sugar made 
by 's makes me think she might be having an allergic reaction to 
something in the or the  . of the four of us in our 
immediate family , shows the least signs of the hay , running 
nose , eyes , etc. but we have a lot of in our family history 
including some food nuts , mushrooms .  . 

anyway , our next trip is to an to check out the body 
chemistry .  . but so far , no more sugar and no more 
either. every day that goes by without one makes me a sigh of 
relief .  . thanks again. 



nasa research center 
 . , work  ( 804 ) 
, virginia .  . home  ( 804 ) 

from  ( david rind ) 
subject re 
organization israel hospital , medical school , boston mass .  . , usa 
lines 26 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 
 ( alexis perry ) writes 
in article tech . edu . 
tech . edu . writes 

doctors said that he could die from it , and the caused 

is it that serious my often comes back with a few 
beats .  . another question is a low blood level very bad my 
doctor seems concerned , but she tends to worry too much in general. 

the term is usually used to encompass a wide range of abnormal 
heart  ( cardiac  . some of them are very serious 
while others are completely benign .  . having a few beats 
on an could be serious depending on what those beats were and 
when they occurred , or could be of no significance .  . 

low blood levels probably people with underlying 
heart disease to develop  . very low levels are 
clearly dangerous , but it is not clear how much of a problem 
low end of normal levels are a lot of seem to treat 
anyone with even a mildly low normal level. 


david 


from  ( david nye ) 
subject re ca n't 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 15 

reply to  ( ron roth ) 

while you 're right that the s are attached to each other , 
the , to my knowledge , can be either directly , or 
by applying pressure on the bone .  .  .  . 

ron , you 're an endless source of misinformation ! there are no 
 . there is a bone called the at the end of the  . 
it is a single , solid bone except in a few who have a 
as a normal variant .  . how do you a solid bone , 
break it no , do n't tell me , i do n't want to know. 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( michael holloway ) 
subject re and fact 
organization st. hospital , , oh 
lines 32 
reply to  ( michael holloway ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( doug bank ) says 

in article , 
are healthy people who have died suddenly , usually 
through accident or head injury .  . they are brain dead. the 
are kept alive through means. 

ok , so how do you define healthy people 

my wife cannot donate blood because she has been to a 
in the past three years. in fact , she tried to have her bone marrow 
typed and they would n't even do that ! why 

i ca n't donate blood either because not only have i been to a 
, but i have also been  ( and treated ) for 
 . the blood bank wont accept blood from me for 10 
years. 

obviously , it would n't be of much help to treat one problem by knowingly 
introducing another.  . my imperfect understanding of 
the facts are that is particularly dangerous in this regard .  . 
i have n't done the research on it , but i do n't recall ever hearing of a 
case of being by a blood  . probably just a 
common sense kind of arbitrary  . diseases like 
though are obviously another story. 



michael holloway 
e mail  ( mail to is forwarded ) 
phone  ( 516)444 ) 

from  ( daniel paul checkman ) 
subject re is 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 26 

 ( steve dyer ) writes 

in article  ( steve pope ) writes 
the mass of evidence , combined with the lack of 
a properly constructed scientific experiment disproving 
the hypothesis , makes the reaction hypothesis the 
most likely explanation for events. 

you forgot the face. 

i ca n't believe this is what they turn out at berkeley .  . tell me 
you 're an  . 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

hey , keep your fu flaming out of this group that goes for you , mr. 
, as well as several other nasty , people , regarding this 
subject. shoot , now i'm all up , too , and i was just going to ask if 
we can keep our discussion about a little more civil blasting a school 
or an idea through simple insults as demonstrated above is not necessary , 
and otherwise out of line. if you want to continue your insult war , take 
it elsewhere and stop wasting everyone else 's time. 
most sincerely , 
dan 

from  ( peter kaminski ) 
subject re need to find information about current trends in  . 
lines 63 
organization the information via netcom san jose , california 

in  ( steven w orr ) writes 

i looked for in my  . and came up with  . anyone have 
any good sources for where i can read 

check out the mailing list a knowledgable , helpful , friendly , 
bunch .  . send email to , with this line 
in the body 

subscribe your name here 

also , the vote for misc . health . , a newsgroup for general discussion 
of , is currently , and will close on 29 april .  . from the 
2nd , posted to news . announce . , news . groups . , and sci . , 
message 

to place a vote for the creation of misc . health . , send an 
email message to 

to place a vote against creation of misc . health . , send an 
email message to 

the contents of the message should contain the line i vote 
for against misc . health . as proposed . email messages sent to 
the above addresses must constitute unambiguous and 
votes for against newsgroup creation as proposed .  . conditional votes 
will not be accepted. only votes to the above addresses will 
be counted replies to this posting will be returned .  . in the 
event that more than one vote is placed by an individual , only the 
most recent vote will be counted .  . one additional will be posted 
during the course of the vote , along with an of those 
votes received to date. no information will be as to how 
people are voting until the final is made at the end , 
at which time the full vote will be made public. 

voting will continue until 23 59 gmt , 29 apr 93 .  . 
votes will not be accepted after this date. 

any administrative to this may be made by 
email to 

the proposed charter appears below. 



charter 

misc . health . 

1. the purpose of misc . health . is to provide a forum for the 
discussion of issues to , i.e. diet , 
activities , medicine , blood control , exercise , 
medical , etc. this group addresses the issues of 
of both type i  ( insulin dependent ) and type ii  ( non 
dependent )  . both technical discussions and general support 
discussions relevant to are welcome. 

2. postings to misc . are intended to be for discussion 
purposes only , and are in no way to be construed as medical advice. 
is a serious medical condition requiring direct 
by a primary health care  . 

 ( end of charter ) 

from  ( larry silverberg ) 
subject re h e l p m e with some 
reply to 
organization university of , 
lines 17 

i can probably buy the 
tools and this solution somewhere but i t know how to do injection by 
myself 

you may also want to buy a  self  or something like that. 
my friend is  . you load the , put it in a plastic case 
and set a spring to automatically push the into the and 
the  . 



live from new york , it 's saturday night .  .  .  . 

's special 
lawrence from the state university of new york @ 
aka 


from  ( vinci ) 
subject re 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization european organization for nuclear research , 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( joseph francis ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( brian m. huey ) writes 
i think that 's the correct  .  . 

 . 

how about i believe the faq for sci . skeptics . (sp ) 
has a nice write up on this. they would certainly be most 
on helping you to build such a device and connect to a 
supply so that you can take a serious look at your ... ) 


european for particle physics 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re ( infantile ) 
keywords epilepsy 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 23 

in article  ( md ) writes 

if anyone knows of any or newsgroup or as i mentioned up above , 
any information to this disorder i would sure appreciate hearing 
from you. i am not trying to play doctor here , but only trying to gather 
information about it. as i know now , these particular types of disorders 
are still not really well understood by the medical community , and so i'm 
going to see now .  .  .  . if . somehow the internet can at least give me alittle 
insight .  . thanks. 


there is no for infantile , nor a newsgroup , that i 
know of. the medical library will be the best source of information 
for you. 






gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( neal howard ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization inc. , tx 
lines 20 

in article  ( charles l. creegan ) writes 

what about 's infamous of the idea of 
from a of snakes in the fire their is this 
specific enough to count certainly it turns up repeatedly in basic 
 . of sci .  . texts as an example of the component of 
 . 

i sometimes wonder if 's dream was n't just a bit by 
)  . 




 91 1200 ,  ( richardson , tx ) 

disclaimer my opinions are mine , not 's .  . 
let us learn to dream , , and then perhaps 
we shall learn the truth. august   ( 1890 ) 


from 
subject re and health risk 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 38 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 

in article 
 ( mark robert thorson ) writes 


i do n't understand the assumption that because something is found to 
be that it would not be legal in the u.s. . i think that 

no , there is something called the amendment which makes 
food illegal in any amount .  . this was passed by congress in the 
1950 's , before stuff like mass became available , which increased 
detectable levels of by a couple orders of magnitude .  . 

this is why things like and red 2 were banned. they are very 
in huge in rats , so under the act they are 
banned. 

this also applies to natural  . some of you might remember a 
time back in the 's when root beer suddenly stopped so good , 
and never tasted so good again. that was the time when was banned. 
this is the active in leaves .  . 

if it were possible to market a root beer good like the old days , someone 
would do it , in order to make money. the fact that no one does it indicates 
that enforcement is still in effect. 

an odd exception to the rule seems to be the product known as file  . 
this is nothing more than ground dried leaves .  . this 
is not only a natural product , but a natural product still in its natural 
form , so maybe that 's how they  . or maybe a special 
was made , to powerful louisiana  . 

i think what we have to keep in mind is that even though it may be illegal to 
produce sell food with , it is not illegal 
for people to do such to their own food  ( smoking ,  . is this true 





from  ( philippe lebrun ) 
subject re and laser treatment 
distribution 
organization 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( robert allison ) writes 

my family doctor and the  ( pt ) she sent me to agree that the 
pain in my left shoulder is  . i have an with an 
(i love that , it 's short for  surgeon , apparently ) but while i'm 
waiting the is treating me. 

she 's using hot , , and lasers , but there 's no improvement 
yet. in fact , i almost suspect it 's getting worse. 

my real question is about the laser treatment .  . i ca n't easily imagine what 
the physical effect that could have on a deep tissue problem. can anyone 
shed some light  ( so to speak ) on the matter 

if it works it 's only due to the produced by the laser .  . 




from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 16 

in article  ( chuck wa7kgx ) writes 

sometime in the future diet may get off their our 
diet will work if only the would obey it mode and do 
useful research to allow prediction of which types of diet might 
be useful to a given individual .  . 


diet . good term .  . fits atkins to a t . 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from 
subject pill 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host ibm . com . 
organization watson research center 
lines 9 

a very simple question it seems to me that the 
pill just prevents the to nest in the and forces it to 
fall every month .  . but it does not prevent the of the 
 . is it true if yes , is there a risk of extra 
pregnancy , that is the development of the inside the 


j . 


from  ( ron roth ) 
subject 
x by usenet gateway 
organization rose media , , ontario .  . 
lines 31 

 ( anthony anello ) writes 

 ( a can anyone tell me if a of 40 when as is 
 ( a dangerous , i.e. indicates a possible problem one dr. says no , the 
 ( a other  ( not his specialty ) says the first is and that another blood 
 ( a test should be done. also , what is a good diet  ( what has worked ) for a 
 ( a  . 
 ( a 
 ( a 
 ( a anthony 
 ( a 
 ( a , illinois 

once you have your confirmed through the proper 
, you might consider following 

1 ) 25 day. 
2 ) 400 day. 
3) increase protein through or supplements .  . 
4 ) avoid supplements high in , ,  . 
5 ) avoid c supplements in excess of  . 
6 ) avoid honey and high in simple  . 
7 ) enjoy , ,  .  .  . 

discuss the above with your health for 
with your body chemistry and safety .  . 

ron 

2 . 00 . beer it 's not just for anymore. 
2 . 10 . usenet rose media  ( 416 ) 

from  ( stephen d brener ) 
subject japanese at pitt 
keywords san francisco 
distribution usa 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 

in article c . writes 

i was kind of half watching street stories last night 
and one of the was about this doctor in 
s . f .  . who provides a service of investigating treatment 
for various diseases .  . i'm pretty sure his name is 
dr. mark (sp ) or close to that. 
did anyone else watch this i 'd like to get his 
correct name and address phone number if possible. 
thanks. 


japanese at the university of pittsburgh this summer 



the university of pittsburgh is offering two japanese language 
this summer .  . both , elementary japanese and 
japanese , are ten week , ten credit 
each equivalent to one full year of japanese language study .  . they begin 
june 7 and end august 13 .  . the meet five days per week , five hours 
per day. there is a flat rate charge of per course. 
available for science and engineering students .  . contact 
, program of the japanese science and technology 
program , at the university of pittsburgh at the number or 
address below. 
all interested individuals are encouraged to apply , this is not limited to 
university students .  . 






new program announcement 



japanese science and technology program 

the japanese science and technology program  ( jstmp ) is a new 
program developed by the university of and carnegie mellon 
university .  . students and in the engineering and scientific 
are encouraged to apply for classes in june 1993 and 
1994. 


program objectives 
the program intends to promote technology between japan and the 
united states. it is also designed to let scientists , , and 
experience how the japanese proceed with development .  . this is 
by extended in japanese research facilities and 
laboratories that provide participants with the opportunity to develop 
long term relationships with their japanese  . 


program design 
to fulfill the objectives of the program , participants will be required to 
develop advanced language capability and a deep understanding of japan and 
its culture .  . , consists of three major components 

1. training in the japanese language 
several japanese language will be offered , including 
designed to language for scientists and in a 
relatively short time. 

2. education in japanese business and social culture 
a particular is placed on a deep understanding of the 
cultural and basis of japanese approaches in 
manufacturing and information technology. will be available in a 
variety of throughout both universities including , 
, history , and political science. moreover , and 
will be conducted .  . further , a field trip to japanese manufacturing or 
research facilities in the united states will be scheduled .  . 


3. an or a study mission in japan 
upon completion of their language and cultural training at pitt and cmu , 
participants will have the opportunity to go to japan and observe , 
and participate in the of technology. in japan 
will generally run for one year however , ones are possible. 


covering for language and culture , as well as 
for living are available. 

for more information and application materials contact 

brown 
carnegie mellon university , 
university of pittsburgh pittsburgh , pa 
telephone  ( 412 ) 
pittsburgh , pa fax  ( 412 ) 
telephone  ( 412 ) 
fax  ( 412 ) 





interested individuals , and should respond by phone or 
mail .  . please do not via e mail .  . 
please note that this is directed at and , however , advanced 
will be considered .  . further , funding is to us citizens 
and permanent residents of the us. 

steve 






from  ( gavin anderson ) 
subject help looking for a medical journal article pain 
lines 37 
organization life australia 
x newsreader  ( dos ) v1 . 0 . 
lines 24 

hi , 
i am not sure where to post this message , please contact me if i'm way off 
the mark. 
on 19 . 3 . 93 . my wife went to her general  . he mentioned 
an article from a medical journal that is of great interest to us. he had 
read it in the previous three months but has been unable to find it again. 
the article was about injury pain. it mentions the use of 
a  ( magnetic imagery ) machine as a tool and the work 
of a who pain. 
this article is most likely in an australian medical journal .  . i very much 
want to obtain the name of the article , journal and author because the case 
my wife .  . we would very much appreciate anyone 's help in this matter 
via email  . 

email 
programmer .  . phone 61 3 
life  .  ( acn 004021809 ) fax 61 3 
some people never discover their 


email 
programmer .  . phone 61 3 
life  .  ( acn 004021809 ) fax 61 3 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re new multiple drug 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 13 

in article  ( alan magid ) writes 
disclaimer i speak only for myself. 


so just what was it you wanted to say 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


subject star sp info wanted 
from  ( ken mcvay ) 
organization the old 's 
lines 11 

a friend 's daughter has been with an eye disease called star 
 ( or something close ) it is apparently genetic , according to her , 
and every fourth generation .  . 

she would appreciate any information about this condition. if anything is 
available via ftp , please point me in the right direction .  .  . 

the old 's a to that old f , 
 ( 604 )  ( v32 )  ( 604 )  ( 2400x4 ) 2 . 3 . 2 . 
, british , canada .  . serving central vancouver island 
with public access usenet and internet mail home to the 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re and exercise 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 20 

in article  ( richard silver ) writes 

i have two questions. is there any obvious connection between the 
appearance and the was i foolish to play through 
the  ( aside from the affecting my play ) 
i just prefer to ignore it when possible. 


the is due to , part of a attack .  . 
some people event get and  . as long as you are careful 
you can see well enough to avoid getting hit in the face or eye by 
the ball , will not hurt your health .  . 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


subject good book 
from  ( ruth ginzberg ) 
distribution world 
organization philosophy dept. , wesleyan university 
nntp posting host wesleyan . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1 . 48 
lines 48 

having been gone for 10 days , i'm way behind on my news reading , so many 
if i am repeating something that has been said already. 

i read a good book while i was away , the paradox how miracle drugs 
are destroying the miracle , stuart b. , m . d .  . , 1992 , press , 
isbn 0 7. 

it is about drug the history of  . it 
is interesting written at a level which i think many sci . readers would 
appreciate which is it assumes an intelligent reader who is capable of 
understanding scientific concepts , but who may not yet have been exposed to 
this particular information. i.e. , it assumes you are smart enough to 
understand it , but it does not assume that you already have a degree in 
or medicine .  . table of contents 

chapter 1 
from the age is born 
chapter 2 
the disease and the the world of bacteria and 

chapter 3 
on medicine and self the seeds of 
misuse 
chapter 4 
resistance adaptation and evolution 
chapter 5 
the myth 
chapter 6 
, animals and the resistance gene pool 
chapter 7 
further use in , 
, , and minor animal species 
chapter 8 
future new advances against potential disaster 
chapter 9 
the individual and resistance 
chapter 10 
resistance a societal issue at local , national , and 
international levels .  . 

includes bibliography and index .  . 

i personally found that it made very good reading. 



ruth 
philosophy department wesleyan university usa 

subject acne 
from  ( pat churchill ) 
organization 
lines 26 


my 14 y o son has the usual and nose .  . i 
bought him face and  . i think that is probably 
enough , along with the usual good diet .  . however , he is on at me to 
get some product called t , which used to be a 
doctor 's prescription only treatment but is not available over the 
's counter .  . i have asked a couple of who say 
either his acne is not severe enough for t , or that 
is ok. i had the odd as a , nothing serious. his 
father was the same , so i do n't figure his acne is going to escalate 
into something  . but i know kids are about 
their appearance. i am wary because a 's son had this 
that was eventually put down to an of vitamin a from 
acne treatment .  . i want to help but with appropriate treatment .  . 

my son also has some around the on his  . sort 
of cap .  . any advice on this we have tried a 
couple of anti and some of these are inclined to 
make the condition worse , not better. 

shall i bury the kid till he 's 21 ) 



the floggings will continue until 
, new 

from  ( robert allison ) 
subject frequent 
reply to  ( robert allison ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 18 


i have between 15 and 25 each week , as a result of a genetic 
predisposition to weak walls  ( osler  . fortunately , 
each is of short duration .  . 

does anyone know of any method to reduce this my brothers 
each tried a transplant  ( thigh to nose lining ) , but their 
soon returned .  . i 've seen a reference to an called that is 
supposed to help , and i 'd like to hear of experiences with it , or other 
techniques .  . 

robert 
ottawa , ontario canada 

from  ( gary merrill ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
originator 
nntp posting host sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 43 


in article ,  ( mark fulk ) writes 

2 ) science has not historically progressed in any sort of rational 
experiment data theory sequence .  . most experiments are carried out , and 
interpreted , in pre existing  . the 
of the day determine which experiments get done. overall , 
there is a huge affair of personal , crazy motivations , 
petty , and the like that determines which experiments , and which 
, get done. what keeps it going forward is the critical 
function of science results do n't count unless they can be  . 

the whole system is a sort of mechanism for generate and test. the generate 
part can be totally irrational , as long as the test part works properly. 

i think we agree on much. however the above seem to repeat 
uncritically the standard view of progress and 
rationality in science. since i 've addressed these issues in this 
newsgroup in the not too distant past , i wo n't go into them again now. 

what is wrong with the above observation is that it explicitly gives the 
impression  ( and you may not in fact hold this view ) that the common  ( perhaps 
even the correct ) approach for a scientist to follow is to sit around 
having of fancy and on the basis of his and 
petty  . it further at least implicitly advances the position that 
sciences goes forward  ( and it is not clear what this means given the 
context in which it occurs ) by in a completely non rational 
and even random way a of and theories that are then 
out via the critical function of science.  ( though why this critical 
function should be less subject to the non rational forces is a mystery .  . 
if experimental design , creation , and theory construction are 
subject to and petty , then this must be equally true 
of the application of any critical function concerning replication .  . 
this is what leads one  ( ala feyerabend ) to an anything goes view . ) . 

true , the generation part can be totally irrational .  . but typically it is 
not . concerning instances where a hypothesis seems to have 
resulted in some way from a dream or from one 's political views simply 
do not generalize well to the actual history of science. 

h. principal systems , c development 
sas institute inc. sas campus dr. , nc  ( 919 ) 
... ! ! sas ! 

from  ( david nye ) 
subject re , and 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 37 

reply to  ( daniel prince 

there is a person on the fido who claims that he was cured of 
by taking  . he also claims that you are using it in the 
treatment of  . are you using in the 
treatment of 

yes. 

have you used it for 

it seems to work equally well for , another hint that these may be 
different of the same underlying process. 

have you gotten good results with it 

yes. the benefit is usually evident within a few days of starting it. 
most of the for whom it has worked well continued low 
, daily , and a regular sleep 
 ( current standard  . because of the cost  ( usually 150  . , 
depending on dose ) and potential for significant side effects like 
injury and birth , i currently reserve it for those who 
fail conventional treatment .  . it is important that the person 
it have some experience with it and follow the patient 
closely .  . 

are you aware of any double blind studies on the use of in 
these conditions thank you in advance for all replies .  . 

as far as i know , i am the only person looking at it currently .  . i 
should get off my and finish writing up some case reports .  . i'm not 
an academic , so i do n't feel the pressure to publish or 
and i do n't have the time during the work day for such things. 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from edu . !  ( stephen holland ) 
subject re intolerance 
organization univ of 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( ho 
ng ) wrote 


when i was a kid in primary school , i used to drink tons of milk without 
any problems. however , nowadays , i can hardly drink any at all without 
experiencing some  . what could be responsible for the change 

ho 


you became older and your to the state. that 
is , tolerance is an unusual state for adults of most 
except for h. of northern european origin .  . as a h. of 
descent  ( assumption based on name) the loss of is normal 
for you. 

steve holland 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 15 

probably within 50 years , a new type of will be possible. 
maybe even sooner .  . we are now mapping the human  . we will 
then start to work on of that  . using genetic 
engineering , we will be able to insert whatever genes we want. 
no breeding , no , etc. the ethical question is , should 
we do this should we make a race of disease free , long lived , 
arnold , even if we can. 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


subject re ca n't update 
from  ( ruth ginzberg ) 
distribution world 
organization philosophy dept. , wesleyan university 
nntp posting host wesleyan . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1 . 20in . reply to 's message of 5 apr 93 19 06 39 17 
lines 17 

thanks to all those who responded to my original post on this question. the 
final was  . i did not take her for a  . 
 ( rachel all her medical care at army hospital since she is a 
military , and the army does not yet provide 
as part of its regular health care . ) . i am that the of (1) 
spring break , and (2) college acceptance letters , will help. unfortunately 
she was wait listed at the college she most wanted to , so it 
seems as though that may just continue for a while. ( 

she is going on a trip with her religious youth group for 
spring break , which seems like a good to me. 

thanks again for everybody 's help advice suggestions ideas. 


ruth 
philosophy department wesleyan university usa 

from edu . !  ( stephen holland ) 
subject re  .  . what . are the significant long term side effects 
organization univ of 
lines 30 

i have been taking twice a day for a while to control 
 . it seems like if i reduce the , the problem 
becomes worse. at this point , i see myself taking for a long 
long time , perhaps for ever. i was wondering about long term major side 
effects , things like potential birth , arthritis etc. i have been 
putting on weight , my face looks and round , experience sudden mood 
 . as i understand , these are all short term .  . 

i second what said in reply. , it is hard to say 
what type of response you having to since you did not say 
how long you have been on it. are generally kept on for 
months before thinking about  . alternatives to daily are 
every other day , in your case every other day would be a start. 
another option if it is not possible to get you off is to start 
 . like said , you should generally be on another drug 
in addition to your , like  . a lot of the 
about options , though , depends on , , and duration of 
disease , as well as , so take advice off the net for what it 
is worth .  . 

i treat with and 's .  . an patient is a good 
patient , but let your doctor know where the advice came from so things 
can be put in context. you should also be a member of the 's and 
foundation of america .  . 1 office 1 
info  . 

best of luck to you. 

steve holland .  . 


from  ( john eyles ) 
subject diet for 's  ( ibd ) 
organization the university of north at hill 
lines 16 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 


a friend has what is apparently a fairly minor case of 's 
disease. 

but she ca n't seem to eat certain , such as , 
without , and of course she wants to avoid a  . 

her question is are there any who in the 
problems of people with 's disease 

(i saw the suggestion of like tea and  . 

thanks in advance , 
john 



from  ( kathleen richards ) 
subject re 
reply to 
lines 12 
nntp posting host 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

jeff , 

if you have time to type it in i 'd love to have the reference for that 
paper ! thanks ! 



email 

sometimes you 're the , sometimes you 're the bug ! 



from  ( sheryl coppenger ) 
subject re , et .  . al. side effects 
organization george washington university 
lines 28 

in article  ( steve dyer ) writes 
in article writes 
can someone tell me whether or not any of the following 
has been linked to excessive weight gain and or a 
sense of taste or smell (a to 
prevent asthma )  . 

 ( astemizole ) is most definitely linked to weight gain .  . 
it really is peculiar that some have this effect , 
and even more so an like which purportedly 
does n't cross the blood brain and so tends not to cause 
 . 


so can cause weight gain .  . now they tell me. ) 
is there any way to find out which do which do n't my doctor 
obviously is at the wheel .  . 

the original poster mentioned  . i had that too , but it was 
mostly due to the really bizarre dreams i was having i was n't getting 
any rest. my doctor said that was a common reaction. if 
does n't cross the blood brain , how does it cause that side 
effect any ideas 



seas computing 
the george washington university  ( 202 ) 

from  ( tammy vandenboom ) 
subject sore on 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization university of north extended board service 
distribution na 
lines 17 

my husband up three days ago with a small sore 
(a about the size of a nickel ) on one of his  . bottom side , 
no or , just a little sore  . he says it reminds him of 
how a bruise  . he has no recollection of hitting it or anything like 
that that would cause a bruise .  .  ( he me he 'd remember something 
like that ) 

any clues as to what it might be he 's somewhat of a (sp ) 
so he 's sure he 's gonna die. . . 

thanks ! ! 


the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of 
north at hill , the campus office for information 
technology , or the experimental board service .  . 
internet unc . edu . or 2 . 22 . 80 . 

from  ( daniel prince ) 
subject re can men get 
lines 13 

to  ( lost boy ) 

i know from personal experience that men can get  . i 
get rather nasty ones from time to time , mostly in the area of the 
and the base of the penis .  . 

i used to have problems with 's foot until i 
started between my toes with my blow after each time 
i  . i also my area while i am at it to prevent 
problems. you might want to try it. 

... my cat types with his tail .  . 
origin one world los 310 372  ( 1 102 129 . 

from  ( mark feblowitz ) 
subject re is 

reply to 
organization laboratories inc. 
lines 17 
in reply to 's message of 14 apr 93 21 03 56 gmt 

in article  ( steve pope ) writes 

it 's worse than that there is no such thing as 
a double blind study on the effects of , by 
virtue of the fact that changes the taste of food in 
a characteristic way that is detectable by the subject and 
that cannot be by a  . 

common ! you can easily to flavor of by putting it in a 
 . then , the study becomes a double blind of 
against control  ( containing exactly the same contents 
the  . 


mark , laboratories inc. , 40  . , ma 
,  ( 617 ) , fax  ( 617 ) 


from  ( dick king ) 
subject how to a doctor 
nntp posting host drums . reasoning . com . 
organization reasoning systems , inc. , , ca 
lines 11 


my company encourages , and at my age 42 i'm 
thinking that , at least , might be a good idea. therefore , 
i'm shopping for a  . might as well get a good one. 

could the assembled net wisdom suggest things i should look for , or point me to 
the faq archive if on this topic if there is one 

please email i suspect that this topic is real net clutter  . 

dk 

from  ( jon noring ) 
subject re is 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 45 

in article  ( daniel paul checkman ) writes 
com .  ( bruce reynolds ) writes 

evidence is worthless .  . even doctors who have been using a drug 
or treatment for years , and who swear it is effective , are often suprised 
at the results of trials .  . whether or not causes , 
, symptoms should be pretty simple to discover .  . 

but it is quite a leap in logic to observe one situation where 
evidence led nowhere and therefore conclude that evidence will 
never lead anywhere. i'm sure somebody here can provide an example where 
evidence  ( and the interpretation of it) was upheld verified by 
follow on rigorous trials .  . 


i tend to disagree i think evidence , provided there is a lot of it , 
and it is fairly consistent , will is very important. first , it points to the 
necessity of doing a study , and second , it at least says that the effects are 
all psychological  ( or possibly in this  . as i 've pointed out 
person 's make believe can easily be another person 's reality .  .  .  . 

good point. there has been a tendency by some on this newsgroup to circle 
the to the viewpoint that medical evidence is worthless 
 ( maybe to counter the claims of those who are presenting evidence 
to support subjects , such as the hypothesis ) .  . but 
evidence is evidence it requires a jury or a process to sort it out and 
determine the truth from the junk .  . medicine must continue to to better 
understand the workings of the body mind for the purpose of 
evidence is just one piece of the puzzle it is not 
worthless .  . rather , it can help focus limited resources in the right direction .  . 

jon 



charter member club. 

if you 're dying to know what means , be , e mail me , i 'll send info .  . 

jon 
international 100 . 100 . fred s 
place phone  ( 510 ) world 's best ! 
, ca v mail  ( 510 ) 

who are you read alt . psychology . ! that 's where the action is. 

subject disease 
from  ( ken mcvay ) 
organization the old 's 
keywords 
lines 12 

thanks to , i now know a bit more about 's 
disease , aka juvenile , but i would like to learn more. 

first , what is the general is the result 
second , what , if any , are available 



the old 's a to that old f , 
 ( 604 )  ( v32 )  ( 604 )  ( 2400x4 ) 2 . 3 . 2 . 
, british , canada .  . serving central vancouver island 
with public access usenet and internet mail home to the 

from  ( gary merrill ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
originator 
nntp posting host sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 15 


in article ,  ( tom b. carey ) writes 
ok , just for 
a structure for the 
after from a dream in which a snake was his tail .  . 
the principle of while in 
his  . 

well , certainly in case the description while observing the 
phenomena in his seems more accurate than while in 
his it was , after all , a rather intense environment. 

h. principal systems , c development 
sas institute inc. sas campus dr. , nc  ( 919 ) 
... ! ! sas ! 

from  ( chris best ) 
subject re is 
organization your service 
lines 20 
nntp posting host com . 


jason writes 
now here is a new one  . my guess is that becomes the number one 
suspect of any problem. in this case. it might be just food poisoning .  . but 
if you heard things about , you may think it must be it. 



yeah , it might , if you only read the part you quoted .  . you somehow left 
out the part about we all the same thing. changes things a bit , eh 

you complain that people blame automatically , since it 's an unknown and 
therefore must be the cause. it is equally  ( if not more ) unreasonable to 
defend it , automatically assuming that it can t be the culprit .  . 

pepper makes me  . if it does n't affect you the same way , fine. 
just do n't tell me i'm wrong for saying so. 

these people are n't condemning chinese food , mr. just one of its 
 ( optional )  . try not to take it so personally. 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re what are the problems with  ( aspartame ) 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
lines 11 

is a disease in which the body cannot process  . 
it can build up in the blood and cause and damage. 
an odd side effect is that the can be deeply , like red wine .  . 
people with the condition must avoid , , and anything 
else rich in  . 

is accused of having caused various vague symptoms .  . 
robertson 's program the 700 club was beating the against 
rather for about a year , but that issue seems to 
have been pushed to the back for the last year or so. apparently , 
the evidence is not very strong , or would still be away. 

from  ( david stockton ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host com . 
organization ltd , south , scotland 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 8 . 
lines 23 

wrote 



how about i believe the faq for sci . skeptics . (sp ) 
has a nice write up on this. they would certainly be most 
on helping you to build such a device and connect to a 
supply so that you can take a serious look at your ... ) 


european for particle physics 



this has to be the only , generally accepted , method of using common 
physics lab equipment to find certain answers to all the questions about 
, heavens , , , gods etc. 
will probably be ignored as insignificant compared to these larger 
eternal  . publishing your results could be a bit of a problem , 
though. 

cheers 
david 

from  ( lisa megna ) 
subject 
organization university of , amherst 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 

, 

i am writing a grant proposal for a genetics class and i 
have chose to look at the 1 gene and its 
 . i am curious what has already been done on this subject , 
especially the relationship between specific mutations and the resulting 
 . my literature search has produce many references , but i want to 
make sure i am proposing new research .  . if anyone knows that has been 
recently or key doing research to search for using , i would 
being informed .  . 

thank you. 




from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re great post !  ( was re  ( yeast )  .  . ) .  ( very long) 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 50 

in article  ( jon noring ) writes 

hate to your elaborate theory , but steve is not an md .  . 
so over doctors who help their with 
, etc. , ca n't very well come into the picture .  . steve 
does n't have any  . 



response to , and i showed a strong positive .  . 
another question , would everybody show the same strong positive so this test 
is essentially useless and , assuming it is true that can grow 

yes , everyone who is normal does that. we use on the other 
when we put a test on. if people do n't react to , 
we assume the test was not conclusive since such people may not 
react to anything. all normal people have antibodies to  . 
if not , you would quickly turn into a ball .  . 

this brings up an interesting observation used by those who will deny 
and reject any and all aspects of the  hypothesis  until the 
appropriate studies are done. and that is if you ca n't observe or culture 
the in the gut or , then there 's no way to or 
even recognize the disease. and i know they realize that it is virtually 
impossible to test for in any part of the body that cannot 
be easily observed since is everywhere in the body. 

it 's a real 22 .  . 


you 've just discovered one of the requirements for a good theory. 
find something that no one can disprove and then write a book saying 
it is the cause of whatever. since no one can disprove it , you can 
in the for quite some time. 

 .  .  . i . have often wondered what an m . d .  . with 
or problems would do about the problem that he tells his 
is a non existent  . 


that is odd , is n't it why do you suppose it is that with these 
common problems do n't go for these crazy ideas does the 
extend to suffering in silence , even though they know they 
could be cured if they just followed this book 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( robert g. ruegg ) 
subject re 
summary 
keywords gene pool wisdom virtue 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization unc school of medicine 
lines 7 

thanks to of ma for letting me know that my 
reference in prior post to and 1984 should probably have been to 
huxley and new world. 

sorry , al. 

bob 

from  ( pat churchill ) 
subject re eye dominance 
organization 
lines 21 


in article  ( richard silver ) writes 

is there a right eye dominance  ( eyedness ) as there is an 
overall right in the population i mean do most 
people require less corrections for the one eye than the 
other if so , what kinds of can be attached to this 

i have a long eye and a short eye. my right eye tends 
to cut out when i look at distant things , my left eye when i am close 
up. i had to things up a bit but could do without them. 
i thought that , one way or another , i would always be able to see 
clearly .  . unfortunately middle age is its head and i can 
no longer see close up objects clearly .  . maybe it 's just that my 
are getting ) 



the floggings will continue until 
, new 


from  ( phil de haan ) 
subject re and 
keywords , , 
nntp posting host 
organization college 
distribution na 
lines 18 

in article  ( george b. clark ) writes 
you can also the inside of your nose with using a 
q  . is an that can be bought as an 
in a  . the doctor i listen to on the radio says to apply 
it for 30 days , while you are taking other by mouth. 

i have a new doctor who gave me a prescription today for something called 
 . he said it may cause problems and i have a sensitive stomach 
to begin with. anybody ever taken this  . any good suggestions 
for avoiding an upset stomach other 


de  ( dod 0578 ) why yes. that is my  . 

that 's the nature of being an in america .  . you have to rely on 
other people to do something you used to do yourself. , 
director , major league baseball association .  . 


from  ( david nye ) 
subject re ob 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 13 

reply to  ( gordon banks ) 

i believe it is illegal for a to discriminate against  . 

is that true i know some that wo n't even  . 

i think a case could be made that this is discriminatory , particularly 
if an had good board scores and but was n't 
offered an , but i do n't know if it has ever gone to court. 

david nye clinic , eau claire wi 
this is patently absurd but whoever wishes to become a philosopher 
must learn not to be frightened by absurdities .  . bertrand russell 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re food related 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 21 

in article  ( david ozonoff ) writes 

many of these are based .  . after your post i looked in the 
literature and two articles that  ( contains 
tryptophan ) and  . the idea is that in the diet might 
an already existing or latent disorder , not cause it. 
check to see if the two are based .  . i 'd be interested .  . 

years ago when i was an , an young woman was brought into 
the er after having been reported to have grand 
why a . we her stomach and obtained 
what seemed like a couple of of , much of it  . 
after a few hours she up and was fine. i was tempted to sign her out as 
 . 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re food related 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 6 

i remember hearing a few years back about a new for 
which involved artificial and 
from the diet .  . the theory which was backed up by interesting 
results is that certain people are just way more sensitive to these 
than other people. i do n't remember any connection being made 
with , but it certainly could n't hurt to try an all natural diet .  . 

from 
subject re and health risk 
distribution world 
organization corporation , seattle , 
lines 19 

while in school , i remember a biochemistry friend of mine working with 
proteins . apparently , burning protein will changes in he 
dna .  . whether these changes survive the that occurs during 
i do n't know , but i never eat food because of this. 

also , many woods contain  . as they are , it would seem logical that 
some may , and get into the food. again , i do n't know if these 
 ( antifungal and anti compounds ) would survive the rather harsh 
conditions of the stomach and , and then would they be able to cross 
the 

maybe someone with more background than myself  ( which is almost 
anyone ...  ) can shed some light on proteins and the that 
may be in the wood used to make and  . 

anne 
e mail 
what i say has nothing to do with  . 


from  ( ella i baff ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

if anybody , doctors included , said to me to my face that there is no 
evidence of the  connection  , i cannot their safety .  . 
for their , off their is justified as far as 
i am concerned. 

this does n't sound like to me. 

john , , ca 


from state . edu .  ( john f nielsen ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 45 

in article  ( jon noring ) writes 
in article  ( steve dyer ) writes 
in article  ( jon noring ) writes 

good grief again. 

why the i must have really a raw  . 

let 's see i had symptoms that resisted all other  . 
totally them within one week. hmmm , i must be  . ! 
that 's it my was all in my mind. thanks steve for your correct 
you must have a lot of experience being out there in , 
treating hundreds of a week. thank you. i'm forever in your 
debt .  . 

jon 

 ( oops , gotta run , the men in white are ready to take me away , , 
to the happy home , where i can go my , , and 
about my ) . 

ever heard of something called the effect i think is 
because it looks to be yet another case of the same old 
over and over again. 

it true that current medical knowledge is limited , but do you realize 
just how many exist eager to your . it 's playing the 
at best. 

if the results you got were so clear and obvious , would you mind 
trying a little experiment to see if it is true it would be quite 
simple. have sugar and have real  . take one set for one 
week and the other set for another week without knowing which ones are 
the real  . then at the end of the 2 weeks compare the results. 
let 's say you 're wife would know which are the real ones. if what you 
are experiencing is true there should be a difference between 
each week. 

john 


john 
to you , the was just 
something that happened to other people , 
was n't it the black 

from  ( frank fujita ) 
subject re and the great nt war. 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 6 

also remember that most people map the 
division onto the 
and  ( like eysenck ) and that the does not 
deal with  ( costa  . 

frank 

from edu . !  ( stephen holland ) 
subject re diet for 's  ( ibd ) 
organization univ .  . of 
distribution usa 
lines 

summary of thread 
a person has , raw cause problems  ( unspecified ) 
steve holland replies patient may have mild  . avoid things 
that would plug her up. 's has no dietary in general. 

in article , 
(s .  . aden ) wrote 

interesting statements , simply because i have been told otherwise. i'm 
certainly not questioning steve 's claims , as for one i am not a doctor , and i 
agree that do n't bring on the of 's .  . but 
can be either mildly or drastically enhanced due to food. 

the feeling this has changed in the community. the current 
feeling 
is that is not by food. there is even evidence that 
deprived of food have due to lack of 
of 
growth factors .  . there is now interest in providing small 

of feeding to on  . but i digress .  . 
symptoms can be drastically enhanced by food , but not  . 

having had one major resulting in  ( is that a good enough 
) , i was told that a low diet is called for. basically , 
the idea is that if there is of the gut  ( which may not be 
realized by the patient ) , any in the system can be caught in the 
of and constantly , thus the problem. 
therefore , anything that does n't digest completely by the point of common 
should be avoided .  . with what i 've been told is typical 's , 
of the terminal , my diet should be low , consisting of 

completely out never again items 
o  ( kernel does n't digest ... most of us know this ) 
o popcorn  ( same ) 
o dried  ( dehydrated ) fruit and fruit 
o nuts  ( very tough when it comes to giving up some fudge ) 

the low diet is appropriate for you if you still have  . 
again , it is not felt that food causes  . these are 
avoided because they may get stuck .  . i 'd go ahead and have the 
fudge , though ) . 

discouraged greatly 
o raw  ( too fibrous ) 
o and raw grain 
o  ( iceberg is ok since it 's apparently mostly water ) 
o  ( turnip , , , etc .  .  . ) . 
o little seeds , like  ( try getting an 's without it ! ) 
o long grain and wild rice  ( husky ) 
o  ( you 'll generate enough gas alone without them ! ) 
o basically anything that requires heavy 

i was told that the more the food the better !  ( rather ironic in this 
day and  . the whole point is ... you want to give your 
system as little chance to as possible. i was told that among the 
numerous things that were discouraged (i only listed a few ) , to try 
the ones i wanted and see how i felt .  . if it 's bad , do n't do it again ! 
remember though that this was while i was in  . for the 
out of them. i prefer ... i think it 's more 
thoroughly you 're mileage may vary .  . 

as with anything else , check with your doctor .  . do n't just take my word. but 
this is the info i 've been given , and it may be a starting point for 
discussion. good luck ! 

makes an especially good point in having an and 
informed patient .  . would that many be able to tell what 
causes them problems. the idea is changing , but 
if a food causes problems , avoid them. be sure that the are 
tested a second time to be sure the food is a real cause. 's 
commonly causes symptoms and some end up with 
restricted diets that take months to  . 

there was a good article in the newsletter recently that discussed 
the issue of dietary of  . it would be worth reading 
to anyone with an interest in 's .  . 

and , as i always say when dealing with 's , as does , good luck ! 

steve holland 

from  ( elizabeth walkup ) 
subject re question 
organization computer science engineering , u. of washington , seattle 
distribution na 
lines 19 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
... the is one of the most common 
forms of  . it 's the one that sometimes 
schools or camp .  . it is and kills by attacking 
the covering of the brain , causing the blood to 
and the brain to up. 

... 

it can live in the throat of  . do n't worry , you wo n't get 
it from them , especially if they took the  . 

assuming one has been as having a throat with 
and given  ( and taken ) a course of 
without the culture becoming negative , should one worry about 
being a 




from  ( gary merrill ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
originator 
nntp posting host sas . com . 
organization sas institute inc. 
lines 45 


in article ,  ( mark fulk ) writes 

i'm not familiar with the history of this experiment , although , arguably , 
i should be. 

for a brief , but pretty detailed account , try 's philosophy of 
natural science . 

i think that it is enough if his contemporaries found the result surprising .  . 
that 's not what i 'd quibble about. what i 'd like to know are 's 
reasons for doing his experiment not the post hoc constructed reasons , 
but the thoughts in his head as he considered the problem. it may be 

this a bit of ideology the being that 's 
subsequent descriptions of his reasoning are not  . it gets dangerously 
close to an unfalsifiable view of the history and of science if 
we deny that no subsequent reports of are reliable descriptions 
of their real reasons. 

impossible to know much about 's thoughts that 's too bad if 
it is so. one of root 's services to science is that he has gone 
about in 's and 's  ( and other people 's ) notes , and has 
discovered some surprising clues about their motivations .  . never 
publicly admitted his plan to create image life , but the dreams are 
right there in his  ( finally public after many years ) , ready for 
anyone to read. and i and my friends often have the most ridiculous 
reasons for results one of my best came because i was mad at 
a for a poorly written claim (i disproved the claim) .  . 

of course , 's case may be an example of a where the 
fantasy not only motivates the experiment , but turns out to be right 
in the end. 

but my point is that this type of case is not a  . in fact , i was 
going to point to as yet another rather common example particularly 
the studies on spontaneous generation and  . i will readily 
concede that ridiculous reasons can play an important role in how 
scientists spend their time. but one should not confuse motivation with 
nor suppose that ridiculous reasons provide the in the 
majority of cases based on relatively evidence. 

h. principal systems , c development 
sas institute inc. sas campus dr. , nc  ( 919 ) 
... ! ! sas ! 

from  ( bill claussen ) 
subject re alt . 
organization division 
lines 35 
nntp posting host com . 

 .  . i . just posted this on alt . as a response to 
what the group is for .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


a note to the users of alt .  .  .  .  . 

this group was originally a from sci .  . the reason for 
the formation of this group was to discuss prescription 
drugs .  .  .  . such . as  ( antidepressents(tri , , , etc ) , 
 ( antipsychotics(melleral(sp ) , etc ) ,  ( drugs(anafranil , etc ) , and 
so on and so forth .  . it did n't take long for this group to 
into a alt . drugs . atmosphere .  . that 's to bad , for most of the 
serious folks that wanted to start this group in the first place have 
left and gone back to sci . , where you have to through 
hundreds of unrelated articles to find data .  . 

it was also to discuss real life experiences and side effects of 
the above mentioned. 

oh well , i had to this group for some time , and i decided 
to check it today to see if anything had changed .  .  .  . nope .  .  .  . same . old 
or ten crap articles that this group was never intended for. 

i think it is very hard to have a group without it 
being moderated .  .  . too . bad. 

oh well , obviously , no one really cares .  . 

bill 


would anyone be interested in starting a similar moderated group 

bill 


from  ( steve pope ) 
subject re is 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host zion . berkeley . edu . 

article writes 
now , if instead of using the as a food , you put the 
in or whatever , there may not 
be a reaction , the sensory response might be 
a necessary element in the creation of the reaction. (i 'll bet 
the bogus medical never even thought about 
that obvious fact . ) . 

gee .  . he means effect. sorry , but the do know about 
this. 

, it is not effect if as the 
sensory response to 's effect on flavor is responsible 
for the reaction. 

steve 

from  ( lee lady ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
summary gee , maybe i 've misjudged you. 
keywords science errors 
organization university of hawaii  ( mathematics dept ) 
expires mon , 10 may 1993 10 00 00 gmt 
lines 


in article  ( russell turpin ) writes 

i agree with everything that wrote in her previous post in 
this thread. 

gee ! maybe i 've misjudged you , russell .  . anyone who agrees with something 
i say ca n't be all bad. ) 

seriously , i'm not sure whether i misjudged you or not , in one respect. 
i still have a major problem , though , with your that science 
is mainly about avoiding mistakes .  . and i still disagree with your 
contention that nobody who does n't use methods deemed scientific 
can possibly know what 's true and what 's not. 

deleted material which i agree with. 

back to 

these are not the rules according to many who post to sci . and 
sci . psychology .  . according to these posters if it 's not supported by 
carefully designed controlled studies then it 's not science. 

these posters are making the mistake that i have previously 
criticized of adhering to a recipe .  . a carefully ... 
.... 
rules such as support the hypothesis by a carefully designed and 
controlled study are too narrow to apply to all investigation .  . 
i think that the requirements for particular reasoning to be 
convincing depends greatly on the kinds of mistakes that have 
occurred in past reasoning about the same kinds of things.  ( to 
the previous example , we know that conclusions from 
observations of the treatment of medical 
problems are notoriously ) . 

okay , so let 's see if we agree on this first of all , there are degrees 
of certainty .  . it might be appropriate , for instance , to demand carefully 
controlled trials before we accept as absolute scientific truth  ( to the 
extent that there is any such thing ) the of a certain 
treatment .  . on the other hand , highly experience , even 
if , can be adequate to justify a preliminary judgement that 
a treatment is useful. this is often the best evidence we can hope for 
from who do not have or support .  . 
in this case , it makes sense to treat claims as credible 
but to reserve final judgement until scientists who are 
qualified and have the necessary resources can do more careful  . 

secondly , it makes sense to be more tolerant in our standards of 
evidence for a effect than for one that is marginal .  . 


i come to this dispute about what science is not only as a 
but as a of many arguments in sci . psychology .  ( and 
in sci . about  ( neurolinguistic  . much 
of the work done to date by can be better categorized as 
informal exploration than as careful scientific research .  . for years 
now i have been trying to get scientific and psychologists to 
just take a look at it , to read a few of the books and watch some of 
the  ( courtesy of your local university  . not for 
the purpose of making a definitive judgement , but simply to look at the 
 ( especially the approach to information from 
subjects ) and look for ideas and which might be of 
scientific interest .  . and most especially to be aware of the 
questions suggests which might be worthy of scientific 
investigation .  . 

over and over again the response i get in sci . is if this 
has n't been thoroughly by the accepted form of empirical 
research then it ca n't be of any interest to us. 

to me , the ultimate ad of the extreme there 've got to 
be controlled studies position is an called the fast 
phobia trauma  . 

simple  ( as opposed to agoraphobia ) may not be the world 's most 
important psychological disorder , but the nice thing about them is that 
it does n't take a sophisticated instrument to them or tell 
when someone is cured of one. the phobia is a simple 
which requires less than 15 minutes.  ( nlpers claim that 
it can also be used to a memory , and hence is 
useful in treating post ) . it is essentially 
a on the classic process used by 
 . a subject only needs to be taken through the once 
 ( or , in the case of , once for each  . the 
process does n't need to be repeated and the subject does n't need to 
practice it over again at home. 

now to me , it seems pretty easy to test the of this  . 
 ( especially if , as claim , the success rate is extremely high . ) . 
take someone with a fear of heights  ( as i used to  . take them up 
to a on the 20th and observe their response. spend 15 
to have them do the simple  . send them back up to 
the and see if things have changed. check back with them in a 
few weeks to see if the seems to be lasting .  .  ( more long term 
follow up is certainly desirable , but from a scientific point of view 
even a that several weeks has significance .  . in any case , 
there are many known cases where the has lasted years. to the best 
of my knowledge , there is no known case where the has been reversed 
after holding for a few weeks . ) .  ( my own , , was done 
with a slightly different , before i learned of the fast 
phobia trauma  . ten years later now , i enjoy living on the 17th 
of my building and having a large ) . 

the folks over in sci . psychology . have a hundred and one excuses not to 
make this simple test. they claim that only an elaborate outcome study 
will be a study of the sort that , 
many of whom make a barely marginal living from their practice , can ill 
afford to do.  ( most of them are also just plain not interested , because 
the whole idea seems  . and since they 're not part of the 
scientific , they have no rewards to gain 
from scientific acceptance . ) . 

the fast phobia trauma is over ten years old now and the 
psychology is still saying we do n't have any way of 
knowing that it 's effective. 

these themselves have the resources to do a study as elaborate 
as anyone could want , of course , but they say why should i prove your 
theory and the burden of proof is on the one making the claim .  . 
one academic in sci . psychology . said that it would be completely 
unscientific for him to test the phobia since it has n't 
been described in a scientific journal .  .  ( it 's described in a number of 
books and i 've posted articles in sci . psychology . describing it in as much 
detail as i'm capable of . ) . 

actually , at least one fairly careful academic study has been done  ( with 
results ) , but it 's apparently not acceptable because it 's a 
and not published in a journal .  . 

to me , this sort of attitude does not advance science but it. 
this is the kind of thing i have in mind when i talk about 
attitudes about science. 

now maybe i have been unfair in such attitudes to you , russell .  . 
if so , i apologize .  . 


in the arguments between and , psychology seems 
less like a science than a collection of competing religious sects .  . 



from  ( chuck wa7kgx ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
organization technology , rain 
lines 29 

in article () writes 
in article  ( chuck wa7kgx ) writes 
in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 

can you provide a reference to substantiate that back 
the lost weight does not constitute weight until it 
the starting weight or is this oral tradition that 
is shared only among you obesity 

not one , but two 

obesity in europe 88 , 
of the 1st european congress on obesity 

of ny  . sci .  . 1987 

hmmm .  . these do n't look like references to me. is passive aggressive 
behavior associated with weight ) 

brian 

i left off the page numbers to encourage the reader to 
study the volumes mentioned , and benefit  . 


... ! tektronix ! reed ! ! 
author of , , , , and 
technology the high reliability software 
v is or 

from () 
subject mystery with 
reply to () 
organization materials research lab 
lines 13 



i attended high school in the san jose , california area in the early 's , 
and i remember a  ( smallish ) of a strange , in which 
people developed like on their bodies .  . this condition 
seemed to last only a few days , and i do n't recall anyone reporting any other 
symptoms .  . i seem to recall reading somewhere that this was believed to have 
been viral in nature , but i do n't know for sure. 

however , i have been curious since then about this. 

anyone have any ideas about what this might have been 


from  ( robert allison ) 
subject and laser treatment 
reply to  ( robert allison ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 20 


my family doctor and the  ( pt ) she sent me to agree that the 
pain in my left shoulder is  . i have an with an 
(i love that , it 's short for  surgeon , apparently ) but while i'm 
waiting the is treating me. 

she 's using hot , , and lasers , but there 's no improvement 
yet. in fact , i almost suspect it 's getting worse. 

my real question is about the laser treatment .  . i ca n't easily imagine what 
the physical effect that could have on a deep tissue problem. can anyone 
shed some light  ( so to speak ) on the matter 

robert 
ottawa , ontario canada 

from  ( james r. skinner ) 
subject re  ( request ) 
organization university 
lines 15 

 ( james r. skinner ) writes 


i have seen a couple of postings refering to an called  . i 
have been on for a number of years and recently switched to  . i 
have seen a bit of of to but none on to 
can some one me on the differences side effect etc .  .  .  . 

does anyone know 




james school of computer science university , , , canada 


from a . 
subject re food related 
organization at t 
summary and 
lines 35 

in article ,  ( sharon paulson ) writes 
i am posting to this group in hopes of finding someone out there in 
network who has heard of something similar to what i am going 
to describe here. i have a year old who experienced 
a on 3 , 1992 at 6 after eating 's 
 . she is perfectly healthy , had never experienced anything like 
this before , and there is no history of in either side of the 
family. all the  ( eeg , , ekg ) came out negative so the decision 
was made to do nothing and just wait to see if it happened again. 

well , we were going along fine and the other morning , april 5 , she had 
a bowl of another 's kind of , fruit loops (i am 
embarrassed to admit that i even bought that junk but every once 
in a while .  .  . ) . so i pour it in her bowl and think oh , oh , this is the 
same kind of junk she was eating when she had that  . ten 
later she had a full blown  . this was her first exposure 
to a sugar since the last  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

my daughter has epilepsy and i a monthly parent support group. 
just night , a mother was telling how she decided to 
all the junk food out and see if it made a difference in her 13 year old 's 
 . he was having about one per week. she reported that 
she did this on thursday (3 11 ) , he had a on saturday and then 
went 4 weeks without a ! ! on easter he went to 's and 
, pop anything he wanted .  . he had a the next day. she 
sees to , sugar , , and  . with 
she says , he gets very nervous and  . 

with my own daughter  ( age 7 ) , i think she is also sensitive and 
away from those on her own. she has never had gum , wo n't eat 
, prefers an apple to a , does n't like and wo n't 
even use ! ! ! her brother , on the other hand , is a junk food 
! 

hope this helps .  . good luck. 

from  ( thomas clancy ) 
subject re  ( was good grief !  ( was re what is it  ) 
organization memorial university of 
lines 55 

 ( steve dyer ) writes 

in article  ( mccurdy m . ) . writes 
is beyond rude .  . 

i 'll drink to that. 

yeah , yeah , yeah. i did n't threaten to your off , did i 
snort .  . 

there have been and always will be people who are by their own 
knowledge and to anything that is n't already established .  . given what 
the medical community does n't know , i'm surprised that he has this  . 

 . 

nice to see steve still has his high and almighty intellectual 
in  . 

for the record , i have had several of during the several 
past few years , with no indication of or 
 . i had not taken any  . 

listen is a recognized with definite 
characteristics .  . if you have , you have , because you can 
see the and do a culture and when you treat it , it generally 
responds well , if you 're not otherwise  . 's 
on having a infection in his 
is not even in the same category here , nor are these walking 
who are convinced they have from reading a book. 

 .  .  . 

my  ( who sees a fair amount of thrush ) recommended 
after i began taking on a daily basis , the ceased .  . 
when i quit taking the , the periodically resumed .  . 
i resumed taking the with no further since then. 

so 

exactly my question to you , steve .  . what 's your point this person had 
one , you did n't 


steve 

nice to see that some things never change , steve , if you are n't being 
ignorant in one group  . alternative . you 're into another. one positive 
thing came out of it , you are no longer bothering the folks in 
 . alternative . , it 's just a that these people have to suffer so 
that others may freely .  . 

sorry for wasting bandwidth folks .  . do n't forget to bow down once 
every second day , and to offer your first born to the 
omniscient , omnipotent , mr. steve .  . 

from 
subject re  ( was eugenics ) 
organization institute of technology 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 56 . mit . edu . 



probably within 50 years , it will be possible to and 
re our bodies at the molecular level. not only will 
be possible , but  . 

what will it be like to all the of shelf bar 
in your head , and all the errors they make in the 's 
favor at what will it be like to mentally edit and 
check your responses to the questions posed by a phone selling 
time share options 


you are absolutely  . no flame required. you lack a brain .  . 

... sic ... 
memes are the basic units of culture , as opposed to genes 
which are the units of genetics .  . 


well .  .  .  . at least you 're , it seems. but give credit 
where credit is due to richard  ( dawkin(s ) 
 ( the meme is a meme he invented ) 



from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 26 

in article writes 


multiple drug resistance in is a relatively new phenomenon , and 
one of the largest contributing factors is that people are no longer 
as scared of as they were before  .  ( it was roughly as 
as is now .  .  . ) . 


not that new. 20 years ago , we had drug addicts active 
that was to everything  ( in  . the difference now 
is that such have become  . in the old days , such 
was weak. it did n't spread to other people very easily and just 
the one person in whom it developed  ( because of non 
with  . non and development of 
has been a problem for a very long time. that is why we have like 9 
drugs against  . there is always a need to develop new ones due to 
such  . now , however , with a , we 
are in more trouble , and measures to may be necessary 
even if they force. 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from edu . !  ( stephen holland ) 
subject re diet for 's  ( ibd ) 
organization univ .  . of 
lines 54 

in article , 
 ( brian delaney ) wrote 

one thing that i have n't seen in this thread is a discussion of the 
relation between and the of 
 . 

i was last may w 's of the terminal  . when i got 
out of the hospital i read up on it a bit , and came across several 
studies investigating the role of  ( an essentially fa ) in reducing 
 . the evidence was  . many of these studies are 
discussed in inflammatory disease , ,  . 1992 .  . 

but if i recall correctly , there were some bones to be 
picked with the studies  ( both the ones w  . and w  .  . in 
the studies were given (a few day for most of the 
studies ) , but , if i recall correctly , there was no of the 
other that the could  . from the informed 
's perspective , this seems mistaken .  . if lots of n 6 are 
along with the , then the ratio of bad 
products to good products could still be fairly bad. 
is n't this ratio the issue 

what 's the view of the  . community on these days 
supplements , along with a fairly severe of other 
appear to have helped me  ( though it could just be the 
low absolute amount of fat i eat 8 10  . 

brian 

as you note , the research is , so there is no consensus on the 
role of in  . there is a role for short 
in with and 
that are  ( short is and  . there may be a role 
for treatment of with short , and i am looking 
forward to the meeting in boston to see what people are 
doing. 

you raise a hypothesis about the studies and of other 
 . you should contact the authors directly about that or 
even write a letter to the editor it is a good point. by the way , 
the is not in general use , so i do not know what 
acid you are speaking about. 

and to brian an u of c there is a named stephen 
there who is a recognized expert in the treatment of  . you might 
give him a call .  . he is interested in new combinations of drugs for 
the treatment of  . if you call please say to him from me , 
i was looking at u of c for a position , and perhaps still am .  . and 
be sure to look into the  . 

best of luck. 

steve holland 

from 
subject help for stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization west virginia network for 
lines 11 

my is in pain from stones .  . she says that because she has no 
medical , she cannot get them removed. 

my question is there any way she can treat them herself , or at least 
their effects any help is deeply appreciated.  ( advice , to literature , 
etc .  .  . ) . 

thank you , 

dave 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re degeneration 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 16 

in article  ( ken todd ) writes 
i would like any information available on this rare disease. i understand 
that an operation referred to as may be in order. does anyone 
know of a that performs this procedure .  . all responses will be 
appreciated. please respond via email to 

it is n't that rare , actually. many cases that are called 's 
disease turn out on to be  . it should be suspected in any 
case of without and which does not respond to 
l  . i do n't believe will do much for  . 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( sandy silverman ) 
subject re and health risk 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 1993 01 07 22 
nntp posting host com . 
organization american company 

lines 11 

from my reading of the popular , and scientific , literature , i think that the 
from burned fat problem is probably real but very small compared to 
other kinds of risks .  .  ( this type of problem also occurs with top 
) . one possible i have read about is to take some vitamin c with your of  ( or , e . g . ) .  . this may make sense because  . c 
is an which could the adverse affect of some of the 
in question. ! 


opinions expressed here are my own 
american 
, is best 

from  ( daniel myers ) 
subject re is 
organization usc department of computer science 
lines 39 

frequently of late , i have been to something added to 
 . what happens is that the inside of my throat starts 
to feel , like i have a cold , and also at times the inside of my 
mouth  ( especially the tongue ) and also feel  . 

the situations around these symptoms almost always involve 
 ( usually chinese ) , the most cases a cheap chinese fast food 
, a japanese house (i had the steak ) , and another chinese 
fast food where i saw the put about a or two of 
what looked like sugar or salt into my rice. 

i am under the impression that flavor by causing the 
taste to  . if this is correct , i do not find it unreasonable 
to assume that high of can cause other mouth to  . 

also , as the many of the  ( including two of the above) 
involved beef , and as beef is frequently with , this is 
what i suspect as being the cause. 

i would n't be at all surprised if studies of in animals 
showed it as being harmless , as it would be very to hear a lab 
rat or complain about their feeling funny .  . 

anyone who wishes to explain how the majority of food are 
totally harmless is welcome to e mail me with the results of any studied 
they know of. i will probably respond to them however with a 
of how long it took to prove that causes  ( which the 
still  . 



 ( if i sound , it 's because i had beef with for lunch 
today , and now it to swallow ) 



dan  ( madman ) if the creator had intended us to walk 
, he would n't have given us 


from  ( robert g. ruegg ) 
subject re 
keywords gene pool wisdom virtue 
nntp posting host unc . edu . 
organization unc school of medicine 
lines 

subject re 
 ( gordon banks ) writes 

probably within 50 years , a new type of will be possible. 
maybe even sooner .  . we are now mapping the human  . we will 
then start to work on of that  . using genetic 
engineering , we will be able to insert whatever genes we want. 
no breeding , no , etc. the ethical question is , should 
we 

two past problems with have been 
1 ) reducing the gene pool and 
2 ) defining the status of the  . 

inserting genes would not seem to reduce the gene pool unless the inserted 
genes later became to  . then they may be able to 
out garbage genes .  . this may in the future become possible. even if 
it does , awareness of the need to maintain the gene pool would 
mean will be made for saving genes that may come in 
later. evidently the genes for sickle cell disease in africa 
and for in the survival in some conditions .  . we 
do n't really know what the future may hold for our environment. the 
reduced and disease survival capacity of our relatively 
domesticated animals comes to mind. , nuclear , ice age , 
impact , new threats , , , etc. , 
etc. , are all conceivable .  . therefore , having as many genes as possible 
available is a good strategy for species survival .  . 

of course , the status of genetically altered individuals would start out 
as no different than anyone else 's .  . but if we could make 
philosopher kings with great bodies and long lives , would we  ( or they ) 
want to give them status we could. the romans did it with their 
kings without the benefits of such  . the race eventually 
realized and dealt with the problems which that caused , but for a while , 
it was a problem. introduced us to the notion of what might happen 
to persons genetically altered for more  . but there is nothing 
new under the sun .  . we treated slaves the same way for millennia before 
1984 .  . 

i see no inherent problem with gene which avoids at least these 2 
problems. humans have always had trouble having the virtue and wisdom to 
use any power that falls into their hands to good ends all the time. that 
has n't stopped the race as a whole yet. many are the which 
have died from inability to adapt to environmental change .  . however , also 
many are the which have died from the abuse of their own 
power. the ones which survived have learned a lesson from the 
fates of others , and have survived by making better choices when their 
turns came .  . 

not that i do n't think that this gene altering power could n't wipe us off 
the face of the earth or cause endless suffering .  . nuclear power or 
or whatever could and may still do that , too. 

the real issue is an issue of wisdom and virtue .  . i personally do n't think 
man has enough wisdom and virtue to pull this next challenge off any 
better than he did the for last few. we , as , may make it , an we 
may not. if we do n't , i hope there are of garbage people out 
in some with otherwise long discarded garbage genes which will 
pull us through. 

i believe that the real problem is and will probably always be the same. 
man needs to accept from the great spirit of god to overcome his 
lacks in the area of knowing how to use the power he has .  . some men have , 
and i believe all men may , listen to and obey the still small voice of god 
in their hearts .  . this is the way to begin to the wisdom and virtue 
needed to escape the problems consequent to poor choices. peoples have 
died out for many reasons. the societies which failed to accept enough 
from god to safely use the power they had developed have 
themselves , and often others in the process. it is self evident that the 
ones which survive today have either accepted enough from the spirit 
to use their powers enough to avoid or survive their own mistakes 
thus far , or else have n't had enough power for long enough. 

in summary , i would say that the question of whether to use this new 
technology is really an ancient one. and the answer , in some ways hard , in 
some ways easy , is the same ancient answer. it is n't the power , it is the 
spirit .  . 

sorry for the long post. got carried away. 

bob 




from  ( chuck wa7kgx ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
organization technology , rain 
lines 32 

in article () writes 

gordon banks 

a lot to keep from going back to obesity .  . i think all 
of us cycle .  . one 's success depends on how large the 
in the cycle are. some people can cycle only 5 pounds .  . unfortunately , 
i'm not one of them. 


this certainly describes my situation perfectly .  . for me there is 
a constant between my tendency to eat , which appears to 
be totally , and the purely conscious desire to not 
put on too much weight. when i get too fat , i just diet exercise 
more  ( with degrees of success ) to take off the 
extra weight. usually i cycle within a 15 range , but 
smaller and larger occur as well. i'm always afraid 
that this method will stop working someday , but usually 
i seem to be able to hold the weight gain in check .  . 
this is one reason i have a hard time accepting the notion 
of some associated with cycle 
 ( that results in long term weight  . i have been cycle 
for at least 20 years without seeing such a change .  . 

as mentioned in , only some experience weight 
 . the fact that you do n't does n't prove it does n't 
happen to others. 

... ! tektronix ! reed ! ! 
author of , , , , and 
technology the high reliability software 
v is or 

from  ( brian delaney ) 
subject re diet for 's  ( ibd ) 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 27 

one thing that i have n't seen in this thread is a discussion of the 
relation between and the of 
 . 

i was last may w 's of the terminal  . when i got 
out of the hospital i read up on it a bit , and came across several 
studies investigating the role of  ( an essentially fa ) in reducing 
 . the evidence was  . many of these studies are 
discussed in inflammatory disease , ,  . 1992 .  . 

but if i recall correctly , there were some bones to be 
picked with the studies  ( both the ones w  . and w  .  . in 
the studies were given (a few day for most of the 
studies ) , but , if i recall correctly , there was no of the 
other that the could  . from the informed 
's perspective , this seems mistaken .  . if lots of n 6 are 
along with the , then the ratio of bad 
products to good products could still be fairly bad. 
is n't this ratio the issue 

what 's the view of the  . community on these days 
supplements , along with a fairly severe of other 
appear to have helped me  ( though it could just be the 
low absolute amount of fat i eat 8 10  . 

brian 


from j . 
subject re human feeding myths or reality 
organization at t 
summary experience with three children 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( webster homer ) writes 
 ( robert j. md ) writes 

i have an additional question. how long should a mother feed her 
child a friend of mine is still her two year old .  . is this beneficial 
her ex husband is trying to use her of a two year old as 
proof of her being unfit to be a mother. what studies have been done 
on feeding past a year etc .  .  .  . upon the psychological health of the 
child 





my wife fed my three 12 months , 16 months , and 29 months 
respectively and they are 18 , 16 , and 10 years old respectively .  . so 
far everybody seems fairly normal .  . i noticed a negative correlation 
with ear and length of time in my very small  . 
i do notice that the 16 and 18 year old seem to eat a lot , could that 
be from the feeding ) 

i do n't understand the unfit mother charge other than any tactic is 
not too low down for some folks during divorce child battles .  . 

most of the developing nations practice feeding to 3 and 4 years 
old .  . are they up because of it would they be much better 
off if they could use cow 's milk or doctors 

bobby ! 




from  ( todd i. stark ) 
subject re 
summary here 's the from the 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 45 
nntp posting host 


in article , () writes .  .  .  . 
i recently heard of a mental disorder called 
disorder .  . what is it what causes it could it be caused by a 
nervous 

disorder  ( not to be confused with 
disorder ! ) is an anxiety disorder characterized by 
either  ( persistent thoughts that cause anxiety when 
not entertained ) , or  ( repetitive , actions that 
similarly cause intense psychological when  . 

is often associated with certain forms of depression .  . 

examples of thoughts are repeated to kill a loved 
one  ( though not accompanied by anger ) , or a religious person having 
blasphemous thoughts. generally , the individual attempts to ignore 
or suppress the thoughts by engaging in other activities. 
the individual that the thoughts originate from the own mind , rather 
than being from an external source. 

examples of actions are constant hand , 
or other activity that is not related to a 
source of the anxiety .  . 

in , the or are highly to the 
individual , take an hour or more per day , and their 
daily and social relationships .  . 

include , methods , and sometimes 
certain anti which have recently been found effective in 
and  . 

the standard code for , if you want to look it up in the 
iii manual of is 30 . . 

kind regards , 



i. 
digital equipment corporation  ( 215 ) 
philadelphia , pa .  . usa 
(a word is) the of a living thought , jr. 


from  ( joseph francis ) 
subject re 
organization  . de et , 
lines 50 

in article  ( brian m. huey ) writes 
i think that 's the correct  .  . 

 . 

i am looking for any information that will allow 
do it to take pictures .  . i'm thinking 
that education for schools might have a for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the  . any info is greatly 
appreciated. 

is n't , except in a purely 
sense. 

in case you do n't know , , to the best of my 
knowledge , involves taking pictures of an  ( most of the time) organic 
object between charged plates .  . the picture will show energy patterns 
or around the object , and depending on what type 
of object it is , the or energy patterns will vary .  . one might 
extrapolate here and say that this proves that every object within 
the universe  ( as we know it) has its own energy signature .  . 

involves putting between covered 
hot metal plates while them with a krypton  . 
through a unique involving the 4th dimensional of 
a through the semi interactions of hot 
layers covering the metal plates  ( the best metal is iron since 
it and succubi ) the start developing , 
and within actually become hot 
 . some people believe that food is the way to a man 's heart , 
but most agree that there is nothing like hot for 
the chemical composition of is a mystery , some 
thought evidence of charles 's in wonder 's 
of the secret life of plants when played backwards in the 
theatre of has deduced that they 
are complex ordinarily only found by in the 
 . i called on my box and asked her if 
this was really the case , and she tm me a letter across the 
atlantic to tell me it was indeed not just another case of 
misunderstanding , though the university has n't 
confirmed anything at all. at least the taste good i got the 
recipe from  . 






 n  clean , speaking out to the way you want to live 
today american all american doing , a bit so , and even more so. 

from  ( somesh jha ) 
subject what is near the 
nntp posting host sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 17 


hi 

i went to the on tuesday .  . he me as having 
. he prescribed for me. i want 
to know more about the disease and the drug .  . 

thanks 










from  ( jim jones ) 
subject post i get 'em every time 
organization sun , inc. mt. view , ca .  . 
lines 18 
distribution world 
reply to  ( jim jones ) 
nntp posting host sun . com . 

the subject line says it every time i run a , i get an amazing 
over my and  . fortunately , it does n't  . 

the always comes on the day after the 
breaks and no matter what the was cold , flu , whatever. 
it started happening about four years ago after i moved to my current 
town , although i do n't know if that has anything to do with anything. 

and of the seems to vary with the 
a severe or long lasting brings a long lasting  . a mild 
seems to bring that go away  . 

anybody know what might be causing this it 's no more than an 
, but i 'd be curious to know what 's going on. am i carrying 
some kind of bug that goes wild when out 
its competition 

jim jones 

from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re frequent 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 17 

in article  ( beverly m. zalan ) writes 

my 6 year son is so  . lots of up his nose each night seems 
to keep it under control. but let him get there , and he 'll for 
days ! also , , air all seem to contribute .  . but again , the 
, or a d , or all seem to keep them from  . 

if you can get it , you might want to try a canadian over the counter product 
called , which is a water  . compared to or other 
, seems more compatible with the that 's 
already there. 


michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  ( jeff parke ) 
subject re 
organization college of medicine 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 13 

 ( kilty@ucrengr ) wrote 

if you have time to type it in i 'd love to have the reference for that 
paper ! thanks ! 

experimental disease in dogs produces arthritis and infection , 
the journal of infectious diseases , march 1993 , 664 


jeff 
also 
washington state university college of medicine class of 
, 

from  ( joseph francis ) 
subject re ca n't wear contacts after rk 
keywords , , contact , 
organization ,  ( france ) 
lines 45 

in article  ( infospunj  ( dan field ) writes 
i love the faq .  . 

the comment about contact not being an option for any remaining 
correction after rk and possibly after is  . why is 
this does anyone know for sure whether this applies to as well 

i 've had  . 

i would suggest asking a doctor about contacts .  . mine said yes to 
contacts .  . i think the scars from rk would preclude contacts .  . 

also , why is it possible to get a correction in with involvement of 
only about 5 of the depth , while rk is done to a depth of up to 
why such a difference i thought the were 
with the exception of a laser being the cutting tool in  . i must not 
be understanding all of the differences .  . 

no. rk makes cuts around the of the , up to 
8 i think , and these change the of the through 
 .  ( burns ) away a thin from the front of the 
making the of the eye  . the laser does n't 
cut in , it  . in rk , the eye is cut into. 

in the faq , the vision was considered less clear after the than 
with alone. if this is to the 
intentional slight , then it can be for when 
necessary with  ( or contacts , if they can be ! ) .  . it 
is important to know if that is not the case , however , and some other 
consequence of the would often interfere with clear vision .  . the 
first thing that came to my mind was a of the , which 
could n't help. 

would not help. 

i find my vision is more clear for some things , and less clear for 
others , only at night. i notice a definite at night in the 
when i look at automobile , though this is not 
something i spend of time doing. for ordinary 
things , my vision , in particular having a fully operating 
vision , is clearer than with , or contacts .  . 


 n  clean , speaking out to the way you want to live 
today american all american doing , a bit so , and even more so. 

from  ( barry d benowitz ) 
subject re eye dominance 
in reply to 's message of mon , 12 apr 1993 21 02 31 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization co systems , inc. 
lines 24 

in article  ( richard silver ) writes 

is there a right eye dominance  ( eyedness ) as there is an 
overall right in the population i mean do most 
people require less corrections for the one eye than the 
other if so , what kinds of can be attached to this 
thanks. 


yes , there is such a thing as eye dominance , although i am not sure if 
this dominance refers to strength .  . 

as i recall , if you close your dominant eye , you will 
that the image shifts .  . this will not happen if you close your other eye. 

i believe that which eye is dominant is related to , but i 
ca n't recall the relation at the moment .  . 



d. 
email ( .  .  .  . ! ! ! bbenowit ) 
phone 1 1000 
co systems , new , , nj , 

from mark w. 
subject re and health risk 
originator 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization univ .  . of boulder 
lines 16 

 ( richard silver ) writes 


some recent postings me that i had read about risks 
associated with the of , namely that 
are generated .  . is this a valid concern if so , is it a function 
of the or the is it a function of 
the elements , wood or vs. i wish 
to know more. thanks. 

i recall that the issue is that fat on the meat and then 
down onto the hot elements whatever they are that the extreme 
then something in the fat into one or more 
which then are carried back up onto the meat in the  . 

the ol' professor 

from  ( john lauger ) 
subject and heart attacks 
organization douglas 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

my just started taking for her  . her 
her as having depression and suffering from 
due to daily of  . she stopped taking all 
and as of last thursday  ( 4  . the was pretty 
bad , but she made it through with the help of about every 18 hours. 
her third injection of , during the worst of the on 
friday and hours after the first of the day , left her very sick .  . 
was , sweating , and had severe headache pain. it 
in an hour or so. since then , she has been taking as needed to 
control the pain. immediately after taking it , she has increased head pain 
for ten , and mild and mild pains .  . a friend 
of mentioned that her doctor was wary of because it had caused 
heart attacks in several people. apparently the mild pains were 
common in these other people prior to there attacks .  . is this just 
has anyone else heard of these symptoms my also has 
 . 

opinions are mine or others but definately not 's ! 

douglas , beach , california , usa 

from  ( jim zisfein ) 
subject post information needed please ! ! ! 
distribution world 
organization invention 's bbs new york city , ny 212 274 
reply to  ( jim zisfein ) 
lines 67 

ks from  ( keith stewart ) 
ks my wife has become interested through an acquaintance in post 
ks this apparently is not in new and different ( eg 
ks complaints ) are treated  . does have any information 

i'm not sure that this condition is anywhere  ( in the 
sense of a disease with , clear 
between it and other diseases , unique or 
features , etc ) , but here goes with what many agree on. 

post have evidence of disease 
by examination , , and  . the 
are mostly  ( due to old polio ) but there is evidence of 
 . , the complain of 
strength and with everyday  . 
pain is a nearly universal feature that doubtless 
to the  . the examination shows 
weakness and  . the shows evidence of old 
with  ( giant and long duration 
action potentials ) and evidence of active 
 ( fibrillation  . the also shows old 
with  ( fiber type grouping ) and evidence of active 
 ( small , with 
staining ) but , little or no group  . 

post do not have  . in , there is 
evident from one month to the next .  . in post , 
the are stable in objective findings from one 
year to the next .  . of course , there are who had 
before who develop genuine , but is no more common among 
survivors than among people who never had  . 

the cause of post is unknown .  . there is little 
evidence that post have active virus or 
destructive response to virus  . 

there is no solid evidence that with post have 
anything different happening to the  ( anterior cells , 
, , and fibers ) than 
with old who are not complaining of  . 
both groups can have the same and findings .  . the reason 
for these changes in a disease  ( old polio ) is 
unknown .  . possibly neurons  ( that have huge 
numbers of fibers ) start the load after several 
years. 

there are a couple of features that distinguish post 
from with old who deny 
 . the are more likely to have had severe 
 . the are much more likely to complain of pain. 
they also tend to score higher on depression of 
 . 

my take on this  ( i'm sure some will disagree ) after from 
severe there can be abnormal on , , 
, bones , and , that leads to inflammatory and or 
conditions affecting these structures .  . the increasing 
pain , on the  ( but unchanging ) weakness , leads 
to progressive of and  . i am 
perhaps biased by personal experience of having never seen a 
patient who was not limited in some way by pain. i do not believe 
that have more of units than 
non (i . e .  . , those with old of similar but 
without  . 

. 2 . 1 . . e mail  ( jim zisfein ) 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re for 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 15 

in article  ( jim zisfein ) writes 

if you want to around names ,  . , , 
and do n't recommend  ( not to mention dr. 
william  . 


gosh , is that famous now he was my  . not liking 
it makes me like it out of spite .  .  ( just kidding ,  . 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( carl brenner ) 
subject re update  ( help ! ) was what is this is it 's 
organization earth 
lines 50 

in article ,  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( carl brenner ) writes 
see the motive here. it is easy for me to see it the 
those who call everything and treat everything. 
there is a lot of money involved. 

you keep bringing this up. but i do n't understand what 's in it 
for the to go ahead and treat .  . unless the 
has an investment in  ( or is involved in some scheme with ) the 
home company , where is the financial gain for the doctor 

well , let me put it this way , based on my own experience. a 
general with no training in infectious diseases , 
by establishing links to the community , treating 
who come to him wondering about or having decided they 
have as if they did , saying that diseases such as 
are probably , if not , giving talks at meetings 
of users groups , the feelings of even delusional 
, etc. this can go from being a run of the mill 
to someone with lots of in the hospital 
and getting expensive that need in his 
office , and making lots of bread .  . also getting the 
of many who believe his is their only hope  ( if not of , 
then of control ) and seeing his name in put out 
by support groups , etc. this is a definite  . 

 . getting published in these is hardly something 
to aspire to. ) 
i ca n't really argue with your logic , though i think you may be 
a bit from what appears to be a size of 
one. even if what you say about this local pittsburgh guy is true , it is 
not logical or fair to conclude that this is true of all doctors who 
treat disease. 
by your logic , i could conclude that all of the who 
consult for and make money by denying benefits to 
are doing it for the money , rather than because they believe 
they are encouraging good medicine .  . i have no idea how sincere these guys 
are , but their motives are as suspect as the you for 
what you believe to be treatment .  . 
i would really feel more comfortable discussing the medical issues 
in , rather than speculating as to the motives of the various parties 
involved. 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 





from  ( donna m. paino ) 
subject arthritis info needed please ! 
originator 
organization 
lines 34 



a friend of mine has been with arthritis , as a result of 
trauma in a car accident several years ago. the is under 
control but the arthritis part of the is not. 

 ( non anti inflammatory ) worked pretty well for three years but 
is n't helping much now. my friend is now taking  ( another nsaid ) but 
this is n't helping control the pain at all. in the past two months my friend 
has also started taking along with the medicines , but the 
effects of the combined drugs are n't supposed to be realized for several months. 

as a result of the pain , my friend is having problems sleeping .  . staying in 
one position too long is an ordeal .  . another major to pain is that 
has now developed  ( left and hand with at the base of 
the bottom of feet and outer  . the is 
quite painful yet my friend 's doctor has not recommended any form of treatment 
to it. 

the latest twist is that the doctor has dropped the anti and is 
now  . the hope is that the will some 
of the pain from the  . 

my friend is a 41 year old male who like he 's 80  ( his words , not  . 


if anyone is aware of any new for arthritis , alternative 
of action , support groups or literature on it , i would be extremely 
if you could e mail to me. if anyone is interested , i 'll post a 
summary to this newsgroup .  . 

thanks in advance , 



from mackie 
subject re and health risk 
organization 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 86 . 38 . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x mon , 19 apr 93 20 12 06 gmt 

in article rich young , 
writes 

stuff deleted 

... have to 
large of meat at a 
time. 

i have to confess that this is one of my few  . 
no matter how much i eat , it still seems  . 

mackie his opinion 

from  ( robert gasch ) 
subject re a respectable medical tradition 
organization oracle europe 
lines 47 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

gordon banks wrote 
in article  ( robert gasch ) writes 

from a business point of view , it might make sense. it depends on 
the of the  . if he can charm the 
into coming , can be very  . it wo n't be covered 
by , however. just keep that in mind. myself , i 'd have 


in many european countries is accepted as a method of 
 ( or at least alleiating ) many conditions to which modern medicine has 
no answer. in most of these countries for the 
 . 


accepted by whom not by scientists .  . there are people 
in every country who waste time and money on  . 
in britain and , where i have worked , it was not paid for. 
what are most of these countries i do n't believe you. 

in holland pay for treatment .  . in germany they do 
so as well. i austria they do if you have a condition which can not be 
helped by normal medicine  ( happened to  . seems to be 
the same as austria (i have direct experience in the  . 

at the of (i believe as well ) 
can be taken in  . school. 

i found that in combination with it changed my life from 
living hell to a condition which me to lead a relatively 
normal life. i found that modern medicine was powerless to me 
of a severe case of  ( note i mean , not 
the symptoms , which is what modern medicine attempts to 
do in the case of  . 

i'm not saying that is scientific , but that it can offer 
help in areas in which modern medicine is absolutely helpless .  . 

from reading your it seems that your have some deeply 
beliefs about this issue  ( this is not intended to be offensive or 
it just like that to me ) which makes me doubt 
if you can read this with an open mind. if you do can , please excuse 
my last comment. 

robert 



from  ( chuck wa7kgx ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
organization technology , rain 
lines 34 

in article  ( beth mazur ) writes 
in  ( chuck wa7kgx ) writes 
gordon , your experience is valid for many , but not all. the 
fact that you know a few people who have been and are 
now stable at a lower  ( normal or just less ) weight does not 
contradict the observation that only 5 10 per can maintain 
ideal weight with current technology. 

actually , the observation is that only 5 10 of those who seek help 
from your so called diet can maintain their weight. i 
happen to agree with keith that there are many people who can 
and do lose weight on their own , and who are not in the 
failure rate that is often quoted .  . 

was n't there a study where a asked a more general population , 
perhaps some part of a university community , about weight loss and he she 
found that a much higher percentage had lost and 

in fact mentions a similar study  ( search for life 
events in any recent version of  . 

the problem with reports about individuals who have 
lost weight and kept it off is that we do n't know what caused 
the weight gain in the first place. this is critical because 
someone who weight because of something temporary  ( drug 
effect , life event , etc . ) . may appear successful at when 
the weight loss was really the result of the temporary 
condition that caused the weight gain .  . 


... ! tektronix ! reed ! ! 
author of , , , , and 
technology the high reliability software 
v is or 

from  ( carl j lydick ) 
subject re is 
organization wide field camera 
lines 28 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

in article , writes 
surprise surprise , different people react differently to different things. one 
slightly off the subject case in point. my brother got by a bee .  . i know 
he is allergic to bee , but that his reaction is severe localized 
, not  . i could not convince the doctors of that , 
however , because that 's not written in their little rule book. 

of course , bee venom is n't a single chemical .  . could be your brother is 
to a different component than the one that causes 
in other people. 

similarly , chinese food is n't just  . there are a lot of other 
in it. why , when someone eats something with lots of they do n't 
normally , one of which happens to be , do they immediately conclude 
that any negative reaction is to the 

i would not be surprised in the least to find out the some people have bad 
reactions to , including , and even  . 

i 'd be surprised if some of these reactions were n't due to other  . 

j internet 

disclaimer hey , i understand and vms .  . that 's what i get paid for. my 
understanding of astronomy is purely at the amateur level  ( or below) .  . so 
unless what i'm saying is directly related to vax vms , do n't hold me or my 
organization responsible for it. if it is related to vax vms , you can try to 
hold me responsible for it , but my organization had nothing to do with it. 

from  ( mark fulk ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization university of rochester 

in article  ( gary merrill ) writes 

in article ,  ( mark fulk ) writes 
what is wrong with the above observation is that it explicitly gives the 
impression  ( and you may not in fact hold this view ) that the common  ( perhaps 
even the correct ) approach for a scientist to follow is to sit around 
having of fancy and on the basis of his and 
petty  . 

of fancy , and other irrational approaches , are common .  . the crucial 
thing is not to sit around just having fantasies they are n't of any use 
unless they make you do some experiments .  . i 've known a lot of scientists 
whose fantasies lead them on to creative work usually they wo n't admit 
out loud what the fantasy was , prior to the of a few  . 

 ( simple example warren noticed an extremely heavy on a dna 
of human fragments .  . he got very , that 
he 'd seen some essential part of the control mechanism for 
genes .  . this fantasy led him to sequence samples of the and carry out 
binding  . the result was a well conserved , 400 or so , sequence 
that occurs about , 000 times in the human  . unfortunately for 
warren 's fantasy , it turns out to be a that is present in 
so many copies because it replicates itself and copies itself back into 
the  . on the other hand , the characteristics of were 
much the necessity of a reverse was 
recognized and the standard method of recognizing human dna was created. 
other species have different sets of  . fortunately for me , 
warren and i used to eat at t . g . i .  . all the time . ) . 

it further at least implicitly advances the position that 
sciences goes forward  ( and it is not clear what this means given the 
context in which it occurs ) by in a completely non rational 
and even random way a of and theories that are then 
out via the critical function of science. 

i'm not sure that it 's random .  . but there is no known rational mechanism 
for a rich set of interesting  . if you are really 
working in an unknown area , it is unlikely that you will have much sense 
of what might or might not be true under those circumstances , the best 
thing to do is just follow whatever instincts you have. if they are wrong , 
you will find out soon enough but at least , you will find out something . 
if you try to do experiments at random , with no prior at all 
in mind , you will probably get nowhere .  . 

 ( though why this critical 
function should be less subject to the non rational forces is a mystery .  . 

unfortunately , the critical function does sometimes become to 
non rational forces .  . then we get varieties of science 
, 's opposition to dna as gene , cold fusion , and so forth .  . 

if experimental design , creation , and theory construction are 
subject to and petty , then this must be equally true 
of the application of any critical function concerning replication .  . 
this is what leads one  ( ala feyerabend ) to an anything goes view . ) . 

i do n't agree that this follows .  . in fact , this is exactly the point at 
which i disagree with  . it is a most important part of the 
culture of science that one keeps one 's out of the 
process. failures there are , but , on the whole , things work out. 

another point there are a couple of senses of the phrase 
 . i 'd say that the less rational part is in experimental choice , 
not design.  . soc .  . , 1922 ) chose to look for 
in his own for strange reasons  ( phage had previously 
been found in probably thought bottom , 
nose , what the hell , it 's worth a try . ) . but his method of looking for 
was well designed to detect anything like in fact , he found  . 

true , the generation part can be totally irrational .  . but typically it is 
not . concerning instances where a hypothesis seems to have 
resulted in some way from a dream or from one 's political views simply 
do not generalize well to the actual history of science. 

it is not clear to me what you mean by rational vs. irrational .  . perhaps 
you can give a few examples of surprising experiments that were tried out 
for perfectly rational reasons , or interesting new theories that were first 
advanced from logical grounds .  . the main examples i can think of are from 
modern high energy physics which is not typical of science as a whole .  . 

mark a. university of rochester 
computer science department 

from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 25 

in article writes 
i recently had a case of and my doctors wanted to give me 
 . 

it was a pain finding sites in my  .  . can . i have some facts about 
how it is to give rather than oral 


i think some essential information must be missing here , i.e. , you must be 
suffering from a condition which has caused  . there is 
no indication for for in an otherwise healthy 
person. the oral form can help to reduce the length of symptoms , and may 
even help prevent the development of post , but i 
certainly would not subject someone to without a good reason. 

to address your more general question , does provide higher and 
more high and tissue levels of a drug .  . for treating a 
serious infection this is the only way to be sure that a patient is 
getting adequate drug levels .  . 



university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


subject on  .  . look . ! 
from  ( noah dacumos ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 8 

my name is and i am a student at san high. i am 
doing a project for my physics class and i would like some info on the 
of , its  ( discoverer(sir fleming ) , and how it 
helps people with many  . also how it effects those who 
are allergic to it. any info will be greatly appreciated. 




from 
subject re is 
organization western michigan university 
lines 33 

in article ,  ( annick ansselin ) writes 
in  ( steve giammarco ) writes 


and to add further to the flame war , i read about 20 years ago that 
the natural extracted from the sources you mention above does not 
cause the reported it 's only that nasty artificial 
extracted from or whatever that causes chinese 
 . i find this pretty hard to believe has anyone else heard it 

is , a fairly straight forward compound .  . if it is 
pure , the source should not be a problem. your comment suggests that 
may be the cause. 
my experience of effects  ( as part of a double blind study ) was that the 
pure stuff caused me some rather severe effects .  . 

i was under the  ( possibly incorrect ) assumption that most of the on 
our was made from sugar  . is this not true are 
there other sources of 

, , mushrooms all contain  . 

i am one of those who react , sometimes strongly , to  . however , 
i also react strongly to  ( table salt ) in excess .  . each 
causes different symptoms except for the common one of 
and an uncomfortable feeling of pressure in my , left  . 

the symptoms i had were of in the first instance 
followed by the then the legs , headache , and unable to keep 
 . i think it may well affect people differently. 

well , i think is made from a kind of plant call and not those 
you above. 

from  ( melissa n .  . matusevich ) 
subject re  ( request ) 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( radford ) 
lines 5 

i do n't know much and in fact , have asked questions here 
myself. my doctor told me that is a in that 
it produces side effects .  . as to a comparison between 
and , i'm not able to remember what he said about 
the differences between those two drugs .  . sorry 

from 
subject re how about a crash program in basic research 
organization university of northern iowa 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( ken mitchum ) writes 
as a , i almost never get sick usually , when something 
is going around , i either do n't get it at all or get a very mild case. 
when i do get really sick , it is always something unusual .  . 

this was not the situation when i was in medical school , particularly on 
 .  .  .  . for me was three solid 
months of , and i had a of when i took the final ! 

i think what happens is that during training , and beyond , we are constantly 
exposed to new things , and we have the usual reactions to them , so that later 
on , when challenged with something , it is more likely a re exposure for us , 
so we deal with it well and get a mild  . 

this is also commonly seen in new teachers .  . the first few years , they 're 
sick a lot , but gradually seem to build up to almost everything 
common .  . come to think of it , i was about my when i was 
working in a pathogens lab , exposed to who knows what all the time. pre , 
of course. 

biology dept uni 


from 
subject friend needs advice .  .  .  . 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 38 


a friend of mine is having some symptoms and has asked me to post 
the following information. 

a few weeks ago , she noticed that some of her hair was starting 
to fall out. she would touch her head and of hair would 
just fall right out.  ( by the way , she is 29 or 30 years  . 
it continued to occur until she had a about the 
size of a half dollar .  . since that time , she has gotten two 
more of the same size. other symptoms she 's 
described include several months of an 
cycle  ( which is strange for her , because she has always been 
extremely regular ) every few days she will wake 
up one morning and have almost no voice , and then the next day 
it 's fine she claims that she 's had 4 or 5 
very bad early in the morning , including one that 
knocked her to the ground and general  . 

she went to a first who could n't find any reason 
for the symptoms and sent her to an who suspected 
problems. he did the blood work and claims that everything 
came back normal .  . 

she 's very concerned and very confused .  . does anyone have any 
ideas or suggestions i told her that i thought she should 
see an  . does that sound like the right idea 

by the way , in case you are going to ask .  .  . no . , she has recently 
taken any that would cause these symptoms .  .  . no . , she has n't 
recently changed her hair products and she has n't gotten a , 
, or other chemical process that might cause hair to fall 
out. 

thanks in advance for any help ! 





from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re how to  .  .  . really 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 20 


in article  ( marc gabriel ) writes 

now , i'm not saying that is the best way to it 's very 
hard to culture bb in most cases. the point is that dr. n has developed a 
feel for what is and what is n't  . this comes from years of experience. 
no can match that. unfortunately , some would call dr. n a 
and accuse him of trying to make a quick  . 

why do you think he would be called a the do n't do cultures .  . 
they doing more lab this is , believe me , i 've 
seen it many times. the lab are n't accurate. we 'll treat it 
now. also , is dr. n 's practice almost exclusively devoted to treating 
i do n't know any who fit this 
pattern. they are usually  . 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( daniel prince ) 
subject , and 
lines 11 

to  ( david nye ) 

there is a person on the fido who claims that he was 
cured of by taking  . he also claims that you are 
using it in the treatment of  . are you 
using in the treatment of have 
you used it for have you gotten good results with it are 
you aware of any double blind studies on the use of in 
these conditions thank you in advance for all replies .  . 

... i think they should tx to tx ! 

from  ( paul johnson ) 
subject re sore throat 
reply to  ( paul johnson ) 
organization research centre , great , uk 
lines 29 

in article  ( fiberman ) writes 
i have had a sore throat for almost a week. when i look into 
the with the aid of a light , i see white in 
the very back of my throat  ( on the  . i went to a health 
center to have a throat culture taken .  . they said that i do not 
have throat. could a viral infection cause white 
on the sides of my throat 

first , i am not a doctor .  . i know about this because i have been 
through it. 

it sounds like (lit .  .  . feel under your 
for a on each side. if you find them , its  . 
i 've had this a couple of times in the past. the doctor prescribed a 
weeks course of and that cleared it up. 

in my case it was associated with , which is a viral 
infection which  ( from my point of view ) flu and 
that kept coming back for a year or so. there is a blood test for 
this. 

in conclusion , see a doctor  ( if you have not done so  . 

paul .  . 

paul johnson  ( paj@gec co .  . tel 44 

these ideas and others like them can be had research is not 
for 0 . 02 . each from any  . responsible for my opinions 

from dan 
subject faq typing  ( 2 4 ) general info monthly posting 
supersedes typing injury faq general 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 
expires 22 may 1993 04 18 16 gmt 
reply to dan 
nntp posting host elmer cs . berkeley . edu . 
summary information about where to get more information 
originator cs . berkeley . edu . 

archive name typing injury faq general 
version revision 4 . 28 . date 1993 04 13 04 17 


answers to frequently asked questions about typing 


the typing injury faq sources of information for people with typing 
, , , etc. 

1992 , 1993 by dan 

many faqs , including this one , are available on the archive site 
mit . edu .  ( alias rtfm . mit . 18 . 172 . 1 . 27 . in the directory 
pub usenet news . answers .  . the name under which a faq is appears 
in the archive name line at the top of the article. this faq is 
as typing injury faq general . z . 

there 's a mail server also. just e mail mail mit . edu . 
with the word  help  on a line by itself in the body. 

the opinions in here are my own , unless otherwise mentioned , and do not 
represent the opinions of any organization or  . i'm not a medical 
doctor , so my advice should be taken with many of salt .  . 

current distribution sci . , sci . , human . factors , 
news , sci ,  . answers . , and e mail to c , 
, and 

changes since previously versions are with change 
to the right of the text , as is this paragraph .  . 

table of contents 
1 mailing lists , newsgroups , etc. 
2 the soda . berkeley . edu . archive 
3 general info on 
4 typing , , , treatment 
5 requests for more info 
6 references 

1 mailing lists , newsgroups , etc. 

usenet news 

human . factors has discussion about alternative devices .  . 
risks . has an occasional posting relevant to via computers. 
sci . and misc . also tend to have relevant traffic .  . 

there 's a brand new newsgroup , sci . , specifically 
to discuss these things. this would be the recommended place to post. 

mailing lists 

the network available both on paper and via e mail , this publication 
covers issues relevant to those with  . for 
a issue and information , send a , self 
addressed business to rose , paradise way , 
ca  . 

e mail to 

2 , requested .  . 

all network are available via anonymous ftp from 
soda . berkeley . edu .  ( see below for  . 

c health and are both ibm things. for those familiar 
with , here 's the quick info 

c health subscribe to 
post to c 

subscribe to 
post to 

quick on to a 
mail 
subject total mania ! 

subscribe j. random hacker 
info 
. 
that 's all there is to it. you 'll get of mail back from the , 
including a list of other possible commands you can mail .  . cool , huh what 'll 
those bitnet people think of , next 

2 the soda . berkeley . edu . archive 

i 've started an archive site for info related to typing  . just 
anonymous ftp to soda . berkeley . edu . pub typing injury .  . 32 . 
currently , you 'll find 

files 
typing injury faq 
general information about typing 
products to replace your keyboard 
software software to watch your keyboard usage 
changes changes since last month 's edition  ( new ! ) 

keyboard commentary dan 's opinions on the keyboard replacements 
advice . about adverse 
sit . document about your 
ps . converted version of above .  .  .  . 
info . info on 
explained . very detailed information about 
article on 
article on 
info . info on 
bibliography of related 

network archive of the network newsletter 
 ( currently , containing issues 1 through 11 ) 

details . long detailed information about 
physical . study showing is n't just psychological 

various product literature 

apple press press release on the apple keyboard 
apple extensive info about apple 's 
info review on the 
comfort info on the comfort keyboard 
review detailed opinions of the 
follow up to above 
description of the 's appearance 
review one user 's personal opinions 
info on various products 
review one user 's personal opinions 
info info on the  ( new ! ) 

programs 
 ( with the exception of , everything here is as 
source to be compiled with a unix system. some programs take advantage 
of the x system , also . ) . 

a program for one handed usage of normal 
tells you when to take a break 
c . turns your keyboard into 
keeps track of how long you 've been typing 
rest yet another idle 
fake x keyboard events from the 
serial use a pc keyboard on anything ! 
 ( new improved version ! ) 
a serial keyboard for 

 ( note and rk . are both from mit . edu . 
so they may have a more current version than soda . ) . 

a more sophisticated x keyboard 
program .  . supports  . 
 ( note a new version is now available ) 
rk . the keyboard what you 'll 
type next saves typing 

pictures  ( in the subdirectory ) 
picture of good sitting 
 ( the document is better for this) 

fuzzy picture 
fuzzy picture with somebody using it 
apple . the apple keyboard 
the 
comfort . the health care comfort keyboard 
fuzzy picture 
key 
a much better picture of the 
the key keyboard 
the keyboard 
multiple views of the 
1 4  . several pictures of products 
the 
picture of the 
tony . the tony ! 
front view 
side view 
the keyboard 
wave . the  keyboard 

many files are  ( have a  . z .  . if you ca n't a file 
, soda will do it. just ask for the file , without the  . z . extension .  . 

if you 're unable to ftp to soda , send me e mail and we 'll see what we 
can  . 

3 general info on 

first , and foremost of importance if you experience pain at all , then 
you absolutely need to go see a doctor .  . as soon as you possibly can. the 
difference of a day or two can mean the difference between a short 
and a long , drawn out ordeal .  . go see a doctor .  . now , your garden variety 
doctor may not necessarily be familiar with this sort of injury .  . generally , 
any hospital with an clinic will offer in 
these kinds of problems. t wait , though. go see a doctor .  . 

the remainder of this information is paraphrased , without permission , from 
a wonderful report by new 's department of  ( occupational 
safety and health service ) overuse  . treatment and 
rehabilitation a 's guide . 

first , a  ( or , fancy names for how you should n't have your hands ) 
 ( note you 're likely to hear these terms from doctors and keyboard ) 

injury a general term for many kinds of 
overuse for 
trauma disorder another for 
work related limb disorders yet another for 
 ( see below) 
at a  . 
turning the down. 
extension the up. 
turning the up. 
the down. 
grip the grip used for a  . 
deviation the towards the little finger .  . 
power grip the grip used for a hammer .  . 
deviation the the  . 
moving away from the body. 
the fingers out wide. 

now then , problems come in two main types local conditions and 
conditions .  . local problems are what you 'd expect specific , 
, , , etc. being or otherwise hurt. 
conditions , often mistaken for local problems , can involve 
, pain , burning and or with areas of 
in , although they 're not necessarily the problem. 

why does overuse occur here 's the theory. 

normally , your and get blood through which 
pass among the  . when you tense a , you restrict 
the blood flow. by the time you 're exerting 50 of your full power , 
you 're completely your blood flow. 

without blood , your use energy until they run out , 
then they switch to  ( without oxygen ) , which 
nasty by products like acid , which cause pain. 

once one , all its tense up , perhaps to the 
load .  . this makes sense for your normal sort of injury , but it only makes 
things worse with motion. more means less blood , 
and the cycle continues .  . 

another by product of the lack of blood is and from 
your  . they need blood too. 

anyway , when you 're typing too much , you 're never really giving a change 
for the blood to get back where it belongs , because your never 
relax enough to let the blood through. , poor , and poor 
, only make things worse. 

specific you may have heard of 

 ( note most come in two flavors and  . 
are severely painful and  . conditions have 
less symptoms but are every bit as real . ) . 

an of the  . 
occurs when the activity is mild or not enough to 
cause , but enough to the 's ability 
to the  . as a result , the , gets 
, and you 've got your problem. 

an of a  . repeated of a 
can cause  . eventually , the of the start separating , 
and can even break , leaving behind which more , more 
, and more pain. sub is more common , which entails 
a dull over the and , some , and it gets worse 
with activity. 

the that run through your into your 
fingers get by the around them. symptoms include 
feeling and , , , and even loss of  . 
is often confused for a condition. 

adverse also known as   , this is where 
the running down to your have become and possibly 
as a result of in the and elsewhere. 
can often as or associated with one of the other 
disorders .  . it is largely and can be treated with 
 ( brachial stretches and point  . 

others for just about every part of your body , there 's a fancy name for 
a way to it. by now , you should be getting an idea of how 
conditions occur and why. just be careful many doctors 
problems as , when in reality , you 
may have a completely different problem. always get a second opinion 
before somebody does something to you  ( like  . 

4 typing , , , treatment 

the most important element of both and is to reduce 
in the and  . this requires learning how to relax .  . 
if you 're under a load of , this is important. tune out 
the world and deep and regular .  . relaxing should become a guiding 
principle in your work every three take a three second break .  . 
every three , take a three second break .  . really , do it every 
three minutes. it 's also helpful to work in comfortable surroundings , 
calm down , and relax .  . 

if you ca n't sleep , you really need to focus on this. rest , sleep , and 
are really a big deal. 

there are all kinds of other , of course. drugs can reduce 
and pain. can prevent bad 
 . can fix some problems. exercise can help 
your  . regular can help prevent injury .  . good 
and a good promote reduced  . ice or hot cold 
also reduce  . only your doctor can say what 's best 
for you. 

here are some basic  . i so liked the way this was 
written in the new book that i'm lifting it almost from 
appendix 10. 

. let your relax .  . 
. let your swing free. 
. keep your straight .  . 
. pull your in to look down do n't your head forward .  . 
. keep the in the base of your  . 
. try back in the chair .  . 
. do n't or forward .  . 
. alter your from time to time. 
. every 20 , get up and your  . 

set the , first. your feet should be flat on the  . there 
should be no pressure on the of your near the , 
and your should not slope too much. 

now , draw yourself up to your and see that its is comfortable 
to work at. if you are short , this may be impossible. the 
is to raise the and prevent your legs from by using a 
 . 

now , the so that your fit into the space 
between the and the  . the should support you in 
the of your back , so its to give firm support in this 
area. 

if you operate a keyboard , you will be able to spend more time 
back , so experiment with a chair with a , if available. 

now , i diverge a little from the text 

a good chair makes a big difference. if you do n't like your chair , go 
find a better one. you really want for , back angle , 
back , and maybe even  . most rests seem to get in 
the way , although some more expensive have 
rests which you can also out of the way. you should find a good 
and play with all these pick one that 's right for you. 
in the san francisco bay area , i highly recommend just  . the 
name says it all. 

keyboard , , and keyboard replacements 

there is a fair amount of on how to get this right. for some 
people , seem to work wonders .  . however , with good , you 
should n't be your on anything you would prefer your 
keyboard to be right there . if you drop your at your side and then 
lift your hands up at the , you want your keyboard under your hands 
when your are at about 90 degrees .  . of course , you want to avoid 
, extension , and deviation at all costs .  . 
may or may not help at this. you should get somebody else to come and 
look at how you work how you sit , how you type , and how you relax .  . it 's 
often easier for somebody else to notice your or 
hands. 

some argue that the normal , flat keyboard is antiquated and poorly 
designed .  . a number of replacements are available , on the market , today. 
check out the accompanying typing injury faq for much detail. 

5 requests for more info 

clearly , the above information is incomplete .  . the typing injury archive 
is incomplete .  . there 's always more information out there. if you 'd like 
to submit something , please send me mail , and i 'll it in. 

if you 'd like to maintain a list of products or , that would be 
wonderful ! i 'd love somebody to make a list of chair  . i 'd 
love somebody to make a list of doctors .  . i 'd love somebody to edit the 
above sections , looking for places where i 've obviously  . 

6 references 

i completely the information section here , using a wonderful 
guide produced in new by their safety health 
service , a service of their department of  . special thanks 
to the authors , turner , , , , and harding .  . 

semi reference 
. overuse 
. treatment and rehabilitation 
a 's guide 

published by the safety and health service 
department of 
, 
new  . 

first edition june 1992 
isbn 0 3 

price 9 .  ( new 's , of course) 

thanks to richard for this posting. 


dan one of the most attractive features of a connection 
machine is the of on the faces 
office 642 of its  . ref. manual , 0 . ,  . 

from 
subject re 
nntp posting host com . 
organization sw engineering 
x newsreader s 1 . 3 . 2 . 
lines 53 

in article 
 ( brian m. huey ) writes 

in article ,  ( brian m. huey ) writes 
i think that 's the correct  .  . 

the proper is  . it was an effect by 
s. , a soviet film in 1939 .  . 

as i recall , the are to 
and chemical reactions between the organic material and the silver 
in the films .  . 


stratus computer 
marlboro , mass .  . 
disclaimer my employer is not responsible for my opinions. 

i think that 's the correct  .  . 
i am looking for any information that will allow 
do it to take pictures .  . i'm thinking 
that education for schools might have a for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the  . any info is greatly 
appreciated. 
in case you do n't know , , to the best of my 
knowledge , involves taking pictures of an  ( most of the time) organic 
object between charged plates .  . the picture will show energy patterns 
or around the object , and depending on what type 
of object it is , the or energy patterns will vary .  . one might 
extrapolate here and say that this proves that every object within 
the universe  ( as we know it) has its own energy signature .  . 


to construct a device find a copy of handbook of psychic 
by and lynn schroeder library of 
congress 73  . it describes the necessary equipment and 
for the or alternatives , the and 
setup .  . i used a pack of 70 film and removed a single pack in a 
dark room , then made the exposure , put it back in the film pack and 
it out through the of the camera developing 
and very high quality .  . it is a good way to experience what 
is really and what it is not. as you know all ready , 
it is the pattern in the energy is significant .  . 
variations caused by exposure time , distance from the , or 
pressure on the , or variations in the photo materials are not 
important. 

hard copy mail mark c. high 
p o box 
, 




from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re health care reform 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 24 

in article  ( linda custer ) writes 
this is my first post , and i am not even sure it will work. here goes. 

did anyone read the on page 70 in the 29 march 1993 edition of time 
magazine , that managed care is extremely inefficient of all the possible 
that could be to , the industry is the worst ! 

comments 

i agree. adding layers of and simply eat up 
money that could be spent on those who actually are doing the work 
such as doctors and , and  . the most efficient system 
is probably one that has limited and a fixed such 
as england 's or even canada 's .  . i'm afraid we are on the wrong 
track .  . the problem may be that the lobby is too powerful .  . 






gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject quality control in medicine 
lines 7 

does anybody know of any information regarding the of total 
quality , quality control , quality in the of 
health care service .  . i would appreciate any information. if there is enough 
interest , i will post the responses. 
thank you 
, , md 
president ac 

from e . j .  . 
subject re do we need a to read an 
organization u . t . m . d .  . center 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x wed , 21 apr 93 15 19 48 gmt 

in article , 
writes 
this is one of those areas of medicine where battles frequently 
rage .  . with respect to your ob , i suspect that she has been in 
, and is thus allowed to use it and bill for its 
use. many also use  ( echocardiography ) , and are 
in fact considered by many to be the  . i am not sure where 
stand in this regard , but i suspect that they are at least as good as the 
 ( flame suit  . 

if it were my wife , i would insist that a be involved in the 
process. are trained in the process of 
interpreting data and are aware of many things that 
other are n't aware of. would you want a to 
deliver your baby if you would n't , then why would you want a ob to 
read your study 


in my opinion the process should involve a ob and a  . 


e j ed 
d institute 
the university of texas m . d .  . center 


from  ( jon noring ) 
subject re good grief !  ( was re what is it ) 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 26 

in article  ( ella i baff ) writes 

if anybody , doctors included , said to me to my face that there is no 
evidence of the  connection  , i cannot their safety .  . 
for their , off their is justified as far as 
i am concerned. 

this does n't sound like to me. 

no , just a little  . normally i do n't people 's off , except 
when my has and i become man ! ) 

jon 



charter member club. 

if you 're dying to know what means , be , e mail me , i 'll send info .  . 

jon 
international 100 . 100 . fred s 
place phone  ( 510 ) world 's best ! 
, ca v mail  ( 510 ) 

who are you read alt . psychology . ! that 's where the action is. 

from  ( howard r doyle ) 
subject re and health risk 
organization pittsburgh institute 
lines 18 

in article writes 


i recall that the issue is that fat on the meat and then 
down onto the hot elements whatever they are that the extreme 
then something in the fat into one or more 
which then are carried back up onto the meat in the  . 



hmmm .  . care to be more vague 








from  ( jon noring ) 
subject  ( was re  ( candida(yeast ) , fact or fiction ) 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 

in article  ( david rind ) writes 

do you believe that any exist how about is 
being a enough to that someone is not 
a , or is it just that even if a is a , 
other people should n't say so can you give an example of a 
commonly that you think is a , 
or have we gotten to the point in civilization where we no longer 
need to worry about healers taking advantage of 
people. 


i would say there are also significant numbers of doctors  ( of 
the clean , traditional cut , talk to the before starting 
any treatment , kind ) who recommend that , though accepted , may 
not be necessary for the patient at the time. and all for making a quick 
 . i would not be surprised if the cost of medical services in the u.s. is 
by these of a different color . in fact , i 'd 
say these doctors are the most dangerous since they call into question the 
true focus of the medical profession .  . the and the should focus 
on these instead of energy on  search and 
destroy  to pull the of those doctors who are trying non 
traditional or not fully accepted for their 
that traditional accepted medicine cannot help. 



now to make a general comment on many recent posts 


lately i 've seen the word about  . when a doctor or 
doctor be has decided to quit discussing any medical 
subject in a civilized manner , all he she has to do is say and 
somehow they magically expect the of this newsgroup to roll over 
on their backs and on themselves in obedience .  . what do they teach 
you in medical school how to your authority around 

let me put it another way to make my point clear is a word 
lacking in any precision .  . its sole use is to the issues at hand. 
the use of this word is a sure sign of and coming 
from any medical doctor  ( or be ) , where is expected , is real 
scary .  . 

but what do i know , i 've already been by the sci . gods . in this 
newsgroup as being   , and  . i look forward to more 
net .  . hey , they 're free. 


jon  r us 


s .  . , may i suggest seriously that if the doctors and be doctors on 
the net who refuse to have an open mind on alternative and 
theories , such as the theory , should create your own moderated group. 
you can call it sci . traditional . moderated . or sci . approved , so you 
can keep like me out of it . ) . 



charter member club. 

if you 're dying to know what means , be , e mail me , i 'll send info .  . 

jon 
international 100 . 100 . fred s 
place phone  ( 510 ) world 's best ! 
, ca v mail  ( 510 ) 

who are you read alt . psychology . ! that 's where the action is. 

from  ( vida morkunas ) 
subject 
summary how to to when you come from sea level 
organization , commerce , , , canada 
lines 20 

i live at sea level , and am called upon to travel to high cities 
quite frequently , on business. the cities in question are at to 
feet of  . one of them especially is very polluted .  .  .  . 

often i feel the first two or three days. i feel , and 
my heart seems to a lot more than at sea level. also , it is very 
in these cities , so i will tend to drink a lot of water , and keep 
away from , such as those containing or  . 

thing is , i still have symptoms .  . how can i ensure that my short trips there 
 ( no , i do n't usually have a week to acclimatize ) are as comfortable as possible 
is there something else that i could do 

a long time ago  ( possibly two years ago ) there was a discussion here about 
 . has anyone saved the messages 

many thanks , 

 . 


from  ( ken mitchum ) 
subject re open letter to hillary clinton ( 7 ) 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( ken mitchum ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 3 

how about posting one of her replies to your letters 



from  ( antero julkunen ) 
subject what about sci . chemistry . 
organization university of , finland 
lines 10 


there is this newsgroup sci . physics . and there has been quite a lot 
discussion in this group about many chemical items e.g. 
, etc. should there also be a newsgroup sci . chemistry . 



, dept chemistry , university of , finland 
e mail , phone 358 , fax 358 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re health care reform 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 20 

in article  ( david nye ) writes 

and may be a total disaster and that the canadian model is preferable , a 
position with which i agree. the other is surprising sympathy for the 
in all of this , to the effect that beating up on us wo n't 
help anything. 


i'm not sure about that. did you see the they took that showed 
that most people thought should be paid 80 , 000 per year 
that 's all i make , but i doubt that most are going 
to work very hard for that kind of bread .  . many would n't be able 
to service their school on that. mike had a good 
about it. 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from () 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 19 
nntp posting host carina . unm . edu . 

in article  ( chuck wa7kgx ) writes 
in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 

can you provide a reference to substantiate that back 
the lost weight does not constitute weight until it 
the starting weight or is this oral tradition that 
is shared only among you obesity 

not one , but two 

obesity in europe 88 , 
of the 1st european congress on obesity 

of ny  . sci .  . 1987 

hmmm .  . these do n't look like references to me. is passive aggressive 
behavior associated with weight ) 

brian 

from  ( thomas wong ) 
subject image software for pc 
organization dept. of civil engineering , u . b . c .  . , vancouver , b.c. , canada 
lines 27 
distribution world 
nntp posting host civil . ca . 



i am posting the following for my brother .  . please post your replies or 
send him email to his address at the end of his message. thank you. 


my is looking for a image analysis software for 
dos .  . we need something to measure lengths and areas on 
 . sometime in the future , we may expand to do 
some for , etc. we 've found lots of and 
info for the scientific products and  . 

but we have not been able to find any competing products. we 
would appreciate any comments on these products and 

suggestions comments on other products we should consider .  . 
thanks. 











from  ( brian delaney ) 
subject result sci . life . extension passes 28 
organization university of chicago 
lines 
nntp posting host net . 

the vote to create the proposed group , sci . life . extension , was 
 . 

yes votes  . 
no votes 28 .  . 

what follows is a list of the people who voted , by vote ( no or yes ) .  . 

here are the people who voted no 

 ( ed bailey ) 
 ( edwin barkdoll ) 
 ( mark brader ) 
 ( dave carr ) 
p . ida . org .  ( david desjardins ) 
 ( james b. hutchins ) 
 ( rich kulawiec ) 
 ( stu labovitz ) 
 ( stephen lau ) 
 ( philippe lebrun ) 
 ( jay maynard ) 
 ( ed mcguire ) 
 ( richard h. miller ) 
 ( marc moorcroft ) 
 ( david mosher ) 
 ( eric j. olson ) 
 ( herbert m petro ) 
smith  ( una smith ) 
 ( maxime kc6zps ) 
 ( matthias urlichs ) 
(a francis uy ) 
 ( john werner ) 
 ( potter wickware ) 
 ( gregory g. woodbury ) 
 . wright ) 
 ( norman yarvin ) 



here are the people who voted yes 

 ( hardcore alaskan ) 
 ( ken alexander ) 
 ( alex aumann ) 
 ( franklin balluff ) 
 . barash ) 
 ( alan  ( build ) 
 ( john h. barlow ) 
 ( paul barto ) 
 ( ryan bayne ) 
 ( mignon belongie ) 
 ( william beaudot ) 
 ( olav benum ) 
 ( ross beresford ) 
 ( ben best ) 
man . com .  ( levi bitansky ) 
 ( james blomgren ) 
 ( gregory bloom ) 
 ( mark brader ) 
 ( eli brandt ) 
 ( joseph brenner ) 
 ( robert cardwell ) 
 ( jeffrey chance ) 
 ( alexander chislenko ) 
 ( maynard s clark ) 
( a . j .  . ) 
 ( mike coleman ) 
 ( steve coltrin ) 
 ( john t. collier ) 
 ( curtis m. compton ) 
 ( bob cook ) 
 ( bruce cordell ) 
 ( cormier jean marc ) 
 ( douglas j. coyle ) 
( john r 1 ) 
 ( bruce davis ) 
 ( kenneth demonn ) 
 ( mark desilets ) 
 ( mark diekhans ) 
 ( kari dubbelman ) 
! com . !  ( dub dublin ) 
 ( will dye ) 
 ( terry egan ) 
 ( dani eder ) 
 ( glenn ellingson ) 
 ( richard farrar ) 
!  ( hal finney ) 
 ( lee fogel ) 
 ( foxx ) 
 ( sam , , , ) 
 ( michael p. frank ) 
 ( martin franklin ) 
 ( tiffany frazier ) 
 ( ailing freeman ) 
timothy  ( tim freeman ) 
 ( geoff george ) 
 ( daniel gijsbers ) 
 ( serena gilbert ) 
 ( robert lewis glendenning ) 
 ( phil goetz ) 
com .  ( chris goolsby ) 
 ( david gordon ) 
 ( robert d grahame ) 
 ( cynthia grant ) 
 ( robert greenstein ) 
 ( john a. gregor ) 
 ( roger gregory ) 
evans  ( ron evans ) 
 ( brent hansen ) 
 ( ron g. hay ) 
 ( anna k. haynes ) 
! qm ! bob  ( robert hearn ) 
 ( francis heylighen ) 
 . hindman ) 
 ( carwil james ) 
 ( martin janzen ) 
 ( jeffery m karp ) 
 ( richard kelly ) 
 ( ed kemo ) 
 ( kessner eric m ) 
 ( mr r a khwaja ) 
 ( keith koski ) 
 ( kathi kramer ) 
 ( ben krug ) 
 ( david kunz ) 
! !  ( steve langs ) 
pa  ( henry leong ) 
 ( steve linton ) 
 ( alejandro 6330 ) 
( keith f. ) 
 ( charles macdonald ) 
 ( robert c. majka ) 
 ( phil marks ) 
 ( cameron marshall ) 
 ( mike may ) 
 ( bruce maynard ) 
 ( john mccarrick ) 
 ( david mcintyre ) 
 ( malcolm mcmahon ) 
 ( john mcpherson ) 
 ( ralph merkle ) 
 ( eric messick ) 
 ( perry e. metzger ) 
 ( gary r. michael ) 
 ( asker mikael ) 
( loren j. miller ) 
 ( marvin minsky ) 
 ( paul morris ) 
mark  ( mark muhlestein ) 
 . david murray ) 
 ( glenn a nanney ) 
 ( anthony napier ) 
 ( donald e. niman ) 
 ( richard nistuk ) 
 ( jonathan o'donnell ) 
 ( martin r. olah ) 
 ( christopher patil ) 
 ( chris payne ) 
 ( sharon peleg ) 
 ( petur henry petersen ) 
 ( chris phoenix ) 
 ( brad pierce ) 
( pierce ) 
 ( doug platt ) 
 ( mitchell porter ) 
 ( craig presson ) 
 ( michael clive price ) 
 ( edward s. proctor ) 
 ( steve pruitt ) 
 ( michael quinn ) 
 ( patrick rauss ) 
berlin . de . ( jan k. ) 
 ( barry h. rodin ) 
 ( karl r. sackett ) 
 ( richard schroeppel ) 
 ( frank schulz ) 
island . mi . us .  ( karel w. sebek ) 
 ( brad seewald ) 
 ( thomas d. shapard ) 
 ( harry shapiro ) 
 ( david sharnoff ) 
 ( d sherwood ) 
 ( richard shiflett ) 
 ( elaine shiner ) 
com .  ( robert shock ) 
 ( rob shvern ) 
2 . edu .  ( william siegel ) 
 ( kenton sinner ) 
 ( bob smart ) 
 ( anthony david smith ) 
 ( shayne smith ) 
 ( daniel l snider ) 
 ( snyder jr ) 
 ( brian stewart ) 
! com . !  ( sigrid 
stewart ) 
 ( nathaniel stitt ) 
 ( tom stockfisch ) 
 ( david stodolsky ) 
 ( steve strong ) 
 ( carey sublette ) 
 ( jeff suttor ) 
 ( john swain ) 
 ( nick szabo ) 
 . chris theriault ) 
 ( chris thompson ) 
 ( gunnar thoresen ) 
 ( andrew trapp ) 
 ( jerry tunis ) 
 ( rajeev upadhye ) 
 ( treon verdery ) 
state . edu .  ( eric j vore ) 
 ( howard wachtel ) 
 ( susan c wade ) 
 ( paul wakfer ) 
( walker ) 
 ( james ward ) 
 ( jeremy m. wertheimer ) 
 ( bruce white 3807 ) 
 ( mark wiedman ) 
 ( elisha wiesel ) 
 ( willing , paul ) 
 ( steven winikoff ) 
 ( david wright ) 
 ( stephen 66667 ) 
 ( liquid x ) 
 ( michael g. xakellis ) 
 ( ion yannopoulos ) 
 ( bob yazz ) 
 ( leonard n .  . zubkoff ) 


hamburg . de . 


edu . 

! 





dave 
f 






man . com . 
u . ac . 












! 






es . 







 ( the group still passes if you do n't count the people for 
whom i just have email address . ) . 

brian 

from  ( debbie forest ) 
subject re , et .  . al. side effects 
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 19 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 

in article  ( sheryl coppenger ) writes 
in article  ( steve dyer ) writes 
 ( astemizole ) is most definitely linked to weight gain .  . 
it really is peculiar that some have this effect , 
and even more so an like which purportedly 
does n't cross the blood brain and so tends not to cause 
 . 

the original poster mentioned  . i had that too , but it was 
mostly due to the really bizarre dreams i was having i was n't getting 
any rest. my doctor said that was a common reaction. if 
does n't cross the blood brain , how does it cause that side 
effect any ideas 

it made me really for the first few weeks. now that i think about 
it i was having some bizarre dreams too. my doctor said it made him feel 
like he had to be doing something all the time. but if you keep taking it , 
after a few weeks these symptoms seem to go away , he said in there. 
i did and they did. 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re river water and safe 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
distribution usa 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 18 

in article  ( infospunj  ( dan field ) writes 
i 've been invited to spend a couple weeks this summer down the 
 . my journey partners want to live off of river water and 
along the route .  . should i have any concerns about pollution or 
health risks in doing this 

you 'd have to the river water first. i'm not sure how practical 
that is with the  . you 'd better check with health 
along the way to see if there are in the river .  . if 
it is just , those can be filtered or killed , but you 
may need or other means to from  . 
better be same than sorry. obviously , drinking the river without 
it is likely to make you sick from bacteria and parasites .  . 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re too many 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 15 

in article  ( keith f. lynch ) writes 

so , why are the so expensive , and what can be done to reduce the 
expense is n't it just a box with some big , a radio , 
and an attached pc 

the are huge ! good sets with big ( 1 . 5 . tesla ) 
cost millions of dollars .  . then , the wants 400 for 
reading each  . 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re my new diet it works great ! ! ! ! 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 17 


in article  ( chuck wa7kgx ) writes 

weight is a term used in the medical literature on 
obesity to denote weight beyond what was lost in a diet 
cycle .  . there are any number of terms which mean one thing to 

can you provide a reference to substantiate that back 
the lost weight does not constitute weight until it 
the starting weight or is this oral tradition that 
is shared only among you obesity 



gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from m . 
subject 
organization at t 
keywords 
lines 7 

anyone have any information on the effects origin of 
it 's under the name , and appears to be an 
anti inflammatory .  . is it similar to stronger 





from  ( steve dyer ) 
subject re is 
organization s . p .  . computer , cambridge ma 
lines 91 

in article  ( opirg ) writes 
many people responded with more stories i think its safe to 
say the original poster is already familiar with such stories. 
presumably , he wants hard info to substantiate or refute claims about 
making people ill .  . 

there has been no hard info provided about making people ill .  . 
that 's the point , after all. 

like someone who can read a scientific paper and apparently 
come away from it with ideas which have nothing to 
do with the use of this substance in human 
have you read 's work i fail to see how results from 
peer studies as . 

that 's because these peer studies are not addressing 
the effects of in people , they 're looking at animal models .  . 
you ca n't walk away from this and start about and 
as if there were any documented health effects 
demonstrated in humans. note that i would n't have any argument 
with a statement like that animal has pro 
the following blah , blah , we must be careful about its 
use in humans. this is precisely not what you said. 

have been done on , as well. i have never seen a 
study where the mode of was  . the 
and were  . some studies used and  . 
is not a normal admin .  . method for food  . studies , 
for obvious reasons. you must not have read the peer works 
that i referred to or you would never have come up with this brain 
injection bunk .  . 

it most certainly is for  . you know , studies of 
involve more than food science . 

pardon me , but where are you getting this from have you read the 
have you done a literature search 

so , point us to the studies in humans , please. i'm familiar with 
the literature , and i 've never seen any which relate at all to 
's work in animals and the effects of on neurons .  . 

the point is the  . of course , they 're amino  . 
note that people with cannot tolerate any  . 

well , actually , they have to tolerate some it 's a 
essential amino acid .  . they just try to get as little as is healthy 
without producing dangerous levels of and its 
in the blood. 

's research compared infant human diets .  . specifically , the amount 
of freely available in mother 's milk versus baby , 
vs. typical lunch items from the standard american diet such as 
 . he found that one could the safety margin 
for infant humans by at least four in a single of 
 . mother 's milk was well below the effective  . 

goodness , i'm not saying that it 's good to feed infants a lot of 
 . it 's just that this safety 
margin is a construct derived from animal models and given that , 
you can prove anything you like. we 're talking policy in 
infant here , yet you 're it as received wisdom .  . 

read 's review paper in  . brain , 1988 , and check his 
sources. they are  . there is no dispute .  . 

 . there most certainly is a dispute .  . 

between who over what i would be most interested in seeing you 
provide peer non food industry funded to articles 
that has no effects whatsoever. 

you mean asserting . you 're being intellectually dishonest  ( or just 
plain confused ) , because you 're reports which do not necessarily 
have anything to do with each other. 's reports would argue a potential 
for problems in human infants , but that 's not to say that this says anything 
whatsoever about the use of in most , nor does he provide any 
studies in humans which indicate any effects  ( for obvious 
reasons . ) . it says nothing about 's to the phenomenon 
of the chinese . it says nothing about the frequent 
inability to replicate reports of in the lab .  . 

major . com . 
hmm .  .  . com . . why am i not surprised 


probably one of the remarks you 've made. 


steve 
major . com . aka , , , , ! ! 

from  ( kenneth gilbert ) 
subject re 's 
article i.d. blue . 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 21 

in article writes 
how long does it take a 's to clear of the after 
does your chances of getting quickly or does it take 
a amount of time for that to happen 

the answer to your first question is rather difficult to answer without 
doing a lot of  . the second question is something that 's been 
known for some time. it appears that within about 15 years of 
a person 's risk for developing drops to that of the 
person who never  ( assuming you do not get in the 
! ) .  . the risk to someone who the equivalent of a pack per 
day for 40 years is around 20 times as high as a non  . still 
rather low overall , but significant .  . personally , i 'd be more concerned 
about heart disease secondary to it 's much more common , and 
even a small increase in risk is significant there. 



university of pittsburgh 
general internal medicine  .  .  . , not a programmer ! 


from  ( ken mitchum ) 
subject re patient diplomacy 
article i.d. pitt . 
reply to  ( ken mitchum ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 22 

in article  ( herman rubin ) writes 
in article  ( ken mitchum ) writes 

 . disease is a great experience , however. some people 
are very much to find out that all the money in the world 
does not buy one health .  . everyone looks the same when they die. 

if money does not buy one health , why are we talking about paying 
for medical for those not currently adequately covered 

, i would think you of all people would could distinguish 
between health and treatment of disease. all the 
medicine people preach this all the time. you cannot buy health .  . 
you can buy treatment of disease , assuming you are lucky enough 
to have a disease which can be treated .  . a rich person with a 
terminal disease is a bit out of luck. there is no such thing 
as adequately covered and there never will be. 

and for what it 's worth , i 'll be the first to admit that all my 
die. 



from 
subject  ( candida(yeast ) , fact or fiction 
lines 187 
nntp posting host vms . edu . 
organization college of medicine 

i can not believe the way this thread on  ( candida(yeast ) has progressed .  . 
steve and i have been words over the same topic in sci .  . 
 . when he his typical reserve and attacked a women 
poster for being treated by a for a disease that did 
not exist. calling this a was reprehensible steve and i 
see that you and some of the others are doing it here as well. 

let me tell you who the really are , these are the who have 
no idea how the human body interacts with it 's environment and how that 
can be altered by diet and  . these are the 
who dismiss their with difficult and make them go 
from doctor to doctor to find  ( relief(like in sci .  .  . nutrition ) and 
then when they find one that solves their problem , the rest start 
 . could it just be i could n't help or jon 
but somebody else did. could they know more than me no way , they must be a 
 . 

i 've been teaching a human course for medical students for over ten 
years now and guess who the most receptive students are those that were 
raised on and saw first hand the effect of diet on the health of their 
farm animals and those students who had made a diet change prior to 
entering medical  ( school(switched to the vegan  . typically , this is 
about 1 3 of my class of 90 students .  . those not interested in 
either tune me out or just stop coming to class .  . that 's okay because i 
know that some of what i'm teaching is going to stick and there will be at 
least a few enlightened practicing in the u.s. it 's really 
too bad that most u.s. medical schools do n't cover because if 
they did , would not be viewed as a non disease by so many in the 
medical profession .  . 

in animal , an animal is with good bacteria after 
are stopped .  . medicine has decided that since humans do not 
have a stomach , no such with good bacteria is 
needed after coming off a spectrum  . humans have all 
kinds of different living in the  ( system(mouth , stomach , small 
and large intestine ) , , and on the  . these are 
because they do not cause disease in people unless the immune 
system is  . they are also called because unlike 
the that cause human disease , they do not produce 
as they live out their existence in and on our body. but any of 
these will be considered if it manages to take up 
within the body. a poor can let this 
happen and vitamin a is mainly responsible for setting up this  . 
steve got real upset with 's doctor because he was using anti 
and vitamin a for her problems. if steve really what 
vitamin a does in the body , he would  ( not(or at least should not ) be calling 
's doctor a  . 

here is a brief primer on  . , as they are commonly 
called , are not caused by  . the most common organism responsible 
for this type of infection is or which is actually a 
like  . an infection caused by this organism is called  . 
is a very rare because , like an e. coli infection , it 
requires that the host immune system be depressed .  . 

is frequently found on the and all of the of 
normal healthy people and it rarely becomes a problem unless some 
factor is present such as a high blood  ( level(diabetes ) or an oral 
course of has been used. in , their contain 
much higher of  . , unlike bacteria , is very limited in 
it 's  ( food(fuel ) selection .  . without , it can not grow , it just barely 
 . if it gets access to a lot of , it and over rides 
the other living with it in the , or  . in 
, can also foster a good site for these little 
 . the is usually just a minor in most people but 
some people do really develop a bad inflammatory process at the 
or site. whether this is an allergic like reaction to 
the or not is n't certain .  . when the is in the or on 
the , it can be seen and some doctors do then try to treat it. 
if it 's internal , only symptoms can be used and these symptoms are pretty 
 . 


is kept in check in most people by the normal bacterial in 
the , the  ( tract(mouth , stomach and intestines ) and in the 
which with it for food. the human immune system 
does not bother itself with  ( these(nonpathogenic organisms ) unless 
they the . if they do , an inflammatory 
response will be set up. most americans are not getting enough vitamin a 
from their diets .  . about 30 of all american 's die with less vitamin a than 
they were born s .  .  . while this low level of vitamin 
a does not cause  ( pathology(blindness ) it does the 
system. this would then be a factor for a strong 
inflammatory response after a  . 

while can suffer from a the most common cause of 
this type of is the use of broad spectrum which 
knock down many different kinds of bacteria in the body and remove the main 
competition for as far as food is concerned. while drugs are 
available to handle , many find that their doctor will not 
use them unless there is evidence of a infection .  . the of 
the anti drugs does warrant some  . but if the or 
is suspected to be  ( candida(and recent use of a broad spectrum 
is the gun ) , then anti use should be 
just as the anti are an appropriate treatment for 
, in spite of what mr. steve says .  . 

but even in being given the anti , the caused by 
the excessive in the , or the tends to 
return after drug treatment is unless the underlying cause of 
the problem is  ( addressed(lack of a good bacterial in the body and or 
poor  . is the most effective 
for  . from it 's name , it is an acid loving 
organism and it sets up an condition were it grows .  . can not 
grow very well in an environment. in the , l. is 
the  ( bacteria(unless you are hit with broad spectrum 
 . 

in the system , the seems to be a particularly good 
for and the use of by many women creates a very 
environment around the for  ( transfer(through and 
humidity ) of to the  . one of the most ways to 
this is to wear  . 

if the occurs in the area , the burning , , pain and even 
blood make many think that they have  . if the 
manages to move further up the , very 
 ( occurs(abdominal and blood in the  . this positive stool 
for blood is what sent to her family doctor in the first 
place. after extensive , he told her that there was nothing wrong 
but her gut still hurt. on to another doctor , and so on. richard 
has told me e mail that he considers blood in stool 
to be a waste of time and money because of the very large number of 
false  ( positives(candida guys ) .  . if my gut hurt me on a constant 
basis , i would want it fixed. yes it 's nice to know that i do n't have 
colon but what then is causing my when i finally find a 
doctor who treats me and gets me 90 better , steve calls him a  . 

prefers a slightly environment while bacteria 
tend to prefer a slightly environment. the becomes 
during a woman 's period and this is often when in the  . 
vinegar and water are the best way of dealing with 
problems. many women have also gotten relief from the introduction of 
directly into the  ( tract(i would want to be sure of 
the of the product before trying this) .  . my wife had this 
problem after going on birth control and searched for over a year 
until she found a who solved the problem rather than just 
for anti  . this was a woman who had had 
the same  ( problem(recurring  . this m . d .  . did some 
and came up with an acid and l. which she 
used in your office to keep it sterile .  . after three , sex 
returned to our  . i have often wondered what an m . d .  . with 
or problems would do about the problem that he tells his 
is a non existent  . 

the bacteria l. is an acid producing bacteria 
which is the most common bacteria found in the of healthy women. 
if taken , it can also become a major bacteria in the gut .  . through 
, it has also been used to the  . 
but before this occurs , the system 
needs to be  . this is accomplished by vitamin a , vitamin c and 
some of the b complex vitamins .  . diet repeatedly show that americans 
are not getting enough and  . these are probably the of 
the population that will have the greatest problem with this non existent 
 ( disorder(candida after  . 

some of the above material was obtained from natural healing by mark 
, published by press , as well as notes from my human 
course. i will be posting a discussion of vitamin a sometime in 
the future , along with reference to point out the extremely 
important role that vitamin a plays in the defense system in 
the body and why vitamin a should be effective in dealing with 
 . another effective dietary treatment is to restrict 
during the treatment , this is especially important if the 
system is involved. if can not get , it 's not going to out 
grow the bacteria and you then give bacteria , which can use amino and 
for energy , a chance to take over and keep the in check 
once is returned to the gut .  . 

if steve and some of the other want to jump all over this post , 
fine. i all over steve in sci .  .  . because he 
a poster who was seeking advice about her doctor 's use of vitamin 
a and anti for a in her gut .  . people seeking advice 
from should not be treated this way. those of us giving of our 
time and knowledge can it out to our heart 's content. if you saved 
your venom for me steve and left the helpless posters who are 
seeking help alone , i would n't have a problem with your behavior. 

martin , d .  . 
professor of biochemistry and chairman 
department of biochemistry and 
college of medicine 
west 17th st. 
, ok. 

without discourse , there is no remembering , without remembering , there is 
no learning , without learning , there is only ignorance . 

from  ( michael holloway ) 
subject re wanted rat cell line  ( adrenal c . ) . 
organization state university of new york at stony 
lines 14 
nntp posting host ic . edu . 
keywords cell cell line rat 

in article  ( christophe roos ) writes 
i am looking for a rat cell line of cell type .  . i 
have been looking at without success and would very much appreciate any 
help. 

i shot off a response to this last night that i 've tried to  . it was 
only a few later while driving home that i that your 
message does specifically say  . my first reaction had been to suggest 
the line. that may still be a good compromise , depending 
on what you 're doing. have you using a cell line from one 
of the t lines another alternative might be primary 
cells from  . 

mike 

from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 18 
distribution 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


in article  ( charles l. creegan ) writes 
what about 's infamous of the idea of 
from a of snakes in the fire their is this 
specific enough to count certainly it turns up repeatedly in basic 
 . of sci .  . texts as an example of the component of 
 . 

i think the question is what is extra scientific about this 

it has been a long time since anyone has proposed restrictions on 
where one comes up with ideas in order for them to be considered 
legitimate  . the point , in short , is this and 
speculation in science may come from wild of fancy , 
, ancient traditions , modern , or anywhere else. 

russell 


from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re science and  ( was ... tradition ) 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 53 
distribution 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
keywords science errors 


i agree with everything that wrote in her previous post in 
this thread. in case this people , i would like to expand 
on two of her comments .  . 

in article  ( lee lady ) writes 
avoiding mistakes is certainly highly desirable .  . however it is also 
widely acknowledged that is to  . 
... in the extreme case , a becomes so by all 
the possible mistakes he might make that he is unable to even leave 
the house. 

one of the most important  ( and difficult ) aspects of reasoning 
about empirical investigation lies in understanding the context , 
, and importance of the various arguments and pieces of 
evidence that are for a claim .  . some errors break the 
back of a piece of research , some leave a hole that needs to be 
filled in , and some are trivial in their importance .  . it is a 
grave mistake to confuse these. 

past from this thread 

i doubt if einstein used any formal  . .... 

he also proposed numerous experiments which if performed would 
distinguish a universe in which special relativity holds from 
one in which it does not. ... 

back to 

these are not the rules according to many who post to sci . and 
sci . psychology .  . according to these posters if it 's not supported by 
carefully designed controlled studies then it 's not science. 

these posters are making the mistake that i have previously 
criticized of adhering to a recipe .  . a carefully 
designed and controlled study is neither always possible nor 
always important.  ( on the other hand , if someone is proposing a 
that supposedly a medical problem , we 
have enough knowledge of the errors that have this kind 
of claim to ask for a carefully designed and controlled study 
to our skepticism . ) . 

rules such as support the hypothesis by a carefully designed and 
controlled study are too narrow to apply to all investigation .  . 
i think that the requirements for particular reasoning to be 
convincing depends greatly on the kinds of mistakes that have 
occurred in past reasoning about the same kinds of things.  ( to 
the previous example , we know that conclusions from 
observations of the treatment of medical 
problems are notoriously ) . 

russell 

from  ( nigel ballard ) 
subject re 
distribution world 
organization inc. 
reply to 
x newsreader simple news 1 . 90 .  ( ka9q 1 . 
lines 34 

, 
does anybody know if is a 
(i . e . if someone who this can be kill 
bye this one ) 

people have died from , but usually it is not 
fatal and is  . 

gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


hi there 
i'm suffering from at present. although it 's shown as a 
rare tissue disorder , it is not life threatening .  . 

the very thing that can happen to a non treated sufferer is 
 . my are me with e . c .  . (a 
steriod ) and after four months at a day , it 's totally done 
away with my , so happening for the 
good ! 

cheers 


food 
cis radio on 
united kingdom amazing ! and all down two skinny women 

two are walking along an  . the first penguin turns to 
the second penguin and says it looks like you are wearing a  . 
the second penguin turns to the first penguin and says , maybe i am .  . 



from  ( bill dowding ) 
subject re 
organization public unix system , , 
lines 15 

 ( brian m. huey ) writes 

i think that 's the correct  .  . 
i am looking for any information that will allow 
do it to take pictures .  . i'm thinking 
that education for schools might have a for 
sale , but i do n't know any of the  . any info is greatly 
appreciated. 

involves taking pictures of minute resident in 
the seas surrounding the  . or pictures taken by them , perhaps. 

bill from 



from  ( ming liu) 
subject h e l p m e with some 
organization  . computer science engin .  . of u. , taiwan , 
lines 20 

i have bad luck and got a called , which involves 
the growth of in the  . i found out about it by checking medicine 
books and i found the  . and i know i can just go to a clinic to 
get it cured .  . but unfortunately i am serving my duty in the army right now and 
i think it 's impossible to prevent anyone from knowing this if i take leaves 
every day for two weeks for treatment .  . thus i bought the prescribed tablets 
at some , but to it i must get injection of , with 
a of every 12 hours , for at least 10 days. i can probably buy the 
tools and this solution somewhere but i t know how to do injection by myself 
! 
can any kind people here tell me 

if it 's possible to do it can i do it on my or it must be done on the hip 
only any info is welcome and please write me or post your help soon ! ! (i am 
already taking the tablets  .  . and . i ca n't wait ! ! ) 

please do n't flame me for posting this , and do n't judge me. i 've learned a 
lesson and all i need now is real medical help. 

from 

from  ( ron roth ) 
subject selective 
x by usenet gateway 
organization rose media , , ontario .  . 
lines 33 

 ( k  ( dick king ) writes 
 ( k 
 ( k  ( ron roth ) wrote 
 ( k , who are we kidding , the new england medical journal in 1984 
 ( k the heading percent of diseases are not by 
 ( k drugs or , which has been by several other reports .  . 
 ( k no wonder are not with alternative medicine , since 
 ( k the 20 magic of the effect would award alternative 
 ( k twice the success rate of conventional medicine .  .  .  . 
 ( k 
 ( k 1 90 of diseases is not the same thing as 90 of . 
 ( k 
 ( k in a world with one disease that strikes 100 people , and 
 ( k diseases which strikes one person each , medical science will 
 ( k 91 of the and report that 90 of diseases have no  . 
 ( k 
 ( k 2 a disease would be counted among the 90 if nothing better than 
 ( k a were known. of course are bound to not knowingly 
 ( k  .  .  . 
 ( k 
 ( k dk 

hmmm .  .  .  . even without the ) at the end , i did n't think anyone 
was going to take the mathematics or statistics of my post seriously. 

i only hope that you had the same thing in mind with your post , 
otherwise you would need at least two ) 's at the end to help 
anyone understand your calculations above .  .  .  . 

ron 

2 . 00 . this mind intentionally left  . 
2 . 10 . usenet rose media  ( 416 ) 

from () 
subject re and health risk 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 18 
nntp posting host carina . unm . edu . 

in article writes 
in article 
 ( mark robert thorson ) writes 


no , there is something called the amendment which makes 
food illegal in any amount .  . this was passed by congress in the 

i think what we have to keep in mind is that even though it may be illegal to 
produce sell food with , it is not illegal 
for people to do such to their own food  ( smoking ,  . is this true 

 . what did you say your name was address , , eh 
i think the gov t would like to know about this .  .  .  . 

brian 
) 


from  ( dave lord ) 
subject re request  ( souvlaki ) sauce 
reply to  ( dave lord ) 
organization engineering and manufacturing , san diego , ca 
lines 13 

in article , mackie 
writes 
in article michael , 
writes 
would anyone out there in  net land  happen to have an 
authentic , sure fire way of making this great sauce that 
is used to 's and 

i'm not sure of the exact recipe , but i'm sure is one of 
the major  . ) 

it 's plain with and  ( other are 
sometimes  . some people use half and half  . 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re ob 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 28 

in article  ( david nye ) writes 


i believe it is illegal for a to discriminate against  . i 


is that true i know some that wo n't even  . 
most programs discriminate , in that given an equally 
qualified as an american they will take the american .  . what 
rights do they actually have does it matter if they are 
us citizens  ( most are not ) we have had good luck with 
and bad luck. some of our very best residents have been  . 
also , our very worst .  . as it turns out , the worst are often 
us citizens that studied in off medical schools .  . of the 
5 residents fired for in the 12 years i 've been here 
in my department , all have been  . 3 were us citizens who studied 
in , 1 was a us citizen but was trained in the soviet union , 
and one was  . unfortunately , all are now practicing medicine 
somewhere , 3 of them in after having been picked up by 
other programs , 1 in , and the other in emergency medicine .  . 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( jim fare ) 
subject re problem 
reply to  ( jim fare ) 
distribution world 
organization systems division , corp , ,  . , canada 
lines 15 

in article tech . edu . tech . edu . writes 
i have a very  . my problem is when i my face , it becomes 
in half an hour .  . especially in the nose  . is this an how 
can i prevent it from in such short time is there a out 
there that will do a better job that is after cleaning , my face wo n't become 
in such a short time. 

i do n't think that 's a problem. my face is quite too. i had a moderate 
acne problem for many years. i then found that if i my face 
with a nail brush and  ( irish spring ) twice a day the acne was not a 
problem. i can still leave a pretty health nose print on a after 45 
 ( do n't ask ) but acne is not a real problem anymore. 

j . f .  . 


from  ( jim fare ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( jim fare ) 
distribution world 
organization systems division , corp , ,  . , canada 
lines 26 

in article  ( naomi t courter ) writes 
can anyone give me more information regarding i heard 
it 's a very common disease among women and if anyone can provide names 
... 


is where cells that would normally be the exist 
outside the  . sometimes this causes problems , often it does n't .  . 
there is generally no need to remove of unless they are 
causing other problems. one i know had in an  . 
this caused her a great deal of pain. another i know has an 
in her she is not having it removed. 

the american society has information on this and they probably 
maintain a list of in all parts of the continent that deal with 
 . you can reach them at 

the american society 
south 
200 
, 
 ( 205)933 ) 

j . f .  . 



from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re shoulder 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 19 

in article  ( steve katz ) writes 

recently i managed to my shoulder while 
 . the injury also seems to have the 
in my  . i was wondering if someone could point me towards 
some literature that would give me some background into 
these types of  . please respond by email if possible. 


your medical school library should have books on 
 . probably it was your , so look that up. 





gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( dakota ) 
subject re help for stones  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization lawrence national , 
lines 30 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article 
writes 
my is in pain from stones .  . she says that because she 
has no 
medical , she cannot get them removed. 

my question is there any way she can treat them herself , or at least 

their effects any help is deeply appreciated.  ( advice , to 
literature , 
etc .  .  . ) . 

thank you , 

dave 


first , let me offer you my  . i 've had stones 4 times 
and i know the pain she is going through. first , it is best that she see 
a doctor .  . however , every time i had stones , i saw my doctor and the 
only thing they did was to some pain killers and for a 
infection .  . the pain killers did nothing for me .  .  . stones 
are extremely painful. my stones were judged , so we just waited it 
out. however the last one took 10 days to pass .  .  . not . fun. anyway , if she 
absolutely wo n't see a doctor , i suggest drinking lots of fluids and perhaps 
an over the counter sleeping pill .  . but , i do highly suggest seeing a doctor .  . 
stones are not something to fool around with. she should be x 
to make sure there is not a serious problem. 

steve 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re health care reform 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 20 

in article  ( linda custer ) writes 

also , i'm not sure that at the very , very highest levels 
do n't have to come down.  ( i'm not talking about the of 
making good but not great who have loans from medical school 
) . i 'd also like to see some strong ethics with for 

i agree that some have gotten way out of line. the main 
problem is the method for rather than time 
the system. i hope they will fix that. but i'm afraid , as usual , 
the local doc is going to take the  . people about paying 
50 to see their home doctor in his office , but do n't mind paying 
20 , 000 to have brain  . they think their local doc is 
them but worship the feet of the who saved their life. 
what they do n't realize is that we need more local and 


gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( marc gabriel ) 
subject re how to  .  .  . really 
organization university 
lines 44 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

gordon banks wrote 
in article ( 
gabriel ) writes 

now , i'm not saying that is the best way to it 's very 
hard to culture bb in most cases. the point is that dr. n has developed a 
feel for what is and what is n't  . this comes from years of experience. 
no can match that. unfortunately , some would call dr. n a 
and accuse him of trying to make a quick  . 

why do you think he would be called a the do n't do cultures .  . 
they doing more lab this is , believe me , i 've 
seen it many times. the lab are n't accurate. we 'll treat it 
now. also , is dr. n 's practice almost exclusively devoted to treating 
i do n't know any who fit this 
pattern. they are usually  . 

no , he does not exclusively treat  . however , in some parts of the 
country , you do n't need to be known as an to see a large 
number of walk through your office. given the huge problem of 
, late manifestations of the disease just 
about every day in their regular practices .  . dr. n .  . told me that last year , 
he sent between 2 and 5 a week to the  .  .  . and he is not 
the only in the town .  . 

let 's say that only 2 people per week actually have  . that means at the 
very minimum people in our town  ( and immediate area ) develop late stage 
manifestations of every year . add in the folks who were by 
, , , etc , and you can see what kind of problem 
we have. no wonder just about everybody in town personally knows an 
patient .  . 

he refers most to , but in extreme cases he puts the 
patient on immediately to minimize the damage  ( in most cases , to 
the  . 

gordon is correct when he states that most are  . 

 . 



c. u . c .  . box 
 ( 215 ) university 

from  ( john nash ) 
subject re is 
nntp posting host 10 . 
organization national research council of canada 
lines 39 

in article  ( doug bank ) writes 
from  ( doug bank ) 
subject re is 
date thu , 15 apr 1993 13 59 41 gmt 

in article ,  ( david thomas ) writes 
lots of editing out of posts 

here is another story. i am a and never wanted to 
try chinese food , however , i finally tried some in order to please a 
girl i was seeing at the time. i had never heard of chinese 
 . a group of us went to the and all shared 6 different 
dishes. it did n't taste great , but i decided it was n't so bad. we went 
home and went to early .  . i up at 2 am and my  . 
i threw up for so long that  ( i'm not kidding ) i a in 
my tongue .  . and everything. no one else got sick , and i'm 
not allergic to anything that i know of. 

suffice to say that i wont go into a chinese unless i am 
physically threatened .  . the smell of the food makes me ill  ( and that is 
a  . when i have been in to suffer 
through beef and without any , i insist on no  . 
i have n't gotten sick yet. 

funny about that .  .  .  . my wife  ( my at the time) used to get sick 
after eating certain at various , and never knew 
why. she 'd go pale , and and then  . a couple of us 
a connection with , and her response was what 's that . 
it also happened when she out on some brands of and 
 .  .  . which i noticed  ( later ) had on the label. do n't know about 
double , but avoiding has stopped her being sick at  . 


cheers , john 

john email 
institute for biological sciences , national research council of canada , 
cell group. ottawa , ontario , canada .  . 
disclaimer all opinions are mine , not 's ! 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re how to  .  .  . really 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 19 

in article  ( ralph yozzo ) writes 

why do you think he would be called a the do n't do cultures .  . 
they doing more lab this is , believe me , i 've 


are you arguing that the lab test is accurate 

if you culture out the , it is virtually 100 certain 
the patient has  . i suppose you could have contamination 
in an lab , but normally not. there are no 
false  . 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( annick ansselin ) 
subject re is 
nntp posting host su . au . 
organization department of , university of , , australia 
lines 29 

in  ( steve giammarco ) writes 


and to add further to the flame war , i read about 20 years ago that 
the natural extracted from the sources you mention above does not 
cause the reported it 's only that nasty artificial 
extracted from or whatever that causes chinese 
 . i find this pretty hard to believe has anyone else heard it 

is , a fairly straight forward compound .  . if it is 
pure , the source should not be a problem. your comment suggests that 
may be the cause. 
my experience of effects  ( as part of a double blind study ) was that the 
pure stuff caused me some rather severe effects .  . 

i was under the  ( possibly incorrect ) assumption that most of the on 
our was made from sugar  . is this not true are 
there other sources of 

, , mushrooms all contain  . 

i am one of those who react , sometimes strongly , to  . however , 
i also react strongly to  ( table salt ) in excess .  . each 
causes different symptoms except for the common one of 
and an uncomfortable feeling of pressure in my , left  . 

the symptoms i had were of in the first instance 
followed by the then the legs , headache , and unable to keep 
 . i think it may well affect people differently. 

from  ( debbie forest ) 
subject re can men get 
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 18 
distribution na 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 

in article  ( da' beave ) writes 

well folks , i currently have a infection .  . i am male .  . 
... your best bet  ( or at least your husband 's ) 
is to treat and your infection before any intercourse .  . if you must , use 
a condom .  . also , consider other forms of sexual release  . handjobs ) until 
you are cured .  . 

though i ca n't imagine wanting to have intercourse during a full blown 
infection ) chances of it being to the male are quite 
low , especially if he 's  . but it can happen. 
at one point i was getting and the dr suspected 
my might have gotten it from me and be me. the 
prescription was interesting. for each day of the (a week ) i 
was to insert the , then to have intercourse .  . the resulting 
action would help the medicine be spread around in me better , and would 
simultaneously treat him. 


from  ( christophe roos ) 
subject wanted rat cell line  ( adrenal c . ) . 
summary where can i find a rat cell line 
keywords cell cell line rat 
organization institute of  . helsinki ) 
lines 14 

i am looking for a rat cell line of cell type .  . i 
have been looking at without success and would very much appreciate any 
help. 

thank you for reading this. 




institute of fax 358 0 
45 , 7 e mail 
university of x 400 g s 
sf finland o a c fi 


from () 
subject re in ca 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 26 
distribution na 
nntp posting host carina . unm . edu . 

in article  ( gordon banks ) writes 
in article  ( john joseph deltuvia ) writes 

there was a story a few weeks ago on a network news show about some sort 
of which supposedly attacks the bone structure and is somewhat 
widespread in california .  . anybody hear anything about this one 


the only i know of from california is  . i 
had n't heard that it attacked bone .  . it attacks and if you 
are especially , the central nervous system. nothing new 
about it. it 's been around for years. they call it 
, since it is found in the , not on the coast .  . 

there is a of that is in , 
i believe , the 's area east of the  . 
i do n't believe there has been any great insight into the 
increased in that area. there is a low level 
of infection in that  . many people with 
evidence of past exposure to the organism did not have 
serious disease. 

brian 

