from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re japanese moon landing 
organization u of 
lines 21 

in article  ( claudio egalon ) writes 
there is no such thing as a stable orbit 

is it right that is new stuff for me. so it means that you just can 
not put a around around the moon for too long because its 
orbit will be if so , what is the reason is that because 
the combined of the sun , moon and earth 
that does not provide a stable orbit around the moon 

any needs to do regular orbit corrections , and when 
its runs out it will crash within months. the orbits of the 
changed during lasting only a few 
days. it is possible that there are stable orbits here and there 
the moon 's field is poorly but we know of none. 

from sun and earth are relatively minor issues at low 
 . the big problem is that the moon 's own field 
is quite due to the distribution of mass within the moon. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re space station redesign , alternative 4 
organization u of 
lines 10 

in article  ( david b. mckissock ) writes 
man tended capability  ( griffin has not yet non sexist 
language ) ... 

glad to see is spending his time on engineering rather than on 
ritual of the language. pity he got stuck with the 
rather than one of the sensible options .  . 

a high speed henry @ u of 
between and  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 34 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 

this prize is n't big enough to developing a , but it is 
enough to do it if the exists. 

actually , there are people who will tell you that it would be enough 
to do development , if done privately as a cut rate operation. of 
course , they may be over  . 

in spite of my great respect for the people you speak of , i think their 
cost estimates are a bit over  . if nothing else , a working 
is at least as complex as a large and has a smaller experience 
base .  . it therefore seems that development should cost at least as 
much as a typical development .  . that puts it in the to 
range .  . 

you can also assume that a working would have other applications 
that would help pay for its development costs .  . 

true it and the would result in a much larger market .  . but i 
do n't think it would be enough to attract the given the 
risks involved. 

if you could the costs and that it 
100 of the available launch market , then i think you could 
do it. 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
56 days to first of 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re space research spin off 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 37 

 ( mary shafer ) writes 

on 4 apr 1993 20 31 10 ,  ( pat ) said 

in article 
writes 
question is can someone give me 10 examples of direct nasa space related 
research that helped humanity in general it will be interesting to see .  .  . 

) i think. i think they also pushed hi tech 
for  . look at by wire .  . 

swept wings if you in you 've the benefits. 

did n't one of the early have these 
i also think the germans did some work on these in wwii .  . 

 . area ruling .  . digital by wire .  . ride  . 

a lot of this was also done by the military .  .  .  . 

landing systems. wings. general 
air  . 

were n't the first landing systems from wwii too 


mary nasa research , , ca 
of course i do n't speak for nasa 
a at your is better than no at all. unknown us 

! i'm disagreeing with mary ! 

seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from  ( pat hoage ) 
subject army in space 
lines 7 

i just got out of the army .  . go signal corps or intelligence 
interpretation .  . if you go you might get to play with 
but space will look pretty far away in the mud next to a 
protecting the troops from low flying objects .  . good luck 


origin ,  . info source.  ( 1 124 6507 ) 

from (s . f .  . davis ) 
subject re japanese moon landing temporary orbit 
organization 
lines 46 

in article ,  ( phil g. fraering ) writes 
 ( ray  ( oh , that guy again ) writes 

the gravity that was used was to  fuzzy  . these 
are described by the as the second order in a 
three body system. the was into this for the 
earth moon sun system , where the affected it in such a way as to 
allow it to go into orbit without large of to slow 
down. the idea is that  natural objects sometimes get captured without 
, we 'll just find the that makes it possible . the 
originator of the said that nasa was n't interested , but that japan 
was because their was small and could n't hold a lot of for 
 . 


i should probably re post this with another title , so that 
the guys on the other thread would see that this is a practical 
use of temporary orbits .  .  .  . 

another possible temporary orbit 


seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



if you are really interested in these orbits and how they are obtained 
you should try and find the following paper 

, , , 
and , a study of capture 
orbit in the earth moon system , , 
mechanics meeting , , , 1992 .  . 

the references included in this paper are quite interesting also and 
include several that are specific to the mission itself. 


! ! ! ! 
davis 
( o o ) 
douglas 
i do n't represent space systems company 
anybody but myself. ( ) houston division 


from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject update 04 15 93 
organization 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from , mission director 


mission director status report 
post launch 
april 9 15 , 1993 



1. on april 9 , real time commands were sent , as , to 
celestial reference after completion of the low gain  ( lga 2 ) 
swing dual drive  ( dda ) hammer activities. 

2. on april 9 , the ej 1  ( earth jupiter 1 ) sequence memory load was 
to the without incident .  . this sequence covers activity 
from april 12 , 1993 to june 14 , 1993 and includes a for the radio relay 
 ( rra ) test on april 28 , 1993 .  . the command loss was set to 
11 days as a part of this sequence memory load .  . 

3. on april 12 and 15 , a no command was sent to the command loss 
to hours , its value during this mission  . 

4. on april 12 , cruise science memory  ( mros ) were performed for the 
extreme  ( euv ) ,  ( dds ) , and 
 ( mag )  . preliminary analysis indicates the data was received 
properly. 

5. on april 12 , an stable  ( uso ) test was performed to verify 
the health status of the and to red shift experiment 
data long term trend analysis is continuing .  . 

6. on april 14 , a index test was performed to determine the 
signal to ratio  ( snr ) when at  . preliminary 
analysis of the data suggests that the present pre launch 
index is near the level. 

7. on april 15 , cruise science memory  ( mros ) were performed for the 
extreme  ( euv ) and  ( mag ) instrument .  . 
preliminary analysis indicates the data was received properly. 

8. on april 15 , a periodic  ( retro module ) 10 newton 
activity was performed all 12 were 
during the activity. throughout the activity was nominal .  . 

9. the ac measurements have not significant 
changes  ( greater than 25 dn ) throughout this period. the ac measurement reads 
19 3 .  . the measurement reads 9 .  . these 
measurements are consistent with the model developed by the ac special 
team .  . 

10. the status as of april 15 , 1993 , is as follows 

a ) system power margin 60 
b ) spin dual spin 
c ) spin rate 3 . star 
d ) attitude is approximately 18 degrees 
off sun  ( lagging ) and 6 degrees off earth  ( leading ) 
e) rate  ( 40bps(coded ) 1 
f ) general thermal control all within 
acceptable range 
g ) all within acceptable range 
h ) science on are the , 
, , , , , and 
i ) off , within 
acceptable range 
j ) loss setting hours 
time to hours 


 ( ground data systems ) 

1. participated in a second  ( deep space network ) acceptance test 
for the 3 on april 13 , 1993 , using 21 
 ( compatibility test area  . the purpose of this test was to verify 
the of data through the new group 
 ( tgc ) and the channel assembly  . the is the replacement 
for the current assembly  . seven different 
were run for this test all well on both the  ( mccc 
subsystem ) and the 0 . with the exception of  . the 
rate had some trouble staying in lock it appears the was 
not the data correctly. further comparisons between the and 
data from this test are being conducted .  .  ( mission test ) of 
the system is expected to begin may 16 , 1993 .  . 




as of noon thursday , april 15 , 1993 , the 
status was as follows 

distance from earth , , 000 02 . au ) 
distance from sun , , 86 . au ) 
heliocentric speed 93 , 400 per hour 
distance from jupiter , , 
round trip light time 17 , 4 seconds 


special topic 

1. as of april 15 , 1993 , a total of real time commands have been 
to since launch .  . of these , were initiated in the 
sequence design process and initiated in the real time command process. 
in the past week , 7 real time commands were 6 were initiated in 
the sequence design process and one initiated in the real time command process. 
major command activities included commands to celestial reference , 
the ej 1 sequence memory load , and the command loss  . 

ron 
lab 
) m s being cynical never helps 
pasadena , ca to correct the situation 
and causes more 
instead. 

from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re race 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 22 
reply to 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( allen w. sherzer ) writes 
in article writes 

so how much would it cost as a private venture , assuming you could talk the 
u.s. government into you a couple of in florida 

why would you want to do that the goal is to do it  ( remember , 
this is n't  . instead of an expensive launch , 
just use a and launch from a much  . 

allen , sometimes i think you 're ok. and sometimes you tend to leap into 
making statement without thinking them out. 

guess which today 

you 'd need to launch to send up large of stuff. do you know 
of a private 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re race , nasa resources , why 
organization u of 
lines 36 

in article 37 . apple . com .  ( craig keithley ) writes 
ah , there 's the rub .  . and a 22 to boot. for the purposes of a 
, you 'll probably not if n you ca n't afford the ride to get 
there. and although lower systems might be , without 
demand its doubtful that anyone will develop a new system .  .  .  . 

you 're assuming that the low cost system has to be a separate 
project .  . but why if you are spending hundreds of millions of dollars 
in hopes of a billion dollar prize , it is to develop 
your own launch system , charging its entire development cost against 
your entry , than to try to do it with existing  . no 
other demand is necessary. 

any plan for doing 
exploration using existing launch systems is wasting 
money in a big way. 

this depends on the how soon the new launch system comes on line. in other 
words , perhaps a great deal of worthwhile technology  ( life support , 
, etc . ) . could be developed prior to a low cost launch system. 
you would n't want to use the expensive stuff forever , but i 'd hate to see 
folks waiting to do anything until a low cost mac , oops , i mean launch 
system comes on line. 

you 're assuming that it 's going to take a to build a new launch 
system. but why the v took less than years , depending on 
exactly when you date its start. took about three from project 
start to first  . before out on orbital development , 
the target date for an orbital y was  . if you really want 
speed , consider that the first of the missile  ( still in 
service as the core of the delta launcher ) to the less 
than 18 months after the development go ahead. 

one of the most myths in this whole business is the belief 
that you ca n't build a without taking ten years and spending 
billions of dollars .  . it is n't true and never was. 

from  ( alan carter ) 
subject command loss  ( re update 04 22 93 ) 
keywords , jpl 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr europe limited , , england 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( ron baalke ) writes 
3. on april 19 , a no command was sent to the command loss to 
hours , its value during this mission  . 

this activity is regularly reported in ron 's interesting posts. could 
someone explain what the command loss is 

thanks , 


1 court they 're , which home 
32 is fortunate , really. they 'd away 
great be difficult to like. work 

, 's seven temporary 
england permanent 


from  ( david ward ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
news software vax vms 1.4 
organization space center lab 
lines 34 

in article ,  ( ron baalke ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article ,  ( james thomas green ) writes .  .  .  . 
why do have to be shut off after funding cuts .  . for 
example , why could n't just be told to go into a safe 
mode and stay about in a low power use mode and if 
maybe in a few years if funding gets after the economy 
gets better  ( hopefully ) , it could be turned on again. 

it can be , but the problem is a political one , not a technical one. 

also remember that every dollar spent keeping one in safe mode 
 ( probably a spin sun pointing orientation ) is a dollar not 
spent on mission analysis for a newer  . in order to turn the 
back on , you either need to that the ops guys will be 
available , or you need to a new team .  . 

having said that , there are some that do what you have proposed .  . 
many of the  ( like the 
series ) require more than one in orbit for an set .  . 
which get replaced on orbit are into a mode for 
use in an emergency .  . in that case , however , the same ops team is still 
required to the birds so the is 
relatively cheap .  . 

finally , 's explanation  ( some require continuous 
to stay under control ) is also right on the mark. i suggested a spin 
control mode because it would require little power or 
, but it still might require some dumping from time 
to time. 

in the end , it is a political decision  ( since the difference is money) , 
but there is some technical rationale behind the decision. 

david w. @ 

from  ( greg nicholls ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3 . 1 . 
x x from 

lines 15 

in greg writes 
in article  ( pat ) writes 
the better question should be. 
why not o m of all birds to a separate agency with funding 
to support these kind of science  . 

since we do n't have the money to keep them going now , how will 
changing them to a agency help anything 

how about control to a non profit organisation that is 
able to accept to keep  . 

greg ... 
or 


from  ( gene wright ) 
subject nasa special for mission 
organization the of ,  . 
lines 12 

i have two books , both nasa special , on the 
 . one is titled to jupiter the other to 
these were excellent books put together after the with each 
planet. 

the question is did nasa ever put together a similar book for either the 
or if so , what sp number is it and where can it 
be obtained if not , why did n't they 


 ( gene wright ) 
net . the of 

from  ( david b. mckissock ) 
subject re space station redesign chief for health reasons 
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( charles j. divine ) writes .  .  .  . 
writer reported in today 's washington post that joseph , the 
head of the space station redesign has for health reasons. 

was shortly after his selection in february .  . he returned 
yesterday to lead the formal to the independent white house  . 
's was rambling and almost  . 

i missed the given in the morning  ( when gave 
his rambling and almost presentation ) , but i did 
the afternoon session. the meeting was in a small conference room. the 
speaker was wired with a mike , and there were on the table for 
the members to use.  ( like me ) sat in a outside the 
conference room , and watched the on closed tv. in 
general , the sound system was fair to poor , and some of the other 
speakers  ( like the member from the italian space agency ) 
also were almost  . 

did n't lead the formal , in the sense of running 
or guiding the  . he did n't even the afternoon 
session. the show  ( president of mit , the chair of the 
 . 


's , former bryan o'connor , will take over the effort .  . 

note that o'connor has been running the day to day 
of the of the redesign team since got sick  ( which 
was immediately after the was  . 


from  ( joseph askew ) 
subject re small  ( was astronaut ) 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 25 

in article  ( pat ) writes 

only one problem with sending a corp of small  . 
they may want to start a galactic empire ) napoleon 
complex you know. genghis khan was a little guy too. i 'd bet 
never broke 5 1 . 

i think you would lose your money. was actually rather 
for a roman .  . he did go on record as small soldiers though. 
thought they were and had more  . he was probably right 
if you think about it. as for napoleon remember that the french 
was just about 5 feet and that is relative ! did he 
really have a complex 

we have all seen the burning from high school that goes 
out and  . if there is a large hot body placed in space but in an 
atmosphere , exactly how does it the surroundings only 

joseph 


joseph , and proud in the , see the , 
remote in , the grief .  . 
disclaimer , see if i care north of our , the sky must end , 
actually , i rather like beyond the pale , the river on. 

from 
subject blow up space station , easy way to do it. 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 

this might a real idea or maybe not .  .  . 

i have seen where people have blown up then material into them 
that then and makes hard walls .  .  .  . 

why not do the same thing for a space station .  .  . 

up the and materials and such , blow up the , 
spin then around (i know a problem in gravity ) let them 
and cut a hole for the attaching and a space station .  .  . 

of course the would have to be covered or radiation 
covering  ( shield ) and the material used to make the would 
have to meet the out and other or the covering of 
the inner would have to be human safe .  .  . maybe a special or maybe 
the same material as makes but with some changes  ( saw where someone 
water put beer in the mixture , got a mix that was just as 
strong as but easier to carry around and such .  . ) . 

sorry for any errors , i missed school today .  .  .  .  . 

why space station be so difficult why must we have why be 
confined to earth based ideas , lets think new ideas , after all space is not 
earth , why be limited by earth based ideas 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 
going crazy in , break up is here .  .  . 

from  ( it 's ! ) 
subject re gamma ray  . where are they 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 36 

from 

if all of these things have been detected in space , has anyone 
looked into possible problems with the 

that is , is there some mechanism  ( cosmic rays , whatever ) that 
could cause the to think it was seeing one of these 
things 



that would not explain why widely separated , such as on 
and and et al. , would see a at the same  ( time ) .  . in fact , be 
, having this widely separated network was the 
only sure way to a random  . with only one , one cannot 
a  ( except to say it 's somewhere in the field of view. ) .  . with 
two , one can use the time that the is seen in each 
to narrow the to a thin on the sky .  . with three , 
one gets , giving two possible  . if one of these 
is impossible  ( because , say , the earth that part of the 
sky ) , , you have an error box .  . 

, by having 8 of its own , can do its own determination , 
but only to within about 3 degrees  ( would someone at , like david , like 
to comment on the current state of determination ) .  . having 
by other helps drive down the uncertainty .  . 

you did touch on something that you did n't mean to , though. some believe 
 ( in a reference that i have somewhere ) that like features seen 
in a of can actually be caused by the  . it would be 
a mean , nasty god , though , that would have a act like a 10 12 
star .  .  . but . this is getting too far  . 

peter 



from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re command loss  ( re update 04 22 93 ) 
keywords , jpl 
organization texas 
lines 25 

in  ( alan carter ) writes 

in article ,  ( ron baalke ) writes 
3. on april 19 , a no command was sent to the command loss to 
hours , its value during this mission  . 

this activity is regularly reported in ron 's interesting posts. could 
someone explain what the command loss is 

the command loss is a that does just what its name says 
it indicates to the that it has lost its data link for receiving 
commands .  . upon of the command loss , i believe the 
starts a  search for earth  sequence  ( involving pointing 
and attitude changes which fuel ) to try to 
communications .  . no ops are sent periodically through those periods 
when there are no real commands to be sent , just so the knows 
that we have n't forgotten about it. 

hope that 's clear enough to be  . 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re conference on exploration .  . may 7 city 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
distribution na 
lines 19 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 


i reading the comment that general was into this , in 
connection with their proposal for an early landing .  . sorry i do n't 
where i heard this , but i'm fairly sure it was somewhere  . 
anyone else know anything on this angle 

if by that you mean anything on the approach , there was an article on 
it in a recent week. i do n't remember the exact date but it was 
recent .  . 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
56 days to first of 

from  ( dwight tuinstra ) 
subject re name 
reply to 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 21 
nntp posting host signal . ece . edu . 

in article ,  ( mark prado ) writes 
please go just one step further 
how has the word been associated with 


could be the  ( folk ) song . if memory serves , part of it goes 

in a , by a canyon , 
for a mine , 
a , forty , 
and his daughter ,  . 

anyone who watched can you the ) 
is there a story real person behind the song 


best 


... news at 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re the area rule 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 20 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host access . net . 



i am sure mary or henry can describe this more then me. 
but here is how i understand it. 

at speed , near  . the wind like a fluid  . 
it becomes  . so wind has to away from the 
edges .  . as the , the more the  . 

if they have no place to go , they begin to stall , and force 
, power from the  ( high  . 

if you the , so that these have to 
into , then is reduced .  . 

essentially , teh cross area of the 
remain constant for all areas of the  . that is where the wings are 
subtract , teh cross area of the wings from the  . 



from  ( craig keithley ) 
subject re race , nasa resources , why 
organization apple computer , inc. 
lines 44 

in article ,  ( henry 
spencer ) wrote 

the major component of any plan to go to the moon  ( for 
more than a brief visit , at least ) is low cost transport to earth orbit .  . 
for what it costs to launch one or two , you can develop 
a new launch system that will be  .  ( delta clipper 
might be a bit more expensive than this , perhaps , but there are less 
ways of bringing costs down quite a bit . ) . 

ah , there 's the rub .  . and a 22 to boot. for the purposes of a 
, you 'll probably not if n you ca n't afford the ride to get 
there. and although lower systems might be , without 
demand its doubtful that anyone will develop a new system. course , if a 
low system existed , there might be demand .  .  .  . 

i wonder if there might be some way of a to encourage 
low cost systems. the accounting methods would probably 
be the to work out. for example , would you allow to 
 loan  you the and so forth .  .  .  . 

any plan for doing 
exploration using existing launch systems is wasting 
money in a big way. 


this depends on the how soon the new launch system comes on line. in other 
words , perhaps a great deal of worthwhile technology  ( life support , 
, etc . ) . could be developed prior to a low cost launch system. 
you would n't want to use the expensive stuff forever , but i 'd hate to see 
folks waiting to do anything until a low cost mac , oops , i mean launch 
system comes on line. 

i guess i 'd simplify this to say that  waste  is a slippery concept .  . if 
your goal is exploration in the next 5 years , then perhaps its 
not   money. if your goal is to the moon for under 
million , then you should put of this exploration for a or so. 

craig 


craig i do n't remember , i do n't recall , 
apple computer , inc. i got no memory of anything at all 
peter , third  ( 1980 ) 

from  ( adam r. ) 
subject re conference on exploration .  . may 7 city 
organization nasa ames research center 
distribution na 
lines 14 

 ( pat ) writes 


had a brief blurb on a exploration 
may 7th at city virginia , under the of  . 

does anyone know more about this how much , to 

anyone want to go 



i got something in the mail from about it. cost is 75 .  . 
speakers include john , young , and  . 

from  ( cha wong ) 
subject how can you see the launch of the space 
organization university of bradford , uk 
lines 28 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 


sorry for asking a question that 's not entirely based on the 
technical aspects of space , but i could n't find the 
answer on the faqs ! 

i'm currently in the uk , which makes seeing a space 
launch a little difficult .  .  .  .  .  . 

however , i have been to be an exchange student 
at louisiana state uni .  . from august , and i am absolutely 
determined to get to see a space launch sometime 
during the year at which i will be in america .  . 

i hear there 's a bit of a long mailing list , so if someone 
can tell me how to get and where to get them from , then 
please e mail me ! 

thanks very much for your patience .  .  .  .  . 

 ( and if anyone else wants to know , tell me and i 'll summarize 
for you just to save all those poor people who have to 
pay for their links ! ) 

april is the month 
andrew mixing memory and desire 
x 
e mail t . s . the 

from  ( nick haines ) 
subject vast bandwidth over runs on nasa thread  ( was re nasa ) 
in reply to 's message of 18 apr 1993 13 56 
originator 
nntp posting host fox . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon university 


lines 12 

in article , writes about a 
lines in response to article , 
in which allen wrote a lines in response to article 
, in which wrote another 
lines in response to allen .  . 

hey , can it you guys .  . take it to email , or talk . politics . space . , or 
alt . flame . , or alt . music . pop . will . eat . itself . the . are . on . , 
or anywhere , but this is sci . space .  . this thread lost all scientific 
content many ago. 



from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re forcing space  . 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 16 

in article writes 
here is a way to get the into space and 
exploration .  . 
basically get the to make it so hard to get the on earth .  .  . 

if raw materials where to cost enough that getting them from space would 
be cost effective then the entire world economy would long 
before the space could be built .  . 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
55 days to first of 

from  ( dani eder ) 
subject re to the top 
organization ai center , , al 
lines 56 


reading from a products data , their 
with carbon has a 
strength of , 000  . it has a of 0 . in , 
therefore the for a constant section 
that can just support itself is 4.8 million , or 400 , 000 , 
or 75  . 

now , a real structure will have  ( either a 
type , or guy , or both ) and will be used below the strength .  . 
let us assume that we will operate at 40 of the 
strength .  . this gives a working of 30 for a constant 
section  . 

a constant section is not the limit on how high you can 
build something if you allow a of the cross section 
as you go up. for example , let us say you have a , 000 
load to support at the top of the  ( for in 
 . this requires 2.5 square of cross 
area to support the weight. the of structure 
below the will itself 9 , 200 , so at 1 
below the , the total load is now , 200 , a 3 . 3 . increase .  . 

the next of structure must be 3 . 3 . in cross section 
to support the top of plus the  . each 
of structure must increase in area by the same ratio all the way 
to the bottom .  . we can see from this that there is no 
limit on area , although there will be practical limits based 
on how much we can afford to by at 40 , and how 
much load you need to support on the ground  ( for which you need 
a foundation that the bedrock can support .  . 

let us arbitrarily choose 1 billion as the limit in 
cost .  . with this we can afford perhaps 10 , 000 , 000 of , 
assuming our finished structure costs 100  . the 40 figure 
is just for materials cost .  . then we have a mass 
ratio of 35 . 7 . 1. at a 3 . 3 . mass ratio per , the 
becomes  . this is clearly above the significant 
atmosphere .  . a rocket from the top of the will still 
have to provide orbital , but and g losses 
will be almost eliminated .  . g losses are the component of 
rocket thrust in the direction to counter gravity , 
but which do not contribute to orbital  . thus 
they represent thrust .  . together with , starting 
from the ground have a 15 penalty to with. 

this analysis is , in that it does not consider wind 
loads .  . these will require more support over the first 
15 of  . above that , the air pressure drops to a low 
enough value for it not to be a big factor .  . 




investment company  ( 205)464 )  ( 2697(w ) 232  ( 7467(h ) 
1 . , box 2 , al 37  n 43  w alt. 

from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 14 15 how to become an 
keywords frequently asked questions 
article i.d. cs . 
expires 6 may 1993 20 01 55 gmt 
distribution world 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 
supersedes 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 

archive name space 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 02 

how to become an 

first the short form , authored by henry , then an official nasa 
announcement .  . 

q .  . how do i become an 

a. we will assume you mean a nasa , since it 's probably 
impossible for a non to get into the corps  ( paying 
passengers are not cosmonauts ) , and the other nations have 
so few  ( and even fewer ) that you 're better off to 
win a  . becoming a requires lots of fast 
experience , which means a military flying career forget that unless you 
want to do it anyway. so you want to become a mission 
. 

if you are n't a us citizen , become one that is a must. after that , 
the crucial thing to remember is that the demand for such jobs 
the supply .  . nasa 's problem is not finding qualified people , 
but the down to length .  . it is not enough 
to be qualified you must avoid being qualified for any reason , 
many of them in principle quite irrelevant to the job. 

get a d .  . in something that involves getting your hands 
with equipment , not just paper and  . forget computer 
programming entirely it will be done from the ground for the 
future.  ( degree(s ) in one field plus work experience in 
another seems to be a frequent winner .  . 

be in good physical condition , with good  .  ( do not get a 
or similar hack to improve your vision nobody knows 
what sudden pressure changes would do to eyes , and long term 
effects are poorly understood .  . for that matter , avoid any other 
significant medical ) . if you can pass a physical , 
you should be okay if you ca n't , your chances are poor. 

practise public speaking , and be conservative and in 
appearance and actions you 've got a tough selling job ahead , trying 
to convince a , conservative selection that you 
are better than hundreds of other  .  ( and , also , that you 
will be a credit to nasa after you are public relations is 
a significant part of the job , and nasa 's image is very and 
proper . ) . the image you want is clean  . 
remember also that you will need a security at some point , 
and security considers everybody guilty until proven innocent .  . 
keep your nose clean .  . 

get a 's license and make flying your number one 
experienced are known to be even for non jobs .  . 

work for nasa of 45 between 1984 and 1988 , 
43 were military or nasa employees , and the remaining two were 
a nasa and mae  ( the first black female  . 
if you apply from outside nasa and miss , but they offer you a job 
at nasa , take it sometimes in the past this has meant you 
do look interesting but we want to know you a bit better first . 

think space they want highly motivated people , so lose no chance 
to demonstrate motivation .  . 

keep trying .  . many did n't make it the first time. 




nasa 
national and space 
b. johnson space center 
houston , texas 

announcement for mission and 


candidate program 


the national and space  ( nasa ) has a need for 
and mission 
to support the space program .  . nasa is now accepting on a 
continuous basis and plans to select as needed .  . 

persons from both the civilian and the military services will be 
considered .  . 

all positions are at the b. johnson space center in 
houston , texas , and will involved a 1 year training and evaluation 
program .  . 

space program description 


the numerous successful of the space have demonstrated 
that operation and experimental in space are becoming 
 . the space is into , and in 
the earth orbit up to 30 days. it then 
returns to earth and is ready for another with and 
 . 

the performs a variety of orbital including 
and of , service of existing , operation 
of laboratories  ( astronomy , earth sciences , materials 
, manufacturing ) , and other  . these will 
eventually include the development and of a permanent space 
station .  . the also provides a capability for using higher 
orbits than can be achieved by the itself. users of the space 
's capabilities are both domestic and foreign and include 
government and private  . 

the normally consists of five people the , the , 
and three mission  . on additional members are 
 . the , , and mission are nasa 
 . 



server as both space and  . 
during the has responsibility for the , 
, mission success and safety in  . the the 
in controlling and operating the  . in addition , the 
may assist in the and of utilizing 
the remote system , in extra activities , and other 
 . 

mission 

mission , working with the and , 
have overall responsibility for the of 
in the areas of activity planning , usage , and 
experiment and  . mission are required to 
have a detailed knowledge of systems , as well as detailed 
knowledge of the characteristics , mission requirements and 
objectives , and supporting systems and equipment for each of the 
experiments to be conducted on their  . mission 
will perform extra activities , handling 
using the remote system , and perform or assist in specific 
experimental  . 

candidate program 


basic requirements 


must meet the following minimum requirements prior to 
an application .  . 

mission candidate 

1. 's degree from an accredited institution in engineering , 
biological science , physical science or mathematics .  . degree must be 
followed by at least three years of related responsible , 
experience. an advanced degree is desirable and may be 
for part or all of the experience requirement  ( master 's 
degree 1 year , degree 3  . quality of academic 
is important. 

2. ability to pass a nasa class ii space physical , which is similar to a 
civilian or military class ii physical and includes the following 
specific standards 

distant 
20 150 or better , 
to 20 20 , each eye. 

blood pressure 
90 measured in sitting position. 

3. between 5 . and 76  . 

candidate 

1. 's degree from an accredited institution in engineering , 
biological science , physical science or mathematics .  . degree must be 
followed by at least three years of related responsible , 
experience. an advanced degree is desirable .  . quality of 
academic is important. 

2. at least 1000 hours in command time in  . 
test experience highly desirable .  . 

3. ability to pass a nasa class i space physical which is similar to a 
military or civilian class i physical and includes the following 
specific standards 

distant 
20 50 or better 
to 20 20 , each eye. 

blood pressure 
90 measured in sitting position. 

4. between 64 and 76  . 

citizenship requirements 

applications for the candidate program must be citizens of 
the united states. 

note on academic requirements 

for the candidate program must meet the basic 
education requirements for nasa engineering and scientific positions 
specifically successful completion of standard 
in an accredited college or university to at least a 's 
degree with major study in an appropriate field of engineering , 
biological science , physical science , or mathematics .  . 

the following degree fields , while related to engineering and the 
sciences , are not considered qualifying 
degrees in technology  ( engineering technology , technology , 
medical technology , etc . ) . 
degrees in psychology  ( except for psychology , 
psychology , or experimental psychology which are  . 
degrees in  . 
degrees in social sciences  ( geography , , , etc . ) . 
degrees in , or similar fields .  . 

application 


civilian 

the application may be obtained by writing to 

nasa johnson space center 
selection office 

houston , tx 

civilian applications will be accepted on a continuous basis. when nasa 
decides to select additional , consideration will be 
given only to those applications on hand on the date of decision is 
made. applications received after that date will be and 
considered for the next selection .  . will be 
of the opportunity to update their applications and to indicate 
continued interest in being considered for the program .  . those 
who do not update their applications will be dropped from 
consideration , and their applications will not be  . after the 
preliminary of applications , additional information may be 
requested for some , and person listed on the application as 
and references may be  . 

active duty military 

active duty military must submit applications to their 
respective military service and not directly to nasa .  . application 
will be by each service .  . 

selection 


personal and medical will be required 
for both civilian and military under final consideration .  . 
once final have been made , all who were considered 
will be of the outcome of the process. 

selection established through this process may be used for the 
selection of additional during a one year period following 
their  . 

general program requirements 

will be and will be 
to the office at the johnson space center , houston , 
texas .  . the will a 1 year training and 
evaluation period during which time they will be technical or 
scientific allowing them to contribute to 
programs. they will also participate in the basic 
training program which is designed to develop the knowledge and 
required for formal mission training upon selection for a  . 
will maintain in nasa during 
their candidate period. 

should be aware that selection as an candidate does 
not selection as an  . final selection as an 
will depend on completion of the 1 year training and 
evaluation period. civilian who successfully complete the 
training and evaluation and are as will become 
permanent federal employees and will be expected to remain with nasa for 
a period of at least five years. civilian who are not 
as may be placed in other positions within nasa 
depending upon agency requirements and at that 
time. successful military will be detailed to nasa for a 
of duty .  . 

nasa has an action program goal of having qualified 
minorities and women among those qualified as  . 
therefore , qualified minorities and women are encouraged to apply. 

pay and benefits 


civilians 

for civilian are based on the federal 
governments general pay for grades 11 through 14 , 
and are set in accordance with each individuals academic 
and experience. 

other benefits include and sick leave , a plan , and 
participation in group health and life plans. 

military 

military will be detailed to the johnson space center 
but will remain in an active duty status for pay , benefits , leave , and 
other similar military matters. 


next faq 15 15 orbital and launch services 

from  ( gregory n .  . bond ) 
subject re old as ! 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 93 08 15 55 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization , young , , australia 
lines 17 

in article writes 
other idea for old space is as and such .  .  . 
why not 

because to be any use as a point you need to know exactly where 
it is , which means you either nail it to something that does n't move 
or you watch it all the time. neither of which is possible on a 
 . then you have to know exactly how far away 
from it you are this may or may not be possible with the hardware on 
board. 

apart from which , there is absolutely no need for  . 

bond young ltd australia 
's is slick .  . fox in , on 's box 
's box is very quick .  . plays lots of  . he 's sick ! 
 ( apologies to john iron bar ) . 

from  ( don m. gibson ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year lo 
nntp posting host lexus 
reply to 
organization motorola products 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article  ( allen w. sherzer ) writes 
this prize is n't big enough to developing a , but it is 
enough to do it if the exists. 

actually , there are people who will tell you that it would be enough 
to do development , if done privately as a cut rate operation. of 
course , they may be over  . 

you can also assume that a working would have other applications 
that would help pay for its development costs .  . 

i 'd be inclined to make the prize somewhat larger , but might be enough. 

this all sounds like that proposal movie .  . would n't there be 
a lot of people that would try this with little hope of working just 
to get the if you have a 1 100 chance and it costs you , 
then you might pay some a few grand to be your lucky hero .  . 
just send up a few dozen and 1 is bound to survive enough to make you 
rich. 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re end of the space age 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . net . 



, enough , the calls the years 
the golden age of  . i would call it the years , 
the primitive nature of it. it was , 
, those young men in their flying 
machines . but in reality , it  . death was a highly likely 
occurence , and the environment blew .  . ever see the early navy 
pressure suits , they were modified suits .  . you were ready to 
star in plan 9 from outer space . and aids were 
a joke , and on oil .  . they picked and called 
men with iron , and it was n't due to  . 

enough , now we are in the golden age of  . i can hop the 
to ny for 90 , now that 's golden .  . 

, and were , but let 's be honest .  . 
in , having plastic to your butt 
you needed a movement .  . living for days inside a bug .  . 
, but not  . the x points out a most likely 
new golden age. an age where fat business men in 
loud space suits will fill the with strip 
and used space lots .  . 

, maybe i 'll retract that golden age bit. maybe it was 
better in the old days. of course , then we 'll have 
telling his great grand children , in my day , we walked on the moon. 
every day.  . no buses .  . you kids got it soft . 



from  ( paul dokas ) 
subject big amateur 
organization systems , inc. 
lines 23 

i was reading popular science this morning and was surprised by an ad in 
the back .  . i know that a lot of the in the back of ps are fringe 
science or legal , but this one really my attention .  . 
it was from a company name personal , inc. or something like that. 

anyhow , the ad stated that they 'd sell that were up to 20  in length 
and of sizes f to m . they also said that some will 
reach 50 , 000 feet. 

now , aside from the obvious to any amateur using one 
of these , is n't this illegal i ca n't imagine the allowing 
people to shoot up through the levels of  . 
not to even mention the problem of a rocket when it comes down. 

and no , i'm not going to even think of buying one. i'm not that crazy. 


paul mine 'll do 50 , 000 feet and carries 50 pounds of 

include disclaimer . 
define full name paul 
define email 
just remember , you will die someday .  . 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re and the moon  ( was why not give 1g ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 42 

 ( keith mancus ) writes 

 ( layne cook ) writes 
all of this talk about a space race (i . e .  . to the first 1 year 
moon base ) is intriguing .  . similar have 
development before. the prize helped sell his spirit of 
saint venture to his financial  . 
but i strongly suspect that his saint had the to 
realize that much more was at stake than 25 , 000 .  . 
could it work with the moon who are the far financial of 
today 

the uses of a transportation system between already 
and civilized areas are obvious. is not in this position. 
the correct analogy is not with of the  30 's , but the long 
of the age of  . 

's took place in  27 , not the  . 

it did n't require gov t to 
these as long as something was known about the potential for profit 
at the  . in practice , some were gov t funded , some were private .  . 

could you give examples of privately funded ones 

but there was no way that any wise investor would spend a large amount 
of money on a very investment with no idea of the possible  . 

your logic certainly applies to standard investment  . however , the 
concept of a prize for a difficult goal is done for different reasons , i 
suspect .  . i'm not aware that mr received any significant economic 
benefit from 's  . modern analogies , such as the prize for a 
human face similar arguments .  . there is little economic 
benefit in such a thing. the advantage comes in the new approaches developed 
and the fact that a prize will frequently generate far more work than the 
equivalent amount of direct investment would. a person who puts up x billion 
for a moon base is much more likely to do it because they want to see it done 
than because they expect to make money off the deal. 

hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re surviving large 
organization u of 
lines 13 

in article writes 
... here 's my question finally are in 
fact with the aid of any devices of 
course. if these are possible , what is used to absorb the 

this sounds a bit high to me. still higher have been 
very , during violent  . if we 're talking 
, i think 30 odd has been demonstrated using water  . 

i doubt that any of this to another order of magnitude .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( pat ) 
subject gamma ray  . where are they .  . 
organization express access communications , md usa 
lines 16 
nntp posting host access . net . 

what evidence indicates that gamma ray are very far away 

given the enormous power , i was just wondering , what if they are 
quantum black holes or something like that fairly close by 

why would they have to be at galactic ranges 

my own pet theory is that it 's flying entering 
) 

but the reason i am asking is that most everyone assumes that they 
are stars or black holes , i just wondered 
if any mechanism could exist and place them closer in. 




from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re drive in how 
organization u of 
lines 15 

in article  ( james p. goltz ) writes 
would this work i ca n't see the em radiation very much 
 ( especially given the mass of the plate ) , and it seems 
to me you 're going to get more throwing the bombs 
out the back of the than you get from them once 
they 're there. 

the concept as actually proposed  ( as opposed to the way it has been 
somewhat misrepresented in some fiction ) included a thick 
of reaction mass probably plastic of some sort around each bomb .  . 
the bomb the reaction mass , and it 's that which 
to the  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re a in the works 
lines 31 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


in article ,  ( john f. woods ) writes 
 ( norman anderson ) writes 
 ( mitch ) writes 
effect that one of the that was after the 
recent space launch was found to have a of 
some sort around apparently inside the case. 
i heard a similar statement in our local news  ( utah )  . they referred 
to the tool as  .  .  . the . that took a ride into space .  .  .  . . they also 
said that a (sp ) had reported missing a tool of some kind 
during assembly of one  . 

it was a test of the first tool. 


i assume , then , that someone at put on their 's hat and said 
that off the customer by of the to look inside 
it was a bad idea , regardless of where that tool might have ended up. 

why do i get the feeling that 's are like 

so they can find them or so they will stick into their pants better , and 
be closer to their brains 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



from  ( steve emmett ) 
subject institute summer school 
organization george university , , virginia , usa 
lines 103 

i have attached a copy of an announcement i picked up during my trip to 
last week. i have several friends at the 
institute who have asked me to post this announcement .  . (i have done 
some editing , but the contents is from the original 
announcement . ) . 

for those of you not familiar with the institute , it is 
the school of higher education dedicated to the training 
of and  . it in 
design , design , control systems , and power systems. 
virtually all of the major former soviet  ( tupolev , 
su , , , etc . ) . were at  . 

i had the opportunity to the two that are at 
 . the include , su 27 , 38 , the of an 
f  ( 111 ! ) , among others. it was a fascinating and eye 
experience , given the fact that the was , until a year 
or so ago , closed to virtually everyone. i also had the opportunity to 
see some of the experiments being conducted with drive 
for future space use. 

if you have any questions about the institute , or the program , i would 
be glad to try and answer them. the institute , and most of it 's 
have e mail addresses .  . however , it takes about a day or so for the 
receiver to get the message. they are still a bit antiquated but they 
are rapidly changing ! 

steve 


ps please send any questions you have for me via e mail .  . george 
university has about a 2 week ( ! ) delay in news feed  . 




international school 

the school  ( meaning flight ) is organized by the the 
institute , the prominent center of 
education and the foreign trade firm , well known in various 
parts of the world for their and watches .  . 

the course of studies will last only 50 days , but during this time 
you will have the unique opportunity 
to listen to on the main 
, the history and theory of techniques , and design of 

to visit and get with the world known 
tu , , , il and su 
to meet and have discussions with famous 
scientists , and 
to visit the most interesting of unique 
techniques which were closed for many years to the public 
to see the international show which will take 
place in from 31 august through 3 september 1993 
to visit famous art , historical and 
, and 
to take part in and have a great time 
with new friends. 

the director of the school is mr. , a well known 
scientist , professor , general designer and the chief of the 
design department of the institute .  . mr. 
is one of the of the the su 24 , su 25 , and su 27 

the are given in english , using a media concept .  . the 
students are provided with all the necessary text books and 
literature .  . after the full course of studies are , the 
student will receive a special of  . 

the cost of studies , including , , , , 
etc is  . 

to apply for admission , send your application to 

34 
foreign trade firm 
274 00 13  ( phone ) 
274 00 22  ( fax ) 
su  ( telex ) 

in your application , include your full name , address , date and place 
of birth. in addition , include complete information , as well 
as a description of your education. 

upon of this information , will immediately forward 
to you an official invitation for obtaining a 
as well as details on  . 

should you require additional information , please do not to 
contact us. 

 ( signed ) o .  . 






steve 

physics , george university 

from  ( srinivas bettadpur ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization center for space research , university of texas at austin 
lines 15 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( enzo liguori ) writes 

what about light pollution in observations (i read somewhere else that 
it might even be during the day , leave alone at  . 

no need to be depressed about this one. are n't on during the day 
so there should n't be any light pollution .  . 

thanks for these  .  .  .  . 


internet 
p.o. box , austin , tx .  . , u . s . a .  . tel .  . (512) 
bitnet 

from  ( richard a. schumacher ) 
subject re space news from feb 1 
nntp posting host com . 
organization computer corporation , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 10 


marshall is investigating a small but odd pressure rise in one 
during the jan 12 launch .  . it lasted only three seconds and 
the thrust difference between the two was not enough to cause 
 . the shows no  . 

is this the one that had the found inside after 




from 
subject re sail data 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 24 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( frank j. snyder ) writes 

i am looking for any information concerning involving 
 . i understand that the jpl did an extensive study on the subject 
back in the late 70 's but i am having trouble such information. 

are there any groups out there currently involved in such a project 

frank 
university 




i know someone had long talks about early this year and late last 
year .  . also . about  . not sure who captured it if possible .  .  . 

i think it was one of the who had most or all the data 

i think i started the latest round or the late last year round .  .  . but the topic 
has been around here , off and on for a year or two .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject re gamma ray  . where are they .  . 
organization 
lines 56 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 23 apr 1993 23 19 

in article  ( pat ) writes 

what evidence indicates that gamma ray are very far away 

their distribution is very and the distribution , 
speaking , indicates we 're seeing an to the distribution .  . 

given the enormous power , i was just wondering , what if they are 
quantum black holes or something like that fairly close by 

why would they have to be at galactic ranges 

now , in the good old days before data , it was thought the 
gamma were stars in the , it was expected that 
would this by either showing they were a local population 
 ( within a few hundred light years ) or that they were in the galactic 
 .  ( mechanism was not known but several plausible ones existed ) 
 ( also to be fair it was noted that the was 
probably in the , suggesting might be wrong back then .  .  . ) . 
as the sun is not at the center of the a 
population should show (a local population is 
ruled out completely at this stage ) to avoid the you 
have to push the out , the energy then gets large , the mechanism 
of getting out that far becomes questionable , and we should start 
to see for example the 's  . 
the data is consistent with either a cloud distribution 
 ( but only just ) but no one can think of a plausible source with 
the right spectrum .  . or , it can be a cosmological  ( hence 
isotropy ) and the is the of the universe ) 
if at cosmological you need very high energy  ( to detect ) 
and a very source  ( for spectrum ) , ergo a star 
with another star or black hole .  . even then getting 
the spectrum is very hard , but conceivable .  . 

if we know anything about physics at that level , 
the are not due to quantum black holes or cosmic 
, wrong spectrum for one thing. 

the situation is further complicated by recent claims that 
there are two classes of sources ) in the 
they 'd actually probably fit relatively easily into the 
and respectively 

my own pet theory is that it 's flying entering 
) 

but the reason i am asking is that most everyone assumes that they 
are stars or black holes , i just wondered 
if any mechanism could exist and place them closer in. 

if you can think of one , remember to me to  .  .  . 


standard disclaimer 
the laws of gravity are very , very strict 
and you 're just them for your own benefit b . b .  . 1988 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject successful measures 
organization 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from 
public information office 

california institute of technology 
national and space 
pasadena ,  .  .  ( 818 ) 

contact mary a. 

for immediate release april 15 , 1993 


scientists at nasa 's report the 
successful of a carrying designed to 
measure and study in the earth 's  . 

the april 3 from california 's airport 
reached an of 37  ( 121 , 000 feet ) and took 
measurements as part of a program established to data 
with the atmosphere research  . 

the data from the will also be compared to 
readings from the trace molecular 
 ( atmos ) experiment which is currently flying the 
 . 

we launch these several times a year as part of an 
research program .  . in fact , jpl is actively 
involved in the study of and the atmosphere in three 
important ways , said dr. jim , principal on 
the research campaign. 

there are two jpl on the , he 
continued .  . the experiment is conducted by jpl scientists , 
and the jpl research provides ground truth 
for those activities , as well as data that is useful in its own 
right. 

the measurements taken by the will add more 
pieces to the complex puzzle of the atmosphere , specifically the 
mid during and spring .  . 
understanding the chemistry in this helps 
scientists construct more accurate computer models which are 
in future conditions .  . 

the scientific of three jpl 
an which measures 
as the and descends through the atmosphere 
a limb sounder which looks at 
radiation by in the atmosphere and a 
which how the 
atmosphere sunlight .  . 

launch occurred at about , and following a three 
hour , the at approximately 130 
per hour  ( 70  . data was to ground 
and recorded  . the ended at 10 p . m .  . 
time in eastern new mexico when the was commanded 
to separate from the  . 

we needed to through sunset to make the 
measurements , explained , and we also needed to in 
to watch how quickly some of the disappear .  . 

it will be several weeks before scientists will have the 
results of their experiments .  . they will then forward 
their data to the central data at the space 
center in , maryland for use by the 
scientists .  . 

the was by the national scientific 
, normally based in ,  . , operating under a 
contract from nasa 's  . the was 
in california because of the west to east wind direction 
and the desire to keep the operation in the  . 

the are made of 20 8 . , or less than 
one of an inch ) thick plastic , and are , 000 
 ( 28 million feet ) in volume when fully with 
 ( 120  ( 400 feet ) in  . the 
between 1 , and 1 , kilograms (3 , 000 and 4 , 000  . the 
scientific about 1 , kilograms (3 , 000 ) pounds 
and is 1 . 8 .  ( six feet ) square by 4.6  ( 15 feet ) high. 

the jpl research is sponsored by nasa 's 
atmosphere research program and the measurements 
program .  . 



ron 
lab 
) m s being cynical never helps 
pasadena , ca to correct the situation 
and causes more 
instead. 

from 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 15 

in a message of apr 19 04 55 , writes 

in article ,  ( mark brader ) 
writes 

so the 
figure seems unlikely to actually be anything but a  . 

sorry ,  .  .  . i'm . not used to talking this language. 

could n't we just say or 



2 . 07 . 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization u of 
lines 15 

in article  ( allen w. sherzer ) writes 
this prize is n't big enough to developing a , but it is 
enough to do it if the exists. 

actually , there are people who will tell you that it would be enough 
to do development , if done privately as a cut rate operation. of 
course , they may be over  . 

you can also assume that a working would have other applications 
that would help pay for its development costs .  . 

i 'd be inclined to make the prize somewhat larger , but might be enough. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 11 15 
supersedes new 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 
distribution world 
expires 6 may 1993 20 00 01 gmt 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
keywords frequently asked questions 

archive name space new 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 17 

and 

information on or currently active not mentioned below 
would be welcome. sources nasa fact sheets , mission design 
team , launch , press  . 


 ( astro d )  ( japan ) x ray astronomy , into 
earth orbit on 2 20 93 .  . with large area wide  ( 1 20 
angstrom ) x ray , x ray , and gas 
proportional counters .  . 


and atmosphere  . is a 
nasa project designed to an exploration of the 
system with its and  . 
is scheduled for launch aboard a in october of 1997. 
after gravity of , earth and jupiter in a 
, the will arrive at in june of  . upon 
, the performs several to achieve an 
orbit around  . near the end of this initial orbit , the 
separates from the and descends through the atmosphere of 
 . the the data to earth for about 3 hours 
while the enters and the atmosphere to the 
surface .  . after the completion of the mission , the 
continues the system for three and a half years. 
orbit will allow about 35 of and 
targeted of , and  . the objectives of the 
mission are conduct detailed studies of 's atmosphere , 
and conduct close up studies of 's 
, and characterize 's atmosphere and surface .  . 

one of the most intriguing aspects of is the possibility that its 
surface may be covered in part with of liquid that 
result from processes in its atmosphere .  . these 
to form a and eventually rain 
down onto the surface .  . the will use to 
peer through 's and determine if there is liquid on the 
surface .  . experiments aboard both the and the entry will 
investigate the chemical processes that produce this unique atmosphere .  . 

the mission is named for jean  ( 1625 1712 ) , the 
first director of the , who discovered several of 
's and the major division in its  . the 
entry is named for the physicist 
 ( 1629 1695 ) , who discovered and first described the true 
nature of 's  . 

key scheduled dates for the mission  ( vvejga trajectory ) 

10 06 launch 
04 21 1 gravity assist 
06 20 2 gravity assist 
08 16 earth gravity assist 
12 30 00 jupiter gravity assist 
06 25 04 
01 09 05 release 
01 30 05 entry 
06 25 08 end of primary mission 
 ( schedule last updated 7 22 92 ) 


jupiter and atmosphere , in transit .  . has returned 
the first images of an , , while in transit to 
jupiter .  . efforts to the stuck high gain  ( hga ) have 
essentially been abandoned .  . jpl has developed a plan using data 
 ( jpeg like for images , for data from 
the other instruments ) which should allow the mission to achieve 
approximately 70 of its original objectives .  . 



10 18 89 launch from space 
02 09 90 
10 90 data 
12 08 90 1st earth 
05 01 91 high gain 
07 91 06 1st belt passage 
10 29 91 
12 08 2nd earth 
05 93 11 93 2nd belt passage 
08 28 93 ida 
07 02 separation 
07 09 
12 10 orbital of 
12 07 jupiter 
07 18 
09 28 
12 12 
01 23 europa 
02 28 
04 22 europa 
05 31 europa 
10 05 jupiter exploration 


japanese  ( isas ) 1 24 90 .  . has made 
multiple  . released , a smaller , 
into orbit .  . this mission made japan the third nation to 
orbit a around the moon. 


mapping mission .  . has almost the entire 
surface at high resolution .  . currently  ( 4 93 ) a gravity 
map .  . 


observer including 1 . 5 . m resolution camera .  . 
9 25 on a iii  . is currently  ( 4 93 ) in 
transit to , arriving on 8 24 93 .  . will start 11 93 for 
one year  ( 687  . 


us french earth observing , 
8 10 on an 4  . the primary objective of the 
project is to make precise and accurate 
observations of the sea level for several years , 
increasing understanding of  . the also 
will increase understanding of how is in the  . 


european space agency to study the sun from an orbit over 
its poles .  . in late 1990 , it carries particles and fields 
experiments  ( such as , and for 
various energy ranges , wave radio , etc . ) . but no camera .  . 

since no human built rocket is enough to send far out of 
the plane , it went to jupiter instead , and stole energy from 
that planet by over jupiter 's north in a gravity assist 
in february 1992 .  . this its path into a orbit 
about 85 degrees to the  . it will pass over the sun 's south 
in the summer of 1993 .  . its is 5 . 2 . au , and , surprisingly , its 
is about 1 . 5 . au that 's right , a studies 
that 's always further from the sun than the earth is ! 

while in jupiter 's , studied the magnetic and 
radiation environment. for a short summary of these results , see 
science , v. , p.  ( 11 september 1992) .  . for technical 
detail , see the many articles in the same issue. 


other space science  ( note this is based on a posting by ron 
in 11 89 , with information contributed by 
i'm attempting to track changes based 
on updated manifests corrections and are welcome. 

1993 
o spring , 
 ( array of low energy x ray sensors ) is to perform 
a wide field sky survey in the soft  ( low energy ) x ray 
spectrum .  . it will the entire sky every months to search 
for variations in soft x ray from sources such as white 
, stars and stars .  . it will also 
search nearby space for such objects as isolated 
stars and gamma ray  . is a project of los 
national and is primarily a technology development 
mission that uses sources to demonstrate the 
technology. contact project jeffrey j 
for more information. 

o wind , delta ii rocket 
to measure wind to  . 

o space lab , 60 01 
gather images of earth 's surface .  . 

o total mapping dec , rocket 
study of  . 

o  ( space flyer unit ) 
conducting space experiments and observations and this can be 
after it the various scientific and 
engineering experiments .  . is to be by and 
by the u.s. space on in 1994. 


o physics may , delta ii rocket 
june , measure wind and and surrounding the 
earth. 

o 2  ( sts ) , 02 
international  . 

o 
advanced earth observing  . 

o b  ( mu space engineering b ) 
conducting research on the precise mechanism of space structure 
and in space observations of  . 


a 
the structure and thermal construction of the 
moon 's  . 


proposed 
o advanced x ray astronomy  ( axaf ) 
possible launch from in , is a space 
with a high resolution  . it would orbit for 
15 years and study the mysteries and fate of the universe. 

o earth observing system  ( eos ) 
possible launch in , 1 of 6 us space to 
provide long term data  ( 15 years ) of earth systems science 
including evolution .  . 

o observer 
possible launch .  . 

o observer 
possible launch , would be sent into a long term 
orbit .  . the observer , from 60 above the moon 's poles , would 
survey characteristics to provide a context for the 
results from the program .  . 

o space 
possible launch by in , this is the 4th element of 
the great program .  . a free flying with 
a lifetime of 5 to 10 years , it would observe new and 
other primitive bodies in the outer system , study cosmic 
birth formation of , stars and planets and distant 


o return  ( mrsr ) 
would return samples of  atmosphere and 
surface to for analysis. possible launch dates for 
, for  . 

o fire and ice 
possible launch in , will use a gravity assist of 
earth in , and use a final gravity assist from jupiter in 
, where the will split into its fire and ice 
components the fire will journey into the sun , taking 
measurements of our star 's atmosphere until it is 
by the intense  . the ice will head out 
towards , the tiny world for study by  . 


next faq 12 15 questions 

from  ( thomas hancock ) 
subject re 
organization nasa 
lines 40 

 ( dennis newkirk ) writes 
the is controlled technology .  .  . 
state dept will not allow it to be used outside of us. sorry. 
in article  ( james thomas green ) writes 
has anyone looked into the possiblity of a 
what would be the benefits and problems with such a  ( other 
than the obvious in the now ) 

i have n't seen any speculation about it. but , the  ( design bureau ) 
was planning a new second stage for the which would boost 
to from about to  .  ( geostationary goes from 
 .  ( gals version ) to 6000  .  . this scheme was competing 
with the m last year and i have n't heard which won , except now 
i recently read that the central was working on the 
to the which must be the m. so the early 
results are m won , but this is a guess , nothing is very clear in 
russia .  . i'm sure if gets funds from someone they will continue 
their development .  . 

the for the is about 3  . and the 
is 4 so that 's a good fit for their existing stage , the block d 
which sets inside a just under 4  . i do n't know about 
launch loads , etc .  .  . but since the which 
are probably worse than the  ( those 's probably things 
up pretty good ) it seems  . except , the is a very 
thing and may require on the which is not available now. 
are assembled and  . does anyone know 
how much in the way of a a could support while 
to a and then taken down the road track 
and on the 

they would also need and facilities added to the 
 ( unless the new second stage is actually built ) , and of course 
any support systems and facilities , no doubt from the 
us at great cost .  . these systems may us law so there are political 
problems to solve in addition to the in the cis you mention .  . 


motorola , land products 
, il 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
organization u of 
lines 17 

in article  ( james thomas green ) writes 
why do have to be shut off after funding cuts .  . for 
example , why could n't just be told to go into a safe 
mode and stay about in a low power use mode and if 
maybe in a few years if funding gets after the economy 
gets better  ( hopefully ) , it could be turned on again. 

one consideration to remember is that if you do n't turn it off now , 
you may not be able to later. this is n't a case of over and 
a switch much of the has to be working correctly 
to execute a turn off command successfully. do 
in their old age. the big concern is not radio clutter from idle 
, but radio clutter from that can 
no longer be turned off. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re fluids 
article i.d. access . 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 19 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( achurist ) writes 

i believe the reason is that the gets too tired to 
the liquid in and out and simply stops after 2 3 minutes. 
so if your in the ready to go they better not put you on 
hold , or else ! ! that 's about it. remember a liquid is several more times 
as as a gas by its very nature. 10 i think , depending on the gas 
and liquid of course ! 


could you use some sort of as an aid .  . 
like the iron put some sort of 
around the    . it and it will 
push enough on the to support 

you 'd have to trust your , but in space , you have to trust 
your suit anyway. 



from ( f . tm ) 
subject first 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 13 

at one time there was speculation that the first 
 ( alexei ) was a fake .  . 

has any evidence to support or contradict this claim 

was this claim perhaps another cold war hallucination 


fred  ( tm ) in times of intellectual , 
advantage to him with the 
include disclaimer . h . most ! 
how is frank doing 
may  , it 's time ! ! 

from  ( terry ford ) 
subject a flawed system space 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 13 



for an , i am writing about the space and a need for a better 
system. through research , i have found that it is rather 
(i . e .  . all the before launch ) , the safety ( sitting 
on a bomb ) , etc .  .  . if you have any about the current 
space program re , please send me your ideas. 

thanks a lot. 



, ontario , canada .  . 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject some recent observations by 
organization 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , , 
news software vax vms 1.41 

here are some recent observations taken by the space 

o the object  ( fos ) was used to make 
observations of both the planet , and its moon  . the 
were successful .  . the observations were executed as 
scheduled , and no problems were reported .  . 

o observations were made using the high speed of the planet 
during an by a star in  . these 
observations will help in our understanding of the planet 's 
and processes .  . this event occurred 
close to the last moon , and special had to be 
made to the limit to allow these observations .  . 
the observations are currently being , and all the 
observations looked okay. 


ron 
lab 
) m s being cynical never helps 
pasadena , ca to correct the situation 
and causes more 
instead. 

from  ( jeff cook ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization none 
lines 51 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 22 36 55 gmt 

in article  ( enzo liguori ) writes 

now , space 
is working with university of and on 
a plan to place a long in low earth 
orbit .  . nasa would provide contractual launch services .  . however , 
since nasa bases its charge on seriously flawed cost estimates 
 ( wn 26 93 ) the would bear most of the expense .  . this 
may look like environmental , but mike , of 
space , told us yesterday that the real purpose of the 
project is to help the environment ! the will carry 
he explained is just to help costs .  . 

how could this possibly be environmental when there is no 
environment to up there 

since the is just to help costs , it 's certainly no 
surprise that the would bear most of the expense . sounds 
like a good idea to me , since the would bear all of the 
expense if they did n't do the  . 

what do you think of this and attempt to 
the night sky 

great idea , they should have done it long ago. 

what about light pollution in observations (i read somewhere else that 
it might even be during the day , leave alone at  . 

i ca n't believe that a long would have any significant 
effect on the overall sky  . is during the day , 
but nobody complains about that. besides , it 's in , so it would only 
be during when the sky is already bright , and even if 
it would have some impact , it would be only for a short time 
as it goes across the sky .  . 

are protesting groups being organized in the states 

no doubt. people are always looking for something to about , so 
it would be no surprise .  . 

really , really depressed .  . 

well , look on the , er , bright side. imagine the looks on the faces of 
people in primitive tribes out in the middle of nowhere as they look up 
and see a can of flying across the sky .  .  .  . d 



jeff 


from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject re sail data 
organization national 
lines 56 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( frank j. snyder ) writes 
i am looking for any information concerning involving 
 . ... 
are there any groups out there currently involved in such a project 

sure. contact the world space foundation .  . they 're listed in the sci . space . 
frequently asked questions file , which i 'll  . 

world space foundation has been and building a sail 
for longer than any similar group many jpl employees lend 
their to this project .  . also provides funding for the 
sky survey , an extremely successful search for near earth 
 . foundation news and foundation 
, each a quarterly 4 8 page newsletter .  . contributing associate , 
minimum of 15 year  ( but more money always welcome to support  . 

world space foundation 
post office box y 
south pasadena , california 

put together a little paperback anthology of fiction and 
about project sail . i think robert 
, david , or may be listed as editor .  . 

also there is a book on by , 
a technical one by a guy whose name escapes me  ( help me out , josh ) , 
and i would expect that greg and have something 
to say about the subject in the handbook , as well as 
quite a few references .  . 


check the following articles in journal of the british 
society 

p.  ( 1983 ) 
p.  ( 1983 ) 
p.  ( 1984 ) 
p.  ( 1984 ) 
p. 119  ( 1984 ) 
p.  ( 1984 ) 

 ( can you guess that visited and gave me a bunch of 
i just found the file . ) . 

and k. eric 's paper high and related 
devices , paper , probably in a book called 
space manufacturing , maybe the of the second ( ) 
conference on space manufacturing .  . the one , at any rate .  . 

, flying , robots , talking bill 
pictures , radio , television , 
off the moon , rocket , and 
atom all in our time. but nobody 
has yet been able to figure out a music 
for a  . 
, 

from  ( robert u ) 
subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
organization university 
lines 2 

please get a real life. 


from 
subject death and taxes  ( was why not give 1 billion to .  .  .  . 
article i.d. 
lines 10 

in my first posting on this subject i threw out an idea of how to 
such a without delving to deep into the  . i mentioned 
rights to the winner  ( my actual wording was , 
rights . ) . somebody pointed out , quite correctly , that such rights are 
not anybody 's to grant  ( although i imagine it would be a 
situation for the winner . ) . so how about this give the group 
(i ca n't see one company or corp doing it) a 10 , 20 , or 50 year 
on taxes .  . 

tom 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization texas 
lines 78 

in  ( paul dietz ) writes 

in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 

this system would produce enough energy to drive the , 
perhaps with some left over. a very high power  ( 100 's of mw or 
cw ) , very beam would be required , but this appears 
using a  . the biggest question mark 
would be the lead target chemistry and the on line of all 
the elements being  . 

paul , quite frankly i 'll believe that this is really going to work on 
the typical trash one needs to process when i see them put a couple 
tons in one end and get  ( relatively ) clean material out the other end , 
plus be able to run it off its own power. sounds almost like 
perpetual motion , does n't it 

fred , the honest thing to do would be to admit your criticism on 
scientific grounds was invalid , rather than pretend you were actually 
talking about engineering  . given you postings , i ca n't 
say i am surprised , though. 

well , pardon me for trying to continue the discussion rather than just 
my in at having not considered actually trying 
to the energy from this process  ( which is at least trying to 
go the  right  way on the energy  . now , where did i put those 
and 

i was not and am not   anything i am so pleased you are 
not surprised , though. 

no , it is nothing like perpetual motion. 

note that i did n't say it was perpetual motion , or even that it 
like perpetual motion the phrase was sounds almost like 
perpetual motion , which i , at least , consider a somewhat different 
than the one you elect to criticize .  . perhaps i should 
beg your pardon for being too precise in my use of language 

the physics is well 
understood the energy comes from of in 
 . folks have talked about since the 
 . sources are in use today as research 
tools .  . design has been improving , particularly with 
, which helps  . los 
has expertise in high current  ( lampf ) , so i 
believe they know what they are talking about. 

i will believe that this process comes even close to 
and economic  ( given the nature of the 
trash that will have to be run through it as opposed to the costs of 
separating things first and having a different  run  for each 
actinide ) when i see them dump a few tons in one end and pull 
 ( relatively ) clean material out the other. once the costs , 
risks , etc. , are taken into account i still class this 
one with the idea of throwing waste into the sun .  . sure , it 's possible 
and the physics are well understood , but is it really a reasonable 
approach 

and i still wonder at what sort of  burning  rate you could get with 
something like this , as opposed to what kind of energy you would 
really as opposed to what it would cost to build and power 
with and without the energy  . are we talking , pounds , 
or tons  ( grams , kilograms , or tons , for you fans ) of 
material and are we talking days , weeks , months , or years  ( days , 
weeks , months or years , for you hmmm , still using a 
non time scale , i see  ) 

the real reason why or are not being 
built is that there is n't any reason to do so. natural is 
still too cheap , and of looks 
technically reasonable .  . 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from 
subject space design 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 11 
nntp posting host edu . 

is there a few grasp pictures of space related items , namely space station 
designs , so you can see the finished around .  .  . 

if you do n't know what a grasp is .  .  . check out some adult 
files and see what i mean .  .  . or maybe few files and create a slide 
shows (i think can do this) .  .  . 

i to be able to see a space design in a program or to see 
it around and look at it. 

michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( tom chamberlain ) 
subject 's race into space 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 6 

has anyone heard of or played 's race into space 

does anyone know when it is expected to be released .  .  .  . 

thanx , tom .  . 


from p . ida . org .  ( bob mcgwier ) 
subject re what do space surveillance 
organization ida center for communications research 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host harder . p . ida . org . 
in reply to 's message of 23 apr 93 20 17 25 gmt 


i can tell you that when some birds along a 
 ( french ) , that during of some on 2 , there 
armed who had a no prisoners  look on there faces .  . 
are completely capable of doing some very good on orbit 
surveillance .  . 




robert w. mcgwier p . ida . org . 
center for communications research interests amateur radio , astronomy , 
princeton , n . j .  . , 

from  ( dennis newkirk ) 
subject re 
organization motorola 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 43 . 
lines 31 

in article  ( pat ) writes 
the question i have about the , is could it be at 
one of 's spare , without major , or could it be 
at or 

seems like a lot of trouble to go to. its probably better to 
in newer launch systems. i do n't think a big cost advantage 
for using systems will last for very long  ( maybe a few  . 
would be the place to ask , since you would probably have to buy 
the from them  ( they market the world wide except  . 
they should know a lot about the possibilities , i have n't heard them 
propose us , so i assume they looked into it and found it 
 . 

now if it uses , 

yes .  .  .  . 

then how long would it take for the russians 
to something at york 

comparable to the i suppose , but since it looks like 
nothing will be built there , you might just as well pick any 
 . 

the message is to launch now while its cheap and while russia and 
are still  . later , the story may be different. 


motorola , land products 
, il 

from 
subject an 
article i.d. 
organization science applications l corp .  . san diego 
lines 48 

date tue , 6 apr 1993 15 40 47 gmt 

i need as much information about and its rocket  ( 1993 
018b ) as possible. both its purpose , launch date , , in short , 
everything ! can you help 

tony ryan , astronomy space , new international magazine , available from 



launch surprises west 
space news , april 5 11 , 1993 , p . 2 . 
excerpts 
russia its first in 26 months 
march 30 , western who had the program dead. 
the news agency the launch of from 
, but provided little description of the 's mission .  . 
however , based on the 's , western observers 
identified it as a military designed to electronic 
from foreign in order to track their movement .  . 
geoff perry of the group in england .  .  .  . said western 
observers had concluded that no more would be  . but days after the 
last such re entered the earth 's atmosphere , was 
 . 

for defense ministry 
world service in gmt 30 march 1993 
translated in 93 , p . 27 . 
by 
, 30 march the was at 
time today from the by a m rocket .  . an 
was told at the press center of russia 's space military forces 
that the was in the interests of the defense 
ministry .  . 

given 
world service in 0930 gmt 31 march 1993 
translated in 93 , p . 27 . 
, 31 march another artificial earth , , was 
on 30 march from the  . 
the carries scientific for continuing space research .  . 
the has been placed in an orbit with the following 
initial period of revolution 8 . 
orbital 65 degrees .  . 
besides scientific the carries a radio system for the 
precise measurement of orbital elements and a system for 
to earth data about the work of the and scientific 
 . the aboard the is working normally .  . 

from 
subject re  ( no , not the guy with the ears ! ) 
distribution na 
organization space science institute 
lines 42 

in article , 
 ( victor laking ) writes 
does anyone have any info on the apparent of 

all that i know is that there were apparently two at 
drastically different times of a small planet that was inside 's 
orbit .  . beyond that , i have no other info .  . 

the were apparently  . there is no planet inside of 
the orbit of  . 

the idea of came from the differences between 's observed 
and the value it should have had according to 
newtonian physics .  . made an extensive set of observations 
and calculations during the mid century , and simon later 
improved on the observations and re calculated using 's system 
of  . now was one of the co of 
and since he had predicted its existence based on in the orbit 
of his was to believe the same sort of thing was 
with  . 

but ,  not so. 's at the rate 
it does because the space where it near the sun is 
due to the sun 's mass .  . this explanation had to wait until 
and albert einstein 's of his earlier theory of the 
of moving bodies  ( commonly called special relativity ) with 
geometry .  . the result was the general theory of relativity , and one of 
it 's most noteworthy is that it accounts for the 
of 's almost exactly.  ( exactly if you use 's 
numbers rather than 's . ) . 

of course not everybody believes einstein , and that 's fine. but subsequent 
efforts to find any planets closer to the sun than using 
have been  . 

bill 

forgive him , he is a , who thinks the of his tribe 
are the laws of the universe. g. j. 

any opinions are my own. nothing in this post constitutes an official 
statement from any person or organization .  . 

from  ( covert c beach ) 
subject re observer update 03 29 93 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . net . 
keywords observer , jpl 

in article  ( pat ) writes 
now is n't that always the  . it does seem stupid to drop 
a mission like , because there is n't 70 million a year 
to keep up the mission .  . you 'd think that science could 
justify the money. jpl gets accused of spending more then , 
probably some validity in that , but nasa does put money into some 
things that really are  . oh well. 

i attended a at last fall where the head of the 
section of nasa was talking about what future 
were going to be funded .  . i do n't remember his name or title off hand 
and i have discarded the announcement .  . in any case , he was 
asked about that very matter why ca n't we spend a few million more 
to keep that we already have in place going 

his was that there are only so many available to him and 
the lead time on an instrument like a , , , etc 
is 5 10 years  . if he spent all that could be spent on using 
current in the current he would have 
very little to nothing for future  . if he did that , sure 
in the short run the science would be wonderful and he would be popular , 
however starting a few years after he had he would become 
one of the greatest ever seen in the space community for not 
funding the early stages of the next generation of  . just 
as he had from his 's funding choices , he it 
to whoever his would eventually be to keep developing new 
, even at the expense of cutting off some before 
the last drop of possible science has been out of them. 



c beach 


from ( f . tm ) 
subject the sky 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 12 

from g. 

finally this is n't the age ,  .  .  . 
please try to remember that there are more human activities than 
those practiced by the caste , the caste , and the 
priesthood .  . 

right , the caste is by god , and may 
freely its presence in the evening  .  .  . 


fred  ( tm ) 

from  ( dani eder ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization ai center , , al 
lines 18 

re space 

even easier to implement than writing messages on the moon , once upon 
a time a group of space i to in seattle considered 
a in orbit . the idea was to use a large structure 
that could carry an of like the has .  . 
placed in a low earth orbit of high , it could eventually 
be seen by almost everyone on earth. only our collective 
of up space with such a thing stopped us from 
it. it had quite economics , which i will not post here 
because i do n't want to encourage the idea  ( if you want to do such 
a thing , go figure it out for  . 




investment company  ( 205)464 )  ( 2697(w ) 232  ( 7467(h ) 
1 . , box 2 , al 37  n 43  w alt. 

from  ( nathan wallace ) 
subject test film 
reply to 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university computer science dept. 
lines 11 

is the film from the test which used conventional 
as a proof of concept test , or another one 


c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c 
c f. c c reality is c 
c e mail c c ancient c 
c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c 




from  ( andrew broderick ) 
subject x y 
organization lab , uk 
lines 15 


hi guys , 
i 've been hearing lots of talk on the net about x and y , 
but none of the many posts actually explain what they are ! ! ! sorry if 
this is a faq , but would somebody please explain to me what they are. 
reply by email please . . . thanks. 

andy 




andy jonathan j. , i have come that they might have 
lab .  . , uk life , and have it to the full 
mail jesus christ 

from  ( david b. mckissock ) 
subject blue members named 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio 
lines 

the following press release was april 1 by 
nasa  . 

space station redesign members named 

along with dr. charles m. , recently named by vice president 
albert to head the on the redesign of the 
space station , nasa has the names of representatives 
from government and industry and academic from across the 
country to participate in an independent review of the redesign 
options being developed by nasa .  . 

i am extremely to have been to lead this 
important review  . america 's future in science and 
technology and as a world leader in space demands our utmost 
attention and care , said  . we have assembled a 
of that , i believe , will bring the appropriate 
measures of insight , and objectivity to this critical 
task .  . 

the is charged with independently 
various redesign options of the space station presented by nasa 's 
redesign team , and proposing to improve 
and of the space station program .  . space 
station international partners also are being asked to 
participate and will be named at a later date. the 
will submit its in june .  . 

members named today include 

dr. charles dr. bobby 
president , mit dean of medicine 
college of medicine 

mr. dr. paul 
president , director , texas center for 

university of houston 

dr. ed dr. john 
of president 
mit 

 . gen .  . james dr. edward 
chief of for chancellor 
requirements north at t 
materials command state university 

dr. mary good mr. 
of technology president , international technical 
allied signal , inc. 

dr. mr. william 
chair , space sciences national of public 
board , national research 
council 

mr. dr. brad 
president systems technology of 
stanford university 

dr. robert dr. silver 
former nasa admin .  . w . m .  . foundation professor 
for resource 
california institute of 
technology 

dr. albert bud 




from 
subject forcing space  . 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 24 
nntp posting host edu . 

here is a way to get the into space and 
exploration .  . 

basically get the to make it so hard to get the on earth .  .  . 
you think this is crazy. well in a way it is , but in a way it is reality. 

there is a the congress to do just that .  .  . basically to make it so 
expensive to mine in the us , unless you can by off the or 
tax  .  . what i understand from talking to a few friends 
of mine , that they  ( the congress ) propose to have a tax on the gross of 
the mine , versus the , also the state governments have there 
normal taxes .  . so by the time you get done , paying for materials , workers , and 
other you can owe more than what you made. 
basically if you make a 1000 . 00 . and spend  . , you can owe 
600 . 00 . in federal taxes .  .  . it is driving the off the land .  .  . and 
the only who benefit are the  .  . 

basically to get back to my beginning statement , is space is the way to go 
cause it might just get to expensive to mine on earth because of either the 
or the  .  . 
such fun we have in these interesting times .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( marvin batty ) 
subject re moon colony prize race ! 6 billion total 
nntp posting host cc 
organization , coventry , uk 
lines 49 

in article writes 
i think if there is to be a prize and such .  .  . there should be classes 
such as the following 

large corp .  . 
small corp company  ( based on reported ) 
large government  ( gnp and such ) 
small  ( or political or ) 
large organization  ( planetary society and such ) 
small organization  ( alot of small  . ) . 

, schools , universities , rich individuals  ( around 250 people 
in the uk have more than 10 million dollars  . i mail 
from people who claimed they might get a person into space for 
per  . send a skinny person into space and split the rest of the money 
among the ground ! 

the organization things would probably have to be non profit or 

of course this means the prize might go up. larger get more or 
basically make the prize  ( total purse ) 6 billion , divided the class 
 .  . 
more fair 

there would have to be a organization set up to the events , 
and such and watch for safety  ( or maybe not , if want 
to risk thier own lives let them do it ) .  . 

agreed. i for any uk attempts .  . but one clause no launch methods 
which are clearly dangerous to the environment  ( ours or someone else  . no 
usage of materials from areas of importance .  . 

any other ideas 

yes we should do this rather than talk about it. lobby people ! 
the major problem with the space is all talk paperwork and 
no action ! 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 






marvin 
and they shall not find those things , with a sort of rafia like base , 
that their fathers put there just the night before. at about 8 o ! 

from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 08 15 addresses 
supersedes addresses 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 230 
distribution world 
expires 6 may 1993 19 29 gmt 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
keywords frequently asked questions 

archive name space addresses 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 38 55 

nasa , , and other space 

many space activities center around large government or international 
 . in the us that means nasa .  . if you have basic information 
requests (e . g .  . , general info , research grants , data , limited , and 
especially summer employment  ( typically should be ready by jan .  . 1 ) , 
etc . ) . , consider the nasa center to answer your questions. 

email typically will not get you any where , computers are used by 
, not people. the typical volume of mail per center is a 
multiple of 10 , 000 letters a day. seek the public information office at one 
of the below , this is their job 

nasa  ( the national and space administration ) is the 
civilian space agency of of the united states federal government. 
it reports directly to the white house and is not a 
post such as the military department of defense .  . its employees 
are civil and hence us citizens .  . another 
also work for nasa .  . 

nasa 

nasa  ( nasa hq ) 
washington 
 ( 202 ) 358 

ask them questions about policy , money , and things of political 
nature. direct specific questions to the appropriate center .  . 

nasa ames research center  ( arc ) 
field , ca 
 ( 415 ) 

some research , atmosphere , and 
 . lead center for research , 
v , etc. runs series of space  . 

nasa ames research center 
research 
p. o .  . box 273 
, ca 
 ( 805 ) 

, mostly .  . tested the landing 
characteristics .  . developed x 1 , d , x 3 , x 4 , x 5 , 70 , and of 
course , the x 15 .  . 

nasa space center  ( gsfc ) 
, md 
outside of washington 
 ( 301 ) 

earth and sounding  . developed 
 . 

 ( jpl ) 
california institute of technology 
oak dr. 
pasadena , ca 
 ( 818 ) 

the in research and other 
 ( they also had a lot to do with  . they run , 
, , and will run , , etc. etc .  .  . for 
images , , and other info about exploration , 
this is the place to go. 

jpl is run under contract for nasa by the nearby california 
institute of technology , unlike the nasa above. this 
distinction is subtle but critical .  . jpl has different requirements 
for research and summer  . for instance in 
the latter , an sf is useless. employees are caltech employees , 
, and for the most part have similar  . 
they offer an alternative to funding after other nasa  . 

a fact and description of jpl is available by anonymous 
ftp in 

ames . nasa . gov . pub space faq 

nasa johnson space center  ( jsc ) 
houston , tx 
 ( 713 ) 

manages space , ground control of  . 
training .  . mission  . 

nasa space center  ( ksc ) 
, 
 ( 407 ) 

space launch center .  . you know this one. 

nasa research center  ( larc ) 
, va 
near news , va 
 ( 804 ) 

original nasa site. in and experimental 
 . viking .  . long duration exposure  . 

nasa lewis research center  ( lerc ) 
 . 
cleveland , oh 44135 
 ( 216 ) 

rocket  . space power generation .  . materials 
research .  . 

nasa marshall space center  ( msfc ) 
, al 
 ( 205 ) 

development , , of solid rocket , external 
, main  . and  . 

assembly 

new , la 
 ( 504 ) 

external are produced here produced 
first stages for the v. 

space center 
bay st. , 
 ( 601 ) 

space main are tested here , as were v first 
and second stages .  . the center also does remote sensing and 
technology research .  . 

center 
island , va 
 ( 804)824 ) 
research , sounding , scout  . 

, technology office 
nasa scientific and technical information 
post office box 
baltimore , maryland 

specific requests for software must go thru cosmic at the univ .  . of 
, nasa 's software service .  . you can 
reach them at 

note foreign requesting information must go through their 
embassies in washington  . these are facilities of the us government 
and are regarded with some degree of economic  . 
cannot directly return information without high center approval .  . allow 
at least 1 month for  . this includes cosmic .  . 

the us air force space command can be thru the along with 
other department of defense offices .  . they have offices in 
los , , , and other  . they have 
a which nasa in size. 


de l europe 
b . p .  . 

france 

, inc. 
avenue , 
washington , 
 ( 202 ) 

european space agency  ( esa ) 
l s . w .  . 
washington , d . c .  . 
 ( 202 ) 

national space development agency  ( nasda ) 
4 1 cho , 2 
ku , tokyo , japan 


45 pr. 

ussr 

space camp 
space and rocket center u.s. space camp 
1 tranquility base 
, al 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( 407)267 ) 

and mailing list are through both 
camps are described in the same  . 

programs offered at space camp are 

space camp one week , youngsters grades 4 6 
space i one week , grades 7 9 
challenge one week high school program , grades 9 11 
space ii 8 days , college accredited , grades 10 12 
adult program 3 days  ( editorial comment it 's great ! ) 
teachers program 5 days 

space commerce corporation s .  . for soviet launch services ) 
drive , texas commerce 
, co houston , tx 
 ( 719 )  ( 713 ) 


600 maryland avenue , sw 
west 
washington , 
 ( 202 ) 

image corporation 
white drive , 
reston , va 
 ( fax ) (703) 1813 (703) 


other space 

a list with addresses and some info for a variety 
of in space related  . this is out on the 
space list he runs  ( see the network resources faq) and is also 
available by anonymous ftp from cs . cmu . edu . 2 . in 
ftp space  . 


next faq 9 15 for space , and how to see them 

from  ( dennis chamberlin ) 
subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
reply to 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 31 


news saved at 23 apr 93 22 22 40 gmt 
in article  ( david mcaloon ) writes 

2 earth core , is gravity ! ! ! 

this paper both describes how heavenly can be , 
sucking structures , and why we observe orbital motion ! ! 


light years between is a misnomer .  . the distance is 
closer to zero , as time and matter are characteristics of this 
of reality , which with each of the  . 
 ( defining 0 spin ) 

to find out about all of this , i recommend studying history. 

well , i'm working on it , but getting a little  . so far , 
i 've made it through egyptian , chinese , and greek cultures , and 
up through the  . but so far , these insights just do n't 
seem to be  . perhaps it 's in an appendix somewhere. 

in its own right , though , the history is kind of fun. lots of 
good in there , with and interesting characters. and , 
more to come. 







from  ( gene wright ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization the of ,  . 
lines 8 

you forget that was a government program and had to start 
relatively from  . some people at nasa think that this could work. 
one of them replied to me personally after i posted this original message 
several days ago. i have heard jerry suggest this idea before. 


 ( gene wright ) 
net . the of 

from  ( nick szabo ) 
subject redesign 
summary functions 
keywords space station , 
article i.d. 
organization public access unix (503) 
lines 89 

is up for redesign again. let 's do it right this 
time ! let 's step back and consider the we want 

1 process research 
2 life sciences research  ( adaptation to space ) 
3 

the old nasa approach , by and so far , was to 
 . these failed to meet 
their targets by a wide margin the military and users 
took most of their off after wasting much effort to 
tie their to it , and has into 
and  . over 50 billion has been spent on these 
two with no in launch costs and improvement 
in space  . , military and 
users have come up with a superior strategy for space development the 
 . 

firstly , different functions are broken down into different 
placed in the orbit for each function 
thus we have the in 12 hour orbits , 
in and orbits , etc. secondly , the task 
is amongst several in a , 
providing for and full where needed .  . 

's 3 main functions require quite different 
and are also prime for  . 

1 we have the makings of a now 
and for long duration , for 
short duration  . the best strategy for this area is 
, improvement of u.s. facilities 
on , , and from 
to a much less expensive or  . 
we might also expand the research program to take advantage of 
interesting space , eg the high radiation van allen belt 
or gas in  . the system can 
be much more easily for these , where a 
station is too large to launch beyond  . 

2 we need to study life sciences not just in , 
but also in and , and in the radiation 
of deep space instead of the protected shelter 
of  . this is a very long term , low priority project , since 
will have little practical use in the space program 
until costs come down orders of magnitude .  . furthermore , using 
severely the of the investigation , 
and the size. so i propose , a 
that test out various levels of gravity 
in super van allen belt orbits that are representative of the 
radiation environment encountered on earth moon , earth , 
earth , etc. trips .  . the life support 
machinery might be operated real time from earth thru a 
interface .  . after several orbital have been , 
follow can act as on the and surface , 
out the actual environment at low cost before billions 
are spent on  . 

3 by far the largest market for is in 
orbit .  . i propose a of small 
robots and small test on which ground can 
practice their skills. once in place , robots can stuck 
and , power , 
, etc. once the is working , it can be 
off to  ( company(s ) who can work with the 
to develop standards. 

by applying the successful strategy , and getting 
rid of the failed strategy of and old , we 
have improved the capability of the program while 
greatly cutting its cost .  . for a of 's , 
we can fix where the are , we can study 
life 's adaptation to a much large more representative variety 
of space , and we can do and 
research and , if needed , in special purpose 
orbits .  . 

n . b .  . , we can apply the strategy to space exploration 
as well , greatly cutting its cost and increasing its  . 
network and are two good examples of this more 
we can set up a network of native plants on that can be used 
to planet wide and 
return. the descendants of 's technology can 
be used as a surface and to test out closed 
on at low cost .  . 





from 
subject re oxygen  ( was astronaut ) 
organization nasa , space program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 29 

 ( henry spencer ) writes 

there is an emergency oxygen system that is capable of maintaining a 
atmosphere in the for long enough to come down , even 
if there is something like a hole in the that nobody tries 
to plug .  . 

hopkins replied 
wow. 

double wow. can you land a with a hole in the 

, i do n't know , but i 'd like to try it sometime .  . 

, yes , we can land an with a 5 hole in 
the provided that the thing which caused 5 hole did n't 
cause a 1 failure on some of the internal systems. there are 
a few places where a 5 hole would cause a bad day especially 
if the 5 hole went all the way through the and out the 
other side , as could easily happen with a strike .  . but a 
hole in the pressure would cause us to immediately de orbit 
to the next available landing site. 

ken , nasa , space program office 
 ( 713 ) 

nasa turns dreams into realities and makes science fiction 
into fact daniel s. , nasa administrator 


from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re how many read sci . space . 
organization texas 
lines 16 

in  ( dillon pyron ) writes 


there are actually only two of us. i do henry , fred , tommy and mary .  . oh yeah , 
this is n't my real name , i'm a headed space baby .  . 

yes , and i do everyone else. why , you may wonder , do n't i do  fred  
well , that would just be too obvious , would n't it oh yeah , this 
is n't my real name , either. i'm actually elvis .  . or maybe a i 
sometimes have difficulty telling which is which .  . 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re  ( was re no , not or haphaestus ) 
article i.d. 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 17 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( bill beam jockey ) writes 

this was known as journey to the far side of the sun in the united 
states and as in the u . k .  .  .  . later , they went 
on to do more live action sf series and space . 

the astronomy was lousy , but the lifting body , 
, and mighty launch complex were wonderful to 
look at. 

they a lot of models and theme music for  . some of the 
concepts even showed up in space  . 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  ( james thomas green ) 
subject keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 51 

why do have to be shut off after funding cuts .  . for 
example , why could n't just be told to go into a safe 
mode and stay about in a low power use mode and if 
maybe in a few years if funding gets after the economy 
gets better  ( hopefully ) , it could be turned on again. 

for that matter , why exactly were the experiments 
turned off rather than just . was it political (i . e .  . 
as along as they could be used , someone would keep bugging 
congress for funds ) turning them off keeps them 
scientists out of the 's hair .  .  .  .  . 

i 've heard the argument that an active but 
causes radio  . i find that hard to believe 
that this could be a problem in a properly designed safe mode .  . 
this safe mode could be a program which causes the 
to go to least using orientation , and once a 
 ( week , month , year , whatever ) attempts a signal lock on earth. 
at that time , if funding has been , the mission can 
continue. if no signal is recieved , the goes back to 
the safe mode for another time period. as we would know when the 
is going to try to contact earth , we could be 
prepared if necessary. 

as another a could do at the attempted contact is 
beam data towards earth. if someone can receive it , 
great , if not , so it 's lost and no big deal. 
by making the time and signal generally known , perhaps 
someone in the world might be able and willing to the 
data even if they 're not willing to contact the  . 

i see this as being particularly useful for which 
could have an otherwise long life and are in or are going to 
places which are otherwise  ( jupiter orbit , 
the system ,  . 

perhaps those future  ( cassini , , 
etc ) should consider in a mode in case their 
gets the sometime in the future after completion of 
the primary mission .  . perhaps observer and could 
have some kind of written in for the post mission 
 . 

so any holes in all this 


( james t. green ) ( ) 
i believe that this nation should commit itself to 
the goal , before this is out , of landing a man on the 
moon and returning him safely to the earth. 
john f. may 25 , 

from 
subject 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 14 
nntp posting host edu . 

i like option c of the new space station design .  .  . 
it needs some work , but it is simple and  .  . 

its about time someone got into simple construction versus overly complex .  .  .  . 

basically just strap some and a nose on the and go for 
it .  .  . 

might be an idea for a moon base to .  .  . 

where is  ( eugenia(sp ) when you need it  ( reference to heavy 
, i think) .  . 

michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( bret wingert ) 
subject re level 5 
organization ibm , federal systems co .  . software services 
ibm , federal systems co .  . software services 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3 . 1 . 
lines 91 

in henry writes 
in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 
 ( given that i 've heard the software rated as level 5 ... 
level 5 out of how many ... 

... also keep in mind that it was 
not achieved through the use of sophisticated tools , but rather 
through a  brute force and ignorance  attack on the problem during the 
they simply threw hundreds of people at it and 
did the whole process by hand .  .  .  . 

i think this is a little , based on 's account of the 
software development process before the  . fred is basically 
correct no sophisticated tools , just a lot of effort and 
care. but they got this one right before cited 
the software people as exemplary compared to the engine people.  ( he 
also noted that the software people were starting to feel 
pressure to cut , but had n't had to give in to it much yet . ) . 

among other things , the software people worked very hard to get things 
right for the major pre simulations , and considered a failure 
during those simulations to be nearly as bad as an in failure .  . 
as a result , the number of major failures could be counted 
on one hand , and the number of in failures was zero .  . 

as fred mentioned elsewhere , this applies only to the software .  . 
software that runs experiments is typically mostly put together by the 
, and gets nowhere near the same level of tender loving care. 
 ( none of the could afford it . ) . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

news software 3 . 1 . 
x x from  ( bret wingert ) 


in henry writes 
in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 
 ( given that i 've heard the software rated as level 5 ... 
level 5 out of how many ... 

... also keep in mind that it was 
not achieved through the use of sophisticated tools , but rather 
through a  brute force and ignorance  attack on the problem during the 
they simply threw hundreds of people at it and 
did the whole process by hand .  .  .  . 

i think this is a little , based on 's account of the 
software development process before the  . fred is basically 
correct no sophisticated tools , just a lot of effort and 
care. but they got this one right before cited 
the software people as exemplary compared to the engine people.  ( he 
also noted that the software people were starting to feel 
pressure to cut , but had n't had to give in to it much yet . ) . 

as fred mentioned elsewhere , this applies only to the software .  . 
software that runs experiments is typically mostly put together by the 
, and gets nowhere near the same level of tender loving care. 

a couple of points on this thread. 

1. we have been using our processes since way before  . 
in and of it self did not flaws .  . 

2. what mr. says is by and large true. we have a process that is 
not dependent on sophisticated tools  ( case tools ) .  . however , tools 
cannot fix a bad process. also , tool support for s  ( the 
language ) is somewhat limited .  . 

3. the software project was rated level 5 by a nasa team .  . 
this group 20 40 of verified code per year for nasa .  . 

4. feel free to call me if you or your organization is interested in more info 
on our software development process. 




 ( 713 ) 
fax  ( 713 ) 





 ( 713 ) 
fax  ( 713 ) 



from  ( paul dietz ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization university of rochester 

in article  ( william reiken ) writes 

ok , so how about the creation of oil producing bacteria i figure 
that if you can make them to eat it up then you can make them to shit it. 
any comments 

they exist. even varieties .  . not economical at this 
time , though. 

paul f. 


from  ( mitch ) 
subject help i need some addresses 
originator edu . 
reply to  ( mitch ) 
organization north state university , project 
lines 21 


hi all , 

i'm trying to get mailing addresses for the following 
 . specifically , i need addresses for their 
offices or like bureau .  . the are 


orbital sciences corp .  . (sp ) 
, inc. (i know this one is somewhere in 
seattle , , or at least part of it is . ) . 
space , inc.  ( somewhere in houston ) 
space inc. 

if anybody could point me in the right direction on this , i 
would be most  . i prefer an email response , but i 
will post a summary if sufficient interest exists. 

thanks , 



from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 04 15 calculations 
supersedes math 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 
distribution world 
expires 6 may 1993 19 56 03 gmt 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
keywords frequently asked questions 

archive name space math 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 12 

calculations and interpreting data 

computing orbits and 

references that have been frequently recommended on the net are 

of roger , , jerry white 
1971 , press , 8 .  ( us )  . isbn 0 0 

nasa  ( dating from the 1960s ) 
sp 33 orbital handbook (3 parts ) 
sp 34 handbook (3 parts ) 
sp 35 handbook  ( 9 parts ) 

these might be found in university or ordered 
through the us govt. printing office  ( gpo ) , although more 
information would probably be needed to order them. 

m. a. , the determination and characteristics of 
under the influence of multiple 
, technical report 32 , , 
pasadena ,  . , ,  . 

the title says all. starts of with the basics and works its way up. 
very good. it has a companion article 

m. , utilizing large for the design of 
deep space and out of , technical 
report 32 , jpl , pasadena ,  . ,  . 

you need to read the first one first to understand this one. 
it does include a short summary if you can only find the second .  . 

contact jpl for of these reports .  . 

attitude , peter c. 1986 , john and 
sons .  . 

celestial mechanics a guide for the , 
lawrence g. ,  ( wiley , new york ,  . 

starts with the basics  ( 2 body problem , coordinates ) and works up to 
orbit , , and corrections .  . 
also discusses including a short 
discussion of n body problems. 


computing positions 

more net references 

van , low precision for 
positions , j. series , 41 ,  . look in an 
astronomy or physics library for this also said to be available from 
bell .  . 

gives series to positions accurate to 1 minute for a 
period or years from now. is included but stated to 
have an accuracy of only about 15 minutes. 

interactive computer  ( mica ) , produced by the us 
 . valid for years 1990  . 55 ( 80 outside  . 
available for ibm  ( order 500163hdv ) or  ( order 
 . from the sales , (703)  . i believe 
this is intended to replace the 's interactive computer  . 

interactive computer  ( from the us observatory ) 
on ibm pc , 35  ( willmann  . covers dates 
 . 

programs and from to , simon 
1986 , bell .  . 

available  . 

of celestial mechanics  ( 2nd ed ) , j . m . a .  . 1988 , 
bell .  . 

a good fundamental text. includes basic programs a companion set of 
is available  . 

for  ( 4th ed . ) . , j. 1988 , 
bell .  . 

, j. 1991 , bell .  . 

if you actively use one of the of 
for , you will want to replace it with 
. this new book is more oriented towards computers than 
and contains for motion based on 
modern work by the , the u.s. 
, and the bureau des  . the previous books were 
all based on mostly developed in the last century. 

available on diskette .  . 

practical astronomy with your  ( 3rd ed . ) . , p. smith 
1988 , cambridge university press. 

orbits for with a , d. 1984 , 
, ltd .  . 

includes example programs in basic .  . 

orbits for ii , d. 1987 , john sons .  . 

astronomy scientific software catalog of , public domain , 
and software for ibm and other  . astronomy software 
includes simulations , , 
, system simulations , programs , 
celestial mechanics , and more. 

software , inc. 
p.o. box 
amherst , ny 14226 


computing from earth 

gene the following , based on 
studies of caused by nuclear  . 

 ( 1 3 . 
d s s c k w in 
g p f n 

 ( 1 6 ) 
s  ( g g ) gravity correction factor for bodies other than 
g e t earth , where g 9 . 8 . m s 2 and g is the surface 
e t 
gravity of the target body. this is 
cited for and may hold true for 
other bodies .  . 

 ( 1 3 . 
s  ( p p ) correction factor for target p , 
p a t t 
p 1 . 8 . g 3 for at the u 
a 
site , p 2 . 6 . g 3 for average 
on the  . 

c collapse factor , 1 for 3 
in , 1 . 3 . for larger  ( on  . 

 ( 1 3 . 
k  .  ( kt equivalent ) 
n determined from the u 
nuclear test  . 

3 2 19 
w d delta v  ( 12 4 . 10 ) 
energy in equivalent 
given d , v , and 
delta in units. delta of around 3 
g 3 is fairly good for an  . 

an of v 20 may be used for earth 
 . 

under these assumptions , the body which created the 
in arizona 13 . diameter ) would have been about 40 in 
 . 

more generally , one can use  ( after , 1985 ) 

number of objects impact probability impact energy 
 ( km )  ( impacts year ) ( 5 10 20 ergs ) 

10 10 10 8 10 9 
1 1 000 10 6 10 6 
0 . 1 . 100 000 10 4 10 3 

assuming simple laws .  . note that 5 10 20 13 000 tons 
equivalent , or the energy released by the hiroshima a bomb .  . 

references 

, t. 1985 and  . physics today 38 , 32 41 .  . an 
excellent general overview of the subject for the 

, e . m .  . and of the earth. ann .  . 
rev. earth planet. sci .  . 11 ,  . very long and fairly 
technical but a comprehensive examination of the 
subject 

, e . m .  . , j . g .  . , e . f .  . r . f .  . 
earth orbital classes , with 
earth , and origin .  . in , t. , ed .  . , pp. , 
university of arizona press , tucson .  . 

, c . j .  . 1988 introduction to the next 
 ( richmond bell , ) . covers all aspects of 
studies and is an excellent introduction to the subject for people 
of all experience levels .  . it also has a very extensive reference 
list covering essentially all of the reference material in the 
field .  . 


map and 

two easy to find sources of map are the 
,  ( particularly the older volumes ) and a 
in  ( academic press ,  . the latter was written with 
of exposition and of digital in mind 
 ( spherical also appear , as do  . 

more than you ever cared to know about map is in john 
's publication map a working manual , 
paper  . this contains detailed descriptions of 32 
, with history , features ,  ( for both 
earth and earth ) , and test cases. it 's a 
neat book , all pages worth .  . this one 's 20 .  . 

you might also want the companion volume , by and philip , 
an of map , paper  . this 
contains less detail on about 130 and variants .  . are 
in the back , example in the front .  . 14 , 250 pages. 

you can order these 2 ways. the cheap , slow way is direct from 
earth science information center , us survey , national 
center , reston , va  .  ( 800 ) usa  . they can quote you a price and 
tell you where to send your money. expect a 6 8 week time. 

a much way  ( about 1 week ) is through discount , 
 ( 303 ) , w. drive , 9 , , co  . call 
them and tell them what you want. they 'll quote a price , you send a 
check , and then they go to customer service counter and pick it up 
for you. add about a 3 4 service charge , plus  . 

a  ( perhaps more accessible ) mapping article is 

r. miller and f. , mapping the world in pascal , 
14 , december 1987 

contains pascal for five common map  . a 
program , , and a small  ( 6 , 000 point ) data 
is available on compuserve , , and many  . 

some references for are 

astronomy , w . m .  . smart , cambridge u. press ,  . 

a of astronomy , s. , ,  . 

astronomy , r . m .  . green , cambridge u. press. , 1985  ( update 
of  . 

astronomy , e and g . , academic 
press ,  . 


n body simulations 

computer using particles 
r. w. and j. w. 
 ( adam and philadelphia 1988 ) 

the evaluation of potential fields in particle systems , 
l. 
mit press , 1988. 

a  ( o(n ) method. has been  . 

l. and v. , a fast for particle 
simulations , journal of physics , 73 , 1987 .  . 

an  ( o(n ) for three dimensional n body simulations , 
thesis , , mit technical report , 1987 

galactic 
j. s. 
 ( princeton u. press princeton 1987 ) 

includes an  ( o(n 2 ) code written by , a in 
the field .  . 

 ( n log n ) tree methods are described in these papers 

a. w. , an efficient program for many body , 
journal of scientific and statistical computing , vol. 6 , p. 85 , 
1985 .  . 

, a  ( o(n log n ) force 
, nature , , 4 10 dec 1986 .  . 

l. , n body methods , computer physics 
communications , vol. 48 , p. , 1988. 


interpreting the fits image format 

if you just need to examine fits images , use the  ( see the 
faq) to convert them to your preferred format .  . for more 
information on the format and other software to read and write it , see 
the sci . fits . faq .  . 


sky  ( unix program ) 

the edition of the unix operating system came with several software 
systems not because of older media capacity  . 
included were an , a track , and speech 
software .  . the ,  ( sky(6 ) , is available within at t and to sites 
a unix source code license .  . the program is regarded as unix 
source code. sky is 0 .  . send proof of source code license to 

e. 
5 
nasa ames research center 
field , ca 1000 



three dimensional star 

to generate 3d of objects , first obtain an 
which right , , and 
for the objects .  . convert into distance using the 
in part 6 of the faq , convert and to 
on a  ( see some of the references on positions and 
earlier in this section for details on this) , and 
scale this by the distance .  . 

two useful for this purpose are the yale bright star catalog 
 ( sources listed in faq section 3) or the of stars within 25 
of the sun  ( in pub space faq stars . data . and stars . doc . on 
ames . nasa .  . 


next faq 5 15 references on specific areas 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re stephen hawking jpl 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . net . 
keywords jpl 

in article  ( ron baalke ) writes 
using a model of observer , spent several 
describing the project and the 's features .  . in answer 
to a question from hawking , described a proposed 
free , but confirmed that at this point , it 's only 
a concept .  . , who had met hawking at caltech about five 


too bad they did n't give him a of the data 

i think he 'd be by the gamma ray  . the mind of 
hawking might even propose a mechanism .  . 


so what 's a free with 40 carries an 
gold set of dead inquiring minds 
want to know 

and why would carry any features for being free i thought 
was a possible experimental activity 




from  ( pat ) 
subject re biosphere ii 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 22 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article writes 
in writes 
the work is privately funded , the data belongs to  . i do n't see 
either george or fred , ibm research division for 
not data .  . 
we publish plenty , you just have to look. 


never said you did n't publish , merely that there is data you do n't 
publish , and that no one you for those cases. 

ibm research plenty , it 's why you ended up with 2 
in the last 10 years , but that some are deemed 
company  . bell labs , keeps lots of stuff private , 
like  . private is entitled to do what 
it , within the bounds of law , and for all the keepers of the 
temple of science , should please shove their little heads 
up their posterior  . 



who just read the sa article on karl  ( fehrabend(sp ) 

from 
subject re email contacts .  . 
organization nasa , space program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 10 

i am the space program office 's e mail traffic to 
for our on going  . i have several e mail 
addresses for folks , but i wo n't post them on the  net for 
obvious reasons. if you need to know , give me a  . 

ken , nasa , space program office 
 ( 713 ) 

the earth is the of humanity , but mankind will not stay in 
the forever. 

from  ( john grasham ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year lo 
organization oil and gas company 
lines 44 

 ( craig keithley ) writes 

all in all , i'm not certain that the single goal prize of staying on the 
moon for a year is wise and or useful. how about a prize for the 
first 
non government moon landing , then another for a 

moon landing , then yet another for a system to extract from 
, another for a earth moon , and so forth .  . 
find 
some way to build civilian  .  .  . having a single 
goal 
might result in a bunch of giving up after one person 
appeared 
to win .  . and for those that did n't give up , i find something a little 
scary 
about a half dozen people in little moon  . i 'd 
like to see as much a reward for co operation as for competition .  . 

lastly , about ten or years back i seem to recall that there was 
an 
english space magazine that had an on going discussion about 
on 
the cheap .  . i it discussed things like how much the human 
body produced , how much material it 'd need for protection from 

, etc. unfortunately i do n't remember the name of this magazine .  . 
does this a bell to anyone 

craig i do n't remember , i do n't recall , 
apple computer , inc. i got no memory of anything at all 
peter , third  ( 1980 ) 


i love the idea of progressive , but the assumption 
has 
been all along that only the u.s. could the  . it 
would n't and could n't do such a thing ... but ... 

an could offer such a prize or series of  . 

anyone know h. or bill personally 

john g. 

from  ( bob combs ) 
subject re blow up space station , easy way to do it. 
organization , stanford , reston , va 
lines 16 

in article writes 
this might a real idea or maybe not .  .  . 


why space station be so difficult why must we have why be 
confined to earth based ideas , lets think new ideas , after all space is not 
earth , why be limited by earth based ideas 

choose any or all of the following as an answer to the above 


1. politics 
2. traditions 
3. congress 
4. 


from  ( ross borden ) 
subject re how many read sci . space . 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university of , , , canada 
lines 33 

in article  ( pat ) writes 


in the old days , their used to be  that 
the and posting volumes by group and user .  . 

they were available from uunet .  . that 's how you check the 
of sci . space . , not some stupid unscientific attempt 
to flood the newsgroup .  . 

i have idea. why do n't we all reply directly to the 
of this post , and tell him we read sci . space . ) 




sigh. 
i try to make a little joke , i try to some here 
and what happens in the immortal words of 

i say , that was a joke , son. 

i thought that the bit about , not to mention the two 
smileys , would indicate to even the most that i was 
 . 
sigh. 
 ( and will everyone who 's suggestion  ( thanks , pat ) 
please stop sending me email . ) . 


i shot a man just to watch him die 
i'm going to ! 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re forcing space  . 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 25 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
besides this was the same line of horse the claimed 
when they were told to pay for land after strip  . 

i talking the large or even the i am talking the small 
, the people who have themselves and a few employees  ( if at the . 
people who go out every year and set up thier box , and such and do 
the semi old fashion way .  .  .  ( okay they use modern methods  . 


lot 's of these small are no longer  . they are people living 
free on federal land , under the claim of being a  . the facts are 
many of these people do not from , do not 
often even live their full time , and do do a fair bit 
of environmental damage. 

these were created inthe 's 's when the west was 
and were designed to bring people into the  . times change 
people change .  . deal. you do n't have a constitutional right to live off 
the same industry forever. anyone who claims the have a right to their 
job in particular , is nonsense. this has been a long term 
federal welfare program , that has it 's usefulness .  . 



subject re surviving large 
from  ( lan pham ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 25 

writes 
hi , 
i was reading through the handbook and somewhere in 
there the author discusses and the forces acting on them 
when and if they try to gain an initial by passing close to 
the sun in a orbit .  . the magnitude of such he 
to be on the order of  . he also says that this is may not 
be a big problem for because humans  ( and this was published 
in 1986 ) have already of  . all this is very 
long but here 's my question finally are in 
fact with the aid of any devices of 
course. if these are possible , what is used to absorb the 
can this be extended to larger 

are you sure is the right number as far as i know , are 
in that  . seems to be out of human 
tolerance .  . would anybody clarify this please. 





thanks is advance .  .  .  . 



from  ( ts kelso ) 
subject two line orbital element set space 
keywords space , orbital elements , 
nntp posting host 
organization air force institute of technology 
lines 21 

the most current orbital elements from the two line element sets are 
carried on the celestial bbs ,  ( 513 ) , and are updated daily  ( when 
 . documentation and software are also available on this 
system. as a service to the user community , the most current 
elements for the current mission are provided below. the celestial 
bbs may be 24 hours day at , 1200 , , , or using 
8 data bits , 1 stop bit , no  . 

element sets  ( also updated daily ) , elements , and some documentation 
and software are also available via anonymous ftp from archive . 
1 . in the directory pub space .  . 

56 
1 93 23 a  . 0 3 0 230 
2 57 . 38 . 15 . 
1993 
1 93 23 b  . 0 3 0 86 
2 57 . 66 . 15 . 

dr assistant professor of space 
air force institute of technology 

from 
subject re the sky .  . 
distribution na 
organization space science institute 
lines 

newsgroups sci . , sci . space . 
subject re the sky .  . 

 ( excerpts from posting on this topic ) 

in article 
 ( enzo liguori ) writes 

now , space 
is working with university of and on 
a plan to place a long in low earth 
orbit .  . 
... 
... the real purpose of the project is to help the environment ! 
the will carry 

... 
i ca n't believe that a long would have any significant 
effect on the overall sky  . is during the day , 
but nobody complains about that. besides , it 's in , so it would only 
be during when the sky is already bright , and even if 
it would have some impact , it would be only for a short time 
as it goes across the sky .  . 


(i 've seen at they 're not only in ) . o) 

... 

from the book genius the life of by john j. o 

this remarkable of , including the air , at low 
, led to suggest , in a published statement in , a 
system of on a terrestrial scale in which he proposed to treat 
the whole earth , with its surrounding atmosphere , as if it were a 
single  .  .  .  . 
the whole earth would be into a giant , with the night 
sky completely  . ... making the night as bright as day. 


now my comments 

i 'd like to add that some of the do not come from a strictly 
practical consideration of what pollution levels are acceptable for 
research activities by  . some of what i 
would complain about is in aesthetics .  . many readers may 
never have known a time where the heavens were sacred 
by the actions of humans. the space between the stars 
as profoundly black as an can be. with full and 
a pure sky one could look out upon half of all creation at a time 
none of which had any connection with the petty matters of man. 
any were solely by nature by men. 
whole religions were based on man somehow getting up there 
and becoming immortal as the stars , whether by or a belief 
in an afterlife .  . 

the space age changed all that. the effect of the first 
and , etc. on this view could only happen once. to see a light 
the night sky and know it was put there by us people 
is still impressive and the sense of size one gets by 
the involved is also awesome even if the few hundreds or 
thousands of involved is still by the rest of the universe. 
but there is still a for the pure beauty of a virgin sky .  . 

yes , i know are almost always in sight. i have to live 
in a very populated area  ( 6 from an international airport 
currently ) where light pollution on the ground is  . the 
impact of humans is so extreme here virtually no place exists 
that has not been , , modified , trashed or 
into shape by the hands of man. in some places the only life 
forms larger than bacteria are humans , , and 
 ( or  . i visited some friends up in the mountains 
one , getting away from it all  ( paved roads , , 
,  .  .  . ) . and it felt good for a while then i quickly noticed 
the was directly under the main path into 60 80 
to the east .  .  ( their  security light  did n't help matters 
much either . ) . but i 've heard the gets lots of 
high air traffic .  . so i know the skies are rarely perfect. 

but there is still this desire to see a place that man has n't 
in some way. (i mean they 've been trying this forever 
like , concerning 's idea to night , wow ! ) i do n't watch 
television , but i can imagine just how disgusting beer , 
, or would be if seen up so high. 
if  gotta make a on it  ( displaying products in heaven ) , at 
least consider the reactions from those for whom the sky is a last 
beautiful refuge from the of modern life. 

to be open about this though , i have here my listing of the passage 
of in the evening sky for this friday at 
8 25 p . m .  . edt it will reach an of 20 . 1 . degrees on the 
local from baltimore  . i 'll be trying to see it 
if i can it is my after all. so i suppose i could 
be called an for supporting this on the night sky 
while complaining about proposed by others. be that 
as it may , i think my point about a desire for beauty is valid , 
even if it ca n't ever be perfectly achieved .  . 

regards , 
 . 
baltimore md 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re orbital 
organization u of 
lines 21 

in article  ( steve collins ) writes 
the difficulties of a high include .  .  .  . 
if you go , you have to replace the every trip , with 
current technology. 

you 're assuming that go . power 
 ( turbo alternators ) does n't have this problem. it also has rather less 
air due to its higher , which is a non trivial win for big 
plants at low  . 

now , you might have to replace the rest of the fairly often , 
unless you substantial of mass in  . 

nuclear power sources are strongly restricted 
by international treaty .  . 

references such treaties have been proposed , but as far as i know , 
none of them has ever been or signed .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( tom ) 
subject economics 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 14 


if all the in the world were laid end to end . . . 

1 they would all point in different  . 

2 they would n't reach a conclusion .  . 

3 it would be a good idea just to leave them there. 

tommy mac 

tom as the of vision increases , 
the of mystery grows .  . 


from ( ) 
subject and space station ! 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 16 

on date 01 apr 93 18 03 12 gmt , ralph 
writes 
why ca n't the government just be a private concerns 
could just build a space station system and charge to the government 
wanting to use it. 

i believe that this was the thought behind the industrial space  . i 
do n't remember all the details , but i think space services ( ) wanted nasa to 
sign an deal in order to help secure some venture capital but 
nasa did n't like the deal.  ( i'm sure i 'll hear about it if i'm wrong ! ) 

disclaimer opinions stated are solely my own  ( unless i change my  . 
ben  ( w(818)586 ) 
space station freedom loads and 
man will not for fifty years to , 


from  . m. jungclas ) 
subject re big amateur 
organization at t bell labs , il .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 48 

in article  ( paul dokas ) writes 
i was reading popular science this morning and was surprised by an ad in 
the back .  . i know that a lot of the in the back of ps are fringe 
science or legal , but this one really my attention .  . 
it was from a company name personal , inc. or something like that. 

anyhow , the ad stated that they 'd sell that were up to 20  in length 
and of sizes f to m . they also said that some will 
reach 50 , 000 feet. 

now , aside from the obvious to any amateur using one 
of these , is n't this illegal i ca n't imagine the allowing 
people to shoot up through the levels of  . 
not to even mention the problem of a rocket when it comes down. 

and no , i'm not going to even think of buying one. i'm not that crazy. 


paul mine 'll do 50 , 000 feet and carries 50 pounds of 

could it be public missile , in michigan 

from the description of ad here , it sounds like they 're talking about 
high power , an outgrowth of model  . this 
uses non and 
in from g to p. the 
has been flourishing from early and is becoming increasing popular .  . 
technically this is not consider amateur  . 

any rocket with a weight greater than 3 . 3 . pounds or using a 
total of g or greater , requires an to launch .  . 
typically , a group of people get an for period 
of time  ( ie week , , etc . ) . at a site and time , and 
all of the are then covered under this blanket . 
there is also a high power safety code which designates more 
specific rules such as launch field size , etc. 

finally , in order to any of the larger  ( class b ) rocket 
you need to through either the national association 
of or tripoli association .  . 
require a handling and safe at a total 
level. 

for more information , watch rec . models . newsgroup .  . 

r. michael uucp ! ! 
at t bell labs , il .  . internet 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization u of 
lines 35 

in article  ( pat ) writes 
how will said re boost be done 
, , it in bay , do burn to high , 
, , , fix , 
then return to earth 

actually , the will probably be done last , so that there is a 
reserve during the  ( in case they have to down an 
or something like  . but yes , you 've got the idea the 
is done by taking the whole up. 

my guess is why bother with to 
why not , do all said , a small liquid 
to , then let it make the re boost .  .  .  . 

somebody has to build that it 's not an off the shelf 
item. nor is it a trivial piece of hardware , since it has to include 
attitude control  ( hst 's own is not strong enough to for things 
like imbalance ) ,  ( there is no to feed 
data from 's own to an external device ) , and separation  ( you 
do n't want it left attached , if only to avoid possible 
contamination after the is opened  . you also get 
to worry about whether the is going to open after the is 
done and is inaccessible to the  ( the closed for 
the duration of all of this to prevent contamination from 
and the  . 

the original plan was to use the orbital to do the 
 . the was to be a sort of small space , well 
suited to precisely this sort of job. unfortunately , it was costing 
a lot to develop and the list of definitely known applications was 
relatively short , so it got cancelled .  . 

a high speed henry @ u of 
between and  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re sunset times 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 18 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( rouben rostamian ) writes 
how the length of the daylight varies with the time of the year .  . 
experiment with various choices of and  . 
compare the behavior of the function at above and below 
the circle .  . 



if you want to have some fun. 

plug the basic into  . 

use the re , and functions 
to produce bar based on , and hours of day light  . 





from  ( ed mccreary ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 93 09 06 09 
organization compaq computer corp 


lines 14 

on fri , 23 apr 93 09 06 09 ,  ( greg nicholls ) said 
how about control to a non profit organisation that is 
able to accept to keep  . 

i seem to remember nasa considering this for some of the 
equipment left on the moon , but that they decided against it. 

or maybe not .  .  .  . 



ed mccreary , o 
, 
if it were not for laughter , there would be no tao .  . ( )  ( ' ) 

from  ( richard a. schumacher ) 
subject re x update 
nntp posting host com . 
organization computer corporation , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 32 

in  ( allen w. sherzer ) writes 

as for the future , there is at least in next years for work 
on  . they  ( sdio ) have been looking for more funds and do seem to have 
some. however , is not (i repeat , is not ) going to an orbital 
 . the best we can hope from them is to 1 ) keep it alive for 
another year , and 2 ) a which might  ( with 
major modifications ) just make orbit .  . there is also some money for a 
set of and to answer a few more open questions. 

would the sub orbital version be suitable as is  ( or as will be ) for use 
as a sounding rocket 


better news comes from the new effort .  . the of 
this program are very open to and will have about next 
year for studies .  . this would be enough to bring y to  . 

thank ! i had thought that would definitely be the 
bastard son of  . 


 ( and just as a ) 
now not all of this money will go to but a good case could be made 
for spending half on  . 

public support is still critical .  . meet with your (i 'll 
help you do it) and get his her support .  . also call your local media 
and get them to cover the  . 




from bruce  ( bruce dunn ) 
subject re mission name 
organization mind link ! british , canada 
lines 22 

writes 

old song from the 's or so goes as follows 

in a , in a canyon , 
for a mine , 
a , forty , 
and his daughter , 


oh my , oh my , 
oh my  . 
you are lost and gone forever , 
oh my  . 


let us hope that the of the follows the 
sentiments of the first verse  ( miner ) rather than the second  ( lost and gone 
 . 


bruce dunn vancouver , canada bruce 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
article i.d. 
organization texas 
lines 62 

in de . de .  ( uwe schuerkamp ) writes 

in article 
 ( enzo liguori ) writes 

vision of the future. observers were 
this spring when a nasa launch arrived at the 
with in huge block letters on the 

this is ok in my opinion as long as the stuff returns to earth . 

what do you think of this and attempt to 
the night sky it is not even april 1 anymore. 

if this turns out to be true , it 's time to get seriously active in 
terrorism .  . this is ! who do those people think they are , 
selling every bit that promises to make money 

well , i guess i'm left wondering just who all the  light  
think they are. yes , i understand the issues. i do n't even 
particularly care for the idea. but am i the only one that finds the 
sort of above just a little questionable you must 
find things like the moon really obnoxious in their pollution .  . 

a few questions for those at the mouth to ask themselves 

1 ) how long is this thing supposed to stay up sounds like it 
would have a huge area , not a lot of mass , and be in a fairly 
low orbit .  . 

2 ) just what orbital are we talking about here 
what real impact are we talking about , really how many 
are really going to be 

3) which is more important adding a few extra days of 
 seeing  for  ( very few ) or getting the data the 
are supposed to return along with the data for large 
 ( and the potential there for an space station ) 
the choice would seem to be one or the other , since the is 
being used to help this thing. 

4 ) if your answer to 3) above was the , then feel 
free to come up with some other way to the  ( to my mind ) more 
important research data that would be gained by this without spending 
any more of my money to do it. in other words , put up or shut up. 

i guess we really 
being out by radiation , folks .  . stupidity . i 
guess that 's true , and if only by pure numbers. 

probably so. i'm just not sure we agree about who the  stupid  are. 

another depressed citizen , 


yeah , me too. 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject 
organization 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from john 

there will be two of by and its 
, in may and  . please spread the word ! here 's some 
information about the events , and then a couple of messages from 
of jpl appealing for thermal observations of the to 
learn more about the thermal properties of  . he might also have 
some money available .  .  .  . 

john , 1993 04 21 

will be by the of 's and 
itself on 1993 05 01 02  ( 18 27 13 43 ut ) and again on 1993 07 20 21 , 
 ( 21 16 09 38  . is as follows 

1993 may 1 2 

a 18 27 
19 30 
b 19 51 
21 42 
c 23 00 
23 59 
10 02 
b 10 28 
12 19 
a 12 40 
13 43 

1993 20 21 

21 16 
05 08 
a 05 13  ( grazing ) 
09 38 

times could be 30 later according to an alternate , 
and observations are important for  
orbit .  . because the sun 's size on the as seen from 
is it 's unlikely that we will learn anything new about 
the themselves from the observations .  . see  ( 1992 ) , astronomy 
and , for more details. thanks to andy 
of northern arizona university for bringing the events to my 
attention .  . 

thermal observations 

writes 

to me , the interesting thing to do would be thermal of the 20 
disappearance into the of the planet to measure thermal , 
etc. unfortunately , the 21 30 of this event it inaccessible , 
except from russia .  . even from , is through 3 
at 23 00  . do you know anyone in russia or with 
a big and 10 that 's looking for something 
to do i 'd be willing to make a personal grant of 100 for the data .  . 



and again 

please try to encourage anyone that can observe the planet 
disappearance to do so at thermal  . my impression would 
be that it 's not an easy observation .  . will be and 
getting in , so you 'll need a big that 's a 
good and reasonable 10 20  . i do n't 
think that combination is widely available at the that are 
well placed for observation .  . we need for this one. one 
possibility would be the in india , but it 's only a 1.2 m. 




ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( ray  ( oh , that guy again ) 
subject re japanese moon landing 
reply to 
organization 
lines 35 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article  ( daniel burstein ) writes 
a short story in the newspaper a few days ago made some sort of mention 
about how the japanese , using what like a gravity assist , had just 
managed to crash  ( or crash land ) a on the moon. 

their engineering test mission spent a while in a highly 
earth orbit doing , and then was inserted into orbit 
using some very tricky gravity assist like  . this meant that 
it would crash on the moon eventually , since there is no such thing as 
a stable orbit  ( as far as anyone knows ) , and i believe i recall 
hearing recently that it was about to happen. 


the gravity that was used was to  fuzzy  . these 
are described by the as the second order in a 
three body system. the was into this for the 
earth moon sun system , where the affected it in such a way as to 
allow it to go into orbit without large of to slow 
down. the idea is that  natural objects sometimes get captured without 
, we 'll just find the that makes it possible . the 
originator of the said that nasa was n't interested , but that japan 
was because their was small and could n't hold a lot of for 
 . 

this from an issue of  science news  or  the report  i 
believe , about 2 months  ( ago ) .  . 


raymond l. jr. 

i read the newspaper today and was amazed that , in 24 hours , five billion 
people could so little. 



from  ( dani eder ) 
subject re guns for space 
keywords gun , space 
organization ai center , , al 
lines 72 


okay , lets get the record straight on the gas gun. 
the project is dr. john , and he works for the 
laser group at  . what , you may ask , does gas guns 
have to do with lasers nothing , really , but the gun is physically 
across the road from the free laser building , 
and the building has a control room  ( thick walls ) 
from which the gun are controlled .  . so i suspect that the 
office he works for is an administrative convenience .  . 

i visited at the beginning of feb .  . and we the gun. 
at the time i was working on gas gun r d at , where i work , 
but i am now doing other things  ( helping to save the space station ) , 

the gun uses a air mixture , which is burned in a chamber 
about 200 long by 16 id (i . e .  . it looks like a  . 
the chamber holds a 1 which is at several 
hundred m s down the chamber .  . on the other side of the 
is gas , initially at room tens 
of  . 

the and the ahead of it until 
a , at around 50 , 000  . 
the of the gun is about 100 feet long and has a 4 
bore .  . it is mounted at right to the chamber (i . e .  . they 
 . this was done so that in the future , the 
could be raised and the gun fired into the air without having to 
move the larger and chamber .  . the being used 
in is a 5 of plastic , 4 in in 
and about 50 long .  . 

all of the comes from the of the 
gas from 50 , 000 until the leaves the 
 . the is evacuated , and the end is with a 
of plastic film (a little than  . the 
plastic is blown off by the small amount of air 
in the ahead of the  . 

the gun is fired into a bunker filled with and plastic 
water  . in the early fragments of the plastic 
were found. at the higher in later , 
the  . 

the is into a bunker because the test range is 
about 3 across , and the would go 100 200 
if fired for range .  . the intent is to move the whole gun 
to after the is complete , where they can 
fire into the , and use the at 
to follow the  . 

the design goal of the gun is to a 5 at 4 
s  ( half of orbital  . so far they have reached 2 s , 
and the gun is currently down for , as on the last test 
they blew a and some of the hardware (i think it 
had to do with the air more than burning , but 
i have n't had a chance to talk to directly on this) .  . 

there are people waiting to test components in this 
gun by firing then out of the gun into the air  ( at 12 
4 s) , since the most you can get in wind is 8. 

this gun cost about 4 million to develop , and is basically 
a proof of concept for a bigger gun capable of firing useful 
into space .  . this would require on the order of 
100 , which deliver on the order of 20 
useful to orbit .  . 




investment company  ( 205)464 )  ( 2697(w ) 232  ( 7467(h ) 
1 . , box 2 , al 37  n 43  w alt. 

from  ( jeff foust ) 
subject re new planet object found 
organization caltech pasadena , california , usa 
lines 12 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

in a recent article  ( james davis nicoll ) writes 
if the new belt object is called   , the next 
one should be called  . 

unless i'm things ,  ( always a possibility ) 1992 , the belt 
object discovered last year , is known as  . 


jeff 49 days ! you 're from outer space .  . 
, science , caltech no , i'm from iowa .  . i only work in 
outer space .  . 
from star the home 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re japanese moon landing 
organization u of 
lines 14 

in article  ( daniel burstein ) writes 
a short story in the newspaper a few days ago made some sort of mention 
about how the japanese , using what like a gravity assist , had just 
managed to crash  ( or crash land ) a on the moon. 

their engineering test mission spent a while in a highly 
earth orbit doing , and then was inserted into orbit 
using some very tricky gravity assist like  . this meant that 
it would crash on the moon eventually , since there is no such thing as 
a stable orbit  ( as far as anyone knows ) , and i believe i recall 
hearing recently that it was about to happen. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( milady the of peripherals ) 
subject looking for a little research help addendum 
organization inc. 
lines 10 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 

sorry but i forgot this ps .  . 

right now my sight is getting news about two weeks behind so it 's 
kind of necessary  ( to me ) that any responses be sent to me directly .  . 


thanks a lot 




from ( rd48 ) 
subject re space food sticks 
keywords food 
article i.d. 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 19 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

i had sticks just about every morning for in 
first and second grade  ( 69 70 , 70  . they came in , 
, and butter and were about long 
and in wrapped in space  ( well , it seemed 
like space at the time) .  . 

the taste is hard to describe , although i remember it fondly .  . it was 
most certainly more than say a modern power bar .  . sort of 
a with vitamins .  . the power bar is a rough 
approximation of the taste.  . 

man , these were my 60 's .  . 




berkeley political science 
berkeley stanford program in soviet studies 


from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re x update 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 25 

in article  ( richard a. schumacher ) writes 

would the sub orbital version be suitable as is  ( or as will be ) for use 
as a sounding rocket 

x as is today is n't suitable for this. however , the 
funds will. a sounding rocket was always 's goal. 

thank ! i had thought that would definitely be the 
bastard son of  . 

so did i. there is a lot going on now and some reports are due soon 
which should be very  . the have been very bush 
the right people and it is now paying off. 

however , public support is still critical .  . in politics you need to keep 
constant pressure on elected  . 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
57 days to first of 

from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject re conference on exploration .  . may 7 city 
organization national 
lines 25 
distribution na 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( josh hopkins ) writes 
i reading the comment that general was into this , in 
connection with their proposal for an early landing .  . sorry i do n't 
where i heard this , but i'm fairly sure it was somewhere  . 
anyone else know anything on this angle 

the general chairman is paul , who is some official of general 
 . 

the emphasis seems to be on a down , fast plan to put people 
on the moon in an funding  . you 'd 
think it would be a golden opportunity to do lots of work for 
money using an agressive series of , but 
there 's not a hint of this in the  . 

 . they did n't send me anything ( 

you 're not hanging out with the right people , apparently .  . 

bill , beam i'm gonna keep on writing 
until i write the song 
bitnet that makes the guys in 
internet who draw the cars 
put on 'em again. 
john 

from  ( keith mancus ) 
subject re and the moon  ( was why not give 1g ) 
organization 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( layne cook ) writes 
all of this talk about a space race (i . e .  . to the first 1 year 
moon base ) is intriguing .  . similar have 
development before. the prize helped sell his spirit of 
saint venture to his financial  . 
but i strongly suspect that his saint had the to 
realize that much more was at stake than 25 , 000 .  . 
could it work with the moon who are the far financial of 
today 

the uses of a transportation system between already 
and civilized areas are obvious. is not in this position. 
the correct analogy is not with of the  30 's , but the long 
of the age of  . it did n't require gov t to 
these as long as something was known about the potential for profit 
at the  . in practice , some were gov t funded , some were private .  . 
but there was no way that any wise investor would spend a large amount 
of money on a very investment with no idea of the possible  . 
i am sure that a industry will eventually develop , 
and large numbers of people will live and work off earth. but if you ask 
me for specific justifications other than the increased resource base , i 
ca n't give them. we just do n't know enough. the launch rate demanded by 
existing space is just too low to bring costs down much , and 
we are very much in the dark about what the new space 
will be , when they will practical , how much will have to be to 
start them , etc. 


keith 

black and , when your states and cities fall , 
when your back 's against the  .  .  .  . fish 

from 
subject computer cult 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! tom apr 24 09 26 00 1993 
lines 59 


from tom 
subject computer cult 

from scott fri apr 23 16 31 21 1993 
received by org . 1 . revision 1 . ) 
id fri , 23 apr 93 16 31 09 pdt 
date fri , 23 apr 93 16 31 09 pdt 
message id 
from scott scott 
sender scott 
to 
subject next stand off 
status r 

city , ca  ( api ) a tense stand off entered its third week 
today as authorities reported no progress in with 
cult leader steve jobs .  . 

are of the situation inside the compound , but 
some reports suggest that half of the hundreds of followers inside 
have been  . others claim to be staying of their own free 
will , but jobs  persuasive manner makes this hard to  . 

in with authorities , jobs has given 
information on how prepared the group is for war with the 
industry .  . at times , he has claimed to have hardware which will blow 
anything else away , while more recently he claims they have stopped 
manufacturing their own. 

from the atf  ( apple forces ) believe that the group is 
with serious hardware , including pieces and 
possibly equipment. 

the has attracted a variety of , from the curious to 
other  . some have offered to in , 
including a young man who will identify himself only as bill and 
claims to be the . 

former members of the cult , some only recently , speak 
of their former lives , including being forced to work 
20 hour days , and on and  . there were 
frequent in which they were into a theory of 
computing which rejects traditional roles .  . 

late night on drive are taking their on 
federal  . loud and roll , mostly talking heads , 
throughout the night. some fear that jobs will fulfill his own 
prophecies , a worry when the 
carry jobs  own typically beginning with a chilling i 
want to welcome you to the  next world  . 


j. iii systems 
systems programmer hall  ( 415 ) 
computing group stanford , ca 94305 
stanford university 



from  ( doug page ) 
subject re us 
nntp posting host 
organization texas 
lines 41 

in article ,  ( nick haines ) writes 
in article  ( gary coffman ) writes 

stuff deleted 
of course the units of force have the same names as those of weight , 
but in order to use them you need to keep useful like the 
32 .  . 2 around. 

maybe you 'd like to go over again how this system is so natural and 
so easy to use , while you 're at it , you can figure out for us 
the weight of 17 and a of  ( density 2 3 4 per 
foot ) on the moon  ( gravity 5 7 3 32 in  . let 's face it , 
even the imperial system uses a basically way of 
(i . e .  . that would be written as 5 . 59 . 2 ) the only 
thing you 're hanging on to is the right to express the same quantity 
as , 25 . feet , 48 . or 2 . chains .  . what 
everyone else is saying is why do you want to do that 

any apparent remaining complexity in the system is due to the 
of the  . in fact what 's going on  ( and 
the fundamental difference between and imperial ) is that you have 
exactly one of each type , and all values of that type are 
expressed as some multiple of the  . 

you mean like seconds , , hours , days , months , years. . . ) 

remember , the scale is also a scale. some 
tell the history something like this the point in a 
particular was on the as was the body 
of a  ( turns out he was sick , but you ca n't win 'em  . 
then the space in between the marks on the was then divided into 
 . 
) 

, 

doug page 


the opinions are mine  ( maybe ) , and do not necessarily represent those 
of my employer  ( or any other sane person , that  . 

from  ( dave stephenson ) 
subject re space  ( 2 of 2 ) 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization dept. of energy , , and resources , ottawa 
lines 15 

as for sf and in space .  . there is a 
in 's the big ball of where the lovers are watching 
the over the and 
the some  stars  had slipped cause the were on strike .  . 

this was the inspiration for my article on a formation 
of space published in in 1986 .  . as the 
said this seems technically , and could be viable 
but is it desirable these days the only aesthetics 
that count are the ones you can count ! 

dave 
survey of canada 
ottawa , ontario , canada 
internet 

from  ( gary coffman ) 
subject re what if the ussr had reached the moon first 
reply to  ( gary coffman ) 
organization destructive systems 
lines 38 

in article  ( nick haines ) writes 
in article  ( gary coffman ) writes 
if i read you right , you 're saying in essence that , with a larger 
economy , nations will have more funds to waste on a 
 . that was certainly the case with , 
but real will probably require a continuing 
military , scientific , or reason for being rather than 
just a we have the money , why not approach. 

ah , but the whole point is that money spent on a base is not 
on the moon. it 's not like they 'd be using 1000  ( 1000r ) 
to their moon  . the money to a base would be 
spent in the country to which the base  . it 's a way of funding 
high tech research , just like was a good excuse to various 
fields of research , under the that it was crucial to the 
defense of the country , or like is a good excuse for the ec to 
research , under the that it 's good for european 
 . 

now maybe you think that government funded research is a waste of 
money  ( in fact , i'm pretty sure you do ) , but it does count as 
investment spending , which does boost the economy  ( and just look at 
the size of that ) .  . 

actually i favor government funded research .  . it is a prime 
for a lot of basic  . i also understand the short term 
value of high tech welfare programs. but they ca n't for 
long range wealth generation via  . that 's what 's 
needed to maintain a healthy economy anywhere , on earth or luna .  . 
i do n't see that long term potential on luna due to a bunch of 
factors i outline in another post. 



you make it , ! ! ! 
destructive systems we break it. uunet ! ! ! 
way guaranteed ! ! ! ! 
, 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization texas 
lines 32 

in  ( matthew deluca ) writes 

in article  ( william reiken ) writes 

well this pretty much says it. i have gotten alot of to this 
and it looks like oil is only on earth. so if those greedy little oil 
who obviously do n't give about it uses up all the oil then that leaves us 
high a  . 

greedy little oil do n't blame them oil just supply the 
demand created by you , me , and just about everyone else on the planet. if we 
run out , its all our  . 

he also a few other things. while would become 
more expensive were all the oil to disappear  ( and thus 
some things would no longer be economically feasible ) , oil is hardly 
an resource any more than most other  . as 
supply , rise and alternatives become more 
 . he also needs to consider that there has been an 
30 years of pretty much as long as anyone has cared 
about whatever the current usage rate is , we always seem to 
have about a 30 year reserve that we know about. 

i'm not sure that last figure is still true we tend not to look as 
hard when are cheap but it was certainly true 
during  oil crisis  days of the 70 's .  . 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from 
subject  ( aide )  . 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 1 . 
distribution world 
lines 78 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

the following are my thoughts on a meeting that i , , and bob 
had with an of  .  . we were there to discuss , and 
space .  . this is how it went .  .  .  . 



after receiving a packet containing a on the of , 
i called and tried to a meeting with our local  ( d ) 
, washington state. i started asking for an hour , and when i heard 
the on the end of the phone , i quickly backed off to 1 2 an hour .  . 
later in that conversation , i learned that a standard is 15 minutes. 

we got the standard bozo treatment .  . that is , we were called back by an , 
who scheduled a meeting with us , in order to determine that we were not 
, and to himself with the material , and to it , to 
make sure that it was appropriate to take the time with that material. 

well , i got 1 2 hour with  . , and we ended up talking 
to him for 45 , with us ending the meeting , and him still listening .  . 
we covered a lot of ground , and only a little tiny bit was specific .  . 
most of it was a single stage primer .  . there was another 
woman there who took of notes on every topic that 
we brought up. 

but , with being new , we wanted to ourselves as non 
(i . e .  . not speaking for boeing ) local citizens in space .  . 
so , we spent a lot of time covering the of lower cost access to 
 . power are a big focus here , so we hit them as becoming 
with lower cost access , and we hit the environmental stand on that. 
we hit the angle , and i left a copy of the 
paper , with side notes being that everyone who goes into space , and sees the 
atmosphere becomes more of an , esp. after seeing the 
over l . a .  . we hit on the of studying bone  ( which is 
more in space , and said that that had potential to lead to 
understanding of , and maybe a for  . we hit the education 
whereby kids get by space , but as they get older and find out that 
they a hop in hell of actually getting there , they go on to other 
fields , with low cost to orbit , the chances they might get there someday 
would provide greater incentive to hit the harder classes needed .  . 

we hit a little of the get nasa out of the launch business 
angle .  . we hit the lower cost of , , personal 
, , new services , etc .  .  .  . jobs provided 
in those  . 

jobs provided building the thing , of trade improvement , etc .  .  . 
we mentioned that would from lower launch costs .  . 

we left the paper on what needed to be in in order 
to make this even easier to do. and he asked questions on this point. 

we ended by telling her that we wanted her to be aware that efforts are 
proceeding in this area , and that we want to make sure that the 
results from these efforts are not lost  ( much like , or majellan ) , 
and most importantly , we asked that she help further efforts along 
the lines of the cost to  . 

in the middle we also gave a little about the resource data 
act , and the guy filed it , he was very interested in it. 
he asked some questions about it , and seemed like he wanted to jump on it , 
and contact some of the people involved with it , so something may actually 
happen immediatly there. 

the last two things we did were to make sure that they knew that we 
knew a lot of people in the space here in town , and that they 
could feel free to call us any time with questions , and if we did n't know 
the answers , that we would see to it that they questions got to people who 
really did know the answers. 

then finally , we asked for an with the herself .  . he 
said that we would get on the list , and he also said that knowing her , this 
would be something that she would be very interested in , although they 
do have a time problem getting her scheduled , since she is only in the 
state 1 week out of 6 these days. 

all in all we felt like we did a pretty good job. 

john .  . 

from  ( doug page ) 
subject re in propoganda films 
nntp posting host 
organization texas 
distribution sci 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( gregory smith ) writes 
 ( fred j 3539 ) writes 

in  ( pat ) writes 


the stopped being a real secret by the mid 70 's .  . 
i had a friend in high school who had a poster with it 's picture .  . 

it was known well before that. i built a model of it sometime in the 
mid 60 's , as  . the model was based on 
and had a big in the nose and 8 in closed on the 
of the  . the description , even then , read 
in excess of 3 at 80 , 000 feet. 

l . b . j .  . publically the existance of the program 
in  . 


he 's also the one who it the it was the rs until 
 ( sic ) it. 

, 

doug page 

the opinions are mine  ( maybe ) , and do n't necessarily represent those 
of my employer .  . 

from  ( james davis nicoll ) 
subject re why 1 will be the way of the future. 
organization university of western ontario , london 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 9 

hmmm .  . i seem to recall that the attraction of solid state record 
and in the 1960s was n't better but lower 
per cost than systems. 

mind you , my father was a fan in the  ( switched 
to solid state in the mid and then abruptly died no doubt 
there 's a lesson in that ) and his account could have been biased .  . 

james 

from  ( bill vance ) 
subject true , who makes it 
organization ) . to be organized .  . but that 's not important right now .  .  .  .  .  . 
lines 11 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

it has been known for quite a while that the earth is actually more 
than  . does anyone make a that is accurate 
as to actual shape , long lines etc. 
thanks in advance. 



 ( bill vance ) , , 
! ! bill 

you listen when i , i listen when  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ) 

from  ( james thomas green ) 
subject 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 9 

has anyone looked into the possiblity of a 
what would be the benefits and problems with such a  ( other 
than the obvious in the now ) 


( james t. green ) ( ) 
i know you believe you understand what it is that you 
think i said. but i am not sure that you realize that 
what i said is not what i meant. 

from 
subject space  ( 2 of 2 ) 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 

two developments have brought these type of activities back to 
the forefront in 1993 .  . first , in february , the russians a 
20 m from a progress after it had departed from 
the space station .  . while this banner was , 
was very active in reporting that future banner 
will be available to , who could use a space 
based video of their logo or ad printed on the banner in a tv 
, as from the  . 
the second development , has been that space , the 
same company responsible for space on the 
and , is now pushing the environmental 
. as laid out by chief engineer dr ron humble of the 
university of space and of the 
lawrence national , the environmental 
is a large outer support structure of up to 
 . is carried by a area , 
by the  . 
to help sell the concept , the responsible for 
maintaining the on orbit will carry reading 
to continuously the condition of the earth 's 
, according to mike , head of 
 . furthermore , the has reached its minimum 
exposure of 30 days it will be released to re enter the earth 's 
atmosphere .  . according to , as the material , 
it will release building components that will literally 
the  . the remaining will 
the atmosphere for another year before it , too , re enters and 
up and to the supply .  . 
this would not be a cheap , costing at least several 
millions of dollars  ( exact costs were not  . but 
estimates that market exposure would be 3 that of the people who 
watched the , where a 30 second   cost 
600 , 000 .  . since is in , , it is being 
as being available in time for the of the 
summer in  . 

but back to brian 's questions 
and does anyone have any more details other than what was in the 
news how serious is this project is this just in the wild 
idea stage or does it have real funding 

see above. as for serious if they can get 15 20 m or so  ( my 
estimate of 5 10 for development costs and a , plus 
10 15 m for a launch ) , then it 's probably real. they are claiming to 
the orbit to specific at specific times for 
impact so they probably ca n't back upon 
someone else 's launch and will have to buy a dedicated 
launch .  . that 's a 10 15 m cost they need to raise , right there. 
and there will probably be some legal challenges to this as 
well. note there is one potential legal challenge to on the use 
of launch already. while i do n't think the 
legal challenges would win out  ( and yes , i am an amateur , 
and no , i do n't really like the idea of this additional light 
pollution , but i know of no of it .  .  . ) . , the legal 
challenges and court would probably remove any positive 
aspects of the  . i can imagine several ways to make the 
look like for doing this which would change 
positive market exposure to negative market exposure , and the 
space advantage .  .  ( would you spend 15 m to look like an 
idiot ) 
 ( and light pollution might not be too bad if it 's in a low 
enough orbit , and it relies upon light only , it would 
only be for a short time just after local and before 
dawn .  . for market exposure , you want to have it just 
after impact on astronomy , since that 's the time 
of worse seeing due to day night thermal  . it might still 
be a problem , but perhaps there are ways to this .  .  . ) . 
as for having real funding none that i can identify .  . there 
were about 60 expressions of interest made on the 
opportunity , but that included curious folks and was for 
only a , 000 commitment .  . i have n't heard of any serious funding 
for this , but i'm sure they are shopping the venture around looking 
for some money in order to flesh out the concept some more. but i 
am confident there are no firm or paying at this time. 

and if anybody wants to cross post this to sci . , please be 
my  . i do n't have posting to that area  ( or at least 
i do n't think i do .  .  . ) .  . 

space technology investor 

maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from  ( doug egan ) 
subject re help i need some addresses 
organization 
lines 19 

in  ( mitch ) writes 

i'm trying to get mailing addresses for the following 
 . specifically , i need addresses for their 
offices or like bureau .  . the are 

space , inc.  ( somewhere in houston ) 
dr. 
city , tx 
phone  ( 713 ) 6000 


good luck ! 
doug 

doug it 's not what you got 
engineering and sciences co .  . it 's what you give .  . 
houston , tx 
email 

from  ( mark d. looper ) 
subject re command loss  ( re update 04 22 93 ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 23 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 
keywords , jpl 

 ( pat ) writes 

's is stuck .  . 

the was left closed , because had a  . 

if the were pointed he sun , near , it would 
the elements .  . 

question why could n't 's course have been 
designed such that the did not ever do a sun point. 

the is n't all that in the that might the 
elements , nor is its figure good on those the problem is 
that the itself could not be exposed to level sunlight , 
lest like  wings it  . (i think it was and such , as well 
as , that they were worried about . ) . thus it had to remain 
and the always pointed near the sun , so that the small 
at the of the would the  . 
(a larger beneath the the ) . 

mark 
hot america 's first ! 

from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 06 15 and 
keywords frequently asked questions 
article i.d. cs . 
expires 6 may 1993 19 57 26 gmt 
distribution world 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 
supersedes 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 

archive name space 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 04 

and for calculations 

this list was originally compiled by  . additions would be 
appreciated. 

numbers in are approximations that will serve for most 
blue purposes. 

unix systems provide the  units  program , useful in converting 
between different systems  ( metric english , etc . ) . 

numbers 

m s  ( 8000 ) earth orbital at 
m s  ( 3000 ) earth orbital at  ( geosync ) 
 ( 6400 ) mean of earth 
 ( 6400 ) of earth 
 ( 1700 ) mean of moon 
5 .  ( 6e24 ) mass of earth 
7 .  ( 7e22 ) mass of moon 
1 .  ( 2e30 ) mass of sun 
3 . m 3 s 2  ( 4e14 ) constant times mass of earth 
4 . m 3 s 2  ( 5e12 ) constant times mass of moon 
1 . m 3 s 2  ( 13e19 ) constant times mass of sun 
( 4e5 ) mean earth moon distance 
1 . m  ( 15e10 ) mean earth sun distance  ( astronomical unit ) 

1  ( mt ) about 4 . j or the energy equivalent of 
about  . 05 .  ( 50 gm ) of matter. j . r . , the energy level 
of things , air force special weapons center  ( ardc ) , air 
force base , new mexico ,  . also see the effects of nuclear 
weapons , compiled by s. and p . j .  . , published by the 
us department of defense  ( obtain from the  . 



where d is distance , v is , a is , t is time. 
additional more are available from 

ames . nasa . gov . pub space faq 


for constant 
d vt  . 2 
v at 
v 2 

on a  ( space colony , etc . ) . of r and 
period t 

a 4 2 r t 2 

for circular orbits where 
of a circular orbit 
escape 
m total mass of and orbited bodies 
g constant  ( defined below) 
u g m  ( can be measured much more accurately than g or m ) 
k g m 2 a 
r of orbit  ( measured from center of mass of system ) 
v orbital 
p orbital period 
a of orbit 

 ( sqrt(m g r ) 
 ( sqrt(2 m g r )  ( sqrt(2 ) 
v 2 u a 
p 2  ( sqrt(u a 3 ) 
k 1 2 v 2 g m r  ( conservation of energy ) 

the period of an orbit is the same as the period 
of a circular orbit with the same semi major  . 

change in required for a plane change of angle in a 
circular orbit 

delta v 2  ( sqrt(gm r ) sin  ( phi 2 ) 

energy to put mass m into a circular orbit  ( ignores 
, which reduces the energy a  . 

 ( 1 re 1 2rcirc ) 
re of the earth 
of the circular orbit .  . 

classical rocket equation , where 
change in 
specific of engine 
ve 
x reaction mass 
rocket mass excluding reaction mass 
g 9 . m s 2 

ve g 
ve  ( ln((m1 x ) m1 ) 
ve  ( ln((final mass )  ( initial mass ) 

rocket equation  ( constant acceleration ) 

t  ( unaccelerated ) c a  ( sinh(a t c ) 
d c 2 a  ( cosh(a t c ) 1 ) 
v c  ( tanh(a t c ) 

rocket with ve and mass ratio mr 

at c ve c  ( ln(mr ) , or 

t  ( unaccelerated ) c a  ( sinh(ve c  ( ln(mr ) 
d c 2 a  ( cosh(ve c  ( ln(mr ) 1 ) 
v c  ( tanh(ve c  ( ln(mr ) 

converting from to distance 

d  ( in parsecs ) 1 p  ( in seconds ) 
d  ( in units ) p 


f ma force is mass times 
w work  ( energy ) is force times distance 

varies as  ( exp kt ) where z is , m is 
molecular weight in of air , g is local of gravity , t 
is , k is 's constant .  . on earth up to 100 , 

d  ( exp z 1 . 4 ) 

where d is , is at , is approximately true , so 

 ( 40000 ft )  . 18 . 
 ( 30000 ft )  . 27 . 
 ( 20000 ft )  . 43 . 
 ( 10000 ft )  . 65 . 

scale rate 
 ( in at level )  ( k km ) 

earth 7 . 5 . 9 . 8 . 
11 4 . 4 . 
4 . 9 . 10 . 5 . 
18 1 . 3 . 
jupiter 19 2.0 
37 0 . 7 . 
24 0 . 7 . 
21 0 . 8 . 
8 1 

law for 

 ( r(n ) 0 . 4 . 0 . 3 . 2 n units  ( n infinity for 
, 0 for , 1 for earth , etc . ) . 

this fits fairly well except for  . 



6 . 34 j s  ( 7e 34 ) 's constant h 
1 . 34 j s  ( 1e 34 ) 's constant  ( 2 pi ) , h bar 
1 . 23 j k 23 ) 's constant k 
5 . 8 w m 2 k  ( 6e 8 ) constant 
6 . 11 n m 2 2  ( 7e 11 ) newton 's constant g 
0 . m k  ( 3e 3) 's constant  ( sigma(w ) 
3 . w  ( 4e26 ) of sun 
w m 2  ( 1400 ) constant  ( intensity at 1 au ) 
6 . m  ( 7e8 ) of sun 
 ( 2e3 ) of moon 
m s  ( 3e8 ) speed of light in c 
9 . m  ( 1e16 ) light year 
au  ( 2e5 ) 
3 . light years  ( 3 ) 
3 . m  ( 3e16 ) 


black hole  ( also called radius ) 

c 2 , where g is newton 's constant , m is mass of , 
c is speed of light 

things to add  ( somebody look them up ! ) 
basic numbers 
stuff 
energy to put a into orbit or to 
 . 
non circular cases 


next faq 7 15 

from ( ) 
subject space activities in tucson , az 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 7 

i would like to find out about space engineering employment and 
opportunities in the tucson , arizona area. e mail responses appreciated. 
my mail feed is , so please try one or all of these addresses .  . 

ben  ( w(818)586 ) 
or 


from  ( stan woithe ) 
subject re observer update 04 14 93 
organization university of adelaide 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host itd . adelaide . edu . au . 
keywords observer , jpl 



i'm a very in adelaide australia , and today , i heard some 
very interesting and news from a local program on tv. as i could n't 
find anything on it on the news server , i have posted this. however , if it is 
old information , tell me , and ill the tv station for saying they are 
 up to date  ) 

 ( also , my news server could be slow .  . . so . . . ! ! ! 

i only caught the end of the article , so all the information on the topic 
is not known to me at the moment .  . 

the news is of a small   planet outside the orbit of found in a 
,  recently  to the report. 
it was meant to be about in , and a large distance 
from the orbit .  .  ( it had a computer drawing , and the orbit distance 
from was about the same as to when they are 
apart. this is all i found out about it. oh it is called  .  ( un 
) .  . 
can anyone give any more information to me on it 

thanx .  . 

brendan 


btw if this is old news , does anyone know a good lawyer .  . . .  . 



from  ( bruce watson ) 
subject re !  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization science computer network , denver , co .  . 
lines 14 

in article  ( david fuzzy wells ) writes 

i love the idea of an 1 long sign .  .  .  .  . it will be a 
really neat thing to see it explode when a  ( or even better , a 
! ) comes into it at 10 a  . 

and two were with a substance 
which expanded in  . once the substance was no longer 
needed since there is nothing to cause the to collapse .  . 
this structure could suffer multiple holes with no 
 . 


bruce watson 49 item extract 75 , 131 

from  ( david m. palmer ) 
subject re !  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 39 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( matthew deluca ) writes 

in article  ( david fuzzy wells ) writes 

i hear insert favorite here that it will supposedly coincide 
with the  . 

even worse , the city of has a proposal before it to space on this 
 . considering the of people running this city , 
there 's no telling what we 're going to have down at us from orbit .  . 

i would just like to point out that it is much easier to place an 
object at orbital than it is to place it with orbital 
 . for a target above the surface of earth , 
you need a delta v of 2.5 s. assuming that with specific 
of seconds are easy to produce , a rocket with a 
weight of 50 would require only about 65 of  . 
a small charge embedded in about 20 of sand or 
 ( depending on the nature of the structure ) would be 
the  . i am sure the whole project is well within 
the capability of the amateur community. 

it sounds like a good science fair project  
of light pollution through applied  . 
or , it could be part of the challenge prize being discussed 
here 1 billion for the first person to spend 1 year 
on the moon , 1 million for the first of 
an orbital  . i 1000 
for the first person to bring it down , and i am sure 
there are at least other , nature lovers , 
or just plain people of good taste who would do likewise .  . 

of course , a bull solution might be simpler .  . 
 ( either the solution bull would apply the use 
of a large gun or the solution which was applied 
to bull the use of a small gun . ) . 

david m. 


from  . pearson ) 
subject re sunset times 
nntp posting host 
organization applied research labs , university of texas at austin 
lines 13 

 ( joseph wetstein ) writes 


hello. i am looking for a program  ( or algorithm ) that can be used 
to and sunset times. 

would you mind posting the responses you get 
i am also interested , and there may be others. 

thanks , 

n .  . 


from  ( thomas clarke ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization university of central florida 
lines 19 

i posted this over in sci . , but it did n't make it here. 
thought you all would like my wonderful commentary ) 

what you guys have never seen the 
the and skies 

actually an sign would only be near 
sunset and , i believe. so pollution at night 
would be minimal .  . 

if it for space travel , go for it. those who do n't 
like can then head for the 
environment of jupiter 's ) 


thomas 
institute for and training , university of central 
research , , , 
 ( 407)658 ) , fax  ( 407)658 ) , 

from  ( andrew broderick ) 
subject re sail data 
keywords sail 
organization lab , uk 
lines 

in article writes 

i am looking for any information concerning involving 


i was at an interesting at work  ( uk 's r . a . l .  . space science 
dept . ) . on this subject , specifically on a small scale sail 
proposed as a student space project .  . the guy giving the talk was to 
generate interest in the project .  . i 'll the he gave out at 
the meeting. here goes 

the sail 


1. introduction 
the sail is a well established concept .  . the pressure of 
sunlight , a would have unlimited range .  . in principle , such a 
could the whole system with zero  . 

however it is more difficult to design a practical sail than most 
people realize .  . the pressure of sunlight is only about one per 
square  . and controlling the large area of 
fabric which would be necessary to transport a  conventional  type 
is a task .  . this is why , despite the potential of 
idea , no such has actually been to date. 

2 . design . 
recent advances in make possible a different concept a 
tiny sail just a few in which could be controlled purely 
be , with no parts. several attitude control 
methods are for example the pressure sunlight on a 
of cells varies according to whether power is being drawn .  . 

the key components of the will be a minute camera developed at 
university which can act as both attitude and data 
device cells providing 1 power for control and 
and a radio onto the surface 
of the sail itself. as a , the total cost of 
the mission can be limited to a few tens of thousands of dollars .  . 

3 . 
the would be capable of some  . for example 
a ) it could with a nearby from the or 
groups. pictures could be back to earth at a low bit 
rate .  . 
b ) it could be into a orbit .  . previously 
areas around the poles could be viewed .  . by the sail to 
reflect sunlight , whose bases never receive 
sunlight could be  . bright would that 
such as water ice have become in these 
 . valuable information for setting up a 
base , btw 
c ) it could be sent to with a small or 
 . at low speed , a thin wire attached to the 
causes it to while a tiny is a 
, like a  . returning to earth , the sail acts as an 
ideal re entry load per area 20 that 
is so that the sail cannot 
c. the material is , in a small 
container .  . 

contact colin jack tel .  . 
oxford mathematical designs , 131 high street , oxford , england 



this guy would love to hear from anyone interested in this project or 
seeking details or anything , and would be most happy to send you more 
information. 

andy 





andy jonathan j. , i have come that they might have 
lab .  . , uk life , and have it to the full 
mail jesus christ 

from  ( jack coyote ) 
subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
reply to  ( jack coyote ) 
organization never had it , never will 
lines 14 

in sci . ,  ( david mcaloon ) writes 

a nearly perfect parody needed more random caps 


thanks for the chuckle .  . (i loved the bit about relevance to people 
in ! ) 

to those who 've taken this seriously , read the name !  ( aloud ) 


thank you , thank you , i 'll be here all week. enjoy the ! 



from  ( mark johnson ) 
subject re big amateur 
organization corporation , ks 
lines 86 

 ( paul dokas ) writes 

i was reading popular science this morning and was surprised by an ad in 
the back .  . i know that a lot of the in the back of ps are fringe 
science or legal , but this one really my attention .  . 
it was from a company name personal , inc. or something like that. 

the company was probably public missiles , of michigan .  . 

anyhow , the ad stated that they 'd sell that were up to 20  in length 
and of sizes f to m . they also said that some will 
reach 50 , 000 feet. 

yup .  . 

now , aside from the obvious to any amateur using one 
of these , is n't this illegal i ca n't imagine the allowing 
people to shoot up through the levels of  . 
not to even mention the problem of a rocket when it comes down. 

nope , it 's not illegal .  . it is , however , closely  . in order to 
and use the big rocket required , it is necessary to be 
one of the following 
a ) an of a government agency .  . 
b ) an or student at a university doing research involving  . 
c ) a member or representative of an organization involved in 
research or other uses of  . there are two such organizations 
the tripoli association and the national association of  . 
members of either organization must demonstrate in construction 
and before they are allowed to large on their own. 

the will issue a of its , upon request , to any 
organization which can persuade them it has taken adequate 
to avoid conflicts with  . the usual are 
only operation up to a is allowed .  . depending on the 
, this may be from to feet  . 
the operator of the rocket is responsible for avoiding any 
within the operating around the launch site. 
into or beyond range in is  . 
the will provide a other users of the that 
rocket are taking place at the place and time. 

most of the that are held  ( and there are of them every year ) 
are held in areas where air traffic is relatively light , such as over the 
western  ( the black desert north of is particularly popular 
since it is 25 x 150 of nothing to hit on the  . 

the two test and approve for their members  
use , to safety .  . depending on size , the is 
from 50 to or more feet. 

by the way , under 1 and by an f are exempt from 
most federal on anyway. see far , 
c , for details. 

as for  .  . although . the higher can reach up to 
50 , 000 feet , most of them only get to 2 , 000 to 5 , 000 feet. the typical 
rocket is 2 to 6 in , and carries a 3 to 6 foot , 
or multiple , depending on the  . many also carry 
either a small or an sounder particularly at 
in the eastern us , where there are more  . 

camera , , and video are becoming quite common .  . 

and no , i'm not going to even think of buying one. i'm not that crazy. 

why not it 's a lot of fun .  .  . check . out the traffic on rec . models . 
for information about the model (3 and under ) and high power  ( everything 
bigger ) rocket  . as with all dangerous activities , the key is to 
practice safety .  . i 've been flying consumer up to 4 5 
weight for 27 years , and still have all my  . 

paul mine 'll do 50 , 000 feet and carries 50 pounds of 

that 's another thing. no explosive of any kind are allowed on these 
 . none ! please forgive me for shouting , but that 's one of the biggest 
misconceptions people have about our  . 

just remember , you will die someday .  . 
true. but it will not be related to the rocket , unless i get 
hit while a road with a rocket in my hand. 

mark johnson products division 
e mail n .  .  . 
voice  ( 316 ) v , ks 
non business email 

from  ( dennis newkirk ) 
subject space class for teachers near chicago 
organization motorola 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 43 . 
lines 59 

i am posting this for a friend without internet access. please 
to the phone number and address listed .  . 


space teaching 's 
sponsored by the studies foundation 

the studies foundation is a one week class for 
teachers called space teaching 's  . the class will be 
held at the in , illinois from june 14 through 
june 18 .  . participants who complete the program can two 
hours of graduate credit from college. please note that while the 
class is intended for teachers , it is not restricted to teachers .  . 

the class , which is being by the united states space 
foundation , will teach how to use space exploration as a teaching tool 
to get students about learning and interested in science. 

to be covered by the class include 
living in space 
the space 
the space station 
nasa that benefit society 
principles of 
the system 

there will also be zero g training in an space 
station , model rocket , observing at the 
college , and field trips to the and 
the of science and industry .  . 

featured speakers include jerry brown of the based united 
states space foundation and brown of the nasa lewis research 
center in cleveland , ohio .  . additional will be provided by 
the studies foundation .  . 

the social of the class will be a 
space , currently president 
of systems , inc. was a member of the of 9 
which flew in  . the is scheduled for thursday , june 
17. 

the fee includes transportation for field trips , materials , 
, , and the special  . 
for the are also available. there is an 
additional charge to receive the two hours of graduate credit .  . for any 
additional information about the class , contact the science learning 
center at  ( 708 )  . 

or write to 
studies foundation 
w.  . 
, il 




motorola , land products 
, il 

from  ( thomas enblom ) 
subject positions 
reply to 
organization 
lines 16 
nntp posting host 

i 've just read richard 's latest status . 

it states that the latest was placed in orbit plane position c 3. 
there is already one in that position. i know that it 's almost 
ten years since that was but it 's still in operation so 
why not use it until it goes off 

why not instead place the new at b 4 since that position is empty 
and by this measure have an almost complete 
 ( 23 out of 24 ) 

thomas 

, , 

thomas , just another  . 

from 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
lines 26 
organization memorial university .  . john . 's , canada 

in article ,  ( mark brader ) writes 
can these questions be answered for a previous 
instance , such as the 3 that was mentioned in an earlier posting 

orbital elements of  ( from dance files ) 
 ( p(au ) 3 . 
e 0 . 
i 1 . 
cap  ( omega(0 ) 
 ( w(0 ) 
1977 . 


also , of were 

april jupiter 
august 3 jupiter 

where 1 jupiter , 000 44 , 000 mi 0 . au .  . so the 
figure seems unlikely to actually be anything but a  . 
is that the case for the figure as well 

sorry ,  .  .  . i'm . not used to talking this language. 

john 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re level 5 
organization u of 
lines 18 

in article  ( pat ) writes 
what ever happened to the hypothesis that the software 
was a major factor in the loss of 51 l. to wit , that during the 
wind event , the control software indicated a series 
of very violent engine movements that shocked and set 
to an of the  . 

this sounds like another of ali 's 57 different real causes of 
the accident. as far as i know , there has never been the 
slightest of evidence for a having occurred .  . 

the probably did contribute to 
up the leak path in the again it seems to have itself 
after the of during but the existing explanation 
of this and related events seems to account for the evidence adequately .  . 

a high speed henry @ u of 
between and  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( john mcglaughlin ) 
subject re how many read sci . space . 
nntp posting host mot . com . 
organization motorola , , 
lines 18 

 ( ross borden ) writes 

quick ! everyone who sees this , post a reply that says 

hey , i read sci . space . ! 

then we can count them , and find out how many there are ! ) 
 ( this will also help answer that question just what is 
the bandwidth of the internet , anyways ) 

do n't you think it would be better to e mail back to you that we read sci . space . 
so that you can count them and every server in the world does not have to get 
'd to death. or instead you could possible cut and past all the into 
a single post and save on bandwidth .  .  .  .  . not meaning to be taken as a 
flame it 's late and we have to work a .... little 




from 
subject moon colony prize race ! 6 billion total 
lines 26 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

i think if there is to be a prize and such .  .  . there should be classes 
such as the following 

large corp .  . 
small corp company  ( based on reported ) 
large government  ( gnp and such ) 
small  ( or political or ) 
large organization  ( planetary society and such ) 
small organization  ( alot of small  . ) . 

the organization things would probably have to be non profit or 

of course this means the prize might go up. larger get more or 
basically make the prize  ( total purse ) 6 billion , divided the class 
 .  . 
more fair 

there would have to be a organization set up to the events , 
and such and watch for safety  ( or maybe not , if want 
to risk thier own lives let them do it ) .  . 

any other ideas 

michael adams , i'm not high , just 



from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re two thousand  ( was re how many read sci . space . ) 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 23 

in article  ( bill beam jockey ) writes 

, , gives us no measure of the power influence of readers .  .  .  . 
sorry , mark. 

i think i can. largely as a result of efforts by people reading this group 
writing letters and making phone calls the following has happened 

1. nasa funds to keep alive in 1991. 
2. efforts to kill x and the where twice 
 . and june of last  . 
3. kept his job in spite of heavy lobbying against him. 

this may not be what mark was thinking of but it shows that the 
readers of sci . space . do have power and influence .  . 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
days to first of 

from 
subject re stereo of planets y 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

in article ,  ( arthur chandler ) writes 
can anyone tell me where i might find stereo images of and 
preferred , but any will do. i'm 
especially interested in of the of , , 
and the moon  ( in that  . 
thanks. 


ames . nasa . gov . not sure what thou .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

ps i know it has a area as well as space and other info .  .  . 


from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re race 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 13 
reply to 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 

was done the hard way , in a big , from a very limited 
technology base .  .  .  . and on government contracts .  . just doing it privately , 
rather than as a government project , cuts costs by a factor of several .  . 

so how much would it cost as a private venture , assuming you could talk the 
u.s. government into you a couple of in florida 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re true , who makes it 
organization u of 
lines 12 

in article  ( bill vance ) writes 
it has been known for quite a while that the earth is actually more 
than  . does anyone make a that is accurate 
as to actual shape , long lines etc. 

i do n't think you 're going to be able to see the differences from a 
unless they are greatly exaggerated .  . even the is only 
about 1 part in you 'd never notice a error in a 
and the other deviations from shape are much smaller .  . 

a high speed henry @ u of 
between and  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re space research spin off 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 29 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( mary shafer ) writes 
flew the first digital by wire in the  . no 
or , to show you how confident we were. 

confident , or merely that desert sun ) 


successful we were.  ( mind you , the arrow and the x 15 were both 
by wire much earlier , but ) . 


gee , i thought the x 15 was controlled .  . did n't one of them have a 
total electrical failure in was there systems 


the nasa habit of second hand military and using 
them for can make things kind of confusing. on the other 
hand , all those second hand navy give our test a chance 
to the wings something most at air force base 
ca n't do. 


what do you mean the wings , and they fail at teh 

you 'll have to enlighten us in the  . 





from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject stephen hawking jpl 
organization 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from the jpl universe 
april 23 , 1993 

stephen hawking lab 

by 
some 15 years after his first visit to jpl ,  . stephen 
hawking , professor of mathematics at cambridge 
university and author of a brief history of time , returned to 
the lab april 5. 
on a by jpl chief scientist dr. 
and , of the international affairs office , 
hawking visited a variety of facilities , met with lab director 
dr. edward and various project scientists and , and 
felt like , he said. hawking , whose theories attempt to 
explain the origin of distant , black holes and alternate 
, wanted to re visit jpl , he explained , because while 
i'm most interested in those things in space that are 
away , i know that here is where the first steps are taken .  . 
hawking , who was accompanied by his family , two graduate 
students and his , began the in von , 
as david evans , assistant lab director in the office of 
, and dr. , observer 's project 
scientist , him on current and past  . 
was pointed out to him , with special attention paid 
to a gold with a series of images .  . should 
life upon the , evans noted , 
they would find a variety of images that would explain something 
of earth. the professor asked if we were still communicating with 
the , and evans affirmed that we are. 
using a model of observer , spent several 
describing the project and the 's features .  . in answer 
to a question from hawking , described a proposed 
free , but confirmed that at this point , it 's only 
a concept .  . , who had met hawking at caltech about five 
years before , described the professor as a living miracle of the 
power of the brain .  . he 's miraculous , and he has such a good sense 
of humor .  . 
the next stop , a on scientific data 
in section 's digital image lab , 
and the group , as everyone 
to view 3 d images of  . project scientist dr. eric de 
showed off the latest data a that had only recently been 
discovered in orbit close to jupiter .  . hawking was curious about 
its composition , and as he was shown how images are developed , he 
asked several questions on their interpretation .  . 
norman , , office of telecommunications and data 
, the professor on the space 
, and then hawking spoke with  . 
the day ended with two technical discussions of particular 
interest to the professor .  . technical group leader dr. frank 
and research scientist described 
a three gravity wave experiment , currently under way. 
then dr. richard explained the 
philosophy and plans for extra system  . 
the hawking party , which had been southern 
california for five weeks , was at caltech , and 
to leave for england within a few weeks after the lab 
 . upon , the cambridge based scientist promised 
that he would return to jpl for another visit .  . 


ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re sail data 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 24 

 ( bill beam jockey ) writes 

 ( frank j. snyder ) writes 

i am looking for any information concerning involving 
 . ... 
are there any groups out there currently involved in such a project 

bill says ... 

also there is a book on by , 
a technical one by a guy whose name escapes me  ( help me out , josh ) , 

i presume the one you refer to is space by l.  . he 
worked on while at jpl and as of general  . i 'll 
info upon request. 

the book is called and travel .  . 
it was available from the society a few years ago , i do n't know if 
it still is. 

hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
article i.d. 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 22 

 ( rob unverzagt ) writes 

in article  ( ron baalke ) writes 
according the circular , , may be 
temporarily in orbit around jupiter .  . the had apparently made a 
close of jupiter sometime in 1992 resulting in the of the 
 . attempts to determine the 's orbit has been complicated by 
the near impossibility of measuring the 's center of mass .  . 


am i missing something what does knowing the 's center 
of mass do for you in orbit determination 



i'm not sure , but it almost sounds like they ca n't figure out where the 
is within the coma .  . if they 're off by a couple hundred 
, well , you can imagine the rest .  .  .  . 


seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 11 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . net . 



some birds require constant for survival .  . pointing a at 
the sun , even when down , may burn it out. pointing a 
at , from orbit may trash the 
elements .  . 

even if you let teh , it may get by some 
cosmic phenomena .  . 



from  ( pat ) 
subject based nuclear power plants .  . 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 13 
nntp posting host access . net . 

new york times just wrote about a being 
between us and the russians to high 
gas using re weapons grade 
from  . the will be in 
for safety , and then after will be sufficiently 
with by products to make of the remaining 
enough to deter re use. 

apparently the project will be led by general of san diego 
with funding from the us government. the plant will be built 
and operated by the russians .  . 



from  ( george f. krumins ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 31 

 ( jeff cook ) writes 

in article  ( enzo liguori ) writes 

now , space 

what about light pollution in observations (i read somewhere else that 
it might even be during the day , leave alone at  . 

i ca n't believe that a long would have any significant 
effect on the overall sky  . is during the day , 
but nobody complains about that. besides , it 's in , so it would only 

when i was at the texas star party a few years ago , the sky was so dark 
that did , indeed , cause light pollution until it set .  . 

even if the were dark it could cause a problem. imagine observing an 
object and through your run , your object was ! 

i would guess that most of the people stating positive opinions are not 
serious observers .  . 

it is so typical that the rights of the minority are by the 
wants of the majority , no matter how ridiculous those wants might be. 

george 



george 


from  ( achurist ) 
subject re fluids 
nntp posting host cc 
organization coventry university 
lines 31 

in article writes 
i am a bit nervous about posting this it is to 
the topic of space but then again that does n't seem to 
stop alot of other people. ) 

with all of this talk about at high , i began 
to think about the movie  . if you remember , in that movie one 
of the characters to great depths by wearing a suit that used 
a fluid that carries as opposed to some sort of gas .  . now i 
have heard that can this fluid but for some reason , humans 
are unable to. does anyone know more details about this 




i believe the reason is that the gets too tired to 
the liquid in and out and simply stops after 2 3 minutes. 
so if your in the ready to go they better not put you on 
hold , or else ! ! that 's about it. remember a liquid is several more times 
as as a gas by its very nature. 10 i think , depending on the gas 
and liquid of course ! 











from  ( david b. mckissock ) 
subject washington post article on redesign 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio 
lines 52 

space station redesign leader says cost goal may be 
impossible 

today  ( 4 6 ) the washington post an article with the 
headline shown above. the article starts with a leader 
of the nasa team in charge of the 
space station said yesterday the job is tough and may 
be impossible. o'connor is quoted saying whether it is 
possible to cut costs that much and still provide for 
meaningful research is a real question for me. 
o'connor said everything is fair game , including 
dropping or existing contracts with the 
industry , chopping of the space 
station program at some nasa facilities around the 
country , working closely with the space station 
, and using to the 
space  . 

o'connor says his team has 30 design options 
so far , and they are the serious 
into three categories based on cost .  . 

the post says o'connor described the design derived 
from the current as a high cost option (i believe 
, the post writer , got confused here. i 
in on part of o'connor 's to the press 
on monday , and in one part of the o'connor 
talked about how the white house wants three options , 
by cost low , medium , and high . in another part 
of the , he discussed the three teams he has 
formed to look at three options @ , 
with 1 @ , and single launch 
core @  . later , in response to 
a reporters question , i thought i heard o'connor say 
the option based on a redesign was a moderate 
cost option , in between low high cost options .  . not 
the high cost option as  . 

the article goes on to describe the other two options 
as one features that could gradually be 
together in orbit , similar to the  . the 
other is a core that could be in 
orbit in a single launch , like  . that option 
would use existing hardware from the space 
the , for example , in its basic structure .  . 

the last sentence in the article contradicts the title 
the first paragraph .  . the sentence reads he 
o'connor said a version of the 
space station freedom is still possible within the 
's  . 


from  ( francisco rodrigues ) 
subject new planet object found 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 28 


a tv journal here in that an object , 
beyond 's orbit , was found by an at hawaii .  . they 
named the object  . 

the program said the object was n't a giant planet , and 
should be by and  . 

can someone these information could this object be a 
new planet or a object 

thanks in advance. 

francisco .  . 

the stars , 
. , francisco o o 
, . o o 
o . o 
' o o o 
' de de o o o o 
. o o o o 
' internet o o o 
' o 
' ' fax 55 32 o o 
' sp o o 
like  . 


from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 12 15 questions 
keywords frequently asked questions 
article i.d. cs . controversy . 
expires 6 may 1993 20 00 26 gmt 
distribution world 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 252 
supersedes controversy 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 

archive name space controversy 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 06 

questions 

these issues periodically come up with much argument and few facts being 
offered .  . the below attempt to represent the position on which 
much of the net community has  . please t bring them up again 
unless there 's something truly new to be discussed .  . the net ca n't set 
public policy , that 's what your representatives are for. 


what happened to the v plans 

despite a widespread belief to the contrary , the v blueprints 
have not been lost. they are kept at marshall space center on 
 . 

the problem in re creating the v is not finding the , it 
is finding who can supply mid 's hardware  ( like 
system components ) , and the fact that the launch and 
have been converted to space use , so you have no place to launch 
from. 

by the time you redesign to available hardware and re 
the launch , you may as well have started from with a clean 
design. 


why data from space t immediately available 

associated with nasa are allowed exclusive access 
for one year after the data is obtained in order to give them an 
opportunity to analyze the data and publish results without being 
by people in the mission .  . however , nasa frequently 
examples  ( in non digital form , e.g. photos ) to the public early 
in a mission .  . 


risks of nuclear  ( rtg ) power sources for space 

there has been extensive discussion on this topic by attempts to 
block the and on grounds of the 
thermal sources being dangerous. numerous studies claim that even in 
worst case  ( shuttle during launch , or accidental 
at velocities ) , the risks are extremely small .  . 
two interesting data points are (1) the may loss of two snap 
, which in the after a b 
failed to reach orbit .  . the was after 5 months 
with no release of  . (2) in april , the 13 
the atmosphere and its snap 27 source , which 
was , into the 20 , 000 feet deep in 
the  . the materials of the are 
expected to prevent release of the for a period of time equal to 10 
half lives of the or about years doe . 

to make your own informed judgement , some references you may wish to 
pursue are 

a good review of the technical facts and issues is given by daniel 
in radiation risk and exploration the 
controversy , report , may june 1987 , pages 3 7. another good 
article , which also the events 's launch , 
at 39 b , by robert g. , appeared in the 
1989 issue of ad .  ( both are published by pro space 
organizations , the society and the national space society 
respectively . ) . 

gordon l , jr. , advanced space nuclear systems  ( aas 261 ) , in 
developing the space , edited by albert and 
, , , p.  . 

from , by bernard l. cohen , health physics , 
32  ( may ) 1977 , page  . 

corporation , safety status report for the mission risk 
analysis  ( book  . document number is there is no 
published jan 31 , 1990. 

nasa office of space science and applications , final environmental 
impact statement for the mission  ( tier 2 ) ,  ( no serial number or 
number , but probably available from or nasa ) june 1990. 

doe u.s. department of energy , elements in the 
environment , wayne c. , editor doe document no. doe 
government printing office , washington , d . c .  . , april ) . 


impact of the space on the 

from time to time , claims are made that released from 
the space 's solid rocket  ( srbs ) are responsible 
for a significant amount of damage to the  . studies 
indicate that they in reality have only a minute impact , both in 
absolute terms and relative to other chemical sources. the 
remainder of this item is a response from the author of the quoted 
study , charles  . 

the modelling study of the space effects on the 
involved three independent groups , and was 
organized by dr. michael , nasa institute for space 
studies .  . the three groups involved michael and 
 ( nasa giss ) , charlie and anne  ( nasa space 
center ) , and and  ( atmospheric and 
environmental research , ) .  . the effort was to look at the effects 
of the space and on the  . 

the following are the sources of 

industrial sources , 000 , 000 kilograms year 
natural sources 75 , 000 , 000 kilograms year 
sources , 000 kilograms year 

the source assumes 9 space and 6 are 
 . thus the would add less than 0 . 25 . to the 
total sources. 

the effect on is minimal average total would 
be by 0 . . this is much less than total 
associated with activity and  . 

the influence of human made products on is 
by model calculations to be a 1 in 
between and 1990. the influence of the space and 
on the is negligible .  . the launch 
of the space and would need to be 
increased by over a factor of a hundred in order to have about 
the same effect on as our increases in industrial 
do at the present time. 

results of this study have been published in the space 
's impact on the , , , ar 
, , m . k . w .  . and n . d .  . , journal of 
research , , , 1990. 

charles , chemistry and branch , 
code , nasa space center , 
, md 

also see chemical and the environment , a , r bennett , 
j , and m , america , may 1991. 


how long can a human live in space 

if you do n't try to hold your , exposure to space for half a 
minute or so is unlikely to produce permanent injury .  . holding your 
is likely to damage your , something have to 
watch out for when , and you 'll have trouble if your 
are up , but theory and animal 
experiments that otherwise , exposure to causes no 
immediate injury .  . you do not explode .  . your blood does not  . you do 
not  . you do not lose consciousness .  . 

various minor problems  ( sunburn , possibly the bends , certainly some 
mild , , painless of and underlying tissue ) 
start after ten seconds or so. at some point you lose consciousness from 
lack of oxygen .  . accumulate .  . after perhaps one or two , 
you 're dying .  . the limits are not really known. 

references 

the effect on the of to a near , 
g. ed .  . , nasa  ( nov  . 

experimental animal to a near environment , r . w .  . 
, j . e .  . dunn , , report 65 48  ( june 1965 ) , school 
of medicine , , texas .  . 


how the died 

the launch was not in an  . this is 
a well documented fact see the report , for example. 
what looked like an was burning after the external 
came apart. the forces on the were not sufficient to kill the 
, never mind destroy their bodies , according to the 
team 's medical report. 

the were killed when the more or less hit the 
water at , and their bodies then spent several weeks 
 . their remains were , and after the team 
examined them , they were sent off to be buried .  . 


using the beyond low earth orbit 

you ca n't use the for beyond low earth orbit 
because it ca n't get there. it is big and heavy and does not carry 
enough , even if you fill part of the bay with  . 

furthermore , it is not particularly sensible to do so , because much of 
that weight is things like wings , which are totally useless except in 
the immediate of the earth. the is highly 
for travel between earth 's surface and low orbit .  . taking it 
higher is and  . a much better approach would 
be to use to build a high orbit 
 . 

yet another concise answer by henry  . 


the face on 

there really is a big on that looks like a 
face. it appears in two different of viking imagery 
 ( much more in appearance , and the one more often 
published , with the sun 10 degrees above western horizon ) and 
 ( with the sun 27 degrees from the  . 

science writer richard has the idea that the face is 
artificial , intended to a human , and by an 
civilization .  . most other concede that the 
resemblance is most likely accidental .  . other viking images show a 
and a the elsewhere 
on  . there exists a research society  ( sorry , do n't 
know the address ) to study the face. 

the observer mission will carry an extremely high resolution 
camera , and better images of the formation will this 
question in a few years. in the meantime , speculation about the face is 
best carried on in the group alt . alien . , not sci . space . or 
sci .  . 

v. and g. , unusual surface features , 
research , p.o. box , , maryland , usa ,  . 18 by mail .  . 

r . r .  . , the face of , chicago review press , 1986 .  . account of 
an conference organized to 
investigate the face 

r . c .  . , the of a city on the of forever , 
north atlantic books , berkeley , california , usa , 1987 .  . elaborate 
discussion of evidence and speculation that near the face 
form a city 

m . j .  . , digital imagery analysis of unusual surface 
features , applied , 27 , pp. 1933 , 1987 .  . 
three dimensional model for the face from the 2 d images 

m . j .  . m . c .  . stein , a method of searching for artificial 
objects on , journal of the british 
society , vol. 43 no. 5  ( may 1990 ) , p . 216 .  . uses a image 
analysis model to guess whether the face is artificial 

b. o leary , analysis of images of the  on and possible 
intelligent origin , , vol. 43 no. 5  ( may 1990 ) , p. 203 208 .  . 
's model from the two and shows it 's consistent 
shows that the face does n't look if observed from the surface 


next faq 13 15 space interest research groups space 

from  ( isaac kuo ) 
subject re fluids 
organization u . c .  . berkeley math .  . department .  . 
lines 19 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

are liquids possible 

i remember seeing an old or the nature of things where this idea was 
upon  ( it might have been some other tv  . if nothing else , i know 
such liquids are possible because .  .  .  . 

they showed a large glass full of this liquid , and put a white  ( rat ) in 
it. since the liquid was not , the would , so it was held down 
by its tail .  . the thing quite a bit , but it was 
certainly held down long enough so that it was the liquid .  . it never 
did slow down in its attempts to swim to the top .  . 

now , this may not have been the most of , but it certainly 
shows liquids can be made. 

isaac 
o 
, , little  . sig . , ( ( ) ) 
keep it less than 5 lines big .  . 

from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re for fred  ( was re space station ) 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 22 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 

iii is the us on a basis 

in that case it 's rather ironic that they are doing so poorly on the 
market .  . is there a single iii on order 

they have a few problems. the biggest technical problem is the need to find 
two going to the same rough orbit for a  . 

they also do n't show much interest in  . there is more 
money to be made out 's for the government. after all , 
it is n't every day you find a , er , customer who thinks paying 
three times the rate for launch services is a good idea ! 

allen 



allen w. a great man is one who does nothing but leaves 
nothing 
days to first of 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization texas 
lines 34 

in  ( pat ) writes 

on the issue of  burning  nuclear using particle  .  .  . 

how is it ever going to be an off the shelf technology if someone does n't 
do it maybe we should do this as part of the design goals. ) 

gee fred .  . after your bitter defense of 20 power as a basic technology 
for , id think you would support a minor research program like 
this. 

i sometimes wonder if your gives you different articles than 
everyone else ,  . just a few corrections 

1 ) i never  defended  power , other than as something reasonable 
to go look at. 

2 ) i have also never opposed a research project into of 
the reactor approach to  cleaning  nuclear waste i simply 
doubt it could be made to work in the real world  ( tm ) , which ought to 
become clear fairly quickly during a research program into 
 ( sort of like what happened to 20 power it proved to have a 
down side that was too expensive to  . 

i figure 2 things wrong in a single sentence is a high enough fault 
for even you ,  . 




on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from (j .  . i. jr . ) . 
subject  ( was why ) 
reply to 
organization technology @ nasa houston 
lines 29 

the has with the  ( naval research laboratory ) to the mission .  . btw we call it  ( deep space project science  . 

the is building the , the detailed mission and doing the 
and  ( with help from , jpl prob .  . some folks i 
have left out .  .  . do . n't be  . 

i am on the  ( trajectory analysis mission planning ) team and am 
for the v of the that are  . 

as for why is doing it , some of the reasons are 

1 ) the safety are too to try to run the in 

2 ) in we do n't get any new radiation data on the , we will get 
that data on our 9 passages through the van allen (sp ) 

3) since we are going out there .  .  . why . not back some general science 

4 ) the problem is a lot over long and long times 

i am sure there are some things i have forgotten , and some i have n't been told 
but , those are the reasons we all talk about. 




jim 



from 
subject in market .  . 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 1 . 
distribution world 
lines 34 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

what would all of you out there in net land think of the big 6  ( martin 
, , douglas , general , , rockwell ) 
getting together , and forming a to study exactly what the market 
price are for building launch , and spending say 
to do that. recognizing that most of the military requirements 
for launch are out of a hat somewhere  ( say , has the 
ever really used that capability you get the idea , figure 
out how many , how often , where to , etc .  .  . ) . 

then taking this data , and forming a type company  ( bad example , i 
know .  .  .  . but at least its an example .  .  . ) . to develop between 3 and 5 
designs .  . then to take all of those designs , and figure out exactly what 
the are , and demonstrate those , in order to 
eliminate designs that ca n't be built today. and lets say that this 
portion again funded by the gov cost about 20 million .  . 

and from here all of these went their separate ways , with the 
intention of taking all of the market data and the design data to 
street , and saying i want to build this , and here are the numbers 
that show 20 , me .  .  . ) . 


now many of you think that this is a joke , but i have it on good authority that 
just this project is up in the background .  . it seems that the 
have learned that everyone similar but different things 
ends up in many programs that do nothing much and get  ( nasp , , 
, , etc .  .  . ) . they need to work more in the , and european 
spirit of initial  . they have also learned that design requirements 
that are (i . e .  . some idea of what a space ought to be ) 
ends up getting up in congress , because it is not a real requirement .  . 

any 

john .  . 

from  ( van e. neie ) 
subject re sunset times 
organization university physics department 
lines 29 

in article  . pearson ) writes 
 ( joseph wetstein ) writes 


hello. i am looking for a program  ( or algorithm ) that can be used 
to and sunset times. 

would you mind posting the responses you get 
i am also interested , and there may be others. 

thanks , 

n .  . 


there is an excellent software program called that does that and 
much more. the latest address i have is 

corporation 
po box 
baltimore , md 
phone  ( 301 ) 




van e. 
university 


from  ( charles j. divine ) 
subject space station radio 
organization nasa maryland 
lines 13 

a brief political cultural item. 

radio station in washington is a classical music station with 
a large audience among high  ( elected and  . 
imagine a radio station that mercedes , 
, expensive resorts and  ( truthfully )  . 

this morning i heard a for the space station project .  . 
did n't the  . 

guess they 're out all the stops .  . 

divine 

from  ( dani eder ) 
subject re guns for space 
keywords gun , space 
organization ai center , , al 
lines 22 

in reference to the limits of with guns solid 
as  . provided me with samples and data on 
a to solid for high  . solid 
usually have a substantial percentage of 
in the mix .  . for example , the space are 16 percent 
 . the is to use a   structure .  . 
the structure looks like the of a set of  ( an i suspect 
some process is used to form it) .  . in other words , if you made 
a bunch of in , then it , this is what 
you get .  . it forms a strong network of effectively in 
all  . the remaining solid mix is into 
the , and you get solid  . the 
makes up about 6 percent of the total , 
so there is still particles in the grain .  . the major 
improvement is the higher resistance to grain cracking , which is the 
principal failure mode for solid  . 




investment company  ( 205)464 )  ( 2697(w ) 232  ( 7467(h ) 
1 . , box 2 , al 37  n 43  w alt. 

from  ( milady the of peripherals ) 
subject re looking for a little research help 
organization inc. 
lines 6 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 

found it ! thanks. i got several for help. i appreciate it and 
will be those people via e mail .  . 

thanks again .  .  .  . 



from usc . edu .  ( peter schaefer ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 


in article , writes 
in article ,  ( gene wright ) writes 
with the talk about the end of the space age and 
by government over the large cost , why not try something i read about 
that might just work. 

announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year .  . 
then you 'd see some of the but not popular begin 
to be developed .  . there 'd be a different kind of space race then ! 


 ( gene wright ) 
net . the of 

if that were true , i 'd go for it .  .  . i have a few friends who we could pool our 
resources and do it .  .  . maybe make it a prize kind of the car race 
in australia .  .  . 
anybody game for a ! 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 


oh gee , a billion dollars ! that 'd be just about enough to cover the cost of the 
study ! happy , happy , joy ! joy ! 

peter f. 

from 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization nasa , space program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 17 

gene wrote 
announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year .  . 
then you 'd see some of the but not popular begin 
to be developed .  . there 'd be a different kind of space race then ! 

i'm an advocate of this idea for funding space station work , and i 
around the 1 billion figure for that reward .  . i suggest that 
you increase the reward to about 3 billion .  . 

this would encourage private industry to in space , which 
should be one of nasa 's primary goals. 

ken , nasa , space program office 
 ( 713 ) 

better.  .  . daniel s. , nasa administrator 

from  ( dave stephenson ) 
subject re old as ! 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization dept. of energy , , and resources , ottawa 
lines 21 

writes 

other idea for old space is as and such .  .  . 
why not if you can put them on safe mode .  .  . why not have them be 
by a signal from a space  ( manned ) to act as a 
, to take a plot on 

or what 

michael adams , i'm not high , just 

there is a whole of built 
in the process of being out right now. the transit 
are being replaced by  . or were you thinking of deep space , 
which is best done with measurements .  . i do not think 
additional radio would help much. 

dave 
survey of canada 
ottawa , ontario , canada 
internet 

from (  ( 202 ) 
subject remote sensing data 
x added by space digest 
warning error in original version of line at cs . cmu . edu . 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 


i am posting this for someone else. please respond to the 
address listed below. please also excuse the as this 
message has been  . thanks ! 



request for ideas for applications of remote sensing 
via the internet 

nasa is planning to expand the domain of users of its earth and space science 
data .  . this effort will 

o use the evolving of the u.s. change research 
program including the mission to planet earth  ( mtpe ) and the earth 
observing system data and information system  ( eosdis ) programs. 

o use the internet , particularly the high computing and 
communications program 's  ( national research and education 
network ) , as a means of providing access to and distribution of 
science data and images and value added products. 

o provide broad access to and of remotely sensed images in 
with other  ( especially , , doe , , 
, and  . 

o support remote sensing image and data users and development 
communities .  . 

the user and development communities to be included  ( but not limited to) as 
part of this effort are , application (e . g .  . , 
television forecasters ) , , publishers , 
, transportation , , state and local government planners , and 
business. 

this program will be initiated in 1994. your assistance is requested to 
identify potential applications of remote sensing images and data .  . we would 
like your ideas for potential application areas to assist with development of 
the implementation plan .  . 

please note this is not a request for  . 

we are seeking your ideas in these areas 

(1) potential use of remote sensing data and images 

(2) potential use of remote sensing data and images in 
education  ( especially levels k 12 ) and other areas 

 ( 3 ) types of on line capabilities and protocols to make the data more 
accessible 

 ( 4 ) additional points of contacts for ideas and 

 ( 5 ) addresses and names from whom to request  . 

for your convenience , a standard format for responses is included below. feel 
free to amend it as necessary. either e mail or fax your responses to us by 
may 5 , 1993 .  . 

e mail on internet ascii no 
please 

fax ernie , c o , nasa , fax 358 

survey responses in the following may also be placed in the ftp 
directory ftp pub on nasa . gov .  . please indicate the format .  . 
acceptable are word for 2 . x . , word 4 . x . and 5 . x . , and 
 . 



response format 

request for ideas for applications of remote sensing via the internet 

(1) potential use of remote sensing data and images  ( if possible , 
identify the relevant types of data or science products , user tools , and 
 . 







(2) uses of remote sensing data and images in education  ( especially levels 
k 12 ) and other areas  ( if possible , identify the relevant types 
of data or science products , user tools , and  . 







 ( 3 ) types of on line capabilities and protocols to make the data and images 
more accessible  ( if possible , identify relevant types of , standards , 
and user tools ) 







 ( 4 ) additional suggested persons or organizations that may be resources for 
further ideas on applications areas .  . please include name , organization , 
address and telephone number .  . 







 ( 5 ) organizations , mailing lists  ( electronic and paper ) , , etc. to 
whom a for should be sent when developed .  . please 
include name , organization , address and telephone number .  . 



 ( 6 ) we would benefit from knowing why users that know about nasa remote 
sensing data do not use the data .  . is it because they do not have ties to nasa 
, or high cost , lack of , incompatible data , 
poor area of interest , or resolution , ... 





 ( 7 ) in case we have questions , please send us your name , address , phone number 
 ( and e mail address if you have one) .  . if you do n't wish to send us this 
information , feel free to respond to the survey  . thank you for 
your assistance .  . 



from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 09 15 mission 
supersedes 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 
distribution world 
expires 6 may 1993 19 59 07 gmt 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
keywords frequently asked questions 

archive name space 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 23 

space answers , launch , tv 

and and how to see them 

are discussed in the usenet group sci . space . , 
and ken  ( gandalf@pro electric . posts a version 
of the  ( launch dates and other information ) 
periodically there. the is also available from the ames space 
archive in space faq  . the portion of his 
included in this faq has been removed please refer to his posting or 
the copy. for the most up to date information on 
, call  ( 407 ) info  ( 867 4636 ) at space center .  . 

official nasa status reports are posted to sci . space . news . 
frequently .  . 


why does the roll just after 

the following answer and translation are provided by ken 


the and control training manual , g c , 
says 

during the rise , the launch attitude is 
commanded until an i loaded  ( v(rel ) sufficient to launch 
is achieved .  . then , the  ( roll program ) 
the to a heads down attitude required to generate a 
negative q , which in turn  . other 
with this attitude are gain , abort 
complexity , improved s look , and view of 
the  . the is also required to start 
to achieve the main engine cutoff  ( meco ) target 
in second stage .  . 

this really is a good answer , but it 's in nasa jargon .  . i 'll try 
to interpret .  . 

1 ) we wait until the the before  . 

2 ) then , we roll the around so that the angle of attack 
between the wind caused by passage through the atmosphere  ( the 
relative wind ) and the of the wings  ( the imaginary line 
between the and the edge ) is a slightly 
negative angle ( a negative q ) .  . this causes a little bit of 
force  ( toward the belly of the , or the z 
direction ) and this force  . 
we have to be careful about those wings they 're about the 
most part of the  . 

3) the new attitude  ( after the roll ) also allows us to carry more 
mass to orbit , or to achieve a higher orbit with the same mass , or 
to change the orbit to a higher or lower than would be 
the case if we did n't roll ( gain ) .  . 

4 ) the new attitude allows the to a less complicated 
path if they had to execute one of the more dangerous abort 
, the return to launch site ( abort 
complexity ) .  . 

5 ) the new attitude the ability for ground based radio 
to have a good line of sight signal with the s radio 
on the ( improved s look ) .  . 

6 ) the new attitude allows the to see the , which is a 
helpful  ( but not mandatory ) part of any flying machine .  . 

7 ) the new attitude the so that the body is 
more nearly parallel with the ground , and the nose to the east 
 . this allows the thrust from the to add 
in the correct direction to eventually achieve orbit .  . remember 
is a quantity made of both speed and direction .  . 
the has to have a large component to its 
and a very small component to orbit .  . 

this all begs the question , why is n't the launch oriented to give 
this nice attitude to begin with why does the need to roll to 
achieve that attitude the answer is that the were 
from the days. the two flame one 
for the solid rocket , one for the space main 
engine  .  ( you can see the effects of this on any 
launch .  . the is gray garbage , and the is 
fluffy white steam .  . watch for the difference between the top 
side and the bottom external side of the stack . ) . the 
access and other support and service structure are all oriented 
basically the same way they were for the v 's .  . (a side note the 
v 's also had a roll program .  . do n't ask me why i'm a 
guy . ) . 

i checked with a buddy in  . he added that the roll 
is really a in all three axes roll , pitch and  . 
the roll component of that is performed for the reasons 
stated .  . the pitch component on the wings by keeping 
the angle of attack (q alpha ) within a tolerance .  . the 
component is used to determine the orbital  . the total 
is really expressed as a , a level math 
concept for all three in one four element 
 . 


how to receive the nasa tv channel , nasa select 

nasa select is by  . if you have access to a 
, you can find select on , 13 , c , 72 
degrees west , 6 . 8 . ,  . is 
over the atlantic , and is difficult to receive from 
california and points west .  . during events of special interest (e . g .  . 
missions ) , select is sometimes on a second 
for these  . 

if you ca n't get a feed , some operators carry select .  . 
it 's worth asking if yours does n't .  . 

the select is found in the nasa headline news which is 
frequently posted to sci . space . news .  . generally it carries press 
, by nasa , and live of 
and  . select has recently begun carrying 
much more secondary material  ( associated with spacelink ) when 
are not being covered .  . 


amateur radio for 

the following are believed to rebroadcast space mission 

los 
ames research center , view , california 
space center  ( gsfc ) , , maryland .  . 
johnson space center  ( jsc ) , houston , texas 
 ( jpl ) , pasadena , california .  . 
voice 

station 

145 . 46 . 
145 . 7 . 3 . 
45 . 28 . 21 . 14 . 7 . 3 . 
64 . 28 . 400 . 21 . 14 . 7 . 3 . 
04 . 21 . 14 . 
04 . 21 . 14 . 7 . 3 . 
28 . 21 . 14 . 290 . 7 . 290 . 3 . 

mission on 64 . , a special event station on the 
other elements and mission information. 

also on , 18 .  . no mission but they 
voice at and  . 

in the 10 require and in the 40 
and  . use for the  . 

this item was most recently updated courtesy of 
, , n5qwc ) 


solid rocket composition 

reference manual volume solid rocket 
systems , nasa document 

composition  ( percent ) 

 ( oxidizer ) 6 . 
16 
iron  ( burn rate catalyst ) 0 . 4 . 
acid (a rubber ) 12 . 04 . 
1 . 

end reference 

comment the , , and all burn with the  . 

next faq 10 15 historical 

from  ( james b. reed ) 
subject re space news from feb 15 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 10 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
's atmosphere will start to out around , and after about 
increasing areas of both and will be in permanent 
that will make and mapping impossible. 

where does the come from there 's nothing close enough to block 
sunlight from hitting them. i would n't expect there to be anything block 
our view of them either. what am i missing 

jim 

from  ( ken hayashida ) 
subject re life on 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 25 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

in article writes 
i know it 's only wishful thinking , with our current president , 
but this is from last fall 

is there life on maybe not now. but there will be. 
daniel s. , nasa administrator , 24 august 1992 

ken , nasa , space program office 
 ( 713 ) 

lets hear it for dan  .  . now . if he can only convince the rest of 
our federal government that the space program is a worth while 
investment ! 

i hope that i will live to see the day we walk on , but 
we need to address the technical first ! if there 's sufficient 
interest , maybe we should consider starting a sci . space . group 
devoted to the technical analysis of long duration human  . 
most of you know that i'm interested in starting this analysis 
as soon as possible. 

ken 

usc school of medicine , class of 


from  ( nick haines ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 93 16 28 00 gmt 
originator 
nntp posting host fox . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon university 

lines 33 

in article  ( todd johnson ) writes 

as for sure , why not a nasa friend and i spent one 
night out just exactly how much gold we 'd need 
to put the golden of a certain american fast food organization 
on the face of the moon. fortunately , we up in the morning. 

hmmm .  . it actually is n't all that much , is it like about 2 million 
2  ( if you think that sounds like a lot , it 's only a few tens of m 2 
per that said organization sold last  . you 'd be best off 
with a substance that could be by an 
in orbit  ( or , rather , a large set of such  . 
if you can get a reasonable it would be even at new 
moon  ( since the moon itself is quite dark ) , and bright at full moon. 
you might have to the , though. 

buy a cheap launch system , design moon orbit 
, build 50 said , establish a base 
to extract  ( say for you 'd be better off with a 
compound , i suppose ) and some sort of , and bob 's your 
 . i 'll do it for , say , 20 billion dollars  ( plus changes of 
identity for me and all my loved  . date  . 

can we get the fast food against the drink 
who else might be interested 

would they buy it , given that it 's a lot more expensive , and not 
much more impressive , than putting a large set of several 
in  ( or in , 24 hours from your 
key growth  . i 'll do that for only  ( and the changes of 
 . 



from  ( paul dietz ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization university of rochester 
lines 41 

in article  ( william reiken ) writes 

the real reason why or are not being 
built is that there is n't any reason to do so. natural is 
still too cheap , and of looks 
technically reasonable .  . 


december , 1987 page 21 science and technology in japan . 
experiment 
the ground are at about 3 . 6 . million tons , 
and it is that the demand and supply will collapse by the 
end of the 20th century. in japan , a resources poor country , 
development are now under way to economically in 
 . the total of in is 
to be about 4.6 billion tons , a huge amount when compared with ground 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


i hate to pour cold water on this , but currently extracted 
, even using the new , improved from japan , is 
about 20 times more expensive than on the market .  . 
is very cheap right now , around 10  . right now , there 
are because they ca n't with places like 
in canada  ( where the is so rich they present safety 
to the , who work in  . plenty of other sources 
 ( for example , from processing ) would come on line before 
reached 200  . 

demand and supply will collapse is nonsense. supply and 
demand always what changes is the price .  . is going 
to increase in price by a factor of 20 by the end of the century 
not bloody likely. new nuclear are not being built 
at a sufficient rate .  . 

from is interesting , but it 's a long term project , or 
a project that the japanese might justify on grounds of 
self  . 

paul f. 


from  ( alan monday business  . group ) 
subject re sail data 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 14 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host sun . com . 

hey ! what happened to the sail race that was supposed to be 
for 

in article ,  ( frank j. snyder ) writes 

i am looking for any information concerning involving 
 . i understand that the jpl did an extensive study on the subject 
back in the late 70 's but i am having trouble such information. 

are there any groups out there currently involved in such a project 





from  ( claudio egalon ) 
subject re space 
organization nasa research center 
lines 7 
distribution world 
reply to  ( claudio egalon ) 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

there is a guy in nasa johnson space center that might answer 
your question. i do not have his name right now but if you follow 
up i can dig that out for you. 





from  ( charlie prael ) 
subject re army in space 
organization bbs  ( clanzen radio network ) , ca 1 408 
lines 23 

 ( kerry johnson ) writes 

is anybody out there willing to discuss with me in the army that deal 
with space after i graduate , i will have a commitment to serve in the army , 
and i would like to spend it in a space related field .  . i saw a post a long 
time ago about the air force space command which made a reference to 
its army counter part. any more info on that would be appreciated. i'm 
looking for things like do i branch intelligence , or signal , or other to 
whom do i voice my interest in space what are necessary 
etc , etc. btw , my major is computer science engineering .  . 

i'm a little at this , because it 's been a few years 
since i saw the info , but you will probably want to look at air defense 
as a , or possibly  . the kind of thing you 're 
looking for is type , but it 'll be pretty stuff. 
things like hard kill missiles , some of the that kind 
of thing. 

hope that gives you some ideas on where to look , though. 


charlie 
bbs  ( clanzen radio network ) , ca 1 408 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 20 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( george f. krumins ) writes 
it is so typical that the rights of the minority are by the 
wants of the majority , no matter how ridiculous those wants might be. 


george .  . 

it 's called a democracy .  . the majority rules. sorry. 
if do n't like it , i suggest you the constitution to include 
a constitutional right to dark skies .  . the theory of government 
here is that the majority rules , except in the nature of fundamental 
civil rights. if you really are , get some legislation 
to create a dark sky , where in all light are protected 
in the  . kind of like the national radio quiet  . did you 
know about that near teh radio in west virginia , 
they have a 90  . theoretically they can prevent 
you from running light ac , like air and  . 
in practice , they use it mostly to control large radio users. 



from  ( jordan katz ) 
subject roll out speech 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host access . net . 



speech by  . simon p. , 
the for technology , 

douglas beach 
april 3 , 1993 

most of you , as am i , are children of the 's .  . we grew 
up in an age of miracles inter missiles , 
nuclear energy , computers , to the moon. but these were 
miracles of our parent 's doing. for a and more the 
have told us you 've lost it ! the me generation is only 
living on the accomplishments of the past. 

you and i have even begun to believe the  . we 
listen in as the past generation tells of its  . living 
history they are. we are to hear those who did it tell 
of it. a few weeks ago some of this very team in as 
general told of his team 's work and yes struggle 
to build this nation 's missile .  . 

what stories can we tell eyed thousand 
dollar toilet even our space launch only 
of that past great time. they are and seem to remain gen .  . 
's  . i find it hard to with pride that the 
best new space idea is to old and 
missiles .  . 

well the are wrong. the is continuing .  . 
this event is proof. to our parents we 've 
to your stories. we 've caught your and can do spirit .  . 
and we 've learned from your and your mistakes .  . let 
me honor one of you who was part of that history and the 
behind this history  . you are one of the greatest 
of the great age of space exploration .  . your 
insight and discipline built the later incorporated 
into today 's most successful launch the delta .  . 

you told us in the 60 's that a new form of launch a 
single stage rocket can and should be built .  . you 
advocated this idea  . it was simple , as are 
all great  . you showed us how to build it. you 
convinced us it could be done. you are working by our side to 
its components into place. most important you reminded us of a 
prime engineering principle undoubtably one you learned from the 
generation before you the generation that built 
in the 's and 30 's build a little and test a little 
and , you passed all of this on to people like who 
started this program for the  . 

douglas did n't start with a 10. they did n't even 
start with a 3. our built a little , tested a 
little even sold a little and made a little money before they 
moved on to the next step. they did n't take a or more 
before putting the first on the road. you 
did n't take ten years to build , and by god we 're not going to 
take ten years to show that low cost , single stage , 
transportation is real. 

we ended the cold war in a few short years. it took the same 
team here today but a few years to show through the strategic 
defense that the cold war must end. we you and us 
a series of the delta experiments in about 
a year  . this , more than anything else our 
commitment to end the between ourselves and the soviet 
union .  . those who made the decisions on both sides have 
the importance of our work in bringing about a new international 
relationship .  . 

but it is the same team which is now putting in place the 
for an that is our for the 
next generation .  . we will make space access and affordable .  . 

we built this flying machine in two years. this 
summer a true rocket will take off and land on earth for the 
first time. then we can and surely will build in the next three 
years a sub orbital rocket .  . it will allow us to use space 
rapidly , , and as no other nation can. and 
yes we 'll make a little money off it too ! 

then and only then we 'll spend another three years to 
build a fully single stage to orbit system. the 3 of 
space will be a reality ! we may even be able to use some of the 
rocket of our former cold war  . 
what a wonderful irony if this product and efforts to 
counter to power mankind 's next step to the stars ! 

to be sure , we must guard against the to leap to 
the final answer. robert 's first were n't 
v 's ! if we to the to ask for just a few extra 
dollars and a few more years to jump immediately to a full orbital 
system we will fail .  . and his colleagues showed the 
way. three years and a cloud of in our case rocket 
 . there is no short cut. if we expect to the 
world again we must do it one at a time. minds on at 
hand ! 

this project is real. the of american 
greatness is being passed .  . we are americans .  . this machine is 
american .  . let 's go it ! 

from  ( claudio egalon ) 
subject re pushing the 
article i.d. 
reply to  ( claudio egalon ) 
distribution world 
organization nasa research center , , va usa 
lines 11 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 


are generally carefully and just what 
is going to be  pushed  and how 
far is precisely  ( despite occasional deviations from plans , 
such as the  early  first of the f 16 during its high speed 
 . 

 .  .  . and earlier with the x 1 .  .  .  . 




from  ( larry d'addario ) 
subject re email contacts .  . 
in reply to 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 12 52 09 gmt 
organization national radio astronomy 
lines 32 

it is usually possible to reach people at  ( institute for space 
research ) in by writing to 



this is a machine at in , germany has a dedicated 
phone line to this machine and someone there in regularly to 
mail .  . 

in addition , there are several user accounts belonging to 
scientific on 

user 

which is a based in san francisco that provides 
email services to the former ussr .  . for example , is the 
physics institute of the of sciences  ( initials 
from , of course) .  . these cost the russians real 
dollars , even for received messages , so please do n't send anything 
or  . 


larry r. d 
national radio astronomy 

addresses  ( internet ) 
 ( fax ) 1 
1 green bank 
 ( mail ) road , , va , usa 
 ( phone ) 1 office , home cho 
1 off. , lab ,  . gb 


from  ( matthew deluca ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization the grey 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( william reiken ) writes 

ok , so how about the creation of oil producing bacteria i figure 
that if you can make them to eat it up then you can make them to shit it. 
any comments 

sure. why keep using oil a electric economy would likely be 
and more efficient in the long run. the laws of supply and demand 
should get the before we reach a critical stage of 
 . 

matthew 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! matthew 
internet 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re big amateur 
organization u of 
lines 30 

in article  ( paul dokas ) writes 
anyhow , the ad stated that they 'd sell that were up to 20  in length 
and of sizes f to m . they also said that some will 
reach 50 , 000 feet. 

now , aside from the obvious to any amateur using one 
of these , is n't this illegal i ca n't imagine the allowing 
people to shoot up through the levels of  . 

the situation in this regard has changed in recent years. 
see the discussion of high power in the rec . models . 
frequently asked questions list. 

this is not hardware you can walk in off the street and buy you need 
proper  . that can be had , mostly through tripoli  ( the high 
power of the nar ) , although the is moving to extend 
the of what it considers proper too. 

you need special , but provided you are n't doing it under 
one of the approaches or something stupid like that , it 's not 
especially hard to  . 

as with model , this sort of hardware is reasonably safe if 
properly. proper handling takes more care , and you need a lot more empty 
air to in , but it 's basically just model up. as with 
model , the high power people use built , which 
the major safety hazard of do it yourself  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( craig keithley ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year lo 
organization apple computer , inc. 
lines 80 

in article ,  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
wrote 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 

this prize is n't big enough to developing a , but it is 
enough to do it if the exists. 

actually , there are people who will tell you that it would be enough 
to do development , if done privately as a cut rate operation. of 
course , they may be over  . 

in spite of my great respect for the people you speak of , i think their 
cost estimates are a bit over  . if nothing else , a working 
is at least as complex as a large and has a smaller experience 
base .  . it therefore seems that development should cost at least as 
much as a typical development .  . that puts it in the to 
range .  . 


for the purpose of a , i 'd bet some things could be cut. like 
for re entry , any kind of , etc. , etc. even still , if the 
participants had to 1 development , it probably would n't be 
worth it to develop 1  ( just for the  . just give me the 
lift man rated  ( or at least under 6 or so gs )  .  .  . if i 
do n't have to pay for 1 development , great ! , i 'll use it. 

but back to the goals , there was a recent article in about a 
low cost  ( it 's all relative .  .  . ) . return to the moon. a general 
scheme involving a to lift a 
stage , , and  . the mission consists of two 
to the surface , followed by a mission .  . 
total cost us was 10 13 billion .  .  ( esa ) nasa project was 6 9 
billion for the us share .  . 

i did n't find a mention of how long the could stay , but i 'd bet that 
its around 30 days. and the total was about 30 
 . so if you ignore the scientific , a ride in the 
 ( no return trip .  .  . ) . , and toss in a few more for 
the additional to last another 11 months , then you might be 
able to get a year visit out of 15  ( and in case its not obvious , 
that 's a wild ass guess) .  . a pretty visit , since every trip 
eats up a bit of  . and i'm not certain if a home  ( or 
college brewed ) life support system could last a year .  . but let 's round 
this up to 19 . 4 .  ( convient , since the plan talks about 9 . 7 . 
to the surface .  . this up to two , two 
, two  .  .  . all to put a single man on the moon for a 
year .  . hmmm .  . not really practical .  . anyone got a better way of 
15 20 to the surface within the anyone 
have a more precise guess about how much a year 's supply of and 
equipment would 

and i was wondering about the  . is it or is it discarded 
to burn up on return to if its not discarded , could it be 
henry do you know anything about the i noted that it uses 10 
 . are n't they would a fit in a 1 
i 've forgotten  ( if i ever knew ) what the bay are for the 
1. 

all in all , i'm not certain that the single goal prize of staying on the 
moon for a year is wise and or useful. how about a prize for the first 
non government moon landing , then another for a 
moon landing , then yet another for a system to extract from 
, another for a earth moon , and so forth .  . find 
some way to build civilian  .  .  . having a single goal 
might result in a bunch of giving up after one person appeared 
to win .  . and for those that did n't give up , i find something a little scary 
about a half dozen people in little moon  . i 'd 
like to see as much a reward for co operation as for competition .  . 

lastly , about ten or years back i seem to recall that there was an 
english space magazine that had an on going discussion about on 
the cheap .  . i it discussed things like how much the human 
body produced , how much material it 'd need for protection from 
, etc. unfortunately i do n't remember the name of this magazine .  . 
does this a bell to anyone 

craig i do n't remember , i do n't recall , 
apple computer , inc. i got no memory of anything at all 
peter , third  ( 1980 ) 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re and space station ! 
organization texas 
lines 45 

in  ( pat ) writes 

in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 

i think this would be a great way to build it , but unfortunately 
current spending rules do n't it to be workable .  . for this to 
work it would be necessary for the government to a certain 
minimum amount of business in order to sufficiently reduce the risk 
enough to make this attractive to a private firm .  . since they 
generally ca n't money except one year at a time , the 
government ca n't provide such a  . 


fred .  . 

try reading a bit. the government does lots of year 
contracts with penalty for  . they just like to be 
damn sure they know what they are doing before they sign a year 
contract .  . the reason they are n't cutting defense spending as much 
as they would like is the reagan signed enough 
year contracts , that it 's now to just finish them out. 

i do n't have to try reading a bit ,  . i work as a government 
and know what the rules are like. yes , they sign some 
 ( damned few which is why everyone is always having to go to 
washington to see about next week 's funding ) year contracts 
they also are n't willing to include sufficient penalties 
when they do decide to cut the year contract and not pay on it 
 ( which can happen arbitrarily at any time , no matter what previous 
plans were) to make the risk acceptable of something like putting up a 
private space station with the government as the expected prime 
 . 

i 'd like a source for that statement about the reason they are n't 
cutting defense spending as much as they would like i just do n't buy 
it. the other thing i find a bit  funny  about your posting , , is 
that several other people answered the question pretty much the same 
way i did mine is the one you comment  ( and incorrectly , i think) on. 
i think that says a lot. you and tommy should move in together. 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
from  ( ross smith ) 
distribution world 
organization labs 
lines 27 

in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 
in  ( david mcaloon ) writes 

2 earth core , is gravity ! ! ! 

if not for the lack of words , i 'd swear that 
had changed his name and moved to cal  . i also find the 
choice of newsgroups  . perhaps someone should tell this 
guy that does n't stand for  astrology  

it 's truly frightening that posts like this are at what 
are of higher learning in this country. small 
wonder that the rest of the world thinks we 're all nuts and that we 
have the problems that we do. 

in case you have n't gotten it yet , david , i do n't think this was 
quite appropriate for a posting to  sci  groups. 

was that post for real i thought it was a late april fool joke. some of it 
seemed a bit over the top even by etc standards ) 


... smith  ( wanganui , nz )  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ... 
and on the planet 's face 
some insects called the human race 
lost in time and lost in space  ( rhps ) 


from  ( ken nasa ) 
subject re space station redesign , alternative 4 
organization nasa , space program office from 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 40 

 ( hey , that 's me ! ) wrote 
i have 19  ( 2 worth ! ) 'd images contain 
one of the many alternative space station designs being considered in 
city. ... 

i just posted the files out for anonymous ftp on server edu .  . 
you can them from 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 
edu . 

the last two are color the others are 
 . 

these will be deleted by the edu . system in a few days , 
so now 's the time to them if you 're interested .  . sorry it took 
me so long to get these out , but i was trying for the ames server , 
but it 's out of space .  . 

ken , nasa , space program office 
 ( 713 ) 

the earth is the of humanity , but mankind will not stay in 
the forever. 

from  ( matthew r. feulner ) 
subject re colony race ! by or 
nntp posting host com . 
organization 
lines 18 

in article , writes 
okay here is what i have so far 

have a group  ( any size , small , but ) send a human being to the moon , 
set up a and have the  ( human(s ) spend one earth year on the moon. does 
that mean no or 

need to find for prize money. 


my first thought is  . after further consideration , i think he 'd 
be more likely to try to win it .  .  . but . come in a third .  . 

try bill  . try 's kids .  . 

matt 

matthew 

from  ( paul dietz ) 
subject re activities on the moon 
organization university of rochester 
lines 31 

in article  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

why paul , it 's obvious. 
once chemistry has been on earth , 
as is being advocated by some groups , will 
increase  ( we are of course not allowed to 
assume any developments in  . 
will then be eminently for 
the trendy market and certain applications 
of national importance 

) ) ) 

well , there already is a process for  . the 
process is , however , and for that reason is 
dominance in the  . 

most is used in , btw  ( as the oxide ) , where it replaced 
white lead some decades ago. very little is reduced to the 
metal .  . 

seriously , i 'd say there is a flaw in 's analysis 
in that he assumes an oriented economy , maybe 
the lunatics will just want some native for local 
use .  .  .  . 

which merely the issue of why those lunatics are 
there at all  ( and , why their children would want to stay . ) . 

paul f. 


from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 28 

 ( mark brader ) writes 


thanks again. one final question. the name was n't known to 
me before this thread came up , but the may issue of scientific american 
has an article about the , with a photo of neil 
, project scientist for nasa 's compton gamma ray  . 
same person 

no. i estimate a probability the referred to 
is thomas of the project ,  . 

maybe in the 24th century they could do gamma ray on 
distant with an , but here in the 
primitive 20th we have to send a there to get gamma ray 
done. 

mark , inc. , information ! ... we want information ! 
! ! , the prisoner 

you have the info on mayan television yet 

this article is in the public domain .  . 

seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from  ( farmer ted ) 
subject re space 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 14 

there is this buy at nasa  .  .  . 




yes ! give me his name i would greatly appreciate it. 



rich 

the earth is a of the mind. but , we cannot live forever in a 
k . e .  . 
father of 

from  ( chris jones ) 
subject re 
reply to  ( chris jones ) 
organization square research corp 
lines 20 
in reply to  ( pat ) 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
in article  ( james thomas green ) writes 
has anyone looked into the possiblity of a 

i do n't know a whole lot on , but given that it is a stage 
rocket , up to 4 stages , it may not really need the , plus 
it may end up seriously beating on said  . 

the has been used in 2 , 3 , and 4 stage versions. the two stage version 
was used for the first 3 , while the 3 and 4 stage versions are used 
today. the four stage version is used mostly for escape  ( and ) 
orbits , while the 3 stage version is used for low earth orbits .  . since this is 
the version that and the  ( and the add on for mir ) , 
as long as is smaller than  ( which i believe it is) , it should fit 
under the  . 

i recall that the russians are developing a stage for the 
 . 

chris jones 

from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject re how to get there  ( was re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization national 
lines 27 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( paul gilmartin ) writes 
bill beam wrote 
while you 're at it , , explain how a gets into 
orbit to begin with ! 

there are non forces from heating and when a 
gets into the inner system. ... 

do n't forget the of jupiter .  . 

my poor old physics intuition will be very surprised if these tiny 
masses , sitting very close to jupiter , play any role whatsoever in the 
problem. or , to put it more technically , the extra volume they add 
to the space of possible capture is negligible .  . 

jupiter is , while the are around  . 

also , as i said , the few references that i 've looked at do not 
mention or as important processes .  . the important 
thing is a jupiter sun reverse that leads to a 
jupiter bound orbit for the  ( at least a temporary one) .  . 

bill late at night she still me 
dressed in garments in 
bitnet though in life i used to her 
internet now she 's dead , i draw the line ! 
after the , 

from 
subject re gravity , was gravity wave cosmic 
summary .... .... do i hear the death of relativity 
keywords space , , nothing , 
nntp posting host 
organization computer services centre , c . u . h . k .  . 
distribution world 
lines 36 

in article  ( eric h. taylor ) writes 
from  ( eric h. taylor ) 
subject re gravity , was gravity wave cosmic 
summary .... .... do i hear the death of relativity 
keywords space , , nothing , 
date sun , 28 1993 20 18 04 gmt 
in article  ( tom van flandern ) writes 
 ( cameron bass ) writes 
 ( bruce scott ) writes 
existence is unless it is with observable in 
physics .  . 
.... .... .... do i hear the death of 
string theory 

i agree. you can add dark matter and and a lot of other 
, purely constructs in physics to that list , 
including the omni present black holes .  . 

will bruce argue that their existence can be from theory 
alone then what about my original criticism , when i said 
can only exist relative to something non bruce replied 
 existence  is unless it is with  observable  in 
physics .  . we cannot observe more than the four we know about. 
at the moment i do n't see a way to defend that statement and the 
existence of these phenomena simultaneously .  . tom 

i hold that space cannot be , for the simple reason that it can have 
no properties .  . 
of properties we can only speak when dealing with matter filling the 
space .  . to say that in the presence of large bodies space becomes , 
is equivalent to stating that something can act upon nothing. i , 
for one , refuse to subscribe to such a view. 


et was 100 years ahead of his time. perhaps now his time comes .  . 


from 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article , writes 
gene wrote 
announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year .  . 
then you 'd see some of the but not popular begin 
to be developed .  . there 'd be a different kind of space race then ! 

i'm an advocate of this idea for funding space station work , and i 
around the 1 billion figure for that reward .  . i suggest that 
you increase the reward to about 3 billion .  . 

this would encourage private industry to in space , which 
should be one of nasa 's primary goals. 

ken , nasa , space program office 
 ( 713 ) 

better.  .  . daniel s. , nasa administrator 


also would maybe get the russians involved. after all they do have the resources 
to do it in part .  .  . but they need the capital and the goal .  .  . 

i wonder if the russians resources would be a 



michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( david gordon empey ) 
subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
organization university of california , santa 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 


in  ( jack coyote ) writes 

in sci . ,  ( david mcaloon ) writes 

a nearly perfect parody needed more random caps 


thanks for the chuckle .  . (i loved the bit about relevance to people 
in ! ) 

to those who 've taken this seriously , read the name !  ( aloud ) 

well , i thought it must have been a joke , but i do n't get the 
joke in the name. read it aloud david  . david  . 
david  . i do n't  . 

dave  ( speaking for himself) 

thank you , thank you , i 'll be here all week. enjoy the ! 



from  ( david b. mckissock ) 
subject nasa 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio 
lines 

in the april edition of one small step for a space , 
allen tim write 
another problem is what are called    ( or sometimes 
the  center  . when work for a large program like 
freedom or is performed at a nasa center , the 
center off a portion which goes into what 
to a  . this money is used to work the 
center wants to  . this sum is to 
be over a third of the funds  . think about 
that of the 30 billion cost of freedom , fully 10 
billion wo n't be spent on anything having anything 
to do with space ! now , maybe that 10 billion 
was spent  ( and maybe it was n't ) , but the work done 
with it should stand on its own merits , not 
the cost of other  . congress has no idea of the 
of these congress has never heard the 
term  center  . they look at the station they are 
getting and the price they are paying and note that 
it does n't add up. they wonder this 
that a third of the money is going for something else. 

my dear friends , your mixing fact and fiction here. a couple 
of weeks ago , when i first read this in your posting , i 
talked with one of the cost here in space station 
at if you wondering why i did n't post a 
response immediately , i do have a real job i'm supposed 
to be doing here at , up old 20 
data looking into claims pretty low 
on the of priority .  . also , i spent last 
in kansas city , at the national science teachers 
association conference , extolling the virtues of 
to 15 , 000 science teachers .  . 

first off , yes , the concept of  center tax  , or   does 
exist. if i recall the numbers correctly , the total  tax  
for the program for this year is around 40 million .  . 
this was by adding up the 1 , 2 , and 4 
center  . with the for this year at 
2.2 billion , my says the tax percentage is 
04 2.2 1 . 8 . 

over the life of the program , using your figure of 30 
billion for the cost of , a tax at a 1 . 8 . rate comes to 
million .  . this is alot less than 10 billion , but i 
will concede it 's still an amount of 
change .  . 

i should note that your estimate of the tax rate at 1 3 could 
be close to the actual rate .  . the tax is only charged on funds 
that are spent at the center  ( kind of like at some 
states , where you do have to pay sales tax if you eat 
the food at the , but you do n't if you get it 
take  . for example , at 4 , the vast of the funds 
we receive go to the contract , and are not 
subject to the center tax (i do n't have the numbers in 
front of me , but i 'd guess at least of the 4 funds 
go to  . so , you could be right about a tax 
rate of 1 3 , but it 's only applied to funds spent at the 
center , and not to the prime contracts .  . 

this leads to the obvious question what is the government 
doing with funds that do n't go to the prime 
(i . e .  . ok , 4 gets a of the 30 billion pie. a 
big portion of this goes to  . what happens 
to the of the funds , which are n't 
up by the center tax ) 

at 4 , we call these funds we spend in house supporting 
development funds  ( as they are supporting the development 
work done by  . we have used these funds to 
setup our own , to the electrical 
power system  . our has a real life 
field  ( left over from cell research 
research a few years back ) , with lead acid car 
 ( to simulate the on ssf ) , 
, units , and 
loads .  . data from the was used in a recent 
change evaluation involving concerns about the 
of the power system. 

we have also used the supporting development money to 
, which are on life 
at both lewis and the in 
 . as a side point , 6 of the cells on 
test recently hit the four year life test  . 
38 cells have 18 , to 23 ,  ( the 
on orbit go through 5 , per  . 

as a final example , my  home  division at lewis used 
the supporting development funds to personal 
computers and work , for system 
analyses  ( like modeling of the of the 
electrical power system , calculations 
using a , setting up a 
with information on weight of the power 
system  . 

finally , the money raised by the  tax  does not all 
go into a  ' . at lewis , the director 
does control a small  . each year , 
any individual at lewis can submit a proposal to 
the director to get money from this to look 
at pretty much anything within the lewis charter .  . 

most of the tax , however , goes to the  general  
services at the center , like the library , the 
central computer services division , the 
who removes the , etc. thus , it is rather 
difficult to determine what percentage of the 
does n't go for activities. to get 
an accurate figure , you would have to take 
the for the library  ( for example) , 
and then divide by the amount of the library funds 
used to support  ( which would be hard to 
by itself how would you figure out 
what percentage of the bill for week for 
1 year is   to , would you base it on 
the person hours employees spend reading week 
versus the rest of the center  . you would 
then have to compare this estimate of the 
portion of the library expense with the portion of 
the tax that goes to support the library. who knows , 
maybe on the tax to run the library , but 
we for removal talk about 
a ! 

my last point is that i ca n't believe your claim that 
congress has never heard of the term  center tax . ' . 
unfortunately , all of the nasa testimony before 
congress is n't on a computer , so i ca n't do a simple 
word search to prove you wrong. but surely , 
in some somewhere , these nasa cost methods 
were documented for congress 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re level 5 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 11 
nntp posting host access . net . 



while we are on the subject of the software .  . 

what ever happened to the hypothesis that the software 
was a major factor in the loss of 51 l. to wit , that during the 
wind event , the control software indicated a series 
of very violent engine movements that shocked and set 
to an of the  . 



from  ( bret wingert ) 
subject re level 5 
organization ibm , federal systems co .  . software services 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3 . 1 . 

lines 29 

in bill beam writes 
in article ,  ( bret wingert ) writes 
3. the software project was rated level 5 by a nasa team .  . 
this group 20 40 of verified code per year for nasa .  . 

will someone tell an ignorant physicist where the term level 5 comes 
from it sounds like the risks digest equivalent of large , extra 
large ,  .  .  . or maybe it 's like 5 .  .  .  . 

i gather it means that software was developed with extreme 
care to have and safety , and almost everything else in 
the computing world is level 1 , or software .  . not 
surprising .  . but who is it that this standard , and how come 
everyone but me seems to be familiar with it 

level 5 refers to the carnegie mellon software engineering institute 's 
capability model .  . this model software development 
org 's 5. with 1 being and 5 being optimizing .  . is 
beginning to use this system as a in contracts .  . i 
have more data on 1 page to 1000 .  . i have a 20 30 page 
that summarizes it i could fax to you if you 're 
interested .  .  .  . 



 ( 713 ) 
fax  ( 713 ) 



from  ( claudio egalon ) 
subject re space 
organization nasa research center 
lines 10 
distribution world 
reply to  ( claudio egalon ) 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

, , potter , ,  .  .  .  . 

i it is  . the others do not the bell but they might be 
involved as well. sometime ago was here at teaching 
a course on space and , if my memory does not , l i think there 
was even a reference to a book on the subject. 





from  ( daniel appelquist ) 
subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
reply to  ( daniel appelquist ) 
organization software , reston , virginia 
lines 11 

 ( david mcaloon ) writes 
lots of stuff deleted 

wow .  .  .  . what is this guy and where can i get some 

dan 

daniel k. is the published and 
magazine of science fiction and fantasy .  . for more 
information , send mail to or , 
 ( fax ) for back issues , ftp cmu . edu . , id anonymous .  . 

from  ( enzo liguori ) 
subject the sky .  . 
organization information systems research australia 
lines 38 

from the article what 's new apr 16 93 in sci . physics . research . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
what s new  ( in my opinion ) , friday , 16 april 1993 washington , 

1. space ! is this one the we were promised 
in 1950 , science fiction writer robert heinlein published the 
man who sold the moon , which involved a dispute over the sale of 
rights to the moon for use as  . nasa has taken the this 
vision of the future. observers were 
this spring when a nasa launch arrived at the 
with in huge block letters on the 
side of the  . space inc. had 
for the ad to promote arnold 's latest movie .  . now , space 
is working with university of and on 
a plan to place a long in low earth 
orbit .  . nasa would provide contractual launch services .  . however , 
since nasa bases its charge on seriously flawed cost estimates 
 ( wn 26 93 ) the would bear most of the expense .  . this 
may look like environmental , but mike , of 
space , told us yesterday that the real purpose of the 
project is to help the environment ! the will carry 
he explained is just to help costs .  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

what do you think of this and attempt to 
the night sky it is not even april 1 anymore. 
what about light pollution in observations (i read somewhere else that 
it might even be during the day , leave alone at  . 
is nasa really supporting this junk 
are protesting groups being organized in the states 
really , really depressed .  . 




information systems research australia phone 61 2 
po box north fax 61 2 

from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re activities on the moon 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 27 

in article  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

seriously though. if you were to ask the british government 
whether their efforts in the were cost 
effective , what answer do you think you 'd get what if you asked 
in , , , and respectively ) 

what do you mean are you saying they thought the effort was 
or that the money was spent  ( providing 
value per money spent ) 

i think they would answer yes on to both questions. exceptions 
would be places like the us from the french war to the end of 
the us revolution .  . 

but even after the or where given the 
british engaged in very trading with the former  . 
five years after the american revolution england was still the largest 
us trading partner. 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
55 days to first of 

from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 07 15 
supersedes 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 
distribution world 
expires 6 may 1993 19 57 55 gmt 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
keywords frequently asked questions 

archive name space 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 14 

 ( this is the last faq section posted to sci . 

gathered from various of postings on sci .  . 

sequence o b a f g k m r n s 

oh be a fine girl me right now ,  . (a classic ) 

o 's big gonna kill me right now surely 
astronomy found guilty killed many reluctant 
students .  . 
brains , a favorite kitchen , 
requires no sauce 
odd ball find generally 
really stuff 
oh big and gorilla , kill my roomate next saturday 
oh boy , a ! kills ! really not surprising ! 
oh boy , an f grade kills me 
on bad keep mrs .  . richard nixon smiling 
on , , forget 's motions 
reveal nature 's 
our bad astronomy gets killed monday 
ants , , kept , natural 
a ! kills ! 
 ( rodan named successor ) 
and fat girls keep 
only bored find knowing 
oh bloody astronomy ! f grades kill me 

order of the planets 

sun 


earth  ( terra ) 

 ( asteroids ) 
jupiter 





my very mother just served us 
mother very made a sandwich under no 
my very unusual needs 
men very easily make serve useful purposes 
man very early made a serve useful noble purposes 
my very mother just showed us planets 
my very eager mother just showed us planets 
my very mother has just swept up a 
most voters money just showing up near 
my very mother just served us pizza 
many elephants made john , and need protection 
mass very easily makes all jupiter 's 
numerous  . 

mein 
 ( my father explains to me every sunday our planets) 
man in 
 ( never scorn despise a person in his bad luck misery 
period ! ) 

of the spectrum red orange green blue 
roy g.  ( pronounce as a man 's name) 
richard of york gave battle in 
read out your good book in verse 

of jupiter europa 
i expect god cries 
i eat green cheese 
i good christians 

all 
(i all good christians ) 


met dr 
's taste divine recently. tell her i'm proud. 
 ( mimas , , , , , , , 
, phoebe ) 



too often 
my angel takes 
 ( miranda , , , , oberon ) 

note the remaining faq sections do not appear in sci . , as they cover 
material of relevance only to sci . space .  . 

next faq 8 15 nasa , , and other space 

subject help for school 
from 
organization wesleyan university 
nntp posting host wesleyan . edu . 
lines 14 

i am a newbie to the net , and i am trying to get some information for a paper 
i am working on to get back into college. if anyone can send me data on 
holes and for the past thirty years it would be 
a big help. or , if you have information on more esoteric things like 
current , power use , or other effects 
have on the earth 's magnetic field , i 'd be  . please send 
anything interesting to me at 

van 
wesleyan university 
, ct 
or e mail it to me at 
thank you in advance , 


from  ( david m. palmer ) 
subject re gamma ray  . where are they .  . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 53 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( pat ) writes 

what evidence indicates that gamma ray are very far away 

given the enormous power , i was just wondering , what if they are 
quantum black holes or something like that fairly close by 

why would they have to be at galactic ranges 

gamma ray  ( grbs ) are seen coming equally from all  . 
however , given the number of bright ones , there are too few 
ones to be consistent with being equally for as far 
as we can see it is as if they are all contained within 
a finite  ( or a with fuzzy edges ) with us at the 
center .  .  ( these measurements are statistical , and you can 
always hide a sufficiently small number of a different 
type of with a different origin in the data .  . i am assuming 
that there is only one population of  . 

the data indicates that we are less than 10 of the of the center 
of the distribution .  . the only things the earth is at the exact center 
of are the system  ( at the scale of the cloud of 
way beyond pluto ) and the universe. cosmological theories , 
throughout the universe , require type to 
be released over a of  . cloud models 
tend to be silly , even by the standards of  . 

if were galactic (i . e .  . through the way galaxy ) 
you would expect them to be either in the plane of 
the  ( for a   population ) , or towards the galactic center 
 ( for a    . we do n't see this , so if they 
are galactic , they must be in a at least 250 , 000 light years in 
, and we would probably start to see from the 
 ( assuming that it has a similar ) . for comparison , the 
earth is 25 , 000 light years from the center of the  . 

my own pet theory is that it 's flying entering 
) 

the are n't in the known , and we do n't 
see many coming from and  . 

but the reason i am asking is that most everyone assumes that they 
are stars or black holes , i just wondered 
if any mechanism could exist and place them closer in. 

there are more than 130 different models in the literature .  . 
right now , the have a sort of 
on new models until new evidence comes in. 


david m. 


from  ( michael moroney ) 
subject re  ( no , not the guy with the ears ! ) 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 21 

 ( victor laking ) writes 

does anyone have any info on the apparent of 

all that i know is that there were apparently two at 
drastically different times of a small planet that was inside 's 
orbit .  . beyond that , i have no other info .  . 

does anyone know anything more specific 

 ( yes , this happened long before star and is apparently where they 
got the reference for the guy with the ears  . ) . 

yes , long before star  . before einstein , in fact. 

as a planet inside was to explain a 
of 's orbit that could not be explained by the known planets .  . but 
einstein 's theory of relativity explained 's motion , and analysis 
of 's motion now shows there are not any planets inside its orbit .  . 

mike 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re sail data 
organization u of 
lines 10 

in article writes 
hey ! what happened to the sail race that was supposed to be 
for 

there was a , and none of the potential could raise any 
money. the race were actually supposed to be handling part of 
the , but the less said about that the better. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( gregory n .  . bond ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
in reply to 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 19 29 40 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization , young , , australia 
lines 32 

in article  ( gene wright ) writes 

announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a 
year .  . 

and with on offer , the problem of keeping them alive is highly 
likely to involve more than just the environment ! 

oh dear , my just on the roof of acme 's base and they 
all died. how sad .  . gosh , that leaves us as the oldest residents .  . 

quick boss , the from are back , and this time they 've 
got a ! man the guns ! 

one could imagine all sorts of being developed in that 
sort of environment .  .  .  .  .  . 

greg .  . 

 ( i'm kidding , btw , although the problem of winner takes all is 
that it encourages all sorts of undesirable behaviour witness 
military programs. and is probably far too small a 
reward to encourage what would be a very expensive and high risk 
proposition . ) . 



bond young ltd australia 
's is slick .  . fox in , on 's box 
's box is very quick .  . plays lots of  . he 's sick ! 
 ( apologies to john iron bar ) . 

from  ( tom a baker ) 
subject re launch question 
organization me , at the world public access unix , , ma 
distribution sci 
lines 29 

in article  ( david ward ) writes 
in article ,  ( pack rat ) writes .  .  .  . 
there has been something bothering me while watching 
nasa select for a while. well , i should nt say 
bothering , maybe wondering would be better. when 
they are going to launch they say  ( sorry but i forget 
exactly who is saying what , to i think) 
clear warning memory. verify no 
errors. ... . i am wondering what an expected error might 
be. sorry if this is a really question , but 


in pure speculation , i would guess based on 
pre launch ops would qualify .  . something like 
have just been armed .  . 

also in pure speculation 

errors in memory or previously known conditions that were  . 
yes that is an error , but we already knew about it 

any problem where they decided a would handle it. 

any problem in an area that was not 1 , 2 , 3 .  .  .  . , that is , any 
problem in a system they decided they could do without .  . 

i 'd be curious as to what the real meaning of the quote is. 

tom 

from 
subject and space station , go  . 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 

sounds what the fed has to do is sign a 50 or more year to use 
certain parts of a space station that is built and designed and such by a 
company or of  ( such as like alyeska ) for a 
small amount of in return for certain and such .  .  . such as tax 
and other right off and also a monopoly on certain products .  .  . the 
would have certain given to them to make there end easier  ( taxes 
, contracts , and such .  . ) . 

is it workable , just might work .  .  . 

after all , if china can out and the people of can 
make money , this could work .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject update 04 16 93 
organization 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from doug griffith , project 

status report 
april 16 , 1993 

1. the mission at continues normally , gravity 
data which provides measurement of variations in the 
which can be correlated to surface  . 
is nominal .  . 

2. has orbits of and is now 39 days from 
the end of cycle 4 and the start of the experiment .  . 

3. no significant activities are expected next week , as 
for continue on  . 

4. on monday morning , april 19 , the moon will and 
interrupt the of for about minutes. 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from (dean adams ) 
subject v . 56 . mission data 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 114 



56 

 ( flight v . 56 . was originally intended to carry the series 
, but the was just prior to ) . 

the launch is now scheduled to place the and 
into an improved orbit  ( gto ) , with 
reduced to 5 degrees and increased by 150  . 
this will be the launch of an 4 and the first in the 
, with 2 liquid strap on  . it will be 
from the launch complex 2 , in french 
 . 

the launch requirement for this mission is 3 , 
of which 2 , represents the mass .  . the total mass 
at is ,  . 


required orbit characteristics 
..... 200 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 36 , at injection 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5 degrees 


the lift off for 56 is scheduled on thursday , 
april 29 , 1993 , as soon as possible within the following launch 


time gmt  ( 04 30 93 ) washington , 
21 52 22 50 00 52 01 50 20 52 21 50 


launch 

 . this is a three stage liquid with two liquid 
strap on  . the first stage  ( l220 ) is built by , 
and is by 4 liquid viking v  . the second stage  ( l33 ) 
is built by and is by a single viking engine. both the 
viking and v are by  . the first and second stages 
use a  . the third stage  ( h10 ) is built by , 
and is by a engine built by  . the two 
strap on  ( pal ) are each by a viking engine , also built 
by , which use the same as the first and second stages .  . 
the fully assembled launch stands 56 high on the  . 
it uses the type 01 short  . 




02 21 liquid strap on 
03 11 first stage separation 
03 18 second stage 
04 10 
05 21 second stage separation 
05 26 third stage 
17 30 third stage orbit injection 
19 56 separation 
22 36 separation 
24 26 separation 
28 47 end of mission 56 




is the third in the of 
des to direct tv to homes all over europe .  . 
built by , it will be the second by  . 

total mass at lift off .... 2 , 
mass at insertion ..... 1 , 700 
mass  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1 , 
on board power  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3 , w  ( end of life ) 
nominal lifetime  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15 years 
of  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21 m 
on orbit position  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19 . 2 . degrees east , over africa .  . 

capacity 
34 in ku , via 18  . 

in 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . about 6 days after lift off 
first of 3 ... about 40 hours after lift off 
at 4th 


is the first built by the european space industry 
for the benefit of the world amateur radio community. 

total mass at lift off .... 154 
mass at insertion ..... 
mass  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
on board power  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 42 w  ( end of life ) 
nominal lifetime  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3 years 
..... 1 . x  . 
orbital  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . , 0 , period 17 30 .  . 

capacity 
s 1 at 2 . 
145 


launch 

all are live via from  . 
begins at 30 before launch and continues until 
all have been  . this mission will likely be carried 
in the us on 6 , however it could be 7 or another  . 
 ( what is the european normally used for ) 


dean adams 


from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re oxygen  ( was astronaut ) 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 19 
reply to 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article , writes 

hopkins replied 
double wow. can you land a with a hole in the 
, i do n't know , but i 'd like to try it sometime .  . 

are you ) 

but a 
hole in the pressure would cause us to immediately de orbit 
to the next available landing site. 

will nasa have available landing sites in the , now that they 
are our friends and 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  ( thomas clarke ) 
subject re pushing the 
organization university of central florida 
distribution na 
lines 18 

in  ( elijah 
millgram ) writes 


a friend of mine and i were wondering where the pushing 
the comes from. anyone out there know 

has been defining  . 
why was the world chosen , rather than say shell , 
or . in analogy with the of perhaps 

actually , shell might be good. push the shell too hard and 
it  ( the ) breaks .  . 

thomas 
institute for and training , university of central 
research , , , 
 ( 407)658 ) , fax  ( 407)658 ) , 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re conference on exploration .  . may 7 city 
distribution na 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 18 

 ( pat ) writes 

had a brief blurb on a exploration 
may 7th at city virginia , under the of  . 

does anyone know more about this how much , to 

a good summary has been posted  ( thanks ) , but i wanted to add another comment. 
i reading the comment that general was into this , in 
connection with their proposal for an early landing .  . sorry i do n't 
where i heard this , but i'm fairly sure it was somewhere  . 
anyone else know anything on this angle 

 . they did n't send me anything ( 

hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to 

from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re oxygen  ( was astronaut ) 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
i thought that under emergency conditions , the can 
put down at any good size airport .  . if it could take a c 5 or a 
, then it can take an  . you just need a 

i do n't know if they need  . 

was designed with the in mind  ( which really mean very  . much of 
their early material had with a landing and two or three 
others up to  . i guess they were trying to how advanced the 
airport was. 

for types imagine the fit and would be having if the 
was landing at  .  ( for the rest , they are currently having some power 
between the airport and surrounding  . 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re drive in how 
organization u of 
lines 12 

in article writes 
... a high explosive flew  ( in the atmosphere ) in san 
diego back in or  .  .  . i feel sure 
that someone must have film of that experiment , and i 'd really like to 
see it. has anyone out there seen it 

the national air space has both the and the film .  . 
when i was there , some years ago , they had the on display and 
the film continuously repeating .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from 
subject re gamma ray  . where are they .  . 
organization state university 
lines 16 

i assume that can only be guessed at by the assumed energy of the 
event and the 1 r 2 law. so , if the 1 r 2 law is incorrect  ( assume 
some unknown material dark matter gamma ray propagation ) , 
could it be possible that we are actually seeing much less 
events happening much closer to us the even distribution could 
be caused by the characteristic propagation distance of gamma rays 
being then 1 2 the of the of the  . 

just some idle , 


jim work email elvis is 
home email dead ! 

64 years is 33 , , ... 
and a minute is a long time ! 

from  ( nick haines ) 
subject re what if the ussr had reached the moon first 
in reply to 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 09 10 51 gmt 
originator 
nntp posting host fox . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon university 




lines 35 

in article  ( gary coffman ) writes 

in article writes 

this is turning into  what 's a good for  , and i ought not 
to post when i 've a hundred some odd posts to go , but i would 
think that the real reason to have a moon base is economic .  . 

since someone with space industry will have a much 
larger than they would without space industry , eventually , 
they will simply be able to afford more stuff. 

if i read you right , you 're saying in essence that , with a larger 
economy , nations will have more funds to waste on a 
 . that was certainly the case with , 
but real will probably require a continuing 
military , scientific , or reason for being rather than 
just a we have the money , why not approach. 

ah , but the whole point is that money spent on a base is not 
on the moon. it 's not like they 'd be using 1000  ( 1000r ) 
to their moon  . the money to a base would be 
spent in the country to which the base  . it 's a way of funding 
high tech research , just like was a good excuse to various 
fields of research , under the that it was crucial to the 
defense of the country , or like is a good excuse for the ec to 
research , under the that it 's good for european 
 . 

now maybe you think that government funded research is a waste of 
money  ( in fact , i'm pretty sure you do ) , but it does count as 
investment spending , which does boost the economy  ( and just look at 
the size of that ) .  . 



from  ( charles j. divine ) 
subject science news article on federal r d 
organization nasa maryland 
lines 8 

just a pointer to the article in the current science news article 
on federal r d funding .  . 

very , all r d is being to current 
advantage from things like military and other work that 
does not have as much utility .  . 

divine 

from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
lines 42 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


in article usc . edu . , usc . edu .  ( peter schaefer ) writes 
in article , writes 
in article ,  ( gene wright ) writes 
with the talk about the end of the space age and 
by government over the large cost , why not try something i read about 
that might just work. 

announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year .  . 
then you 'd see some of the but not popular begin 
to be developed .  . there 'd be a different kind of space race then ! 


 ( gene wright ) 
net . the of 

if that were true , i 'd go for it .  .  . i have a few friends who we could pool our 
resources and do it .  .  . maybe make it a prize kind of the car race 
in australia .  .  . 
anybody game for a ! 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 


oh gee , a billion dollars ! that 'd be just about enough to cover the cost of the 
study ! happy , happy , joy ! joy ! 


study what a ! ! while you are studying , others would be 
doing. too damn many doing way too little engineering .  . 

he who on his arse on his sir richard francis 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



from 
subject space  ( 1 of 2 ) 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 

brian asks regarding orbital  .  .  . 
and does anyone have any more details other than what was in the 
news how serious is this project is this just in the wild 
idea stage or does it have real funding 

well , i had been data for next edition of the 
space news space technology investor .  .  .  . to summarize 

space 
first , on space is not new it is very 
common practice to put the organization 's on the 
space launch  . for example , the latest had the 
 ( very prominent ) on its side of 
douglas  ( the delta launcher ) 
international  ( who built the satellite ) 
 ( who paid for the and launch ) , and 
the program office 
this has not been considered paid but rather 
public relations , since the restrictions have been such that only 
organizations involved in the launch could put their on the 
side , and there was no money for this. however , putting 
a 10  high logo on the side of the launch facing the 
is as much as it is public relations , in my 
opinion. and by the way , i note that the x test has 
rather prominent douglas and on the side .  .  .  . 
there have been several studies looking at the 
for use of space for , or large 
signs in orbit .  . on the , for example , i know of 
several serious studies in the early and mid 's which looked at 
putting on the external , or on the sides of the 
bay .  . these would be different than public relations , in 
that the or would not be restricted to the 
on that , and would involve of sums for 
the right to the in a prominent organization .  .  ( for 
example , the et to look like a can , or putting a 
logo on the inside of the bay where the 
would past it . ) . 

on launch 
the first paid was done on a soviet in about 
1990 , when several non involved foreign organizations were allowed 
to pay to put their on a launch .  .  ( an italian 
company was one of the first , i remember . ) . similarly , 
soviet on made a paid for the last 
games , and have shown and other items from 
and organizations .  . , for 
example , got a plug from orbit as a of the launch of the 
british to  . 
now us are starting to put paid on launch 
 . the launch  ( in june ) putting the 
into orbit will have paid 
on the side , for arnold 's movie the last 
action hero . besides the usual of the 
organizations , pictures has paid , 000 to put on the 
main of the mission 's rocket , its 
, and on the , which will orbit the earth for 
one month .  . a concept for this display was published in 
space news magazine a couple of months ago. 
 ( as a side note robert , an , is 
talking about nasa .  . he charges nasa with an idea he 
created with the space agency in to form 
on nasa as a way to get funding for the 
space program .  . that in selling space on 
the , nasa violated an agreement that it would not use 
his idea without him being the exclusive representative for nasa and 
receiving  . this is being disputed , since the launch 
is a launch and nasa is receiving none of the 
, but the funding for the program is 
coming from nasa . ) . 

orbital 
orbital have been the of science fiction for 
some time. c. wrote about one example , and robert 
heinlein described another in the man who sold the moon . several 
different potential have been developed , although none have 
been implemented , but the most real prior to 1993 being the 
ii project , which would have placed a large in 
orbit to celebrate the french 's  . 
 ( cont ) 

maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject mission is still alive 
organization 
lines 114 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from the jpl universe 
april 23 , 1993 

is still very much in business 

by mark 
in these times of extra nasa , the very 
survival of a number of has been  . but thanks 
to major design implemented in recent months , jpl 's 
space  ( sirtf ) a major project 
considered to be in trouble a couple of years ago is alive 
and well , according to project scientist michael werner .  . 
a , revised orbit and mission have 
added up to a less expensive project with scientific 
power and a bright future , said werner .  . 
designed as a follow up to the highly successful 
 ( iras ) and cosmic background 
 ( cobe ) , a for 
astronomy from space is scheduled for launch in 2000 
or if plans proceed as scheduled .  . 
 work in space based astronomy 10 
years ago allowed to view the way as never 
before and revealed , among other things , 60 , 000 and 25 
 . it provided a sky survey 1 , 000 times more sensitive than 
any previously available from ground based observations .  . has 
measured the and background radiation on large 
, and revealed new facts about the early universe. 
but to 's potential , jim evans , jpl 's 
of and fundamental physics pre , 
recently said that the project is 1 , 000 to 1 million times more 
capable than , based on advances in 
 . 
however , despite the enormous in 
exploration promised , and the fact that it was cited as the 
highest priority new for all of astronomy in the 
 ( by the national of sciences ) , it took a diet or die 
from nasa last year to keep the project 
going , according to werner .  . 
the project is now known as , based on the key 
factor in its new design the will orbit the sun 
instead of the earth , permitting the use of an rocket 
launch instead of the proposed and  . the 
main advantage of the orbit is that you can use all of your 
launch capability for the you do n't have to 
carry up a second rocket to the orbit , werner said. 
the other advantage to a orbit , he said , is that it 's in a 
better thermal environment , away from the of the earth. 
additional major changes in 's redesign include 
the mission from five to three years and building a 
that is less than half as heavy as in the original 
plan will 2 , kilograms  ( 5 , 400 pounds ) 
compared to 's 5 , kilograms  ( 12 , 100  . 
all of that up to a less stressful launch 
environment , werner said , and a cost savings of more than 200 
million for the launch , in addition to increased savings in the 
design of the smaller , less massive  . 
werner said 's redesign came as a result of congress  
telling nasa you 're trying to do too many things. if you want us 
to support , which is a good project , develop a plan to see 
how it fits into  ( nasa 's ) overall strategy .  . 
shortly thereafter , was named as nasa 's highest 
priority scientific mission by the 
space sciences , in addition to the blessing 
from the national of sciences .  . 
while the and its required 
to keep the project alive , 's major scientific 
always promised to come about from its advanced 
, which will allow images to be developed tens of 
thousands of times than before , according to evans .  . 
up until a couple of years ago , werner said , all 
astronomy was done with single or very small 
of individually assembled  . since then , the department 
of defense has developed a program to produce of tens or 
hundreds of thousands of , rather than just a few , and 
those are very well suited for use on  . 
werner noted that in addition to dealing with 
, congress is currently watching nasa with an 
eye out for any  . 
on that question , i think we have some things to say , he 
said , because the we 're using are straight off various 
military developments .  . also , will be built by the u.s. 
industry , and it 's a real and engineering 
challenge in addition to being a scientific project .  . 
will be used by the entire community , 
werner added , but the revised three year mission puts a 
on observing time. we have to the user community and 
develop a program that involves early and quick 
of the data .  . 
werner said the of the project required a 
in and complexity of 's three 
the , camera and 
 . however , these will only result in 
losses of rather than capability , he said. 
the project hopes to start a b activity in , 
which will provide a detailed concept for development and design. 
building the hardware would begin about two years later. 
cost estimates , evans said , are million 
million .  . 
i am very about , he said. it will 
provide a return for the investment .  . 
werner added that an additional benefit from the project 
will be the of our intellectual and cultural 
environment. people on the street are very interested in 
astronomy ... black holes , the possibility of life on other 
planets , the origin of the universe ... and those are the kind of 
questions will help answer. 


ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( john f. woods ) 
subject re a in the works 
organization square research corp .  . 
lines 15 

 ( norman anderson ) writes 
 ( mitch ) writes 
effect that one of the that was after the 
recent space launch was found to have a of 
some sort around apparently inside the case. 
i heard a similar statement in our local news  ( utah )  . they referred 
to the tool as  .  .  . the . that took a ride into space .  .  .  . . they also 
said that a (sp ) had reported missing a tool of some kind 
during assembly of one  . 

i assume , then , that someone at put on their 's hat and said 
that off the customer by of the to look inside 
it was a bad idea , regardless of where that tool might have ended up. 

why do i get the feeling that 's are like 

from 
subject 25 landing site bases 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 7 
nntp posting host edu . 

the hear a few months ago over i san , heading east 
of what i heard , some new super speed 25 what military based 
he direction of are there that could handle a on its 
landing decent odd question 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( david fuzzy wells ) 
subject !  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 22 


and one of my is the chief engineer for the project  . ron 
humble , univ .  . at  . 

i love the idea of an 1 long sign .  .  .  .  . it will be a 
really neat thing to see it explode when a  ( or even better , a 
! ) comes into it at 10 a  . 

!  .  .  .  .  .  . , 

okay , pretend it would make a sound ! 

i hear insert favorite here that it will supposedly coincide 
with the  . 

fuzzy .  . 

 . david fuzzy i want peace on earth , 
goodwill men. 
( ) we do we 're the government. we do n't do that 
u  .  .  . ack . ! that sort of thing. 


from  ( peter merel ) 
subject re what if the ussr had reached the moon first 
nntp posting host su . au . 
organization university computing service , , , australia 
lines 25 

 ( james thomas green ) writes 
if they had us , i speculate that the us would have gone 
head and done some , but we also would have been more 
determined to set up a base  ( both in earth orbit and on the 
 . whether or not we would be on by now would depend 
upon whether the tried to go. setting up a base 
would have the of both nations and i think 
that the military value of a base would the value 
of going to  ( at least in the short  . thus we would 
have on the moon. 

great speculation i remember being proud on behalf of all the free 
world  ( you think that way when you are seven years old ) that we had 
got there first. now i'm almost sorry that it worked out that way. 

i guess the would have taken the victory seriously too , and 
would almost certainly not have fallen victim to the that 
the us program .  . perhaps to match us efforts would 
have them sooner than it did in fact and in the tradition 
of  what if  , this destabilization in the era might 
have the third world war. hmm , maybe it was a giant leap after all. 


internet accept everything. 
uucp uunet , ! ! ! reject nothing. 

from  ( joseph askew ) 
subject re the call to space  ( was re ) 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 34 

in article  ( pat ) writes 

if the japanese are really going for , why not go with better 
technology then we have. as opposed to have they really 
considered some of the 3rd generation inherently safe designs .  . 

the japanese are still on the learning curve as far as nuclear power goes. 
this means that unlike the germans  ( who do great things all by themselves ) 
the japanese tie up with foreign  . the major one is 
 ( who else ) who have a agreement with i think. no chance of a 
new design. 

has lots of chemical problems but it really solves design 
difficulties .  . or the inherently safe types .  . 

has lots of chemical problems. like it eats  . very 
but it gets there in the end. not what i call a desired property .  . 
as for design difficulties , what does do there it is a bitch and 
it is only its chemical properties  ( flwed though they are ) that means it 
gets used. two loops that 's not a design problem isolation from air and 
water that does n't cause design problems in comparison 's a dream rides ! 

's work real good , but they need lots of , and they are highly 
complex systems. is a virtue .  . 

do n't get none of that in a liquid ! more , more complexity .  . 

joseph 


joseph , and proud in the , see the , 
remote in , the grief .  . 
disclaimer , see if i care north of our , the sky must end , 
actually , i rather like beyond the pale , the river on. 

from 
subject re forcing space  . 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
besides this was the same line of horse the claimed 
when they were told to pay for land after strip  . 

they still mine in the , but now it does n't look like 
the moon when done. 



i talking the large or even the i am talking the small 
, the people who have themselves and a few employees  ( if at the . 
people who go out every year and set up thier box , and such and do 
the semi old fashion way .  .  .  ( okay they use modern methods  . 

i am talking the guy who to year , sets up his on the beach 
 ( the beach was washed away last year ) and sets up his her box and goes 
at it . 
i know the large corps , such as gold company , might complain to .  .  . 

my opinions are what i learn at the local bs table .  .  . 

my original thing idea was that the way to get space was to allow the 
thier way .  .  . as they have done with other development .  . 
you ca n't in many places ca n't go to the bathroom in the woods without some 
form of covering it .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re drive in how 
organization u of 
lines 17 

in article writes 
the national air space has both the and the film .  . 
when i was there , some years ago , they had the on display .  .  .  . 
great ! i 'll visit the national air and space at the end of the 
month .  .  .  . 

sorry to put a on your plans , but i was there three weeks ago and 
it was n't there. not that i would have known to look for it , of course , 
but i the space pretty thoroughly and something like that 
would have caught my attention  . 

it was n't especially prominent , as i recall .  . however , quite possibly it 's 
no longer on display , like most , has much more stuff than it 
can display at once , and does the  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( greg nicholls ) 
subject re biosphere ii 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3 . 1 . 
x x from 

lines 18 

in writes 
in article writes 
in writes 
why is everyone being so critical of 
because it 's bogus science , as  real  science. 
it seems to me , that it 's a large engineering project more 
then a science project .  . 
 . 
is not science , but rather a large scale attempt to 
re create a series of  . what 's so eveil about this 
nothing evil at all. there 's no actual harm in what they 're doing , only 
how they represent it. 


 . sig . files are like ... every yo yo 's got one. 

greg ...  ( business ) or 
 ( private ) 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
article i.d. 
organization texas 
lines 22 

in  ( david mcaloon ) writes 

2 earth core , is gravity ! ! ! 

if not for the lack of words , i 'd swear that 
had changed his name and moved to cal  . i also find the 
choice of newsgroups  . perhaps someone should tell this 
guy that does n't stand for  astrology  

it 's truly frightening that posts like this are at what 
are of higher learning in this country. small 
wonder that the rest of the world thinks we 're all nuts and that we 
have the problems that we do. 

in case you have n't gotten it yet , david , i do n't think this was 
quite appropriate for a posting to  sci  groups. 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( marvin batty ) 
subject re what do space surveillance 
nntp posting host cc 
organization , coventry , uk 
lines 35 

the european space agency has involvement with remote earth 
observation , and i presume this includes surveillance  ( optical etc . ) .  . 
so it 's not just the us  ( ussr(ex ) who are in the game. 

but what is the game what can be done with space observation 
the military functions of missile , etc. are well 
documented , but what about anything else 

the biggest eg i can think of is to get a metal sensing sat over a 
paying country and their territory for precious  . 

more importantly , if can water  ( clouds ) , presumably 
a based sat will be capable of , open water and 
water from space .  . this would be a positive life saver 
for african or other affected countries. a 
clean water and program would be of to such 
countries and should cut down  . 

so how about it is there a charity or government agency that would 
pay for a third world country to have their and water deposits 


or is this still sci fi 

mail replies would be great .  . 

thought for the day thermal energy needs water to make steam so 
it in the ! 




marvin 
and they shall not find those things , with a sort of rafia like base , 
that their fathers put there just the night before. at about 8 o ! 

from 
subject space news 22 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 

space news space technology investor number 22 

this is number twenty two in an series on 
space activities. the commentaries included are my thoughts on 
these developments .  . 

sigh .  .  .  . as usual , i 've gotten behind in getting this 
written. i can only the of the current in 
the space  . this is put together at lunch hour and after 
the house down at night , so data can quickly build up if 
there 's a lot of other stuff going on. i 've a lot of 
information and since the last , so i'm going to 
have to work to keep this one down to a length .  . have fun ! 

contents 
1 us space sales in 1993 
2 delta two key launch contracts 
3 remote sensing venture gets doc go ahead 
4 investment firm calls s space still a good investment 
5 in launch demand 
6 launch over abort 
7 another is 
8 launch site dropped from planning 
9 spain s still proceeding 
10 signs launch with space corp 
11 china and taiwan venture reported 
12 south korea announces national move into space 
13 space technology through march 
final notes 

articles 

1 us space sales in 1993 
the us department of commerce us space sales 
will remain flat in 1993 , with current data showing only a 2 percent 
growth over 1992 .  . as published in us industrial 1993 
 ( which was released in january ) , from the 1993 us space 
business are currently to be about 4 , m. 
in to previous years when us space sales had 
shown double growth , this year 's results are 
driven by the us manufacturing industry , where sales are 
to drop from 12 worth 1 , m in 1992 to 7 
worth m in 1993 .  . the us industrial also 
u.s. faces flat demand in coming year , 
and while that 1993 will increase 10 percent to 
m , future sales will be adversely affected by the 
revision in department of defense launch plans. 
flat launch and , 
for fixed and services are to 
increase to 1 , m , primarily driven by increased from 
and tv  . similarly , remote sensing products 
and sales are to increase to 250 m in 1993  ( up 15 ) .  . 

us space 1989 1990 1991  ( 1992(r )  ( 1993(e ) 
1 , 000 1 , 100 1 , 
services 750 1 , 200 1 , 1 , 
fixed  ( 700 )  ( 735)(1 ) ,  ( 115)(1 ) , 275 )  ( 1 , 520 ) 
 ( 50 ) (  ( 65 )  ( 85 ) 225 ) ( 380 ) 
ground 1 , 1 , 400 1 , 
equipment  ( 40 )  ( 85 )  ( 280 )  ( 352 ) 
150 
remote sensing data and services 215 250 
private research lab 60 

total 2 , 3 , 4 , 4 , 4 , 
 ( r ) revised data for 1992  ( e ) data for 1993 
commentary this is the first look at how the us 
space industry is expected to do in 1993 .  . in general , not a bad 
report with most of the bad news in the 
manufacturing area. there , changes of only a few worth 
100 m or so can influence the 
 . if we look forward over several years , this market 
should strong sales as us have been very 
successful in international market share in the 
business. 
furthermore , sales of ground equipment should go up in 
the next revision of this data , expected to be released about mid 
year .  . data on ground equipment sales  ( including 
such items as and terminals ) 
appears to be missing from the data set .  . doc usually 
a listing of space business in mid year , and 
the next revision of space should be released 
then. i expect the revised should easily top 5 , 000 m , if 
the ground equipment are added back into the 
numbers , and the year should show about a 10 overall market growth .  . 
looking beyond this year 's data , future look quite 
promising .  . the doc service could top 
3 , 000 m by if new services and direct 
broadcasting are implemented as , and that 
station sales are expected to continue to growth at 15 20 per year 
through the mid 1990 's .  . my numbers are somewhat more 
for near term market growth , but i agree the trend should be for 
substantial growth in us space sales over at least the 
next 5 10 years.  ( my is due to more conservative 
assumptions on market capture and growth in communications and 
direct broadcasting services .  . i do n't believe all of the 
current in the yet to be born communications 
market and in the yet to be proven direct broadcasting market will 
be financial , nor that sales growth will be as explosive 
as currently ) . 
it should also be noted this year 's doc data is the first 
release to show from privately funded research 
facilities .  . the 60 m shown in the data is primarily for 
the , for launch in april on the space 
, but also hidden in these numbers are the first 
sales from the orbital launch and experiment  . 

2 delta two key launch contracts 
douglas corporation , which and the delta 
launch has won two important launch contracts .  . motorola 
inc. in mid february that it had the delta to 
launch most of the in the 66 
communications , and in mid april , douglas 
was awarded the medium launch iii contract .  . 
the launch services contract with motorola for the 
launch is for at launch of least 45 
 . another 21 have been to be 
by in on 3 
 . these 45 for the delta will be 
5 at a time , providing for at least 9  . 
additional in the , such as a 
on orbit , may also be on delta .  . although 
details of the launch services contract were reported to be 
, and not yet final .  . 
the contract also went to , a variant of 
their delta ii  . this contract is only initially worth 7 . 5 . 
million , but a set of launch options for up to 36 
, from through  . these 
will the next generation of the 's 
system block , plus other 
programs. first option for to meet the launch options is 
expected to be this year , after which the is expected 
to request of up to 6 per year for at least 6 years. 
under this contract the can also request launch on demand 
services from for the time period , with a launch to 
occur within 40 days of the request. 
commentary if these two contracts are fulfilled , they should 
provide an excellent business base for 's delta launch program 
through the turn of the century. combined , these two contracts have 
a potential for about 45 , worth about 2 , 200 m to , and 
a core business base of 400 m year .  . other contracts 
for international and , as well as for nasa 
medium class , will add to this business base keeping 
as a viable launch company .  . 
however , it should be noted there are risk elements in these 
contracts .  . motorola 's communications has 
not yet received a us federal communications license for 
operation in the u.s. , nor has motorola up all the 
and financial partners for the venture .  . without these 
or financial backing there will be no  . 
but , , these uncertainties will be this year .  . 
similarly , the iii program has been the target of 
several congressional actions which have the of 
the block and deleted the funding for the iii 
program in favor of the program .  . at this 
time , while it appears the iii contract will be executed , future 
funding for the iii and other launch contracts 
is being as part of national space launch strategy 
 . some opinions expressed from within the and 
congress propose of all programs 
 ( including the programs ) in favor of the proposed 
program .  . such opinions may have some weight in this year 's 
, particularly as funds will be more difficult to 
find in the us defense  . 

3 remote sensing venture gets doc go ahead 
the first license to operate a remote sensing 
was approved in early february by the us department of 
commerce 's office of space commerce .  . a license was granted to 
corporation of , california to build and 
operate a pair of to provide 
images of the earth. 
commentary there has been little data released on this venture 
by and the doc , other than the announcement of the 
operating and construction license .  . this was reported to be at the 
request of  . most industry speculation identifies this new 
venture as a star wars , using type technology to 
provide digital earth sensing data , and integrated into 
digital for remote sensing users. most probable 
for this service include exploration , 
planners , and planners .  . 
it is noteworthy this is the first venture under the 
1992 land remote sensing policy act. the act , as passed last 
, provides that remote sensing data gathered from private remote 
sensing may be sold to users at  . prior to 
this act , remote sensing data from all had to be sold to 
all users at the same , and private remote sensing 
would have had to sell at the government set data  . 
there are of several other potential remote 
sensing working their way through the system at different 
stages of development .  . i think the large and 
systems will provide the majority of the remote sensing 
data market for the next or so. in to these large , 
government sponsored remote sensing systems , smaller market 
such as and others can market and use 
technology , and i believe , can find on the 
margin .  . i there may be some very interesting 
in the next year or so. 

4 investment firm calls s space still a good investment 
street investment house thinks general 
's space systems division could still be a , 
despite having failed in the last 3  . in a recent 
's report said we are more than ever 
convinced that if the company can return the to its historical 
plus success rate , this will become a highly , cash 
 . based upon discussions with 's 
, that if the problems are 
cleared up the could see 70 m in per year by and 
100 m per year by 2000 .  . this is based upon 's of 
about 10 per year on the world market .  . 
commentary three failures in a row of their launch system has 
hurt general 's space systems division .  . since has 
to only keep a very few core , 
many market have been speculating 's space business might 
be next to be sold .  . the report indicates 's space 
systems division has some potential as a , despite current 
problems if they can get their act together. sales are 
to be about m in 1993 , which will probably generate a loss of 
about 25 m. if can capture their share of the space 
launch market , and if they have managed to clean up the reliability 
of their , then they could generate healthy 
from those sales .  . but until they demonstrate the 
program is back on track , this division will continue to show 
substantial losses .  . 
in response to the sell off , in my opinion , this operation 
is not a really good candidate for and quick  . 
to do such a , the current set and 
would be replaced with another set from outside the firm .  . 
in 's case , to get the division back on track , the 
team will have to concentrate hard on the technical problems with 
the , as well as in selling services .  . this would 
indicate only another firm with experience in rocket launch 
could find such talent in house , and be able to convince 
to buy their launch services .  . , the firm would 
have substantial liquid rocket experience , and experience in 
space technology internationally as well. for 
this might be , , , and martin , and possibly 
douglas and  . but most of those have cash 
problems  ( mdc ) , have had a substantial business 
 ( boeing and mdc ) , are involved with other launch  ( lockheed ) , 
or have taken on substantial debt  . and coming up with the 
700 m price for the division is a big of 
change for any company .  . 

5 in launch demand 
, the operator of the launch system , is 
a in launch demand in the late 1990 's .  . in early 
february , released their market survey , which 
detailed their of the space transportation market for the 
next  . 
over short run , expects to their dominant 
position and a majority share of the launch market .  . of 54 
international and through , 
holds contracts for 31 , general  holds 14 
contracts , douglas  delta holds 7 , and great 's long 
march holds 2 launch contracts .  . 
three of future launch contracts for which can 
are to come from communications with 
the remaining 25 split between , earth observation , and 
scientific  . most of the future telecommunications demand 
growth is predicted to come from the asia  . 
expects the current market of 
individual operators into regional or national groups will 
continue , with these groups investing in with 
larger communications carrying more  . 
the average mass of telecommunications 
should increase by 20 over today 's average level , to 
about 3000 in  . 
demand for launch services is expected to remain 
strong over the next three years , but in the second half of the 
, demand will  . 
bases this prediction upon a matching of 
demand and supply , particularly as new data techniques 
appear to could double or capacity using existing 
or near term  . 
one of the significant possible changes in the market was 
identified as the of new launch , including 
launch systems. but that in the long term , 
launch services are looking for the best trade 
off between launch service quality and price , and that and 
other new launch services will have to prove out their capabilities 
and service quality , and their market penetration will be minimal .  . 
commentary their market , and 
i reported on their prior market survey in a past issue of  . 
comparing the two , there are n't outstanding differences in 
the numbers. the most change is the consideration of new 
data techniques , reducing the demand for new physical 
on orbit .  . 
i note that in to some predictions , demand for space 
based communications appears to be remain strong .  . while 
lines are making substantial into the 
established point to point telecommunications , growing 
demand for telecommunications services world wide and for point to 
services have prevented a in space 
demand .  . provide a higher capability 
service , but only from established point a to established point b. 
to establish a link it is necessary to 
between the points , and while there are improved network solutions , 
a large network of links can cost 
millions or billions of dollars .  . 
for services where there is not an existing ground 
network structure , still offer the most cost effective 
solution .  . and if new services are required into a new , it is 
to a small link costing only a few tens of 
thousands of dollars and tie into the existing 
network. this allows growth of new services , and 
has kept demand high. the replacement market for is 
growing as well , since as demand grows between the points , 
it becomes cost effective to later a link to 
handle the increase in traffic .  . 
since the telecommunications and data are still 
growing rapidly , market remain  . but 
are also getting longer orbital lifetimes .  . current 
generation are now getting of at 15 years of 
on orbit service or more , in to 10 years of service from 
last generation 's  . this has cut back some of the launch 
demand , as owners are replacement 
over longer  . 
and as last note did n't flag it this year , but it 
looks like the space transportation market will be rather over 
by existing launch systems in the near term .  . the 
launch demand is for about 15 20 medium 
per year .  . from the supply side , is capable of up 
to about a dozen medium a year , delta is capable of 
about 9 12 per year , is capable of 6 12 , long march 4 8 , 
japan 's h 2 4 , russia 's capable of 8 , and other 
systems such as and another 10 20 medium per 
year .  . that 's a lot of capability for a small market .  . 
we can only expect the competition to for 
 . 

6 launch over abort 
the 9 feb launch by orbital sciences corporation has 
spawned an investigation over an apparent violation of range safety 
rules. a valid abort order from a nasa range safety to 
the mission was and the was in violation 
of range safety rules. 
in the last few of the launch , one of 
two abort command aboard the failed .  . such a failure 
typically a launch , and a nasa range safety at 
island , va issued a mission abort order about a minute 
before the scheduled launch .  . somehow this command was 
by the launch team or the message was lost in the 
communications , and the was despite the 
valid abort call .  . 
fortunately , the as expected , and the abort 
command receiver was not needed .  . but this incident did spark an 
investigation since a valid abort order was given under agreed to 
launch rules , and was not  . 
the investigation is the national transportation safety 
board  ( ntsb ) with support from nasa , , and the air force. this 
investigation marks the first time has taken the lead on an 
incident involving a space launch .  . according to the , their 
investigation will take about 6 months , and is primarily looking at 
lines of authority , communications links and safety used 
in the launch .  . 
commentary this is the first time that the has led an 
investigation into a space launch .  . their leadership was requested 
by the department of commerce 's office of space 
transportation , who had the launch .  . 
at the time of writing this , some of the initial 
have been concluded , and some of the results are 
starting to leak out into the trade press. apparently , 3 or four 
different communications were in use during the test. after 
the abort destruct receiver stopped responding , the nasa test 
director and range in the mission control room at 
island gave abort orders about a minute before the launch .  . 
according to the mission rules , this should have stopped the launch .  . 
somehow , the test ordered the abort reversed , and the 
nasa on the net that order to the b 52 carrying 
the at about 22 seconds before launch .  . 
explainations of exactly how this happened are proposed with the 
best set being that clear lines of communications and clear 
definition of the of the mission control team , and 
understanding of the mission rules were not established before the 
launch .  . 
as we see more and more , more of these 
issues are going to up and will have to be  . 
this case is interesting because it is the first time the has 
been called in to investigate a launch problem  ( as they 
do with  . 
i think this problem will turn out to be primarily problems with 
and communications , and will be cleared up with issuance 
of on how launch communications should be set up and how 
specific lines of authority should be  . 

7 another is 
in russia it is a new 
small space launch system , based upon converted components .  . 
two versions of the are being the 
like the , and the , 
from a ground  . the is 
to deliver to a 200 circular orbit or to 
an circular orbit , and the to be capable of 430 
to 200 orbits and to  . also proposed to be used 
with these launch systems is a data relay system called 
 . is described as a ex military 
, focusing on and thermal protection of 
and which has participated in the development of the 
system , they are near the 
in , outside of  . 
commentary there 's very little released information on this new 
venture .  . my suspicion is it is another looking 
for hard currency and trying to upon their in house 
knowledge of ex soviet launch systems. it to the list of numerous 
space from the ex soviet union .  . 
this one 's a little different in that they are offering variants 
of ex soviet , but i ca n't identify any key being 
targeted or substantial financial backing .  . 

8 launch site dropped from planning 
in late , tech research institute released the 
results of a preliminary study on the of a 
rocket site in , at the old 
missile test site on the atlantic coast .  . the preliminary 
study recommended the site not be as a launch 
site , stating the site was not due to 
low investment returns , plus environmental and other 
 . however , the report did say the site might be ideal 
for other uses , and recommended other potential uses .  . 
commentary this should put the nails in the of the 
launch site. while other sites are still 
proceeding with launch site development plans , 
found without a key customer to act as , and if 
substantial had to be put in , then the expected 
returns were too low to justify the cost of development .  . 
this might point out some key in judging the 
of a launch site. these include 
is there an identified key customer to provide core usage 
sufficient to setup costs 
is there a market advantage of using the site 
can existing be used or modified at the site 
can be found at low enough cost to support the 
investment 
other launch site including those at 
, flat , york , white , off 
, hawaii , and have to also be judged against 
these  . in my opinion , some of these are flying 
on hope and speculation , and not on sound financial grounds .  . 

9 spain s still proceeding 
in one of his last official acts , former president bush 
space technology for several space 
between us and other  . one of these was a proposed 
use of us technology by spain to build a small  . with that 
removed , the 3 stage launch 
will start development later this year , planning for a first 
launch in the time period. the is described as 
a small 3 stage all solid designed to put 250 into 
 . several launch sites are being examined for the system , 
including 2 on the and 1 on the islands .  . 
originated by in spain , the project reports it has 30 m in 
development funding , and will use technology from 's 
launch as well as from the us. 
commentary several have identified a market opportunity 
in providing a small for the european market .  . small 
from european or organizations currently use either 
or the us italian scout  . 
however , opportunities are limited , and the scout 
program is being out  ( accompanied by some in the 
italian government and space industry regarding any follow on 
 . 
this has left an apparent for a new european small launch 
system. surprisingly enough , has not supported development of 
such a system within the current space funding structure .  . studies 
have been performed by british , , 
, and italian organizations , but with the exception of the 
system  ( reported below) , i have not been able to 
find any other european development work with even a of 
funding for hardware .  . 
also of interest is the of the to the 
 . there have been some interesting 
out of over the past year about a space 
program funded under the military junta which ruled 
the country in the 's and early 's .  . 
what is known is in feb 1992 , the air force formally 
transferred control of the 2 missile program to the new 
civilian national space agency  ( comison de 
 . the 2 program was described 
as in , expanding upon the smaller 1 rocket 
program in with egypt and with support of german 
 . the 2 was also funded indirectly by iraq 
in the mid 's .  . fairly large solid rocket were built and 
tested , but development of a suitable 
that of the system. 
it should be noted is planning to launch its first 
scientific in late 1994. the us 9 m , , b 
will study the earth 's atmosphere and includes 
cooperative experiments from and the us. no launch has 
yet been , but 's and the air 
rocket are reported to be strong for this 
contract .  . 

10 signs launch with space corp 
, a small launch firm in , virginia in 
late february it had received a 6 m launch contract 
from the space corp to launch a on 's pa 2 
launch  . this will be performed as part of the 
service  ( pss ) , a space center 
space corp .  . program to the rocket range in norway and 
offering small into the regions .  . according 
to , is also an 8 m of the 
launch facilities , including a new and a fully 
assembly building for small launch like 
the pa 2. has been chosen as the main 
alternative rocket for the small launch service 
to be offered by from  . the date of the launch of the 
was not  . 
commentary has been trying to line up and 
funding for their launch for some time now. the pa 2 is a 
small , two stage rocket by 1 and liquid oxygen .  . from 
's literature , the designed for the pa series 
are built of off the shelf components based upon the 
descent built by , and are capable of putting a 
into a 750 circular orbit .  . 
is trying to construction for its 
first three pa 2 , with a first launch for , and 
2 orbital for  . my records show 
to provide support and systems design , with primary 
engineering to be done by , a small 
closely associated with  ( headquartered in the same 
 . the space corporation would supply engineering , 
launch , , and support .  . 
corp .  . of tokyo , is a first round investor and on the 
board of  . 
has gotten a first round financial of at least 
k  ( some sources place this of high as 1 m ) , but has been 
searching for about a year for the additional 20 30 m needed to 
design , build and launch their first set of  . 
the launch from can possibly be used to help 
bring some on board , but by my estimate , they will need 
much more than the single 6 m sale to put their venture into real 
hardware .  . 

11 china and taiwan venture reported 
in early march , it was reported a communications 
venture between a and chinese was in the works. 
as reported in the press , china development corp .  .  ( cdc ) , 
in and with links to the ruling 
party , is planning to set up a venture in with china 
great industry corp .  . with the objective of a regional 
communications  . would cover about 10 of the 
system cost  ( us 10 m ) in exchange for rights to 10 of the 
's communications  . 
commentary this announcement came close on the of the 
release of plans for space development  ( released in mid 
 . in those plans , the national space program office of 
taiwan will launch 3 , starting with 1 , a 400 
scientific , for launch in 1997. two additional 
are , both communications  . has 
been helping taiwan plan this program , at t 13 . 6 . b  ( us 
m ) through  . 
i have n't been able to establish any relationship between this 
venture and those of the , but there might be a connection .  . 
while taiwan has the to pursue several , the 
current telecommunications market might not support two 
separate  . 
the reported name for the chinese system is 
2 , but i do n't thinks this has any relationship with the existing 
based program involving chinese , , and 
other , other than using it as an 
model .  . there are some obvious to such a 
venture it could provide excellent first hand experience to 
taiwan for a very low cost , which then can be used in later 
 . but there are internal political issues between 
and chinese , but putting any venture 
through a corporation might allow it to 
proceed .  . 
in any case , the east market is up with 
growth in space services and  . this 
is just another to add to the list. 

12 south korea announces national move into space 
south korea 's trade , industry and resources ministry recently 
plans to us 22 b in research and development and 
another us 17 b into manufacturing and research facilities for 
advanced  . space have been 
specifically targeted as part of this program , beginning with 
manufacture and launch of an advanced purpose by 
1997. the objective of this investment is to raise south korea 's 
technology to the level of the world 's top 10 countries by 
2000 .  . 
commentary south korea has been working to develop its 
national industry , specifically including space 
activities. i'm this as a flag that potential new are 
coming into the space market .  . 
as part of their national effort , 2 national telecommunications 
for korea will be in april and 
on delta .  . 1 and 2 , the will provide 
television and telephone service throughout the , 
japan and portions of china north korea .  . 
south korea its first small on 
in 1992 , called 1  ( our star ) and costing about us 
8 . 8 . m. 2 is for launch in october of 
this year , again on , and will be entirely made in korea .  . 
3 , for a launch , will be an environment 
 . 
this may be the to a series of small earth 
observation , the  ( korean earth observation system ) 
project , which has been for approval to the south 
government , would use two or three with 
and  . 
south press reports claim there is also a parallel 
military effort to establish the capabilities for building and 
small military by  . supposedly a 
government had been established to such an effort , 
funded at us m between 1993 and , in anticipation of an 
expected of u.s. intelligence systems from the 
 . 
in with all of these reported efforts , south 
is also work either as off sets to existing 
technology contracts  ( for example , douglas is 
of some delta parts to south as 
part of the launch contracts ) , or for of 
consumer space items  ( among other products , south korea 
receiver television to japan , and has 
for of 's user ) .  . 
this looks like a very aggressive push into space  . 
considering that east asia is currently the growing 
for space services  ( primarily for telecommunications ) , a 
south push into space may change the composition 
of space market there over the next  . 

13 space technology through march 
as in the last , each issue will give the 
results of stock and regarding space stocks and 
 . the table below summarizes results to the end of 
march .  . the space technology index did quite a bit better than the 
market as a whole , as represented by the s p index .  . since 90 
of the values included in the index are us , this represents a 
general increase in the market value of space related  . the 
increase in the first is more than in all of 1992 which 
is a very promising sign , although future months may reverse this 
trend .  . the space technology index has also done quite 
well , but the pure play consisting of stocks of 
which are pure plays in space has also its 
results in all of 1993 .  . we 'll keep an eye on these .... 

index results through march 
beginning beginning 1 jan 93 to 
1992 1993 31 1993 

s p ( 4.7 ) ( 3 . 7 . ) 
space tech index ( 13 . 6 . ) ( 22.7 ) 
l space tech index ( 16 . 3 . ) ( 14 . 2 . ) 
space tech pure plays ( 15 . 4 . ) ( 16 . 2 . ) 


final notes 
what this 's already full and i still have of 
space developments to report on. as i said at the start 
of this , there 's been a lot of interesting but 
i 'll have to put them into the next issue. 
looking ahead , i 've got several articles in the works on new 
with and the communications market , 
more news on international  ( and disappearing ) on 
the market , new international space , and other 
interesting developments .  . 
and as always , i hope you folks find this stuff useful and 
interesting any and all comments are welcome. 


space technology investor 
p.o. box 
beach , ca 

from  ( george f. krumins ) 
subject re space news from feb 15 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 23 

 ( james b. reed ) writes 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
's atmosphere will start to out around , and after about 
increasing areas of both and will be in permanent 
that will make and mapping impossible. 

it 's my understanding that the will start to occur because of the 
growing distance of and from the sun , due to it 's 
orbit .  . it is not due to effects .  . 

where does the come from there 's nothing close enough to block 
sunlight from hitting them. i would n't expect there to be anything block 
our view of them either. what am i missing 

can , and vice  . 

george 


george 



from  ( james davis nicoll ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization university of western ontario , london 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 15 

in article  ( nick haines ) writes 

would they buy it , given that it 's a lot more expensive , and not 
much more impressive , than putting a large set of several 
in  ( or in , 24 hours from your 
key growth  . i 'll do that for only  ( and the changes of 
 . 

i 've heard of things , like a well known utility company 
wanting to buy an   cleaning system which uses as many 
operators as the old system , and which has it costs three million 
more per  . is more  efficient  although by what scale they are 
not saying .  .  .  . 

james 

from  ( al globus ) 
subject space colony size preferences summary 
organization applied research office , nasa ames research center 
reply to 
distribution sci . space . 
lines 


some time ago i sent the following message 
every once in a while i design an orbital space colony .  . i'm up to 
do another one. i 'd some info from you. if you were to move 
onto a space colony to live , how big would the colony have 
to be for you to view a permanent move as desirable specifically , 

how many people do you want to share the colony with 


what physical does the living are need to have 


assume living  ( the colony will  . assume that you can leave 
from time to time for and business trips .  . if you 're young 
enough , assume that you 'll raise your children there. 

i did n't get a lot of responses , and they were all over the block. 
thanx to all those who responded , it is good food for thought. 




here 's the  ( edited ) responses i got 


how many people do you want to share the colony with 

100 

what physical does the living are need to have 

x 1 long 






how many people do you want to share the colony with 

100 , 000 250 , 000 

what physical does the living are need to have 

100 square surface , divided into city , towns , and 
 . must have , mountains .  . 



how many 
1000 .  . 1000 people really is n't that large a number 
everyone will know everyone else within the space of a year , and will probably 
be sick of everyone else within another year .  . 

what physical does the living are need to have 

 . i am not all that great at it out. but i would the 
percentage of colony space that is accessible to humans. if there 
were to be children , since they will figure out how to go everywhere anyways .  . 
and everyone , especially me , likes to go  .  .  . i . would want to be able 
to go for a walk and see something different each time .  .  .  . 



for population , i think i would want a substantial town big enough 
to have strangers in it. this helps get away from the small town 
everybody knows everything , which some people like but 
i do n't .  . call it several thousand people. 

for physical , a somewhat similar criterion big enough 
to contain surprises , at least until you spent time 
getting to know it. as a more specific rule of , big enough 
for there to be places at least an hour away on foot. call that 
, which means a if we 're talking a  . 

henry at u of 
! henry 


my desires , for permanent move to a space colony , assuming easy 
and travel 

size about a small town size , say 9  .  .  course , bigger is better ) 
population about 100 or less. so , 1000 for  . less is 
better for room , more for interest and , so say 3000 ,  . 

tommy mac 

tom  ( work ) to the chief ! 
 ( hm ) harris in ! 


from  ( dani eder ) 
subject re 
distribution sci 
organization ai center , , al 
lines 39 

i have before me a pertinent report from the united states general 
accounting office 

national space plane future research and development 
efforts 
december 1992 
report number 93 

in the back it lists the following related reports 

key issues facing the program  ( 31 92 ) t 26 

plane technology r d efforts in japan and australia 
 ( 4 91 ) 5 

plane technology r d efforts in europe  ( 25 91 ) 
91 

technology technical data and information on foreign 
test facilities  ( 22 90 ) 90 

investment in foreign research and 
development efforts  ( 2 89 ) t 89 43 

a technology development and program to build 
the x 30  ( 27 apr 88 ) 88 122 


on the inside back cover , under information it says 

the first copy of each report is free. . . . orders 
may also be placed by calling  ( 202)275 ) 





investment company  ( 205)464 )  ( 2697(w ) 232  ( 7467(h ) 
1 . , box 2 , al 37  n 43  w alt. 

from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject dreams and degrees  ( was re crazy or just ) 
organization national 
lines 47 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( del cotter ) writes 
writes 
sorry if i do not have the big degrees 
and such , but i think (i might be wrong , to error is human ) i have something 
that is in many ways just as important , i have imagination , dreams .  . and without 
dreams all the knowledge is worthless .  .  . 

oh , and us with the big degrees do n't got imagination , huh 

the alleged dichotomy between imagination and knowledge is one of the most 
of the new age. michael , thanks for the generous 
offer , but we have quite enough dreams of our own , thank you. 

well said. 

you , on the other hand , are letting your own dreams go to waste by 
failing to get the thermodynamics chemistry  ( your choices here ) 
which would give your imagination wings. 

just to show this is n't a flame , i leave you with a quote from invasion of 
the body 

become one of us it 's not so bad , you know 

okay , del , so michael was being unfair , but you are being unfair back .  . 
he is taking college now , i presume he is studying hard , and 
his postings reveal that he is somewhat hip to the technical issues 
of  . plus , he is following the 
discourse of the big brains who post to sci . space . is it not 
inevitable that he will get a technical education from 
reading the likes of you and me 1 

like others involved in sci . space . , mr. adams shows symptoms of being a 
member of the , and i think he 's it up 
fast .  . i was a young guy with dreams once , and they led me to get a 
technical education to follow them up. too bad i wound up in an 
assembly line job out identical day after day .  .  .  . 
( 

1 though that del and i are both of fred 
 . 

bill , beam we 'll see you 
national at white in june .  . 
bitnet you bring your view , 
internet and i 'll bring my  . 
 . on the x 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re how many read sci . space . 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 9 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 
is n't my real name , either. i'm actually elvis .  . or maybe a i 
sometimes have difficulty telling which is which .  . 

definitely a  . 

elvis could n't , just listen to any of his  . 



from 
subject email contacts .  . 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

does anyone have any contacts  ( space or other ) or contacts in the old 
ussr su or eastern europe 

post them here so we all can talk to them and ask questions .  .  . 
i think the cost of email is high , so we would have to keep the content to 
specific and such .  .  . 

basically if we want to save russia and such , then we need to make contacts , 
contacts are a form of info , so lets get  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

alive in ,  ( once called  . 


from  ( milady the of peripherals ) 
subject looking for a little research help 
organization inc. 
lines 19 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 


hi , 

i'm writing a science fiction and i'm looking for some 
answers to questions regarding the moon and earth. my starting point 
is an impossible situation. i checked with a professor at berkeley 
and his response was a very helpful ca n't happen . if you enjoy 
playing with unusual ideas and are willing answer some questions 
please contact me via e mail 

i get extremely when and tele plays ignore basic 
facts about computers that i'm determined to be as scientifically 
accurate as i can. 


sorry for being vague , but i 'd like to protect my idea as much as i 
can until i'm ready to sell it  . 



from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject , us venture 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 


i 've been to three talks in the last month which might be of interest .  . i 've 
some of my notes below. since my note taking ability is by no means 
infallible , please assume that all factual errors are mine. permission is 
granted to copy this without  . 

michael , of of , was invited to speak at an 
informal lunch held by here on the campus of the university of illinois .  . 
is an organization on campus that deals with control , and 
international security .  . was considered an appropriate topic because the 
company is using and  . i think it also helped that 
his daughter is a student in the international relations program .  . 

the concept behind apparently began when matt ( ) went to 
to visit a friend. while he was there , he somehow ended up the king , 
who happened to be a big tv fan .  . matt bought the king a , which 
the king thought was really  . since has a of about 70 million , 
his asked if there was any way to make money off this. matt thought 
there probably was , so at his suggestion , applied for 31 
 . while this is n't entirely off the , it was very unusual , 
seeing as was a tiny kingdom with no space program , and 31 is a lot of 
 . 

the whole thing was in the appropriate agency and 
 ( who is apparently a respected space lawyer ) wrote several opinions 
supporting 's case. eventually ended up with 7 , from 
70 e to e  ( slots are by the over which they  . 
according to , four of these , from 130 e to e are the best in the 
world because they are placed for communications between hawaii and 
the  . 

was formed to use these  . it was formed in as a tax 
haven .  . they tried for a few years to raise funds in the west , however , to 
fill 7 with western on western would have 
cost approximately 2 billion .  . it 's not easy to raise that kind of money. 
eventually , they hit upon the idea of using hardware .  . they began 
with for hardware .  . mr describes operating in 
in such harsh terms that i do n't think i 'll visit there for a long time. 
besides a significant lack of creature comforts , he was not happy with the way 
that people operate .  . for example everybody can sell you everything. 
everyone can show the proper documents and that indicate they are the 
only ones who have the authority to sell what ever you want to by. 

eventually , a deal with for 6 at a cost 
of 150 million .  . however , lost favor after the coup .  . 
says that this is because they were basically a bunch of operatives who 
went to trade shows and picked up lots of  . since was 
out of power , he had to the deal with the new authorities .  . he 
again described life in a in rather terms. eventually , 
he worked out a deal and on dec 4 , 1992 he met with , who heads the 
space program , to sign the deal. insisted on a few 
before and according to he these new rules to 
allow himself to form another company to do the exact same thing as  . 

the next step was to meet with the of the hardware , applied 
mechanics to use their acronym .  . this organization is in 
 ( ca n't figure out how to the town , i need an atlas ) and has built 
about since the dawn of the space age. commented that 
are very different from  . they are hard workers , honest 
people who team up to get things done , very much like  . at this 
point there were some comments from the audience that agreed with his opinion on 
both and ) 

had lots of good things to say about  . his company is 
apparently for 100 million to in the firm to become 50 partners . it . apparently costs the russians about 4 million to build a that 
would sell for 50 million in the west .  . if you want to give them 
, they 'll build you a  . for the particular 
that will be using , costs run about , 000 per year .  . this 
compares to , 000 t y in the u.s. they can sell their time for about 1.1 
million compared to 2 . 6 . million in the u.s. will launch their 
on  . to get the best , they bought in  . they 
have the rights to twelve , so if any of you need a lift i can give 
you their address. the first launch is scheduled for october and they are 
getting one used from the russians , which is being moved into place 
now. 



says this kind of thing has to be done by , not big 
business because big business is just like what they have over there , except 
that we have better paper , both in the bathroom and in the  . 

are self  . the promise to replace a failed launch 
within 9 months. 

major in include russell 20 20 , which is a huge 
organization , , which is a big business in asia , 
and a operated by some of the big names in u . s . which he says is 
sort of an policy for them if this really takes off. 

he the in the ex ussr saying that we are worried 
partly because we are n't used to seeing russia as anything but an 
 . gets a new government every two weeks but we do n't worry 
because we 're used to it. he predicted that once we get used to seeing what 
really goes on in russia we wo n't worry about their as much. 

part of the problem with cooperative is the problem of 
money. the central bank has a policy of taking hard currency , putting 
25 in their and replacing the rest with the equivalent value in 
 . to get around this , their hard currency into an 
bank account. then their with foreign currency so that 
the only the get by the government. 

one of the big problems has had is by the western 
industry .  . however , recently bought three of the same type 
of , which was rather  . 

the biggest worry most people have about is the primitive 
technology and lifetime. the older  ( horizon ) have 
a lifetime of about 5 years , while the more modern express compare 
well with western technology and last about 8 years. while this is much 
than 15 years for western , the 
difference. at these they can afford to launch new ones. in addition , 
lifetimes mean that they can replace their equipment with newer 
technology so they will be able to better than older , out of date 
hardware .  . 


hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to 

from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re orbital 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 20 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 

the biggest problem with this is that all orbits are not alike. it can 
actually be more expensive to reach a from another orbit than 
from the ground. 

but with from space based sources it will be to 
reach more orbits than from the ground. 

also remember , that the presence of a supply value 
to the space around it. if you can put your in an orbit where it 
can be reached by a ready source of supply you can make it and gain 
benefit from of scale. 

allen 


sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
days to first of 

from  ( eric h. taylor ) 
subject re gravity , was gravity wave cosmic 
summary .... .... do i hear the death of relativity 
keywords space , , nothing , 
nntp posting host org . 
organization 4 l laboratories 
distribution world 
expires wed , 28 apr 1993 06 00 00 gmt 
lines 30 

in article  ( tom van flandern ) writes 
 ( cameron bass ) writes 
 ( bruce scott ) writes 
existence is unless it is with observable in 
physics .  . 
.... .... .... do i hear the death of 
string theory 

i agree. you can add dark matter and and a lot of other 
, purely constructs in physics to that list , 
including the omni present black holes .  . 

will bruce argue that their existence can be from theory 
alone then what about my original criticism , when i said 
can only exist relative to something non bruce replied 
 existence  is unless it is with  observable  in 
physics .  . we cannot observe more than the four we know about. 
at the moment i do n't see a way to defend that statement and the 
existence of these phenomena simultaneously .  . tom 

i hold that space cannot be , for the simple reason that it can have 
no properties .  . 
of properties we can only speak when dealing with matter filling the 
space .  . to say that in the presence of large bodies space becomes , 
is equivalent to stating that something can act upon nothing. i , 
for one , refuse to subscribe to such a view. 


et was 100 years ahead of his time. perhaps now his time comes .  . 


from  ( hoffman , eric j . ) . 
subject re free 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 37 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( pat ) writes 
in article 
 ( ron baalke ) writes 
in answer 
to a question from hawking , described a proposed 
free , but confirmed that at this point , it 's only 
a concept .  . 

so what 's a free with 40 


triad , the first free , was designed and built by the 
johns hopkins applied physics and 2  . the 
was in three sections separated by two  . the central section 
the system , which of a proof 
mass of special non magnetic within a  . the 
proof mass flew a true orbit , free from and radiation 
pressure .  . teflon kept the body of the 
around the proof mass , thereby flying the entire free. 

triad was one of the designed navy  . the 
2nd generation flying today  ( nova ) use a 
single version of  . triad was also the sixth to be 
by an  ( apl flew the first nuclear power supply in space , in  . 

further info on triad , , etc. can be found in design 
in the space department , johns hopkins technical digest , 
vol. 13 , no. 1  . 

eric hoffman 








from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re japanese moon landing 
organization u of 
lines 22 

in article writes 
allow it to go into orbit without large of to slow 
down. the idea is that  natural objects sometimes get captured without 
, we 'll just find the that makes it possible . the 
originator of the said that nasa was n't interested , but that japan 
was because their was small and could n't hold a lot of for 
 . 

actually , was n't originally intended to go into orbit at all , 
so it indeed did n't have much on hand. the orbit mission was 
an , after (a tiny by 
during a flyby ) had a failure and its proper insertion 
into orbit could n't be confirmed .  . 

it should be noted that the does have  . it takes 
a long time , and you end up with a relatively orbit .  . 
if you want something useful like a low circular orbit , you do have 
to plan to a certain amount of , although it is reduced from 
what you 'd need for the brute force approach. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( brian yamauchi ) 
subject office of exploration 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 19 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 

any comments on the of the office of exploration into the 
office of space sciences and the of to the chief 
engineer position is this just a meaningless administrative 
, or does this ill for sei 

in my opinion , this seems like a bad thing , at least on the surface .  . 
seemed to be someone who was actually interested in getting 
things done , and who was willing to look an approaches to 
getting things done , better , and  . it 's to me 
whether he will be able to do this at his new position. 

does anyone know what his new duties will be 



brian case western reserve university 
department of computer engineering and science 



from ( ) 
subject space event near los , ca 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 55 

apologies if this gets posted twice , but i do n't think the first one 
made it. 

for immediate release contact  ( 310 ) 

15 april 1993 los , ca 

local national space society chapters talk by l . a .  . 
advocate of power system as energy source for the world 

on april 21 , the and chapters of the national 
space society will a talk by power system  ( lps ) co 
and vice president of the , dr. robert d. 
 . it will be held at 7 30 p . m .  . at the science 
center in thousand , ca .  . 

dr. is currently a technical in space 
materials with the space systems division of 
international in , california .  . he is a recognized world 
authority on materials  . he has written or 
more than 15 articles or reports on 
materials or  . along with dr. david 
, invented the power system concept .  . 

is building for a of , legal 
, and soviet and u.s. scientists and to build 
the power system , a pollution free , energy source with a 
potential to power the  . 

for the past three years members of the , nearly half 
from california , have the and scientific 
concept of a power system based on the moon. 

the concept entails energy on the 
surface and the power to earth as 
through  . a an enormous 
source of clean , power to meet the earth 's ever 
increasing demand using proven , basic technology. 

 ( organization for the of space 
industrialization ) is the greater los chapter of the 
national space society , which is an international non profit 
organization that promotes development of the space  . 
the chapter is based in , ca .  . 

where science center , 1049 
dos , thousand , ca .  . 

to thousand , onto 
lynn road heading north  ( right turn from 
north , left turn from south ) , after about 1 2 
turn left on dos , after about 1 2 
make first right into after 
, at top of hill to the left 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re race 
organization u of 
lines 23 

in article  ( charlie prael ) writes 
doug actually , if memory serves , the is an outgrowth of the old 
 .  .  . 

nope , you 're confusing separate programs. was the first generation 
us i was the second generation one ii , which all the 
are based on , was the third generation heavy  . there 
was essentially nothing in common between these three programs. 

 ( yes , three programs. despite the similarity of names , i and 
ii were completely different missiles .  . they did n't even use the 
same , never mind the same launch facilities . ) . 

if so , there 's probably quite a few old , in need 
of some serious  . still , being able to buy the and 
 ( and , including facility ) at 
strikes me as pretty damned cheap .  . 

sorry , the  ( a ) ca n't handle the with their 
large ,  ( b ) ca n't handle any sort of without massive 
of normal range safety rules  ( nobody cares about such things 
in the event of a nuclear war , but in they matter ) , and  ( c ) were 
years ago. 

from  ( patrick w. grady ) 
subject re did any x show up 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 30 

 ( douglas r fils ) writes 

in article  ( diaspar virtual reality network ) writes 
the was great and i got lots of great shots .  . i attended 
the press and got shots of the y model , too. all 
in 3d 

david h. 


david , 
are you still on these and posting them 
somewhere hope hope hope. if you could that would be great .  . 

thanks for report of the as well 
take care 
doug 

they did the already ! i am going to have to pay more 
attention to the news. are any of the headed for 


patrick 



patrick how do they it , these humans beginning 
each time so , yet always ending up 
with the most blood on their hands 
to , o . s .  . card 's 

from  ( gary coffman ) 
subject re what if the ussr had reached the moon first 
reply to  ( gary coffman ) 
organization destructive systems 
lines 63 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( gary coffman ) 
says 
it 's conceivable that luna will have a military purpose , it 's possible 
that luna will have a purpose , but it 's most likely that 
luna will only have a scientific purpose for the next several hundred 
years at least. therefore , bases should be on funding 
levels little different from those found for bases .  . can you 
put a 200 person base on the moon for 30 million a year even if you 
use students 

you might be able to run one for that put it there , hardly .  . 

why do you think at least a couple centuries before there will 
be significant activity on the moon 

wishful thinking mostly .  . it 's more likely that the moon will never 
be the site of major activity. as far as we know it has no 
materials we ca n't get right here on earth or from 
and , aside from the semi mythic that might be useful in low 
grade fusion  . it would a curiosity , 
and it 's position in the gravity well of earth coupled with it 's 
capacity could offer some military utility for high ground military 
weapons systems , but it holds very minute value. if space 
travel becomes cheap enough , it might become a tourist attraction as 
mt. and the have become , but that 's a very minor 
activity in the of things. 

luna has an gravity field .  . it 's likely too low to prevent 
loss , , and long term genetic  . yet it 's 
too high to do g manufacturing .  . space based and 
that can be to any value of g look much better. luna 
has a and raw exposure two weeks a month , but orbital 
sites can have better and exposure .  . luna 
a source of light element that can serve as raw materials , , 
and  . the and offer sources of both light and 
heavy elements , and , and many are in less gravity 
so that less delta v is required to reach them. 

we do n't use 2 of the earth now , the , and we virtually 
ignore , a whole continent .  . that 's because we do n't have to 
deal with those conditions in order to make a  . luna is a much more 
expensive place to visit , or to live and work. i think we 'll use the 
easier places first. that development back at least a few 
centuries , if not much longer .  . 

luna 's main short term value would be as a place for a radio 
astronomy , from the earth. or as the site 
of a laser , particle beam , or weapons system for 
defending earth , or it as the case may be. the first is 
unlikely because of the high cost for such a basic science instrument .  . 
the second is just as unlikely because conventional are good 
enough , and the military would really rather see the earth safe for 
conventional warfare again. there 's little glory in watching from a 
bunker as machines fight each other over ranges .  . little 
ultimate profit either. 



you make it , ! ! ! 
destructive systems we break it. uunet ! ! ! 
way guaranteed ! ! ! ! 
, 

from  ( mark bradford ) 
subject space frequently seen 
supersedes space 
organization unlimited , 
lines 
expires 19 may 1993 04 00 04 gmt 
nntp posting host com . 
keywords long space 
x last updated 1992 12 07 

archive name space 
edition 8 

acronym list for sci . , sci . space . , and sci . space . 
edition 8 , 1992 dec 7 
last posted 1992 27 

this list is offered as a reference for commonly 
in the space related newsgroups .  . if i forgot or your 
favorite acronym , please let me know ! also , if there 's an acronym not 
on this list that you , drop me a line , and if i can figure 
it out , i 'll add it to the list. 

note that this is intended to be a reference for frequently seen 
, and is most emphatically not  . if i incorporated 
every acronym i ever saw , i 'd soon run out of space ! ) 

the list will be posted at regular , every 30 days. all 
comments regarding it are welcome i'm as 

note that this just tells what the stand for you 're on your 
own for out what they mean ! note also that the total number of 
in use far what i can list special purpose that 
are essentially always explained as they 're introduced are  . 
further , some stand for more than one thing as of edition 3 of 
the list , these appear on multiple lines , unless they 're simply 
different ways of referring to the same thing. 

thanks to everybody who 's sent suggestions since the first version of 
the list , and especially to a. , 
who is maintaining an independent list , somewhat more in 
character than mine , and to daniel fischer de) . , 
who is maintaining a truly huge list  ( 535 at last count ) of and 
terms , mostly in german  ( which i read ,  . 

special thanks this time to ken at nasa , who sent me a copy of nasa 
reference publication revised space transportation system and 
associated , , and , a truly 
tome almost pages of  . 

special ! at the end of this posting , you will find a program 
written by none other than larry , whose purpose is to the 
acronym list in an entertaining fashion .  . thanks , larry ! 

a a astronomy and 
australian 
american society 
american society 
american association of star observers 
advanced composition 
assured return  ( or ) rescue 
ames research  ( was dfrf )  ( nasa ) 
active galactic 
american union 
american institute of and 
image system 
journal 
of low energy x ray 
association of and observers 
advanced launch system 
american national standards institute 
abort once around  ( shuttle abort plan ) 
attitude and orbit control system 
ap . j . journal 
attached (a . k . a .  . columbus ) 
power 
ames research center  ( nasa ) 
advanced relay technology mission 
society of the atlantic 

advanced solid rocket 
advanced and data relay 
for applications and science 
amateur 
abort to orbit  ( shuttle abort plan ) 
au 
association of universities for research in astronomy 
week and space technology (a . k . a .  . avleak ) 
advanced x ray 
and source experiment  ( on cgro ) 
broad x ray  ( astro package ) 
bug eyed 
black hole 
berkeley illinois maryland 
british national space centre 
btw by the way 
c t communications 
air force station 
charge coupled device 
for the development of space 
read only memory 
center for 

free flyer 
canada france hawaii 
 ( arthur holley ) compton gamma ray  ( was gro ) 
center for high resolution astronomy 
radiance instrument for 

command  ( apollo spacecraft ) 
central mission control centre  ( esa ) 
centre national d 
carbon oxygen 
return 
cosmic background 
compton  ( on cgro ) 
space replacement 

combined release radiation effects 
command and service  ( apollo spacecraft ) 
consolidated test center  ( usaf ) 

delta clipper experimental 
to 
research  ( now adfrf ) 
defense program 
department of defense  ( sometimes dod ) 
doe department of energy 
department of transportation 
defense communications system 
deep space network 
defense support program  ( usaf nro ) 
air force base 
environmental control system 
extended duration 
gamma ray experiment  ( on cgro ) 
electronic journal of the society of the atlantic 
launch 

earth observing system 
earth resources  ( as in 1 ) 
european space agency 
european southern 
et  ( shuttle ) external 
extended three letter acronym 
eastern test range 
extreme 
extreme 
activity 
faq frequently asked questions 
fast fast 
fast 
fine  ( on hst ) 
fixed head star  ( on hst ) 
far 
fits image transport system 
object camera  ( on hst ) 
object  ( on hst ) 
review 
ftp file 

far 
full at half 
for your information 
gas get away special 
green bank 
general catalog of stars 
gem extended mission 
earth orbit 
great dark 
high resolution  ( on hst ) 
format 
low message relay 
giant molecular cloud 
giant wave radio 
gmt mean time  ( also called ut ) 
goes environmental 
oxygen 
general purpose computer 
system 
gamma ray  ( now cgro ) 
gamma ray  ( on observer ) 
great red 
guide star catalog  ( for hst ) 
space center  ( nasa ) 
orbit 
high 
henry catalog entry 
high energy 

high 
high gain 
heavy lift capability 
heavy lift 
camera  ( on giotto ) 
russell  ( diagram ) 
high resolution  ( on rosat ) 
high speed  ( on hst ) 
space 
hopkins  ( astro package ) 
high 
international amateur 
international union 
circular 
ice international 
ida international dark sky association 
interactive data language 
medium 
international year 
imho in my humble opinion 

international association 
pointing system 

image and analysis 

institute of space and science  ( japan ) 
medium 
space 
international standards organization 
international mission  ( now ulysses ) 
international space year 
international 
stage 
japanese experiment  ( for ssf ) 
journal of research 
institute for 
jpl 
johnson space center  ( nasa ) 

national 
space center  ( nasa ) 
 ( from german ) 
los national 
research center  ( nasa ) 
long duration exposure 
excursion (a . k . a .  . lm )  ( apollo spacecraft ) 
low earth orbit 
lerc lewis research center  ( nasa ) 
lest large earth based 
list of frequently seen ( ! ) 
low gain 
little green men 
liquid  ( also or lhx ) 
lawrence national 
(a . k . a .  . lem )  ( apollo spacecraft ) 
large cloud 
liquid  ( nitrogen ) 
liquid oxygen 
liquid rocket 
local standard of rest 
phenomenon 
base 
mission control center 
main engine cutoff 

multiple 

monthly of the society 
observer camera  ( on observer ) 

observer laser  ( on observer ) 
orbital 
orbital 
minor planets circular 
and return 
and return mission 
 ( george c . ) . marshall space center  ( nasa ) 
man tended capability 
national on  ( became nasa ) 
nasa national and space 
national space development agency  ( japan ) 
national air and space 
national plane 
national bureau of standards  ( now nist ) 
derived 
nuclear engine for rocket application 
new general catalog 
near camera object  ( hst upgrade ) 
near mapping  ( on galileo ) 
near 
national institute for standards and technology  ( was nbs ) 
national launch development program 
national and 
national astronomy 
national radio astronomy 
national office 
star 
national security agency 
national science foundation 
national 
national space science data center 
nuclear thermal  ( rocket(ry ) 
new technology 

office of space transportation 
office of and 
orbital system 

and far and extreme 
orbital sciences corporation 
carrying amateur radio 
office of space science and applications 
oriented experiment  ( on cgro ) 
assembly  ( on hst ) 
over the 
orbital 
ov orbital 
assist 
d assist , delta class 
principal 
life support system 

capability 
pressure  ( on observer ) 

point spread function 



object 
cage interface  ( for mission ) 
reaction control system 
rat  ( for mission ) 
radio 
radio interference 
research institute for advanced computer science 
remote system 
revised new general catalog 

of unusual size (i do n't believe they exist ) 
real soon now 

return to launch site  ( shuttle abort plan ) 
south atlantic 
saga gain  ( for hst ) 
and particle 

search and rescue 

pour radio amateur 
search and rescue exercise 
amateur radio experiment 
sas space activity suit 
sas space adaptation 
sat 
s c 


strategic defense 
strategic defense organization 
sei space exploration 

search for intelligence 
sudden 
sir 
space  ( formerly shuttle ) 

side looking 
space launch complex 
 ( space(lab ) life sciences 
small cloud 

small 
mission 
(e . g .  . , sn1987a ) 
signal to ratio 
remnant 
neutrino units 
for astronomy 

space physics and analysis network 
special purpose 
pour l observation de la 
sps power 
solid rocket 
solid rocket 
space station fred  ( er , freedom ) 
solid state  ( on galileo ) 
space studies 
space main engine 
space station 
space station remote system 
survey 
transport 
single stage to orbit 
space  ( to replace and ghrs ) 
transport system  ( or ) space transportation system 
space science institute 
wave astronomy 

abort landing  ( shuttle abort plan ) 
thousand  ( mission ) 
thermal control system 
and data relay 
and data relay system 
thermal  ( on observer ) 
television observation 
three letter acronym 
total mapping 
thermal protection system 
system 
atmosphere research 
mechanism 

flying object 
general catalog 
high 
 ( astro package ) 
united kingdom 
united states air force 
united states 
universal time (a . k . a .  . gmt , , or time) 
universal time (a . k . a .  . ut ) 


assembly building  ( formerly assembly building ) 
air force base 
earth earth gravity assist  ( galileo path ) 
very high 
very large 
very long 
very long 
very low 
very large 
vms motion 
 ( superseded by vrm ) 

 ( now called magellan ) 
white 
wide field camera  ( on hst ) 
replacement for 
wisconsin yale 
white missile range 
western test range 
wisconsin experiment  ( astro package ) 
x ray 
extreme 
young object 


! 
 alt  , an acronym program , by larry 

2 


while ( ) 
next unless ( a z s ) 
key 1 
key ' 
 ( split w , ' ) 
 ( unshift(@words , key ) 
off 0 
word  ( @words ) 
next unless word a z 
w 
 ( vec w word , off 6 , 1 ) 1 



letter (a  .  .  . z ) 
w letter 
w 
if  ( @w threshold ) 
' letter  
chop 
 ( push(@w , @d ) 



key  ( sort acro ) 
off 0 
key 
s  (  a z ) a z ) a z )  ( pick 3 , 2 , 1 , off ) eg 
print key 


sub pick 
 ( local letter , , , off ) @ 
i 0 
if  ( length prefix ) 1  ( index key , prefix ) 0 ) 
if ( oldword ) 
'' 

else 
letter 


if  ( length prefix ) 1 ) 
 ( local w )  ( substr , 0 , 1 ) 
do 
word w 
until word word i i 30 
word s i 
word 

 ( length prefix ) 1 ) 
 ( local w ) 
do 
word w 
until word  ( vec w word , off , 1 ) i 10 
word u l word if word a z a z 
word 

else 
 ( local w )  ( substr , 0 , 1 ) 
do 
word w 
until word word a z a z 0 i 30 
word 




mark bradford to err is human , to  . 
it 's an ill wind that no  . 



from 
subject 56 press 
lines 9 
nntp posting host ie . 
organization trinity college dublin 
lines 9 

does anyone know 56 email press was ever released 

tony ryan , astronomy space , new international magazine , available from 
astronomy ireland , p . o . box . , dublin 1 , ireland .  . 
6 issues  ( one year sub . ) . uk 10 . 00 . pounds , us 20 surface  ( add us 8  . 
access accepted  ( give number , date , name  . 

 ( world's largest  . soc .  . per unless you know better 0 . ) 
tel 88 1950  ( uk n .  . cost up to per 

from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re x update 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 122 

in article writes 

exactly when will the test be done , 

early to mid june .  . 

and will any of the tv 
carry it. i really want to see that .  .  .  . 

if they think the public wants to see it they will carry it. why not 
write them and ask you can reach them at 


f national news media 


abc world news face the nation 
7 west street cbs news 
new york , ny m street , 
212 washington , 


associated press good morning america 
50 abc news 
new york , ny 
national  ( 212 1600 ) new york , ny 
foreign  ( 212 1663 ) 212 
washington bureau  ( 202 6400 ) 
larry king live tv 
cbs evening news 
w. street avenue , 
new york , ny washington , 
212 

cbs this morning larry king show radio 
w. street broadcasting 
new york , ny so. jefferson davis 
212 arlington , va 

christian science 
publishing society los times 
one norway street times square 
boston , ma los , ca 


macneil lehrer 
one center p.o. box 
box washington , 
, 

macneil lehrer 
tv 
washington bureau w. street 
avenue , new york , ny 
washington , 212 


crossfire nbc news 
nebraska avenue , 
avenue , washington , 
washington , 
 ( fax ) 

morning edition all things considered 
national public radio 
m street , 
washington , 
2000 

united press international 
1400 eye street , 
washington , 


new york times u.s. news world report 
w. street n street , 
new york , ny washington , 
212 2000 
212 

new york times usa today 
washington bureau 1000 
eye street , , 7th arlington , va 
washington , 276 


newsweek street journal 
madison avenue 200 liberty street 
new york , ny new york , ny 
212 212 2000 

washington post 
abc news street , 
47 w. street washington , 
new york , ny 6000 
212 

washington week in review 
tv 
abc news p.o. box 
, washington , 
washington , 


this week with david 
abc news 
, 
washington , 


time magazine 
time , inc. 
time life building 
center 
new york , ny 
212 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
57 days to first of 

from 
subject cold gas roll control 
organization university of south australia 
lines 5 

does anyone know how to size cold gas roll control 
for sounding 

thanks in advance , 
jim .  . 

from uni . de .  ( uwe bonnes ) 
subject re sunset times 
organization , university of , germany 
distribution world 
nntp posting host e . uni . de . 
lines 15 


in article ,  ( joseph wetstein ) asked 

hello. i am looking for a program  ( or algorithm ) that can be used 
to and sunset times. 

i would appreciate any advice. 

joe 


to this , and many other things , go and get  ( x)ephem ) written 
by c.  . it is e.g. on mit . edu . 

uni . de . 

from  ( theo wawers ) 
subject re sunset times 
organization international , 
lines 15 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 


there is a nice little tool in  . it 's called . 
on request it shows for given times for 
sunset and  . the code is written in lisp .  . 
i do n't know if you like the idea that an editor is the right program to 
these things. 


theo w. 

theo international 
email  . 22 
phone 49 66 d 6000 main 
fax 49 66 germany 


from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject re life on 
organization 
lines 24 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( don schiewer ) writes 
there are currently no particular plans to do any further searches for life. 

not quite true. one of the on observer will be searching 
for potential fossil sites .  . 

are we going back to to look at this face 

observer , currently , will probably try to get a better 
image or two of the face at some point. it 's not high priority nobody 
takes it very seriously. the half of the face does not look very 
face like , so all it will take is one shot at a different sun angle to ruin 
the illusion .  . 

the face and the viking landing sites will be targeted by the high resolution 
camera on observer .  . 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( mark smilor ) 
subject summer 
article i.d. 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 15 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 



hi folks not exactly certain if this is the best place to ask , but i am 
searching for a summer in engineering .  . i will be in early 
may with a b . s .  . in engineering and then my masters this fall 
 . does . anyone know of anything that is available , i am in the process of 
to some of the larger  . , martin ,  . if a 
knows of anything i would appreciate it if you could mail it to me. 

thanks in advance 

mark 

or 


from 
subject message from space digest 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 





press release un no 18 93 
, 19 april 1993 

un training course on applications 
to be held in , 19 30 april 

the united nations and the european space agency  ( esa ) 
are a training course on the applications of 
data gathered by the european remote sensing 
 ( ers 1 ) , to be held in , , from 19 to 30 
april .  . the training course will discuss the applications of 
data concerning natural resources , energy 
and the environment. 

the training course , for the benefit of 
african , will be by , the european space 
agency 's in , which is responsible for 
with the users of data from 's remote sensing 
 . twenty four in the field of remote sensing , 
from 19 countries from northern , western 
and central africa , and three regional african , will 
the two week session. the course will focus on remote 
sensing techniques and data applications , particularly 1 
data .  . 

the 1 , developed by and in 1991 
with the european , carries an advanced 
instrument and is the first in a series of remote sensing 
that will ensure of data beyond the year 
2000 .  . the aim of the training course is to increase the 
potential of using the practical applications of 
remote sensing systems to natural resources , energy 
and the environment , with particular emphasis on applications 
to and , and near 
areas , , and  . 

the education and practical training was 
developed by the united nations and  . the 
facilities and the technical support , as well as and 
information documents for the training course , will be 
provided by the agency .  . at the training course will 
include high level from other european and african 
active in remote sensing applications .  . funds for 
the training course are being provided by the united nations 



trust for new and sources of energy the 
primary to that is the government of  . 

a similar training course is being for american 
 . 



from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re space  ( 2 of 2 ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 24 

writes 

the environmental 
is a large outer support structure of up to 
 . is carried by a area , 
by the  . 
to help sell the concept , the responsible for 
maintaining the on orbit will carry reading 
to continuously the condition of the earth 's 
, according to mike , head of 
 . furthermore , the has reached its minimum 
exposure of 30 days it will be released to re enter the earth 's 
atmosphere .  . according to , as the material , 
it will release building components that will literally 
the  . 


can we assume that this guy studied and not chemistry granted 
it probably a great , but it does n't sound at all practical .  . 


hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to 

from  ( james davis nicoll ) 
subject re new planet object found 
organization university of western ontario , london 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 5 

if the new belt object is called   , the next 
one should be called  . 

james 


from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re level 5 
organization texas 
distribution sci 
lines 33 

in  ( tom ) writes 



 ( given that i 've heard the software rated as level 5 in 
, i strongly doubt that this having lots of is the  . 

level 5 out of how many what are the different levels i 've never 
heard of this system. anyone care to clue me in 

sei level 5  ( the highest level the sei stands for software 
engineering  . i'm not sure , but i believe that this 
only applies to the software .  . also keep in mind that it was 
not achieved through the use of sophisticated tools , but rather 
through a  brute force and ignorance  attack on the problem during the 
they simply threw hundreds of people at it and 
did the whole process by hand. i would not consider receiving a  warning  
status on systems which are not yet in use would much  ( if 
anything) from such a i 'll have to get the latest copy of 
the to make sure  ( they just issued new ones , i think) .  . 

also keep in mind that the sei levels are concerned primarily with 
control of the software process the assumption is that a 
well controlled process will produce good software .  . also keep in mind 
that sei level 5 is damned hard. most software in this country is 
produced by  engineering  that only rate an sei level 1  ( if 
 . 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( tom ) 
subject race 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 26 

from gene 

with the talk about the end of the space age and 
by government over the large cost , why not try something i read about 
that might just work. 

announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year .  . 
then you 'd see some of the but not popular begin 
to be developed .  . there 'd be a different kind of space race then ! 

i 'll say ! imagine that there were a couple groups up there , maybe landing 
a few weeks apart. the year mark starts coming on for the first group. 
is n't a billion pretty good incentive to take a shot at a potential 
winner yeah , that 's a that team a 's life support gave out 
so close to the  . thanks for the billion .  . 

on the other hand , if cost , for a few days or weeks 
in space , in dollars , then wo n't the reward have to be a lot more 
than only 1 billion to get any 

tommy mac 

tom as the of vision increases , 
the of mystery grows .  . 


from ( ) 
subject space event in los , ca 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 52 

for immediate release contact  ( 310 ) 

15 april 1993 los , ca 

local national space society chapters talk by l . a .  . 
advocate of power system as energy source for the world 

on april 21 , the and chapters of the national 
space society will a talk by power system  ( lps ) co 
and vice president of the , dr. robert d. 
 . it will be held at 7 30 p . m .  . at the science 
center in thousand , ca .  . 

dr. is currently a technical in space 
materials with the space systems division of 
international in , california .  . he is a recognized world 
authority on materials  . he has written or 
more than 15 articles or reports on 
materials or  . along with dr. david 
, invented the power system concept .  . 

is building for a of , legal 
, and soviet and u.s. scientists and to build 
the power system , a pollution free , energy source with a 
potential to power the  . 

for the past three years members of the , nearly half 
from california , have the and scientific 
concept of a power system based on the moon. 

the concept entails energy on the 
surface and the power to earth as 
through  . a an enormous 
source of clean , power to meet the earth 's ever 
increasing demand using proven , basic technology. 

 ( organization for the of space 
industrialization ) is the greater los chapter of the 
national space society , which is an international non profit 
organization that promotes development of the space  . 
the chapter is based in , ca .  . 

where science center , 1049 
dos , thousand , ca .  . 

to thousand , onto 
lynn road heading north  ( right turn from 
north , left turn from south ) , after about 1 2 
turn left on dos , after about 1 2 
make first right into after 
, at top of hill to the left 


from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re x test 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 34 

writes 

excellent discussion of x landing techniques by henry deleted 

since the x is to take off , why not land that way 

the x will not take of  . it takes of  . 

why do the landing thing .  .  . 

for several reasons. do n't require of and limit 
pollution .  . they do n't require or wings. just turn on the 
and touch down. of course , as henry pointed out , are n't quite 
that simple. 

or am i missing something .  .  . do n't know to 
much about x and such .  .  .  ( overly obvious ) .  . 

well , to be , yes. but at least you 're learning. 

why not just fall to earth like the in then .  .  .  . 

the use for the descent and then fire small 
just before they hit the ground. are , however , not especially 
practical if you want to something without much effort .  . the 
are also not very comfortable. however , in the words of , 
i prefer to have , not to  . 



hopkins 
ce un capable d , d 
capable de la 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re race 
organization u of 
lines 11 

in article  ( tom ) writes 
on the other hand , if cost , for a few days or weeks 
in space , in dollars , then wo n't the reward have to be a lot more 
than only 1 billion to get any 

was done the hard way , in a big , from a very limited 
technology base .  .  .  . and on government contracts .  . just doing it privately , 
rather than as a government project , cuts costs by a factor of several .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject re new planet object found 
organization 
lines 23 
distribution sci 

nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 23 apr 1993 18 44 19 gmt 

in article  ( jeff foust ) writes 

in a recent article  ( james davis nicoll ) writes 
if the new belt object is called   , the next 
one should be called  . 

unless i'm things ,  ( always a possibility ) 1992 , the belt 
object discovered last year , is known as  . 

as it happens the second one is  . the first one was 
 . all subject to the of the of course , 
but i think they might let this one slide .  .  .  . 


standard disclaimer 
the worst thing you can say to a true is that his 
revolution is unnecessary , that the problems can be without 
radical change .  . telling people that paradise can be without 
revolution is treason of the kind. h . s .  . 1993 


just had to try out my new  . sig . on this forum ) 


from  ( charlie prael ) 
subject re race 
organization bbs  ( clanzen radio network ) , ca 1 408 
lines 20 

 ( doug mohney ) writes 

allen , sometimes i think you 're ok. and sometimes you tend to leap in 
making statement without thinking them out. 

guess which today 

you 'd need to launch to send up large of stuff. do you know 
of a private 


doug actually , if memory serves , the is an outgrowth of the old 
 . if so , there 's probably quite a few old , in need 
of some serious  . still , being able to buy the and 
 ( and , including facility ) at 
strikes me as pretty damned cheap .  . 


charlie 
bbs  ( clanzen radio network ) , ca 1 408 

subject quotation lowest  .  .  . 
from 
organization university of , , new 
nntp posting host ac . 
lines 12 


can someone please me who said a well known quotation 

he was sitting a rocket and afterwards , in answer to 
the question what he had been thinking about , said  ( approximately ) half a 
million components , each has to work perfectly , each by the lowest 
 .  .  .  .  . 

and correction of the quote would be much appreciated. 

clive 


from  ( dennis newkirk ) 
subject re 
organization motorola 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 43 . 
lines 37 

in article  ( james thomas green ) writes 
has anyone looked into the possiblity of a 
what would be the benefits and problems with such a  ( other 
than the obvious in the now ) 

i have n't seen any speculation about it. but , the  ( design bureau ) 
was planning a new second stage for the which would boost 
to from about to  .  ( geostationary goes from 
 .  ( gals version ) to 6000  .  . this scheme was competing 
with the m last year and i have n't heard which won , except now 
i recently read that the central was working on the 
to the which must be the m. so the early 
results are m won , but this is a guess , nothing is very clear in 
russia .  . i'm sure if gets funds from someone they will continue 
their development .  . 

the for the is about 3  . and the 
is 4 so that 's a good fit for their existing stage , the block d 
which sets inside a just under 4  . i do n't know about 
launch loads , etc .  .  . but since the which 
are probably worse than the  ( those 's probably things 
up pretty good ) it seems  . except , the is a very 
thing and may require on the which is not available now. 
are assembled and  . does anyone know 
how much in the way of a a could support while 
to a and then taken down the road track 
and on the 

they would also need and facilities added to the 
 ( unless the new second stage is actually built ) , and of course 
any support systems and facilities , no doubt from the 
us at great cost .  . these systems may us law so there are political 
problems to solve in addition to the in the cis you mention .  . 


motorola , land products 
, il 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re sail data 
keywords sail 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 25 

 ( andrew broderick ) writes 

in article writes 

i am looking for any information concerning involving 


i was at an interesting at work  ( uk 's r . a . l .  . space science 
dept . ) . on this subject , specifically on a small scale sail 
proposed as a student space project .  . the guy giving the talk was to 
generate interest in the project .  . i 'll the he gave out at 
the meeting. here goes 

stuff deleted 

however it is more difficult to design a practical sail than most 
people realize .  . the pressure of sunlight is only about one per 
square  . 

i'm glad to see that someone is working on this. however , it would be nice if 
he got his units right. 

hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re why 1 will be the way of the future. 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 12 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( james davis nicoll ) writes 
hmmm .  . i seem to recall that the attraction of solid state record 
and in the 1960s was n't better but lower 
per cost than systems. 



i do n't think so at first , but solid state offered better , 
id bet , and any lower costs would be only after the processes really up. 




from  ( mark maimone ) 
subject how to read sci . space . without netnews 
summary space digest address 
nntp posting host a . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 36 

in article  ( mark prado ) writes 
if anyone knows anyone else who would like to get sci . space . , 
but does n't have an internet feed  ( or has a internet 
feed ) , i would be willing to feed it to them. 

to mark for his generous offer , but there already exists a 
large  ( email based ) system for sci . space . posts space digest .  . 
it sci . space . exactly , and provides simple two way  . 

to subscribe 
send the following message in the body  ( not subject) of an 
email message 

subscribe space john q public 

to one of these addresses 





space 

you 'll receive all the posts in digest form once a day. please 
use a if you can , the space request address is 
 . 

to post messages 
send your message  ( with a reasonable subject line ) to 



questions , comments to space 

mark phone 1  ( 412 ) 
carnegie mellon computer science email 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( ron baalke ) writes 
3 , which was discovered in 1977 , was determined to have 
been in a temporary orbit from to  . 
may remain in orbit around jupiter long enough to allow to 
make some observations .  . the orbital for 
is still being determined .  . 
a 

what about uncertainties in s l i assume we know where 
and what is doing within a few  . but without the 
, do n't we have to have some pretty good ideas , of where to look 
before if the was working , they could around 
in near real time  ( less speed of light  . but when they were 
did n't someone have to get lucky on a guess to 
find the first images 

also , i imagine s l will be mostly a image. so how will 
that affect the other  . with the , there is a real 
of bandwidth .  . it may be premature to hope for answers , 
but i thought i 'd it on the  . 




from  ( richard nickle ) 
subject re how to read sci . space . without netnews 
organization the system  ( 617 ) v . 32 . v . 
lines 27 

in article  ( mark maimone ) writes 
in article  ( mark prado ) writes 
if anyone knows anyone else who would like to get sci . space . , 
but does n't have an internet feed  ( or has a internet 
feed ) , i would be willing to feed it to them. 

to mark for his generous offer , but there already exists a 
large  ( email based ) system for sci . space . posts space digest .  . 
it sci . space . exactly , and provides simple two way  . 

i think mark was talking about making it available to people who did n't 
have email in the first place. 

if anybody in the boston area wants a sci . space . feed by honest to gosh uucp 
 ( no malreaders ) , let me know. i 'll also hand out to 
anyone who wants one , especially the boston chapter of  ( which i keep forgetting 
to re  . 

questions , comments to space 

mark phone 1  ( 412 ) 
carnegie mellon computer science email 



richard v . 32 . v . 
think ! ! 

from  ( ts kelso ) 
subject two line orbital element set space 
keywords space , orbital elements , 
nntp posting host 
organization air force institute of technology 
lines 21 

the most current orbital elements from the two line element sets are 
carried on the celestial bbs ,  ( 513 ) , and are updated daily  ( when 
 . documentation and software are also available on this 
system. as a service to the user community , the most current 
elements for the current mission are provided below. the celestial 
bbs may be 24 hours day at , 1200 , , , or using 
8 data bits , 1 stop bit , no  . 

element sets  ( also updated daily ) , elements , and some documentation 
and software are also available via anonymous ftp from archive . 
1 . in the directory pub space .  . 

56 
1 93 23 a  . 0 3 0 
2 57 . 15 . 
1993 
1 93 23 b  . 0 3 0 86 
2 57 . 66 . 15 . 

dr assistant professor of space 
air force institute of technology 

from  ( gregory n .  . bond ) 
subject re area rule  ( was re space research spin off ) 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 


organization , young , , australia 
lines 9 
in reply to 's message of 5 apr 93 13 36 19 0600 
nntp posting host 

can somebody elaborate on area ruling . i gather it 's something to 
do with of , and can be as 
bottle good , can bad . anyone provide more details , 
etc 

bond young ltd australia 
's is slick .  . fox in , on 's box 
's box is very quick .  . plays lots of  . he 's sick ! 
 ( apologies to john iron bar ) . 

from  . d. stevens ) 
subject re long space  ( was re the sky . ) . 
organization stanford 
lines 38 

in article ,  ( brian yamauchi ) writes 
nasa would provide contractual launch services .  . however , 
since nasa bases its charge on seriously flawed cost estimates 
 ( wn 26 93 ) the would bear most of the expense .  . this 
may look like environmental , but mike , of 
space , told us yesterday that the real purpose of the 
project is to help the environment ! the will carry 
he explained is just to help costs .  . 

this may be the purpose for the university of people. my 
guess is that the purpose for the people is to learn how to 
build large , space structures .  . 


the people have been , and continue to be big scientists .  . so 
this is consistent .  . it is also consistent with the new 
applications that nasa and clinton are pushing so hard. 

is nasa really supporting this junk 

did anyone the rocket that was with a movie 
all over it i think the rocket people got alot of for 
up the sides with the movie stuff. what about the thing 
a few years back nasa has been trying to find ways to get other 
people into the space funding business for some time. frankly , i 've 
thought about trying it too. when the funding gets , only the 
get funded .  . one of the things nasa is big on is co funding .  . 
if a can show co funding for any proposal , that proposal has a 
higher probability of being funded than a proposal with more merit but no 
co funding .  . once again , money talks ! 



h . d .  . 
stanford university email stanford . edu . 
phone  ( 415 )  ( lab ) 
building  ( 415 ) 722  ( bullpen ) 
stanford , ca 94305 fax  ( 415 ) 

from 
subject surviving large 
organization , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 16 
nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 

hi , 
i was reading through the handbook and somewhere in 
there the author discusses and the forces acting on them 
when and if they try to gain an initial by passing close to 
the sun in a orbit .  . the magnitude of such he 
to be on the order of  . he also says that this is may not 
be a big problem for because humans  ( and this was published 
in 1986 ) have already of  . all this is very 
long but here 's my question finally are in 
fact with the aid of any devices of 
course. if these are possible , what is used to absorb the 
can this be extended to larger 

thanks is advance .  .  .  . 



from  ( steven r. garman ) 
subject wanted for 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of at boston 
lines 23 


also posted in misc . wanted . , misc . wanted . , wanted . , ny . wanted . , nj . wanted . 

wanted 

quantity 2 
single ended 


needed to the movements of a 16  . the 
is in the of the univ .  . of mass .  . at boston .  . the project is being 
managed by mr. george , a graduate student at  . please call him , or 
email call me , if you have one or two of the type of  . of 
course , due to our low funding level we are looking for a price that is 
sufficiently lower than that given for new  . ) 

george 
965 

me 

univ home standard disclaimer 
boston usa 

from  ( keith mancus ) 
subject re and the moon  ( was why not give 1g ) 
organization 
lines 60 

 ( josh hopkins ) writes 
 ( keith mancus ) writes 
 ( layne cook ) writes 
the prize helped sell his spirit 
of saint venture to his financial  . but i strongly suspect 
that his saint had the to realize that much more 
was at stake than 25 , 000 .  . could it work with the moon who are the 
far financial of today 

the uses of a transportation system between already 
and civilized areas are obvious. is not in this position. 
the correct analogy is not with of the  30 's , but the long 
of the age of  . 
's took place in  27 , not the  . 

of course sorry for the misunderstanding .  . i was referring to the fact 
that far more development took place in the  30 's .  . for much 
of the  20 's , the super abundance of and 5 held down the 
industry .  . by , many of the had been 
and had their power weight ratio and reliability up to the point 
where long distance became practical .  . it 's important to note that 
the atlantic was not once but three times in , 
and , and 's america . when it 's time to , 
you  . 

it did n't require gov t to these as long as something was known about 
the potential for profit at the  . in practice , some were gov t 
funded , some were private .  . 
could you give examples of privately funded ones 

not off the top of my head i 'll have to dig out my reference books again. 
however , i will say that the most common arrangement in prince henry the 
's was for the prince to put up part of the money and 
merchants to put up the rest. they from the would then be 
shared .  . 

but there was no way that any wise investor would spend a large amount 
of money on a very investment with no idea of the possible  . 
a person who puts up x billion for a moon base is much more likely to do 
it because they want to see it done than because they expect to make money 
off the deal. 

the problem is that the amount of prize money required to inspire a 
moon base is much larger than any but a of individuals or 
can even consider putting up. the  ( human aircraft ) , 
's prize , lord 's prize for the atlantic  ( won in 
by and brown ) were much smaller .  . the required were 
within the reach of individual , and the prize were well 
within the reach of a large number of individuals .  . i think that only 
a gov t could afford to set up a prize for any purpose whatsoever. 
note that suggested that could be built most by 
taking out an ad in stating that the first company to build a plane 
that could take off and the would be handed , no questions 
asked. 


keith 

black and , when your states and cities fall , 
when your back 's against the  .  .  .  . fish 

from 
subject old as ! 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 8 
nntp posting host edu . 

other idea for old space is as and such .  .  . 
why not if you can put them on safe mode .  .  . why not have them be 
by a signal from a space  ( manned ) to act as a 
, to take a plot on 

or what 

michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 24 

in article usc . edu . usc . edu .  ( peter schaefer ) writes 

announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year .  . 

oh gee , a billion dollars ! that 'd be just about enough to cover the cost of the 
study ! happy , happy , joy ! joy ! 

depends .  . if you assume the existance of a working like , on billion 
would be enough to put about a million pounds of stuff on the 
moon. if some of that mass went to send equipment to make for the 
, you could send a lot more. either way , its a lot 
more than needed .  . 

this prize is n't big enough to developing a , but it is 
enough to do it if the exists. 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
57 days to first of 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re sunset times 
organization u of 
lines 14 

in article  ( rouben rostamian ) writes 
hello. i am looking for a program  ( or algorithm ) that can be used 
to and sunset times. 

here is a i did a long time ago that the length 
of the daylight .  . you should be able to convert the information here 
to and sunset times. 

sorry , not so the changes in and sunset times are not 
quite  . for example , neither the earliest nor the 
latest sunset comes on the longest day of the year .  . 

you can derive day length from and sunset times , but not 
vice  . 

from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re x update 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 35 

in article  ( rob douglas ) writes 

this question is probably mostly for allen , but anyone who knows 
would be welcome to answer. i was just wondering if we could have some kind 
of update on x. 

well it rolled out two weeks ago. as we speak it is at white getting 
ready. i would have called my sources for the latest but they are all out 
of town  ( in  . 

as for the future , there is at least in next years for work 
on  . they  ( sdio ) have been looking for more funds and do seem to have 
some. however , is not (i repeat , is not ) going to an orbital 
 . the best we can hope from them is to 1 ) keep it alive for 
another year , and 2 ) a which might  ( with 
major modifications ) just make orbit .  . there is also some money for a 
set of and to answer a few more open questions. 

better news comes from the new effort .  . the of 
this program are very open to and will have about next 
year for studies .  . this would be enough to bring y to  . 

now not all of this money will go to but a good case could be made 
for spending half on  . 

public support is still critical .  . meet with your (i 'll 
help you do it) and get his her support .  . also call your local media 
ans get them to cover the  . 

allen 


sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
62 days to first of 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re how many read sci . space . 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 52 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( ross borden ) writes 
in article  ( pat ) writes 


in the old days , their used to be  that 
the and posting volumes by group and user .  . 

they were available from uunet .  . that 's how you check the 
of sci . space . , not some stupid unscientific attempt 
to flood the newsgroup .  . 

i have idea. why do n't we all reply directly to the 
of this post , and tell him we read sci . space . ) 




sigh. 
i try to make a little joke , i try to some here 
and what happens in the immortal words of 

i say , that was a joke , son. 

i thought that the bit about , not to mention the two 
smileys , would indicate to even the most that i was 
 . 
sigh. 
 ( and will everyone who 's suggestion  ( thanks , pat ) 
please stop sending me email . ) . 


i shot a man just to watch him die 
i'm going to ! 



now , i had put a at the end of my suggestion indicating it was 
 . i ca n't help it if everyone got all serious. 

 . 

i never saw your original posting. it dropped on the 
somewhere. i just saw the down , thought it was 
stupid , not knowing anything about the joke , mentioned 
and left it with an equally stupid joke. bill in his ever increasing 
devotion to up several  . 

i myself think the are severely , 
but are a good measure of  . i do n't think anyone 
knows how many people read news anymore. 



from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject the sky 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 50 

 ( brian yamauchi ) writes 

 ( enzo liguori ) writes 
what s new  ( in my opinion ) , friday , 16 april 1993 washington , 

1. space ! is this one the we were promised 
in 1950 , science fiction writer robert heinlein published the 
man who sold the moon , which involved a dispute over the sale of 
rights to the moon for use as  . nasa has taken the this 
vision of the future. observers were 
this spring when a nasa launch arrived at the 
with in huge block letters on the 
side of the  . space inc. had 
for the ad to promote arnold 's latest movie .  . 

well , if you 're going to get upset with this , you might as well direct 
some of this moral towards as well. they 
this capitalist application of long before nasa .  . 

in fact , you can all direct your at the proper target by ingoring nasa 
altogether. the rocket is a launch a flying 
a  . nasa is simply the primary customer .  . i believe has a 
small as well. the space was sold by the owners of the 
rocket , who can do whatever they well please with it. in addition , these 
anonymous observers had no reason to be  . the deal made space news 
at least twice .  . 

now , space 
is working with university of and on 
a plan to place a long in low earth 
orbit .  . 
nasa would provide contractual launch services .  . however , 
since nasa bases its charge on seriously flawed cost estimates 
 ( wn 26 93 ) the would bear most of the expense .  . 

is nasa really supporting this junk 

and does anyone have any more details other than what was in the 
news how serious is this project is this just in the wild 
idea stage or does it have real funding 

i think its only fair to find that out before everyone starts having a 
fit. the fact that they bothered to use the conditional tense suggests that 
it has not yet been approved .  . 



hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to 

from  ( spiros triantafyllopoulos ) 
subject re space station radio 
organization corp .  . 
lines 25 

in article  ( charles j. divine ) writes 
a brief political cultural item. 

radio station in washington is a classical music station with 
a large audience among high  ( elected and  . 
imagine a radio station that mercedes , 
, expensive resorts and  ( truthfully )  . 

this morning i heard a for the space station project .  . 
did n't the  . 

guess they 're out all the stops .  . 

in the air force world at least , the crisis when scale 
models of the plane in question (i . e .  . about to be sacrificed ) begin to 
arrive in key and  offices .  . 

of course it is assumed that coffee and other junk has 
been tried earlier. 




software technology ,  ( 317 ) 
, , in i post , therefore i 

from  ( doug loss ) 
subject re death and taxes  ( was why not give 1 billion to .  .  .  . 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
lines 55 

in article writes 
in article , writes 
... somebody pointed out , quite correctly , that such rights are 
not anybody 's to grant  ( although i imagine it would be a 
situation for the winner . ) . so how about this give the group 
(i ca n't see one company or corp doing it) a 10 , 20 , or 50 year 
on taxes .  . 

tom 


who says there is no rights to be given who says the un or the us 
government 

tom 's right about this. it 's only a right if the has 
the will and the ability to stop anyone from taking it away from you. 
never mind the legal status .  . 

major question is if you decide to mine the moon or , who will stop you 
the un ca n't other than legal tom  .  . can the truly it 

's right about this. it 's always easier to obtain forgiveness than 
permission .  . not many people remember that britain 's king george iii 
forbid his american subjects to cross the 
mountains .  . said subjects basically said , stop us if you can. he 
could n't .  . 

if you go to the moon as declare that you are now a nation , who will 
stop you from doing it. maybe not acknowledge you 

that 's how the usa started .  . of course , that 's also how the 
started  . 1820 ) in central america .  . it did n't have 
quite the staying power of the usa .  . i'm sure there are more examples of 
going far away and then ignoring authority , but none jump to mind right 
now. 

what can happen is to find a nation which is acknowledged , and offer your 
services as a space and then go mine the moon or what 
ever .  .  . as long as does not get in trouble .  .  . 

or do as some nations do define whatever activities you want to 
carry out as scientific research which just requires 
the of of  ( or whatever ) , then go at it. 

basically find a country who wants to go into space , but ca n't for soem reason 
or another , but who will give you a home  .  .  . such as arabia or 
whatever .  .  . 

had just this sort of arrangement with (i think) in 
the late  70 's for his space launch project  ( one of the very 
 . it was killed by soviet propaganda about cruise 
missiles in africa , which made on the arrangement .  . 


doug loss 

from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re activities on the moon 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 10 
reply to 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

very cost effective if you use the right accounting method ) 

! ! ! ! ! ! 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from edu .  ( steve willner ) 
subject re drive in how 
organization , cambridge , ma , usa 
lines 19 


in article ,  ( henry 
spencer ) writes 
the national air space has both the and the film .  . 

however , quite possibly it 's 
no longer on display , like most , has much more stuff than it 
can display at once , and does the  . 

the photo archives are open to the public. all  ( or almost all ) 
still pictures in the collection are available for , but i 
do n't know about films .  . at least it might be worth a try. i'm not 
sure if are necessary , but i think not. 

good luck , and let us know what you find .  . 

steve phone bitnet 
cambridge , ma usa internet 
member , league for programming freedom contact 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
organization u of 
lines 15 

in article writes 
since we do n't have the money to keep them going now , how will 
changing them to a agency help anything 

how about control to a non profit organisation that is 
able to accept to keep  . 

the problem is , you ca n't raise adequate of money that way. 
the viking tried. they did succeed , in a way , but only because 
of the political impact of their  . the actual amount of 
money they raised was fairly inconsequential it would not have kept 
the viking going by itself. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( marvin batty ) 
subject re race 
nntp posting host cc 
organization , coventry , uk 
lines 22 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 

was done the hard way , in a big , from a very limited 
technology base .  .  .  . and on government contracts .  . just doing it privately , 
rather than as a government project , cuts costs by a factor of several .  . 

so how much would it cost as a private venture , assuming you could talk the 
u.s. government into you a couple of in florida 

why use a ground launch  . it is entirely to launch from  . 
this was what the was originally intended to do ! it might be seriously 
 . 

also , what about engineered plants instead of many 
stick 'em in a cave and put an on the door .  . 



marvin 
and they shall not find those things , with a sort of rafia like base , 
that their fathers put there just the night before. at about 8 o ! 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject update 04 23 93 
organization 
lines 34 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from doug griffith , project 

status report 
april 23 , 1993 

1. the continues to operate normally , 
gravity data to plot the variations of in the 
mid  . the was returned to zero degrees 
and dropped 2 3 degrees c. 

2. an end to end test of the data 
process was conducted this week in for the 
experiment .  . there was some difficulty locking up to the data , 
and are presently checking whether the problem was in 
equipment at the station .  . 

3. has orbits of and is now 32 days 
from the end of cycle 4 and the start of the experiment .  . 

4. scientists were in the brown 
at brown university in , , this week. this 
meeting of u.s. and has been 
continuing for many years. 

5. a three day of experiment 
activities is for next week , including orbit trim 
and  ( star calibration ) orbits .  . 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re conference on exploration .  . may 7 city 
distribution na 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 33 

 ( bill beam jockey ) writes 

 ( josh hopkins ) writes 
i reading the comment that general was into this , in 
connection with their proposal for an early landing .  . 

the general chairman is paul , who is some official of general 
 . 

the emphasis seems to be on a down , fast plan to put people 
on the moon in an funding  . you 'd 
think it would be a golden opportunity to do lots of work for 
money using an agressive series of , but 
there 's not a hint of this in the  . 

it may be that they just did n't mention it , or that they actually have n't 
thought about it. i got the vague impression from their mission proposal 
that they were n't taking a very to the whole thing. they 
seemed to want to land people on the moon by the end of the without 
explaining why , or what they would do once they got there. the only application 
i remember from the week article was a on the moon. that 's 
great , but they do n't explain why it ca n't be done  . 

 . they did n't send me anything ( 

you 're not hanging out with the right people , apparently .  . 

but i'm a member . besides bill , i out with you ) 


hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host access . net . 


well thank you for your as usual highly detailed and 
posting. 

the question i have about the , is could it be at 
one of 's spare , without major , or could it be 
at or 

now if it uses , then how long would it take for the russians 
to something at york 

if were from a western site , how would it compare to the 
as i see it , it should lift very close to the  . 



from  ( john f carr ) 
subject re gamma ray  . where are they .  . 
organization institute of technology 
lines 12 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 


if gamma ray are , would from the 
be expected how is the galactic core to gamma 
rays 

how much energy does a put out i know energy depends on 
distance , which is unknown .  . an answer of the form x per 
2 is ok. 



john 

from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject which  ( was re in temporary orbit around jupiter ) 
organization national 
lines 30 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( mark brader ) writes 

also , s of were 

thanks again. one final question. the name was n't known to 
me before this thread came up , but the may issue of scientific american 
has an article about the , with a photo of neil 
, project scientist for nasa 's compton gamma ray  . 
same person 

i would guess not. dr. neil of is the son of dr. tom 
of the university of arizona .  . since he 's long had research 
interests in and other system astronomy , tom is the 
one more likely to have discovered a  ( and thus had his name 
attached to it) .  . 

tom is a leader in the project , which has recently 
increased mankind 's rate on near earth  ( they 're 
finding a couple every  . for much more on this interesting guy , 
read his , on a sea . 

do you know the , mr . ... bill 
hundreds of thousands of them. all 
around the sun in strange 
orbits .  . some never named , never 
 . the of the 
system , mr.  . 

and you want to become a father .  . 
moon zero two 

from  ( 21012d ) 
subject re talking to about type stuff from a perspective. 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 9 


i might suggest giving the some more time by asking 
the very question  ( in two or three parts ) 
what are your long term expectations of space market , what 
specifically are they funding by internal funds and at what levels 
and what competition do you expect in this area.  ( this last point 
is always worth hitting with if you want 
them to think and as hard as you can if you have a good case that 
there really is competion ) 

from  ( james thomas green ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
article i.d. zeus . 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 32 

 ( pat ) 


some birds require constant for survival .  . pointing a at 
the sun , even when down , may burn it out. pointing a 
at , from orbit may trash the 
elements .  . 

what i was getting at in my post is whether or not it might be 
possible to put enough brains on board future deep space 
for them to automatically avoid such things as looking at the 
sun or going into an  . 

i heard once that the had a built in 
that essentially says if you never hear from earth again , 
here 's what to do. this was a back up in the event a receiver 
out but the could still send data  ( limited , but 
still some  . 

even if you let teh , it may get by some 
cosmic phenomena .  . 

since this would be a that may never be for 
, if some type of cosmic took out the , it might 
not be such a big loss. obviously you ca n't plan for 
everything , but the most obvious things can be considered .  . 


( james t. green ) ( ) 
i know you believe you understand what it is that you 
think i said. but i am not sure that you realize that 
what i said is not what i meant. 

from  ( dan kelo ) 
subject m 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 7 


how  some more info on that alleged in m 
i might just break out the for this one. 

no sir , i do n't like it ! mr. horse 
dan 


from  ( mary shafer ) 
subject re crazy or just 
in reply to 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 04 54 03 gmt 
organization nasa , , cal .  . 
lines 25 

on thu , 22 apr 1993 04 54 03 gmt , said 

so some of my ideas are a bit odd , off the and such , but 
so was and , and quite a few others .  .  . 

this is a common misconception .  . there was nothing off the 
about the brothers .  . they were in with a number 
of other  ( octave , , etc ) , they flew 
models , they had a wind  . in short , they were quite mainstream 
and were not regarded as odd or by the community. 

i suggest you read the 's or the by 
(i can never remember which it is the guy that had the 
and owned for a  . these are both in print and easily 
 . the 's is in trade paperback , even .  . 

even better would be the volume set of the  writings , 
but this is out of print , rare , and expensive .  . 




mary nasa research , , ca 
of course i do n't speak for nasa 
a at your is better than no at all. unknown us 

from  ( michael f. santangelo ) 
subject re space station redesign , alternative 4 
organization university of maryland , biological 
lines 47 
nntp posting host umd . edu . 

 ( david b. mckissock ) writes 

 .  .  . text . of options a and b deleted .  .  .  . 

option c single core launch station .  . 
this is the lead option. basically , you take a 23 
that 's long , 3 space main on 
the , put a nose on the top , attached it to a 
regular external and a regular set of solid rocket 
, and launch the can. some key features are 
complete end to end ground and 
4 mounted fixed 
body mounted  ( which protection against 
orbital debris ) 
2  ( one on each end ) 
7 
a single volume , approximately 26 , 000 feet 
 ( twice the volume of  . 
7 , center between 
10 of power 

only 

with failures  ( 8 power , 4 thermal 
loops , dual environmental control life support system ) 
increased time for 
1 g thru out the core 

ha ! north america space station construction ) 
same , same reasoning construction occurs under assembly 
line conditions , no random problems site work 
on your home better quality control sounds like first 
point above ) 

somehow i have a strange attraction for this idea  ( living in 
a home maybe has altered my  . the only thing 
that me is the part about simply 3 's and 
a on it and just it. i have this vision 
of something going terribly wrong with the launch resulting in the 
complete loss of the new space station  ( not just a of 
it as would be the case with in orbit  . 



michael f. internet work 
dept. head computer network systems home 
 ( solomons island ) bitnet to 

subject space faq 03 15 data sources 
from  ( jon leech ) 
expires 6 may 1993 19 55 35 gmt 
organization university of north , hill 
keywords frequently asked questions 
supersedes data 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
lines 

archive name space data 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 07 

and other sources of images , data , etc. 


introduction 

a wide variety of images , data , , information , and 
other material dealing with space and astronomy may be found on the net. 
a few sites offer direct access or remote access , while the 
remainder support some form of file  . many sites are listed as 
providing  anonymous  . this refers to the file on 
the internet .  . sites not connected to the internet cannot use ftp 
directly , but there are a few ftp which operates via 
email. send mail containing only the word help to 
or , and the will send you instructions 
on how to make requests .  . 

the sources with the broadest selection of material are the nasa ames 
space archive and the national space science data center .  . 

do n't even ask for images to be posted to the net. the data volume is 
huge and nobody wants to spend the time on it. 


images 

the possible combinations of image and machines is 
large , and i wo n't attempt to cover common  ( gif , etc . ) . here. to 
read and  ( and many other ) on unix systems running x , 
use 2 . 11 . , available by anonymous ftp from mit . edu . 
24 . 0 . in 2 . 11 . z . and the other standard ftp 
sites .  . 

the faq for the usenet group alt . pictures . discusses image 
and how to get image software .  . a copy of this document 
is available by anonymous ftp from the usenet faq archives at 
mit . edu . 72 . 1 . , in directory 
pub usenet alt . pictures .  . 


archives 

nasa ames 

extensive archives are at nasa ames and are available via 
anonymous ftp or an email server .  . these archives include many images and 
a wide variety of documents including this faq list , nasa press 
, launch , and mission status reports .  . please 
note that these are not on an official basis. 

ftp users should connect to ames . nasa . gov . 102 . 18 . 3) . and look in 
pub space .  . pub space index contains a listing of files available in the 
archive  ( the index is about by  . 

to access the archives by email , send a letter to 
archive  ( or ames ! archive  . in the 
subject of your letter  ( or in the body ) , use commands like 

send space index 
send space 23 . 91 .  . 

the of the names is important. all are in 
caps .  . only text files are by the email server at present use 
one of the ftp email described in the introduction to this 
section for images or programs. 

the and jupiter , , and image 
have been put in the and  . the 
will be on a weekly basis. thousands of images are 
available in these collections .  . 

the directory contains images in format .  . the directory 
contains images in format  ( these are also available in 
the  . a pc program capable of these files is 
found in the directory  ( see the item images below) .  . 

the nasa media guide describes the various nasa and how to 
contact their public affairs officers this may be useful when 
specific information. it 's in misc media . guide .  . 

any problems with the archive server should be reported to peter 



nasa data system 

the is a data system which is easy to use and 
provides uniform access to ground based and space based astronomy data 
from nasa data across the country. it currently has over 
data of radio , , , , and x ray data which can 
be queried by position or any other in the catalog .  . the 
also provides tools to and plot results. in addition , 
has a version of an service which allows users to 
over , 000 of astronomy papers since by authors , 
keywords , title words , or abstract text words. 

use requires direct internet access. for more info and to sign up to 
become a user , email the user 's guide and 
guide are available by anonymous ftp to ftp . edu . 
in directory pub user guide  ( postscript  . 

contact carolyn stern grant 


nasa lab  ( mission information and images ) 

jpl . nasa . gov . 6 . is an anonymous ftp site operated by 
the jpl public information office , containing news , status 
reports , fact sheets , images , and other data on jpl  . it may 
also be reached by at  ( 818 )  ( no , 8 data bits , 1 
stop  . 

contact or phone  ( 818 )  . 


nasa  ( technical reports ) 

nasa . gov . is an anonymous ftp site offering technical 
reports .  . to get started , to directory pub and 
files and  . most files are 
 . the reports are also in a with the following 
description 

( source 
version 3 
name nasa . gov . 

name nasa 
cost 0 . 00 . 
cost free 

description nasa research center technical reports 

contact 


nasa 

is an service at marshall space center 
in ,  . the system is specifically designed for 
teachers .  . the data base is to provide easy access to current 
and historical information on nasa , space research , and 
technology information. also included are suggested 
activities that incorporate information on nasa to teach a 
number of scientific principles .  . unlike board systems , nasa 
does not provide for interaction between  . however it 
does allow teachers and other to leave questions and comments 
for nasa which may be answered by regular mail .  . messages are answered 
, even to acknowledge requests which will be fulfilled by 
mail .  . messages are generally the next working day except during 
when times increase .  . the mail system is closed loop 
between the user and nasa .  . 

also and public domain programs 
useful for science as well as space and images 
from nasa 's and the  . 

you can in at  ( 205 )  ( 300 1200 , 8 
bits , no , 1 stop bit ) , or to nasa . gov . 
13 . 250 . , also known as nasa . if you 're on the 
internet .  . anonymous ftp capability  ( password guest ) is now available. 

most of this information is also available from the ames server in 
directory  . 


national space science data center  ( nssdc ) 

the national space science data center is the official for 
nasa data .  . the data catalog ( not the data itself ) is available  . 
internet users can to nasa . gov . 36 . and 
log in as    ( no  . you can also get the catalog by sending 
email to 

you can also in at  ( 301 )  ( 300 , 1200 , or , 8 bits , 
no , one  . at the enter number , enter md and 
return. when the system responds call complete , enter a few 
more returns to get the and log in as    ( no 
 . 

the system is driven available as of 3 93 are 

1 master directory nasa change 
2 information system 
3 7 data 
4 medium data  ( omni ) 
5 request data and or information from 
6 models 
7 newsletter 
8 international data request 
9 and order utility 
10 data center  ( adc ) 
11 step board service 
12 standards and technology information system 
13 science project information 
14 other data services at 
15 available at 

for users with internet access , are made available via 
anonymous ftp once you select the desired from the 
catalog .  . for other users , data may be ordered on and in other 
 . among the many types of data available are , , 
and other images , earth observation data , and star  . 
for and ibm systems are also available. as an example 
of the cost , an 8 set of images is 75 .  . data may ordered 
, by email , or by physical mail .  . the address is 

national space science data center 
request office 
space center 
code 
, md 

telephone  ( 301 ) 

email address 


space science institute electronic information service 

edu . 1 . has a large amount of information about the 
space available by anonymous ftp , such as status 
reports and , in addition to material oriented towards 
observers and  . get the top level file to begin with. 
contact or chris o 





the space european , at 
provides on line access to a huge , 

observation log files of several 
 ( iue , , ,  .  . ) .  . 
and images  ( iue ,  . 
most of the  ( sao , , , , , 
, and many others , more than 50 ) in a very convenient 
way  ( give center kind of objects , and you get the 
files ! ) .  . 

log on as    ( no password ) on node org . 
8 . or on  . the files created can be 
by ftp .  . contact ,  ( phone 49 
89 320 06 433 ) at 




the full is not available , probably due to 
the 40 size. it may be ordered on magnetic from the  . a 
subset containing position and magnitude only is available by ftp  ( see 
astronomy programs below) .  . 

fi . 6 . has a large collection of 
programs for many types of computers , of stars and deep sky 
objects , and general astronomy information in directory pub  . this 
site is mainly for european users , but are 
possible. 

the ames archives contain a of 8 , including name , 
, , magnitude , and in misc  . 
by wayne 

ca . 18 . has a number of from , 
, and other sources available by anonymous ftp in pub  ( most of 
this data is also in space on the ames  . please restrict 
access to atlantic time. 

edu . has the yale bright star catalog for anonymous ftp 
in directory  . yale . . contact james 


the guide star catalog is available on for the mac and pc 
for 49 . us  ( catalog  . 

society of the 
 . 
san francisco , ca 
phone  ( 415 ) 9 am 3 time 
fax  ( 415 ) 

for german  ( and possibly other european ) readers , has a 
service to distribute data to interested at cost .  . 
about 30 40 are available for 6 .  . 8 .  . several 
are available. because of the expense of receiving email on his 
system , he asks that you contact him by physical mail 


11 
w 
germany 
phone 


astronomy programs 

various astronomy related programs and posted to the net in 
the past are for anonymous ftp at multiple sites , including 
ftp . net . 39 . 1 .  . also see the ftp list posted to sci . 
monthly , which is more complete than this list. 

space related sources of interest in sources . unix . 

volume 8 moon and date routines 
volume 12 , 13 program yale star data 
volume 15 shows moon picture on 
volume 16 reduced catalog 

space related sources of interest in sources . misc . 

volume 8 moon another moon program 
volume 11 program , version 3 . 2 . 
volume 11 orbit orbit track earth 
volume 12 program , update to version 3 . 2 . 1 . 
volume 13 for jupiter 's major in 
volume 13  ( not sure what this does ) 
volume 14 4 . 21 . , 21 . 
volume 14 orbit patch to orbit 3 . 7 . 
volume 18 planet planet generation 

(e , the author of 
, has offered to mail copies to people who ca n't find it on one 
of the archives .  . 

, an x system based program , is 
available by anonymous ftp from mit . edu . 24 . 0 . in 
0 . z .  . contact dave 
for more information. 

, a sky for the x system , is available for 
anonymous ftp on arizona . edu . in the directory  . software . unix . as 
 . contact r. for 
more information. 

the stars analysis software archive is available via 
anonymous ftp from ac . 11 . 3) . in directory 
pub  . this is intended for in this field , and they 
would appreciate people from outside new their ftp 
access to the directory , as they pay a significant amount for 
internet access. contents are relatively at present due to the 
youth of the archive contributions are encouraged .  . contact the archive 
administrator , timothy banks for more 
information. 

the astronomy users library is available by anonymous ftp from 
nasa . gov . 57 .  . this is a central for 
general purpose astronomy written in , a image 
, , and programming language. contact wayne 
for more information. 


orbital element sets 

the most recent orbital elements from the nasa prediction are 
carried on the celestial bbs ,  ( 513 )  . documentation and 
software are also available on this system. the celestial bbs may be 
24 hours day at , 1200 , or using 8 data bits , 1 
stop bit , no  . 

orbital element sets are available via anonymous ftp from the 
following sites 

archive . 1 . nasa , , 
directory pub space 

ftp . fi . 6 . nasa , , , , 
directory pub pc ( ) 

jpl . nasa . gov . 1 . nasa , 
directory pub space 


space digest archives 

copies of back issues of space digest are on 
send mail containing the message index space to 
get an index of files send it the message get to 
get a particular file. 


and nasa 

you can get black and white 1 , , or for 
10 , 18 , 12 respectively for any data more than 2 years old 
from ,  ( eros  ( earth resources satellite ) data  . call 
them at  ( 605 )  . you get 80 resolution from the 
, on a picture in size. i think you 
have to select one from  ( green , red , near , second near ir ) , but 
i'm not sure. data is also available at higher  . 

of all nasa available to the public can be 
borrowed from the nasa photo archive you can have copies or 
made. 

nasa 
north 
view , ca 
 ( 415 ) 




the address for of the planets is 

u.s. survey , 
distribution branch , 
box , federal center ,  . 41 
denver , co 

cost 2 . 40 . to 3 . 10 . per (a few come in sets of 2 or 3  . 

the best of based on viking images are 1 15 , 000 , 000 
scale in 3 sheets .  . these are 

i  ( 2 sheets only ) relief , , names 
i 
i (3 sheets ) relief , names 
i (3 sheets ) relief , 
i a , b , c (3 sheets ) 

there are many other as well 30 sheets at 1 5 , 000 , 000 scale in 
relief , , , forms  ( not all 30 sheets available 
in all formats ) sheets at 1 2 , 000 , 000 scale as of the 
whole planet , about 100 sheets of interesting sites at 1 , 000 scale 
in format , and lots of special sheets .  . 

then there are of , , the moon , the four 
, of and five of  . 
, the author of this item , has offered to 
respond to email requests for information on any topic to 
and  . 


orbit data 

the central bureau for and the minor planet 
center announce the sixth edition of the of orbits in 
circular  . the contains which represent 
all known through 1989 and is pages long .  . 
non to the may the for 15 . 00 . 
while the cost to is 7 . 50 .  . the basic in ascii 
along with a program to extract specific orbits and 
is available on dos 5 . 25 . diskette at a cost of 
75 . 00 .  ( the program requires an math  . the 
alone is also available by e mail for 37 . 50 . or on magnetic for 
00 .  . 

except for the printed version of the , the various magnetic 
media or e mail forms of the do not specifically 
non  . it is possible that these forms of the may 
not be available to non or that their may be more 
expensive than those given. mail requests for specific information and 
orders to 

central bureau for 

cambridge , ma , usa 


next faq 4 15 calculations and interpreting data 

from  ( pack rat ) 
subject launch question 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 16 

there has been something bothering me while watching 
nasa select for a while. well , i should nt say 
bothering , maybe wondering would be better. when 
they are going to launch they say  ( sorry but i forget 
exactly who is saying what , to i think) 
clear warning memory. verify no 
errors. ... . i am wondering what an expected error might 
be. sorry if this is a really question , but 
inquiring minds just gotta know .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

yeah , yeah , i know , its those again ! 

, bitnet 
academic computing facilities internet 
texas tech university 
, tx  ( 806 ) fax  ( 806 ) 

from  ( jurriaan wittenberg ) 
subject re update 04 16 93 
organization university , dept. of computer science 
keywords , jpl 
lines 29 

in 
 ( ron baalke ) writes 

from doug griffith , project 

status report 
april 16 , 1993 


2. has orbits of and is now 39 days from 
the end of cycle 4 and the start of the experiment .  . 
sorry i think i missed a bit of info on this experiment .  . what is it 

4. on monday morning , april 19 , the moon will and 
interrupt the of for about minutes. 
will this mean a loss of data or will the data later on 

btw when will nasa cut off the connection with not that i am 
looking forward to that day but i am just curious. i believe it had something 
to do with the funding from the  ( or rather no funding ) 

ok that 's it for now. see you guys around , 
 . 




department of 
the 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re command loss  ( re update 04 22 93 ) 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 20 
nntp posting host access . net . 
keywords , jpl 



interesting question about  . 

's is stuck .  . 

the was left closed , because had a  . 

if the were pointed he sun , near , it would 
the elements .  . 

question why could n't 's course have been 
designed such that the did not ever do a sun point. 

after all , it would normally be aimed at earth anyway 

or would it be that an emergency situation i.e. 
and seek might have caused an sun point 



from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re colony race ! by or 
organization u of 
lines 18 

in article  ( matthew r. feulner ) writes 
need to find for prize money. 

my first thought is  . after further consideration , i think he 'd 
be more likely to try to win it .  .  . but . come in a third .  . 
try bill  . try 's kids .  . 

when the society 's estimate of the cost of a colony was 
mentioned at making orbit , somebody asked jerry have you talked 
to bill . the answer yes. he says that if he were going to 
that much money into it , he 'd want to run it and he does n't have 
the time. 

 ( somebody then asked him about  . answer having on your 
board may be a bigger problem than not having the money. ) 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

organization queen 's university at 
from 
subject re gamma ray  . where are they 

lines 8 

if all of these things have been detected in space , has anyone 
looked into possible problems with the 

that is , is there some mechanism  ( cosmic rays , whatever ) that 
could cause the to think it was seeing one of these 
things 



from  ( gene wright ) 
subject why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization the of ,  . 
lines 12 

with the talk about the end of the space age and 
by government over the large cost , why not try something i read about 
that might just work. 

announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year .  . 
then you 'd see some of the but not popular begin 
to be developed .  . there 'd be a different kind of space race then ! 


 ( gene wright ) 
net . the of 

from  ( david ward ) 
subject re launch question 
news software vax vms 1.4 
organization space center lab 
distribution sci 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( pack rat ) writes .  .  .  . 
there has been something bothering me while watching 
nasa select for a while. well , i should nt say 
bothering , maybe wondering would be better. when 
they are going to launch they say  ( sorry but i forget 
exactly who is saying what , to i think) 
clear warning memory. verify no 
errors. ... . i am wondering what an expected error might 
be. sorry if this is a really question , but 


in pure speculation , i would guess based on 
pre launch ops would qualify .  . something like 
have just been armed .  . 

it does raise an interesting question as to how hard it is to 
pick out an expected error from an error in the 
of the moment .  . 

from  ( robert , , , ) 
subject re space 
reply to 
organization space science institute , baltimore md 
lines 14 

another fish to check out is richard he works 
for missiles , but is on site at nasa johnson .  . 

johnson at sciences in  . and his 
friend , at in , va .  . 

good luck. 

r. 

behind every general is his wife .  .  .  .  . and .  .  .  . 
behind every hillary is a bill . . 



from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject available 
organization 
lines 90 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 


images 
april 15 , 1993 


two images of the over the northern and southern 
are now available at the jpl info public access site. these 
were produced by the limb sounder aboard the atmosphere 
research  ( uars ) , and are courtesy of the public information office 
at jpl .  . note that the images are in format , so make sure your display 
software supports this format  ( as opposed to the older  . the 
files accompanying the images are at the end of this message , 
as well as being embedded in the images .  . the images are available by 
at 1  ( 818 ) , up to , n 8 1 , or by using 
anonymous ftp to 

ftp jpl . nasa . gov . 6 . 
user anonymous 
news  ( will be moved to the images directory in 30 days ) 
files northern 
southern 

also , of these images can be ordered from newell color 
lab listed below. refer to the p number associated with the images when 
 . 

newell color lab 
n .  . avenue 
los ca 
telephone  ( 213 ) 
fax  ( 213 ) 




public information office 

california institute of technology 
national and space 
pasadena ,  .  . telephone  ( 818 ) 

photo p 
april 14 , 1993 

this depicts and over earth 's 
northern in february 1992 and 1993 .  . these were 
produced by the limb sounder aboard the 
atmosphere research  . the  ( clo ) 
 ( left ) are for a about 20  ( 66 , 000 feet ) above 
the earth 's surface on february 17 , 1992  ( above ) and 1993 
 . the show the total amount above an 
of about 12  ( 41 , 000 feet ) over the period 
from february 15 to march 6 for the two years. the 
limb sounder , developed and operated by a team at nasa 's 
, is one of several on the 
space center 's atmosphere research 
, in september 1991. 




public information office 

california institute of technology 
national and space 
pasadena ,  .  . telephone  ( 818 ) 

photo p 
april 14 , 1993 

this depicts  ( clo ) and the 
hole .  . these , produced by the limb sounder 
aboard the atmosphere research , show the amount 
of  ( left ) and  ( right ) in the 
at above 20  ( 66 , 000  . very small 
of appear where there are large of 
, the dominant form of that destroys 
 . data from september 21 , 1991  ( top ) are compared with 
those from september 20 , 1992  . the limb 
sounder , developed and operated by a team at nasa 's 
, is one of several on 
space center 's atmosphere research 
september 12 , 1991. 

ron 
lab 
) m s being cynical never helps 
pasadena , ca to correct the situation 
and causes more 
instead. 

from 
subject re mission name 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 27 

mark 

please go just one step further 
how has the word been associated with 

old song from the 's or so goes as follows 

in a , in a canyon , 
for a mine , 
a , forty , 
and his daughter , 


oh my , oh my , 
oh my  . 
you are lost and gone forever , 
oh my  . 

i 've also had it explained  ( but not confirmed from a reliable data 
source ) that is an acronym .  . something like combined 
experiment on extended non terrestrial 
near earth. personally , i think that acronym was made up 
to fit the name  ( if it really is an  . 

space technology investor 

maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject re activities on the moon 


organization 
lines 53 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 20 48 38 gmt 

in article  ( paul dietz ) writes 

in article  ( gary coffman ) writes 

be the site of major activity. as far as we know it has no 
materials we ca n't get right here on earth or from 
and , aside from the semi mythic that might be useful in low 
grade fusion  . 

problem with  ( aside from the difficulty in making any fusion 
reactor work ) is that its concentration in is just so 
small on the order of 5 or so , on average  ( more in some 

this thread reminds me of 's claims some time ago about the moon 
as a source of for use on earth. as i recall , was n't 
... 
even 1 of the are 5 , this is trillions of tons of 
at only a factor of 2 3 less than in high 
 . it is difficult to see how the of the moon 
could be overcome by such a small increase the concentration of the 
 ( never mind the , but less common , terrestrial being 
 . 

why paul , it 's obvious. 
once chemistry has been on earth , 
as is being advocated by some groups , will 
increase  ( we are of course not allowed to 
assume any developments in  . 
will then be eminently for 
the trendy market and certain applications 
of national importance 

) ) ) 


 ( oops , this is sci . space .  .  .  . wrong rules of debate ) 


seriously , i 'd say there is a flaw in 's analysis 
in that he assumes an oriented economy , maybe 
the lunatics will just want some native for local 
use .  .  .  . as to why are cost effective , 
analysis has shown they will be critical in providing 
a manufacturing base , , 
critical materials and in the war between 
the allies and central powers in about two hundred years .  .  .  . 

) 

i saw two shooting stars last night 
i wished on them but they were only 
is it wrong to wish on space hardware 
standard disclaimer i wish , i wish , i wish you 'd care b . b .  . 

from  ( george f. krumins ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 59 

 ( greg nicholls ) writes 

in george f. writes 
it is so typical that the rights of the minority are by the 
wants of the majority , no matter how ridiculous those wants might be. 
umm , perhaps you could explain what  rights  we are talking about 
here  .  .  . 

greg ... 
or 


i was suggesting that the minority of and amateur 
have the right to a dark , night sky .  . 

let me give you an example. when you watch tv , they have to pay 
for the programming .  . you accept that as part of watching .  . if you do n't like 
it , you can turn it off. if you want to view the night sky , and there is a 
floating out there , you ca n't turn it off. it 's the same 
reasoning that limits in areas .  . 

writes 
george .  . 

it 's called a democracy .  . the majority rules. sorry. 
if do n't like it , i suggest you the constitution to include 
a constitutional right to dark skies .  . the theory of government 
here is that the majority rules , except in the nature of fundamental 
civil rights. 

i say 
any reasonably in depth of american history will show 
you that many have continued the practices of prejudice , 
discrimination , and violence against others of different 
races , religions , and beliefs , despite the law. 

says 
if you really are , get some legislation 
to create a dark sky , where in all light are protected 
in the  . kind of like the national radio quiet  . did you 
know about that near teh radio in west virginia , 
they have a 90  . theoretically they can prevent 
you from running light ac , like air and  . 
in practice , they use it mostly to control large radio users. 

i say 
what i'm objecting to here is a floating that , presumably , 
would move around in the sky .  . i , for one , am against 
at all. i just wish that people had a bit of common courtesy , and 
would consider how their greed for money the more and 
aesthetic values that make us human. this includes the need for wild 
and things , including the night sky .  . 

george 

george the and the rainbow 
. . 
 ( o ) 


from 
subject crazy or just 
lines 20 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

i have a nice quote that i like  ( or as close as i can remember it) .  . 

if i say something that you think is crazy , ask me what i mean before you think 
its crazy .  .  . 

so some of my ideas are a bit odd , off the and such , but so was and 
, and quite a few others .  .  . sorry if i do not have the big degrees 
and such , but i think (i might be wrong , to error is human ) i have something 
that is in many ways just as important , i have imagination , dreams .  . and without 
dreams all the knowledge is worthless .  .  . 

sorry my two worth .  . or is it two worth 

the basic quote idea is from h. beam book space . its a good 
book on how civilization can fall , and how it can be raised to new heights .  . 

unfortunately h. beam killed him self just weeks short of having his 
first book published , and have his ideas see light .  .  . such a waste. 



from  ( pat ) 
subject re positions 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 7 
nntp posting host access . net . 

c 3 's may be out and expecting to die soon. 

or c 3 may orbit over major users areas , and it may be 
needed to provide on that plane while b 4 may orbit 
over , and not have of a user community. 



from  ( bruce watson ) 
subject re !  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization science computer network , denver , co .  . 
lines 19 

in article  ( kevin w. plaxco ) writes 
in article  ( bruce watson ) writes 

once the substance was no longer 
needed since there is nothing to cause the to collapse .  . 
this structure could suffer multiple holes with no 
 . 

 ( and the internal that was needed to maintain 
a shape against this resistance ) caused them to 
 . the large 

the should pop like a  . 

no , you 're wrong about this. give me some time to get my references .  . 



bruce watson 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re race , nasa resources , why 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 9 
nntp posting host access . net . 


henry , 

did n't the little joe and big joe get built in under a year 
6 months for little joe , and 12 months for big joe 

i thought i saw something on that for a old film .  . 



from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re for fred  ( was re space station ) 
article i.d. zoo . 
organization u of 
lines 28 

in article  ( josh hopkins ) writes 
ai n't cheap 
granted .  . but that 's because 's are bought by the  . 
iii is actually the way to put a in space of all us 
 . 

in that case it 's rather ironic that they are doing so poorly on the 
market .  . is there a single iii on order 

the problem with is that has made little or no attempt 
to market it. they 're basically happy with their government business and 
do n't want to have to learn how to sell  . 

a secondary problem is that it is a bit big .  . they 'd need to go after 
, a la , and that the 
task quite  . 

they also had some problems with launch facilities at just the wrong time 
to get them started properly. if memory serves , the used for the 
observer launch had just come out of heavy work that had 
prevented from it for a year or so. 

there have been a few ct  . observer was one of them. so 
was that , and at least one of its brothers that reached 
orbit properly. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from 
subject re nasa 
organization university of houston 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( allen w. sherzer ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 

i do n't care who told you this it is not generally true. i see every single 
line item on a contract and i have to sign it. there is no such thing as 
at this university .  . 

, i have worked on or written worth tens of millions 
of . included government  ( including nasa ) , for profit and 
non profit  . all expected a  ( usually called a  . much 
of the work involved and costing the work of  . 
the where universities , for , non , and 
even some of the nasa for the of space .  . all 
charged as part of the work. down the street is one of the nasa 
they charge a fee .  . 


you totally forgot the original post that you posted allen .  . in that post 
you stated that the was on top of and in addition to any  . 
in this post you finally admit that this is not true. 

now , i'm sure your a engineer , but you clearly lack 
experience in several areas .  . your posts show that you do n't understand 
the importance of in large  . you also show a lack 
of understanding of costing efforts as shown by your belief that it 
is reasonable to charge costs for everything. this is n't 
a flame , a statement. 

come your little down here and you will find out who is doing 
what and who is working on  . this is simply an ad 
attack and you know it. 


your employer does charge a fee .  . you may not see it but you do. 


of course there is a fee .  . it is for  . allen any 
organization has costs but there is a heck of a difference in legitimate 
costs , such as and other things that must be there to support 
a program and as you originally stated it . you . stated that 
was on top of all of the which a couple of sentences down you 
say is not true. which is it allen 

sounds like they are adding it to their rate .  . go ask your 
costing people how much fee they add to a project .  . 

i did they never heard of it but suggest that , like our president did , that 
any percentage number like this is included in the  . 

well there you are  . as i said , they simply include the fee in 
their  . many the fee since the fee structure can 
change depending on the customer .  . 


as you have posted on this subject allen , you state that is over and 
above and is a charge .  . you admit here that this is wrong. 
nasa has a line item every year .  . i have seen it allen .  . get some 
numbers from that detailed nasa and dig out the numbers and then 
to high heaven about it. until you do that you are in the wind .  . 

no allen you did not. you merely repeated allegations made by an 
of the capital of nasa .  . 

, , is n't  . 

nothing that reston does could not be dont 
better or at the other nasa where the work is going on. 


could be done better at the  . was 
done here at and that did not turn out so bad. the philosophy of 
reston is totally wrong allen .  . there you have a bunch of people who are 
completely removed from the work that they are trying to  . there 
is no way that will ever work. it has never worked in any large scale project 
that it was ever tried on. could you imagine a reston like set up for 


, reston has been the only nasa agency working to reduce costs .  . when 
02 was out a billion , the you love so much where 
doing their best to cover it up and ignore the problem. reston was the 
only place you would find people actually interested in the 
problems and building a station .  . 


oh you are full of it allen on this one. i agree that up big .  . 
they should be responsible for that up and the people that caused it 
replaced .  . to make a stupid statement like that just shows how deep your 
bias goes. come to for a couple of weeks and you will find out just 
how wrong you really are. maybe not , people like you believe exactly what 
they want to believe no matter what the facts are contrary to it. 

kinda funny is n't it that someone who talks about a problem like this is 
at a place where everything is  . 

when you have a bit more experience , you will realize that 
is n't  . it is the single most important part 
of a successful large scale effort .  . 


i agree that is the single most important part of a successful 
large scale effort .  . what i disagree with is that 
function from the people that are doing the work. it is called 
leadership allen .  . that is what made work. final responsibility for 
the success of was held by less than 50 people. that is leadership 
and responsibility .  . there is neither when you have any organization set up 
as reston is. you could take the same people and move them to or 
and they could do a much better job. why did it take a year for reston to 
finally say something about the problem if they were on site and part of the 
process then the problem would have never gotten out of hand in the first place. 

there is one heck of a lot i do not know allen , but one thing i do know is that 
for a project to be successful you must have leadership .  . i remember all of the 
turn over at reston that kept program in for years do you it is 
lack of responsibility and leadership that is the programs problem. lack of 
leadership from the white house , congress and at reston .  . nasa is only a 
of a greater national problem. you are so narrowly in your 
efforts that you do not see this. 

why did the space news point out that it was the 
demanded change that caused the problems that you are being 
selective with the facts again. 

the story you refer to said that some nasa people blamed it on 
congress .  .  . the fact remains that it is the 
you support so much who covered up the and would n't address 
the problems until the press published the story. 

are you saying the reston where wrong to get nasa to address 
the you approve of what the did to cover up the 


no , i am saying that if they were at it never would have 
happened in the first place. 

if it takes four a year to the station and you have a cost 
of million a then you pay 2 billion a year .  . you stated that your 
friend at reston said that with the current station they could it 
for a billion a year if the were gone . this merely points out a 
in your numbers that you fail to see. 

you should know that nasa does n't include transport costs for 
 . that comes from the  . what they where saying 
is that costs could be cut in half plus transport .  . 

sorry but i have a for a so someone else is going 
to have to do allen 's math for him for a while. i will have little chance to 
do so. 

i do hope you can find the time to tell us just why it was wrong of 
reston to ask that the problems with 02 be addressed .  . 

i have the time to one more that if the leadership that is 
at reston was on site at the problem never would have happened , totally 
ignoring the lack of leadership of congress .  . this many headed that 
has grown up at nasa is the true problem of the agency and to try to 
change the question to suit you and your bias is only of 
your position. 

, university of in 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re free  ( was stephen hawking jpl ) 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 8 
nntp posting host access . net . 
keywords jpl 



joe , 

your description sounds like one of the gravity 
ideas. 



from 
subject space station redesign , alternative 4 
organization nasa , space program office 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 

i have 19  ( 2 worth ! ) 'd images contain 
one of the many alternative space station designs being considered in 
city. mr. mark works down the hall from me , and can 
be reached for comment at  ( 713 ) , or via e mail at 


mark proposed this design , which he calls ( rough on the 
outside , but a gem on the inside ) or the et with 
integrated and  . as you can see from file 
, it uses a space external  ( et ) in place of much 
of the which is currently part of space station freedom .  . the 
white track on the outside of the et is used by the station 
system  ( srms ) and by the reaction control system  ( rcs ) 
 . this allows the to move along the track so that 
can occur near the center of gravity  ( cg ) of the station as the mass 
properties of the station change during assembly .  . 

the design allows the to more easily because 
it can approach closer to the station 's and at a strong 
part of the station .  . in the current design , forces are 
limited to 400 pounds , which seriously the design of the 
system. 

the et would have a pre , with little additional 
launch mass .  . we 've always had the ability to put an et into orbit 
 ( contrary to some which have here ) , but we 've never 
had a reason to do it , while we have had some good reasons not to 
 ( performance penalties , control , generation , and eventual 
de orbit and impact  . once on orbit , we would the 
 . the et  ( sofi ) either a ) on orbit from 
impact with atomic oxygen , or b ) where it is , and we a 
around it to protect it and keep it from 
the local space environment. option b ) has the advantage of providing 
further protection. the et is incredibly strong  ( remember , 
it supports the whole stack during launch ) , and could serve as the 
for a much more design as  . 

the white at the end of et contains a set of control moment 
to be used for attitude control , while the will be used 
for  . the also contains a de orbit system 
which can be used at the end of the station 's life to perform a 
controlled de orbit  ( so we do n't kill any more , like we 
did with  . 

the , which has the same volume as a , could be 
used for long term studies of the effects of or gravity 
on humans. the will be used as a device 
for the whole attitude control system. the is mounted on 
one of the , opposite the et and the  . 

this design uses most of the existing designs for electrical , 
data and systems , getting from the work 
done to date. 

mark proposed this design at joe 's in city , 
and he reports that he was received .  . however , the 
i hear say that a design based on a space 
seems more likely. 

please note that this text is my interpretation of mark 's design 
you should see his notes in the files. 

instead of posting a 2 file to sci . space . , i tried to post these for 
anon ftp in ames . nasa . gov . , but it was out of space .  . i 'll 
let you all know when i get that done. 

ken , nasa , space program office 
 ( 713 ) 

 .  .  . development . of the space station is as inevitable as 
the of the sun .  . von 

from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re faqs 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 10 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( bev freed ) writes 
i was wondering if the faq files could be posted quarterly rather than monthly 
. every 28 30 days , i get this feeling .  . 

or just stick 'em on sci . space . news . every 28 30 days 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  . giaquinto ) 
subject general information request 
organization polytechnic institute , , ma 
lines 11 
nntp posting host edu . 


i am looking for any information about the space program .  . 
this includes nasa , the , history , anything ! i would like to 
know if anyone could suggest books , , even ftp sites for a 
who is interested in the space program .  . 







from  ( dave tholen ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization institute for astronomy , hawaii 
lines 17 

g. writes 

mark writes 

thanks again. one final question. the name was n't known to 
me before this thread came up , but the may issue of scientific american 
has an article about the , with a photo of neil 
, project scientist for nasa 's compton gamma ray  . 
same person 

no. i estimate a probability the referred to 
is thomas of the project ,  . 

you may change that to 100 certainty .  . but to clarify , is a 
university of arizona project using a of the 
on  . it is not associated with national 
, other than a  . 

from  ( arthur chandler ) 
subject mission 
organization california state university , 
lines 6 


did the  ( spacecraft(s ) on the ill mission a few 
years ago send back any images of the moon if so , does anyone know if 
they 're at an ftp site 
thanks. 


from 
subject re nasa 
organization university of houston 
lines 86 
distribution world 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( allen w. sherzer ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 

btw , universities do the same thing. they however , have a of 
10 to 15  ( again , this is over and above any  . 

wrong allen .  . the charge is all of the charge .  . there is no 
in any shape size form or fashion .  . 

a professor at the university of virginia told me their was about 
15 . the i have let out and worked on for other universities 
are about the same. my employer (a non profit research institute ) does 
the same. this is generally to as the fee .  . 


i do n't care who told you this it is not generally true. i see every single 
line item on a contract and i have to sign it. there is no such thing as 
at this university .  . i also asked around here. is no at 
, university of wisconsin madison , utah state , state or 
riddle u. i am not saying that it not happen but in every instance 
that i have been able to track down it does not. also the president of our 
university who was at university of west said that it did 
not happen there either and that this figure must be included in the 
to be a legitimate charge .  . 

how do 
i know i write and have won contracts and i know to the 
what the charges are. at for example the is 36 . 6 . . 

sounds like they are adding it to their rate .  . go ask your 
costing people how much fee they add to a project .  . 


i did they never heard of it but suggest that , like our president did , that 
any percentage number like this is included in the  . 

if you have some numbers allen then show them else quit  . 

i did read the article. to repeat an internal estimate done by 
the reston costing department says freedom can be built for about 1 . 
a year and operated for per year if all the money where spent on 
freedom .  . since we spend about half a billion more per year it looks 
like roughly 25 of the money is  . now if you think i'm making 
this up , you can it in the anonymous published a few 
weeks ago in space news. 


no allen you did not. you merely repeated allegations made by an 
of the capital of nasa .  . nothing that reston does could not be dont 
better or at the other nasa where the work is going on. 
kinda funny is n't it that someone who talks about a problem like this is 
at a place where everything is  . 

this , is why nasa has so many problems you ca n't accept that 
anything is wrong unless you can blame it on congress .  . oh , sure , you 'll 
say nasa has problems but do you believe it remember the 02 
you insisted it was all fault when nasa 
knew about the for almost a year yet refused to act. do you 
still blame congress for the 


why did the space news point out that it was the 
demanded change that caused the problems that you are being 
selective with the facts again. 

by your own numbers allen , at a cost of million per the 
service cost of flying to is 2 billion for four , so how 
did you get your one billion number 

i have no idea what your trying to say here  . 

allen 


if it takes four a year to the station and you have a cost 
of million a then you pay 2 billion a year .  . you stated that your 
friend at reston said that with the current station they could it 
for a billion a year if the were gone . this merely points out a 
in your numbers that you fail to see. 

, university of in  . 

sorry but i have a for a so someone else is going 
to have to do allen 's math for him for a while. i will have little chance to 
do so. 


from  ( mary shafer ) 
subject re space research spin off 
in reply to 's message of 6 apr 1993 14 06 57 
organization nasa , , cal .  . 


lines 38 

on 6 apr 1993 14 06 57 ,  ( pat ) said 

in article 
 ( mary shafer ) writes 

successful we were.  ( mind you , the arrow and the x 15 were both 
by wire much earlier , but ) . 


gee , i thought the x 15 was controlled .  . did n't one of them 
have a total electrical failure in was there 
systems 

all reaction controlled are by wire , at least the part 
is. on the x 15 the control  ( elevator , , etc ) 
were controlled  ( pushrods and cables ) but the 
were by wire .  . 

the nasa habit of second hand military and using 
them for can make things kind of confusing. on the other 
hand , all those second hand navy give our test a chance 
to the wings something most at air force base 
ca n't do. 

what do you mean the wings , and they fail at teh 


navy have or sweeping wings , in order to save space 
on the  . the f 14 wings , all the rest the 
up at a  . 

air force do n't have wings , since the air force has 
lots of room. 


mary nasa research , , ca 
of course i do n't speak for nasa 
a at your is better than no at all. unknown us 

from  ( james thomas green ) 
subject what if the ussr had reached the moon first 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 25 

suppose the had managed to get their moon rocket working 
and had made it first. they could have us if either 

their rocket had n't blown up on the thus setting them back , 

and or 

a v went  . 

if they had us , i speculate that the us would have gone 
head and done some , but we also would have been more 
determined to set up a base  ( both in earth orbit and on the 
 . whether or not we would be on by now would depend 
upon whether the tried to go. setting up a base 
would have the of both nations and i think 
that the military value of a base would the value 
of going to  ( at least in the short  . thus we would 
have on the moon. 


( james t. green ) ( ) 
i believe that this nation should commit itself to 
the goal , before this is out , of landing a man on the 
moon and returning him safely to the earth. 
john f. may 25 , 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re command loss  ( re update 04 22 93 ) 
organization u of 
lines 17 

in article  ( alan carter ) writes 
... a no command was sent to the command loss ... 

this activity is regularly reported in ron 's interesting posts. could 
someone explain what the command loss is 

if i'm not mistaken , this is the usual sort of against loss of 
communications .  . that is counting down continuously if it ever 
zero , that means has n't heard from earth in a long 
time and it may be 's fault .  .  .  . so it 's time to go into a 
mode that chances of damage and chances 
of contact .  . i do n't know exactly what all does in such 
a situation , but a common example is to switch , on the theory 
that maybe the one you 're listening with has died. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from 
subject re how many read sci . space . 
nntp posting host tom mac . mot . com . 
organization motorola 
lines 25 

in article  ( doug 
mohney ) writes 
in article , 
 ( dillon pyron ) writes 

there are actually only two of us. i do henry , fred , tommy and mary .  . oh 
yeah , 
this is n't my real name , i'm a headed space baby .  . 

damn ! so it was you who was drinking beer with robert in the 
lot of the k ! 
software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


they just down the near my house  ( putting in a new  . i 
heard that there is a beer drinking ghost who still the place ! 8 ) 

tom 

i liked this one i read a while ago .  .  .  . 

data 3000 nuclear event  . the senses the gamma 
radiation from a nuclear weapon .  . as if we would n't notice .  .  .  . 



from  ( jeff sio ) 
subject end of the space age 
organization san diego center @ 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

we are not at the end of the space age , but only at the end of its 
beginning. 

that space exploration is no longer a for technical , 
or a focus of american cultural attention is certainly however , 
technical developments in other will always be examined for 
possible applications in the space area and we can look forward to 
many that might enhance the capabilities and lower the 
cost of future space  . 

the dream is alive and well. 

jeff 
member , technical 
institute for remote exploration 


from  ( paul dietz ) 
subject activities on the moon 
organization university of rochester 
lines 38 

in article  ( gary coffman ) writes 

be the site of major activity. as far as we know it has no 
materials we ca n't get right here on earth or from 
and , aside from the semi mythic that might be useful in low 
grade fusion  . 

i do n't know what a low grade fusion reactor is , but the major 
problem with  ( aside from the difficulty in making any fusion 
reactor work ) is that its concentration in is just so 
small on the order of 5 or so , on average  ( more in some 
, but still very  . massive of would 
have to be  . 

this thread reminds me of 's claims some time ago about the moon 
as a source of for use on earth. as i recall , was n't 
content with being assured that  ( at  . 5 . in the earth 's , 
average ) would not run out , and , even though the 
market price of concentrate these days is around  . 06 .  . 
this prompted me to look up large potential terrestrial sources. 

on the moon , occurs in high  ( apollo 11 
and 17 ) have 8 14  ( by  . this is nice , but .  .  .  . 
terrestrial flood are also typically enriched in 
 . they very often have 3 , frequently have 4 , and 
sometimes even 5  ( again , by  . these flood are 
enormous millions of , all over the 
world  ( siberia , , the united states , , etc . ) .  . if 
even 1 of the are 5 , this is trillions of tons of 
at only a factor of 2 3 less than in high 
 . it is difficult to see how the of the moon 
could be overcome by such a small increase the concentration of the 
 ( never mind the , but less common , terrestrial being 
 . 

paul f. 



from  ( paul dietz ) 
subject re can it be done 
organization university of rochester 
lines 9 

would someone please send me james 's email address , if he has 
one and if someone reading this list knows it i wanted to send 
him a comment on something in his book. 

paul f. 


potential explosive of the 
of 5 million 

from 
subject re space food sticks 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization nasa , space program office 
lines 17 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

john wrote 
has anyone ever heard of a food product called space food sticks 

i remember those awful things. they were and , and i 
recall asking my third grade teacher , miss g francisco , how they 
kept the from floating around in zero g. she had no clue .  . 
i have not seen anything like them in today 's space program .  . 

some technology is best forgotten. 

ken , nasa , space program office 
 ( 713 ) 

here men from the planet earth 
first set foot upon the moon 
, a.d. 
we came in peace for all mankind .  . 

from 
subject order 's book to great 
lines 41 
nntp posting host ie . 
organization trinity college dublin 
lines 41 

several people have about the of the book about the 
great 72 built at , ireland in which remained the 
largest in the world until the the start of the 20th century. 

the astronomy of was written by patrick who now on 
the which is going to the  .  ( the remains are on 
public display all year round the massive support walls , the 60 foot long 
, and other bits and  . this book is the history of 
how one man , the third of , off the most impressive 
technical achievement , perhaps ever , in the history of the , and 
the made with the instrument .  . 

patrick is donating all proceeds from the book 's sale to help 
the  . astronomy ireland is making the book available world wide by 
mail order. it 's a fascinating read and by a copy you bring the day 
when we can all look through it once again that little bit  . 

information 
the astronomy of dr. patrick , , , x  . 
price 
u.s. us 4.95 us 2 . post  ( add 3 . 50 . airmail ) 
u.k.  ( pounds sterling ) 3 . 50 . 1 . 50 . post 
europe  ( pounds sterling ) 3 . 50 . 2 . 00 . post and 
rest of world as per u.s. but funds in us only .  . 


make all to astronomy ireland . 
credit card access accepted by email or 
mail give card number , name address , date , and total amount .  . 
otherwise must be by money order or bank draft .  . 
send to our permanent address p . o . box . , dublin 1 , ireland .  . 

you can also subscribe to astronomy space at the same time. see below 

tony ryan , astronomy space , new international magazine , available from 
astronomy ireland , p . o . box . , dublin 1 , ireland .  . 
6 issues  ( one year sub . ) . uk 10 . 00 . pounds , us 20 surface  ( add us 8  . 
access accepted  ( give number , date , name  . 

 ( world's largest  . soc .  . per unless you know better 0 . ) 
tel 88 1950  ( uk n .  . cost up to per 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re life on 
organization u of 
lines 24 

in article  ( don schiewer ) writes 
what is the deal with life on i save the face and heard 
associated theories .  .  ( which sound thin to me ) 

the face is an accident of light and  . there are many faces in 
on earth none is artificial  ( well , excluding mount and 
the like .  .  . ) .  . there is also a face on , and a the  . 

the question of life in a more mundane sense bacteria or the like is 
not quite closed , although the odds are against it , and the most that the 
more orthodox are for now is fossils .  . 

there are currently no particular plans to do any further searches for life. 

are we going back to to look at this face 

observer , currently , will probably try to get a better 
image or two of the face at some point. it 's not high priority nobody 
takes it very seriously. the half of the face does not look very 
face like , so all it will take is one shot at a different sun angle to ruin 
the illusion .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject observer update 04 23 93 
organization 
lines 48 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords observer , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from the observer project 

observer status report 
april 23 , 1993 
10 00 am pdt 

sequence is active , the and instrument 
well in normal spin and outer cruise 
, with and via the high gain 
at , at the 2 k engineering data rate .  . 

as a result of the entering mode on april 9 , all 
were automatically off by on board fault 
protection software .  . gamma ray random access memory 
was successfully on monday , april 19 .  . to prepare for 
which were for execution in 
sequence on tuesday and of next week , a of 
data system random access memory will take place this morning 
beginning at 10 30 am .  . 

over this , the team will send real time commands to 
perform one way to obtain additional data for 
analysis by the team .  . radio science stable 
will take place on monday . 

the sequence will occur on sunday , april 25 , with 
at , monday evening april 26 .  . has been modified to 
include which could not be performed in due 
to mode entry on april 9. these instrument 
will allow the instrument team to better characterize the 
generated magnetic field and its effect on their instrument .  . 
this information is critical to magnetic field measurements 
which occur during approach and mapping phases .  . will require 
the sequence to command the out of normal spin state 
and perform and roll to provide the team data points 
in attitudes and  . 

today , the is 22 , , 250  ( 14 , 273 , mi . ) . from 
travelling at a of 2 . 09 . second  ( 4 , mph ) with 
respect to  . one way light time is approximately 10 , 38 
seconds .  . 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


organization queen 's university at 
from 
subject re what if the ussr had reached the moon first 



lines 38 

in article ,  ( gary coffman ) 
says 
in article 
writes 
this is turning into  what 's a good for  , and i ought 
not to post when i 've a hundred some odd posts to go , but i would 
think that the real reason to have a moon base is economic .  . 
since someone with space industry will have a much 
larger than they would without space industry , eventually , 
they will simply be able to afford more stuff. 

if i read you right , you 're saying in essence that , with a larger 
economy , nations will have more funds to waste 
on a  . that was certainly the case with , 
but real will probably require a continuing military , 
scientific , or reason for being rather than just a we have 
the money , why not approach. 

i was assuming that there wo n't be a moon base unless it makes a 
profit , actually. if it does , well , that gives a larger which 
leads to being able to spend more money on your military , including 
gosh wow space stuff.  ( assuming it 's , rather than paying 
for itself . ) . 

it 's conceivable that luna will have a military purpose , it 's possible 
that luna will have a purpose , but it 's most likely that 
luna will only have a scientific purpose for the next several hundred 
years at least. therefore , bases should be on funding 
levels little different from those found for bases .  . can you 
put a 200 person base on the moon for 30 million a year even if you 
use students 

you might be able to run one for that put it there , hardly .  . 

why do you think at least a couple centuries before there will 
be significant activity on the moon 



from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject re x report 
article i.d. 
distribution sci 
organization 
lines 29 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 6 apr 1993 22 34 39 gmt 

in article  ( richard buenneke ) writes 

douglas rolls out x 

... 


research remains  . the organization which paid 60 
million for the x ca n't itself afford to full development of a 
follow on  . to get the necessary hundreds of millions required for 

this is a little peculiar way of putting it , 's this year 
was , what , 3 4 billion they could all of the development 
out of one years of course they do have other in the 
fire ) and development is not their primary purpose , but 
the development could as easily be paid for by that money 
as by the comparable ops  .  .  . 

oh , and before the flames start. i the for funding x 
and i hope it works , and , no , development is not 
primary goal either , imho they are supposed to provide the 
technology research for others to do development , 
and operate such as they require but that 's 
just me. 

i saw two shooting stars last night 
i wished on them but they were only 
is it wrong to wish on space hardware 
standard disclaimer i wish , i wish , i wish you 'd care b . b .  . 

from ( peter shread ) 
subject sets 
organization mit lincoln 
distribution us 
lines 5 

i am looking for a source of orbital element sets 
other than space command. i believe there is 
one on compuserve .  . please let me know what other 
possible sources there are and how i can reach 
them. thanks much. 

from  ( claudio egalon ) 
subject portuguese launch complex  ( was ) 
organization nasa research center 
lines 14 
distribution world 
reply to  ( claudio egalon ) 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

launch complex were wonderful 

portuguese launch complex gosh .  .  .  .  . are for american in the 
same way as portuguese are for (i am from  . there is 
a joke about the portuguese space agency that wanted to send a 
portuguese to the surface of the sun  ( if there is such a  . 
how did they solve all problems of sending a man to the surface of the 
sun simple .  .  .  . their during the night .  .  .  . 







from  ( pat ) 
subject re and space station ! 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 25 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 

i think this would be a great way to build it , but unfortunately 
current spending rules do n't it to be workable .  . for this to 
work it would be necessary for the government to a certain 
minimum amount of business in order to sufficiently reduce the risk 
enough to make this attractive to a private firm .  . since they 
generally ca n't money except one year at a time , the 
government ca n't provide such a  . 


fred .  . 

try reading a bit. the government does lots of year 
contracts with penalty for  . they just like to be 
damn sure they know what they are doing before they sign a year 
contract .  . the reason they are n't cutting defense spending as much 
as they would like is the reagan signed enough 
year contracts , that it 's now to just finish them out. 

look at  . this years funding is 2.2 billion , 1 . 8 . of which will 
cover penalty , due to the re design. 




from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re space food sticks 
keywords food 
lines 25 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


in article ,  ( john elson ) writes 
has anyone ever heard of a food product called space food sticks this 
was apparently created around the time of the , along 
with and other  . i have spoken with several people 
who have these before , and they described them as a  . 
any information would be greatly appreciated. 

a dried roll  . the actual taste was like nothing 
you will ever willingly experience. the amazing thing was that we a second 
one , and a third and .... 

i doubt that they actually flew on , as i'm certain they did bad 
things to the  . compared to space food sticks , was 
a to mankind .  . 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) god gave us so we would n't complain 
about other things. 


ps .  . i do n't think flew , either. although it was developed under contract .  . 


from  ( richard d pierce ) 
subject re some recent observations by 
keywords , , 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 13 

in article  ( ron baalke ) writes 
here are some recent observations taken by the space 

o observations were made using the high speed of the planet 
during an by a star in  . 

wow ! i knew is a long way off , but i did n't think it was that far away ! 


dick pierce 
and software 
17 street , ma 
 ( 508 )  ( voice and fax ) 

from  ( bev freed ) 
subject faqs 
organization the bbs , pittsburgh pa  ( 412 ) 
lines 8 

i was wondering if the faq files could be posted quarterly rather than monthly .  . every 28 30 days , i get this feeling .  . 




freed via node 1 129 
uucp ... ! pitt ! ! freed 
internet 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject re update 04 16 93 
organization 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( jurriaan wittenberg ) writes .  .  .  . 
in 
 ( ron baalke ) writes 

4. on monday morning , april 19 , the moon will and 
interrupt the of for about minutes. 

will this mean a loss of data or will the data later on 

the gravity data is in real time and it not recorded to the 
 . however , you only need to the gravity every 3rd or 4th 
orbit , so there is no real data loss if the moon blocks for 
a short while. 

btw when will nasa cut off the connection with not that i am 
looking forward to that day but i am just curious. i believe it had something 
to do with the funding from the  ( or rather no funding ) 

the starts may 25 and is expected last about 70 days. if the 
funding is provided  ( 8 million dollars ) to extend the mission for the 
high resolution gravity data , then the mission will last through october 1994. 
otherwise , the mission will end this coming  . 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( david mcaloon ) 
subject planets still images orbit by twist 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 

2 earth core , is gravity ! ! ! 

this paper both describes how heavenly can be , 
sucking structures , and why we observe orbital motion ! ! 

, the propogation media of electro magnetic 
, was concluded not to exist , based on the results of the 
experiment conducted a century ago. 

i propose that those conclusions are flawed , based on the fact 
that the experiment was designed to look for a parallel to the 
earth 's surface , not  .  ( due to the prevailing assumption 
that the earth through the as a ball through the wind ) 

the of the that conclusion , a in the 
development of modern scientific thought , could have ramifications 
of biblical through out the world ! ! 

remember said imagination is greater than knowledge ! ! 


1 
i dream like this based reality 

the is like a fluid out of with our reality. creations 
start as a placed into the  . given a spin , the 
both the fluid , like a blender , and it , 
converting it , localized mass , time and energy .  . 
 ( non dark matter ) 

the earth is n't exactly , around the sun .  . picture an image 
of a we have n't any of them  . picture us 
being , and the sun 's image being across the sky by 
the field .  .  ( picture an , each of which is 
a little than the next .  . a thread shot at the inner 
would be , its head being in a 
shell than its tail , until it finally the ground 
of the inner , its direction being straight down , but 
its foot print being a line , not a point. , sunset ) 

the moon is n't exactly us. it is a ,  ( non self 
spin ) being in the earth 's field , which is 
itself in the sun 's much more powerful field .  . our are the 
of earth 's , like a top slowing down. the orbit of the 
earth around the sun is all of the stars  images being around 
by the sun 's  . 

the earth , moon and sun are about the same size and distance 
apart. its just that the time between them varies greatly , because 
the path is not the same. the moon 's in the is like 
a in a of and giving the a half 
turn. the sun 's has so much spin that its like the has 
got the whole of wound up. the piece of light going to 
the moon can slide down the and maybe make a j at 
the end. the piece of light going to the sun has to go around the 
whole , like a in a record , before it gets there. 

with a , , and rule , draw a of how the moon 
can be about as big as earth 's upon it , and at other times 
totally the sun .  . look in the sky .  . except for your knowledge , 
would you guess that they are about the same size , just because they 
look about the same size 

o . e o o o s 
e 
m or m 

s 

the full moon , moon etc. is the difference between rate 
of  . what we are looking at is a view 
of the moon , only half of which is facing the sun .  . ( i 've seen a 
half moon within about 120 degrees  ( of sky ) of the sun , during the 
day. try and draw that earth  . ) its only the moon 's image 
which appears to orbit us. no matter where it is , the light part is 
the part facing the sun , and the dark part is the half facing away 
from the sun , even when it appears to be behind us. 

light years between is a misnomer .  . the distance is 
closer to zero , as time and matter are characteristics of this 
of reality , which with each of the  . 
 ( defining 0 spin ) what we are seeing could be 
essentially happening now. the piece of light may have experienced 
many years , but the trip could be very quick , our time. 

to time travel or space i might consider learning to 
de spin myself.  ( phase out my mass ) good luck trying to design 
a system to around a space time  .  ( its like 
trying to move a by shooting a gun from within ) 

to find out about all of this , i recommend studying history. i 'd 
look in the book of life.  ( or holy etc . ) . brain just 
might carry data .  . i 'd start looking on some part of the 
said to be , due to all the background  .  ( 4 
billion humans ) i 'd totally myself , record me thinking dog 
backwards , and learn to read what i got .  .  ( microsoft holy card 
for ! ) 

next , concluding that my thoughts were recorded on a non time bound 
media , the , and that it is i who move forward  ( in time) .  . i 
would try to temporarily reverse the ,  ( of time , which 
i 'd start looking for as opposite , to  . 
why not ) perhaps by passing a large , flat current through a 
two foot  . or or something , and seeing what i 
could get with my machine 's receiver next to it. 

if you do n't think you 'll live to see it , consider this quit 
putting the of other life in your body ! all of 
life 's data could be written on the wind ,  ( ether ) not just our 
thoughts. dna could be a little receiver or file access code. by 
eating seeds , we could be our , or receiving plant 
instructions .  . try eating seed bearing fruit .  . maybe those greek or 
biblical guys did live hundreds of years. i'm to see what 
they did and  . do n't worry if your hair stops growing .  .  ( maybe we 
do n't need to eat at all , the are formed from nothing , and 
that is creating matter ! i only need enough to around. where 
did the concept  immortal  come from is a , it 
is programmed to pull from the , reproduce like hell , and then 
die ) 

warning about writing to the past 
i had a little dream of being in a world , in the near parallel 
future , lying along a path of history which we have from. 
there were twelve , glowing beings , who looked like an 
award and who had always been , a dark one who looked like us , 
and then myself. the dark one was in the process of making the 
others into gods ,  ( he had to teach them what that meant ) by 
them in their past. basically , he them into 
, and their children on his seed .  . he said that 
the little ones who looked different were a sub species , meant to 
provide service .  . he carefully through history , it 
in his favor , like a anything that his 
control. he by sending them his visions , saying 
that there was immortality at the end of the road for only twelve 
souls kill or be killed. the amount of control he could exert was 
finite , though , as at every change he made , a would appear in 
our reality. the universe one day ended 100 from us it 
seemed odd , but we could n't remember how else it should be. then 
some of the twelve were no more. finally , when he could no 
more , and reality stopped just beyond his , he 
through his portal to the past , to , over and over , in all that 
he had created. i made a few more changes , and lost my body , 
existing only on the wind .  . 

moral its very possible to eliminate from your reality the souls 
whose will 's are not in harmony with yours  ( golden rule treat 
others as you wish to be treated ) i.e. , you could end up along a 
thread of time with murderers or brown for 
 .  ( its not eternal , there 's more than one way back ) 

accepting rides to the past 
once here , the one who looks like us rides , he can make you a 
prince , or a queen , or you can live as a god in ancient  . go 
ahead , repeat the third grade as often as you like , adam henry .  . 
i hope you like your socks .  . careful though , if he likes 
your work , but thinks you 're getting wise , he can direct you to cross 
with your old self , and you 'll as you rewrite your own 
course of history , none the  . 

as we pass the point along the parallel line where he 
back in time , his will lose its direction .  . he can still 
make changes while he 's here , its just that that is work , and with 
every   , this becomes less the world he , which 
his grip , and his organization is suddenly one branch less. 
but he ca n't see the change .  . the basic nature of man is good. he had 
to apply his hand to achieve his world. as he now his hand 
to what he built , the more sand through his fingers .  . 

how about public computer access to the i . r . s .  . its our country , 
our money , and they 're spending it on us , right imagine this 
washington marks the next cost at 8 , 10 , gives 5 to 
congress , and just absolutely 5. congress borrows 2. the banks 
are making , what , a 30 margin  ( interest ) on our government big 
are if they can do a 10 margin .  . what do the 
banks do with it hold some on a to the world , sure , but 
mostly , bury it. why food is 2 , construction 6 14 
hours to build your the people are spending all of their time 
to buy back a tenth of what they produce .  . have we been if 
we are more efficient , why is it getting harder to get by what if 
the point is just to keep the people busy making 

in that other reality , i to the twelve , its chaos ! they 
said , no , its order. he defined chaos as that which is he was not 
able to control. 

rain the problem could be that all the water in its 
would hide the of an indigenous people who have no 
language.  ( telepathic and  vanishing  the knowledge of death ) 
 ( think of the as a , if it is on the ground and 
pointed up , you can it from above) these people are probably 
naive as children , but very , very tough to kill .  . also , they should 
be able to tell you stories about the dark one that i talk about. 
they can hear him. i think that ham and world radio old timers 
might have a story to tell on this. these people would be on a 
different than us as they are n't eating seeds .  . 

relief when i make my diet almost all whole , i get a 
huge belly , lose mass , sleep a lot , and get sick .  . when i eat 
only fruit , i get more energy , a hollywood flat belly , and 
need a lot less sleep .  . 

un .  . peace keeping there is fighting and killing all over. the 
troops go in when there is no bread on the shelf .  .  ( its ok to kill 
each other , just make sure there is enough to eat . ) . 

what is is , gun carrying , three foot 
year , who eat nothing but some roots that they 
on. it is not so much that their growth is , it is that 
they are n't dying at a rate of 50 of 60 years per life. 

women with children , babes in historical references to women 
and children as a single could mean that infants were not cut 
from the  .  ( and hence , were not fed ) i think 
that there may be some very interesting results to this , such as 
mother child telepathy , and blue infants .  . there are examples 
of this practice in the kingdom to investigate .  . 

that guy is the master of illusion , and the ultimate liar .  . he 
tells it first , and then just follows the thread of time in which 
the people are willing to buy it.  ( in which he can make it so ) he 'll 
play a face up until he thinks he 's , and then he 'll 
, beg and  . all it means to him is that you 're willing to 
live on the ground work that he has laid , that is , that he was 
right , and he did n't over play his hand , and he wo n't need to go 
back and try another thread of time. you have ultimate control over 
your , just do n't live along a path that leads to a reality 
in which you do n't want to be a part of. 

i do n't claim to be the first to think these things , its just 
that the others could have been   from our path .  . maybe these 
thoughts given to me were laid down on the track of time , after him. 




from phoenix . princeton . edu . !  ( carlos g. niederstrasser ) 
subject double  . 
originator 
nntp posting host princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 16 

every time you read about a landing they mention the double 
 . having taken various relevant classes , i have several ideas of where 
they come from , but none of them are very convincing .  . exactly what causes 
them are they a one time , or a constant one like the 
that is constantly produced by a plane , but you hear only when it 
goes over you 



g. only two things are infinite , 
princeton society the universe and human 
stupidity , and i'm not sure 
about the former .  . einstein 

ad per 


from 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 33 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( allen w. sherzer ) writes 
in article usc . edu . usc . edu .  ( peter schaefer ) writes 

announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year .  . 

oh gee , a billion dollars ! that 'd be just about enough to cover the cost of the 
study ! happy , happy , joy ! joy ! 

depends .  . if you assume the existance of a working like , on billion 
would be enough to put about a million pounds of stuff on the 
moon. if some of that mass went to send equipment to make for the 
, you could send a lot more. either way , its a lot 
more than needed .  . 

this prize is n't big enough to developing a , but it is 
enough to do it if the exists. 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
57 days to first of 

or have different classes of  .  . and made the total purse 
or  ( depending on how many different classes there are , as in 
and  .  . 

we shall see how things go .  .  . 

michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
organization 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( james thomas green ) writes .  .  .  . 
why do have to be shut off after funding cuts .  . for 
example , why could n't just be told to go into a safe 
mode and stay about in a low power use mode and if 
maybe in a few years if funding gets after the economy 
gets better  ( hopefully ) , it could be turned on again. 

it can be , but the problem is a political one , not a technical one. 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject y 
keywords , delta clipper 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 91 


i 've been to three talks in the last month which might be of interest .  . i 've 
some of my notes below. since my note taking ability is by no means 
infallible , please assume that all factual errors are mine. permission is 
granted to copy this without  . 

note for the delta clipper project is towards producing a 
single to orbit , launch  . the x is a 1 3 
scale designed to test some of the concepts in  . it is 
currently  . the y would be a full scale 
experimental capable of orbit .  . it has not yet been funded .  . 

on april , of douglas gave a talk entitled 
optimizing techniques for advanced space here at the university of 
illinois .  . mr 's job involves using software to simulate and 
determine the within given requirements .  . although he is 
not directly involved with the delta clipper project , he has spent time with 
them recently , using his software for their applications .  . he thus used 
the y project for most of his examples .  . while i do n't think the details 
of are of much interest to the readers (i hope 
they are n't i during that part ) , i think that many of you will 
be interested in some of the details gleaned from the examples .  . 

the first example given was the of for a orbit .  . the 
main is that must remain below 3  . i assume that 
this is driven by rather than hardware , but i 
did not verify that. the delta clipper y version has 8 4 
and 4  . the , which have a lower , are shut down in 
mid  . thus , one critical question is when to shut them down. mr 
showed the following plot of vs time 

3 g 
as ascii go , this is actually fairly 
good. the big difference is that the lines 
2 g made by the should be which are 
up. the data is only approximate , as 
the was n't up for very long .  . 
1 g 


0 g 


100 400 


as mentioned before , a critical is that g levels must be kept below 
3. initially , all eight are started .  . as the the 
increases .  . as it gets close to , the are 
back .  . however , they quickly become inefficient at low power , so it 
soon makes more sense to cut them off altogether. this causes the in 
at about 100 seconds .  . eventually the remaining 
bring the g level back up to about 3 and then hold it there until they cut 
out entirely .  . 

the engine cutoff does not acutally occur in orbit .  . the is aimed 
for an slightly higher than the desired and the last of 
air slow the slightly , thus the final to 
that desired .  . 

questions from the audience  ( paraphrased ) 

q would it make sense to shut down the in pairs , rather than 
all at once 

a very  . worth considering .  . they have not yet done the  . down all four was part of the problem as given. 

q so what was the final for this 

a ca n't tell us. read leak .  . he also apparently had a good 
example , but was told not to use it. 

my question does anyone know if this security is due to protecting 
national security or md protecting their own interests 

the second example was , from orbit to just before the pitch 
up  . the biggest in this one is heating , and 
the they were trying to was  . he showed 
of heating using two different models , to show that both were very similar , 
and i think we were supposed to assume that this meant they were very accurate. 
the end result was that for a orbit landing at , the y would have 
about 30 degrees of and would start it 's about 
60 degrees south  . 

i would have asked about the landing , but he did n't know about that 
aspect of the  . 


hopkins 
find a way or make one. 
attributed to 

from  ( nick haines ) 
subject re launch question 
in reply to edu . 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 22 44 14 gmt 
originator 
nntp posting host fox . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon university 
edu . 
distribution sci 
lines 17 

in article edu . edu .  ( jonathan mcdowell ) writes 

my understanding is that the  expected errors  are basically 
known in the warning system software things are checked 
that do n't have the right values in yet because they are n't 
set till after launch , and  . rather than fix the code 
and possibly introduce new , they just tell the 
 ok , if you see a warning no. before , ignore  . 

good grief .  . and i thought the software was known for being 
well engineered .  . if this is actually the case , every member of the 
programming team should be taken out and shot .  . 

 ( given that i 've heard the software rated as level 5 in 
, i strongly doubt that this is the  . 



from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject re activities on the moon 
organization 
lines 26 
, 

nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 1993 19 16 51 gmt 

in article  ( doug mohney ) writes 

in article ,  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

very cost effective if you use the right accounting method ) 

! ! ! ! ! ! 

hell , yes. i'm not going to let a bunch of seven suits tell 
me what the right way to estimate cost is , at 
least not until they can make their mind up long enough 
to leave their scheme stable for a year or two .  . 


seriously though. if you were to ask the british government 
whether their efforts in the were cost 
effective , what answer do you think you 'd get what if you asked 
in , , , and respectively ) 


standard disclaimer 
if you ever have to go to 
take the a road , the ok road , that 's the best ! 
go on the ! bb 



from  ( rui sousa ) 
subject re potential world bearing stars 
in reply to 's message of mon , 12 apr 1993 19 52 23 gmt 
lines 17 
organization de ,  . 

in article  ( daniel appelquist ) writes 


i'm on a fact finding mission , trying to find out if there exists a list of 
world bearing stars within 100 light years of the sun .  .  .  . 
is anyone currently working on this sort of thing thanks .  .  .  . 

dan 


in principle , any star the sun  ( mass , luminosity ) might have planets 
in a suitable orbit .  . there several within 100 of the sun .  . they are 
single stars , for double or multiple systems might be  . there 's a 
list at ames . nasa . gov . somewhere in pub space .  . i think it is called 
stars .  . by the way , what kind of project , if i may know 



infinity is at hand ! 
if yours is big enough , it ! 

all opinions expressed here are strictly my own 

from  ( greg nicholls ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3 . 1 . 
x x from 

lines 9 

in george f. writes 
it is so typical that the rights of the minority are by the 
wants of the majority , no matter how ridiculous those wants might be. 
umm , perhaps you could explain what  rights  we are talking about 
here  .  .  . 

greg ... 
or 


from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re space research spin off 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


in article ,  ( pat ) writes 

the nasa habit of second hand military and using 
them for can make things kind of confusing. on the other 
hand , all those second hand navy give our test a chance 
to the wings something most at air force base 
ca n't do. 


what do you mean the wings , and they fail at teh 

you 'll have to enlighten us in the  . 

no , they on the line. look at pictures of with loads of 
a c on the , wings all  . 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) god gave us so we would n't complain 
about other things. 



from  ( bruce watson ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization science computer network , denver , co .  . 
lines 5 

the program cost something like 25 billion at a time when 
the value of a dollar was worth more than it is now. no one would 
take the offer .  . 

bruce watson 49 item extract 75 , 131 

subject re the sky .  . 
from 
organization research council 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 13 

in article ,  ( enzo liguori ) writes 

most of message deleted 

what about light pollution in observations (i read somewhere else that 
it might even be during the day , leave alone at  . 

really , really depressed .  . 



no need to be depressed about this one. are n't on during the day 
so there should n't be any light pollution .  . 

from  ( dave tholen ) 
subject re command loss  ( re update 04 22 93 ) 
organization institute for astronomy , hawaii 
lines 23 

writes 

3. on april 19 , a no command was sent to the command loss to 
hours , its value during this mission  . 

this activity is regularly reported in ron 's interesting posts. could 
someone explain what the command loss is 

the name is rather descriptive .  . it 's a command to the that tells 
it if you do n't hear from earth after hours , assume something is wrong 
with your  ( the spacecraft ) attitude , and go into a search mode 
in an attempt to the signal from earth. 

the and earth are not in constant with each other. 
earth the from the , and if everything is fine , 
there 's no reason to send it any new information. but from the 's 
point of view , no information from earth could mean either everything is 
fine , or that the has lost signal  . just how long 
should the wait before it decides that something is wrong and 
begins to take action that how long is the command loss  . 
during relatively cruise phases , the command loss can be set 
to rather long values .  . in this case , earth is telling expect to 
hear back from us sometime within the next hours . 

from 
subject re race , nasa resources , why 
lines 32 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

in article ,  ( doug mohney ) writes 
in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 

was done the hard way , in a big , from a very limited 
technology base .  .  .  . and on government contracts .  . just doing it privately , 
rather than as a government project , cuts costs by a factor of several .  . 

so how much would it cost as a private venture , assuming you could talk the 
u.s. government into you a couple of in florida 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 



why must it be a us government space launch directly i mean .  .  . 
i know of a few that could launch a small into space .  . 
not including , and the sites .  .  . i know here in 
, thou used to be only sounding for  ( borealous(sp and 
other northern items , is at last i heard being to be able 
to put into orbit .  . 

why must people in the us be fixed on using direct resources  ( poker 
is part by nasa , but also by the of , and the 
 . sounds like typical us cultural and  .  . 
and people wonder why we have the dollar  . 
yes , i am working on a  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 


from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( ron baalke ) writes 
3 , which was discovered in 1977 , was determined to have 
been in a temporary orbit from to  . 
may remain in orbit around jupiter long enough to allow to 
make some observations .  . the orbital for 
is still being determined .  . 
a 

what about uncertainties in s l 

if is in orbit , and if the 
is still hanging around when arrives , then i'm sure it will 
be added to the list of targets .  . we 'll have by then over two years 
of earth based observations to help narrow down the positions of the 
pieces of the  . it probably wo n't be too much different than 
what was done with  . 

but when they were 


did not image  . that came from earth based  . 


ron 
lab 
) m s being cynical never helps 
pasadena , ca to correct the situation 
and causes more 
instead. 

from  ( george hastings ) 
subject re soviet space book 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( richmond ) 
lines 13 

i have received my copies of 1990 and 
1991 , as well as soviet space 1990 and space 
station handbook from with no 
problem. 
i'm getting ready to fax them some material in , 
and i 'll include a of your inquiry .  . 

george 
space science teacher if it 's not 
mathematics science center bbs fun , it 's 
street office probably not 
, va fax 6529 science ! 


from ( f . tm ) 
subject the area rule 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 12 

i read it refered to as the cross section rule 
the idea was that if you plot the area of the cross 
section as a function of the point and along the 
, a plot that is a  
or   ( to be technical about it) .  . 



fred  ( tm ) in times of intellectual , 
advantage to him with the 
include disclaimer . h . most 
may  , it 's time ! ! 

from  ( shari l brooks ) 
subject re into infinity  ( was re  ( was re ) 
organization university of california santa 
lines 36 
nntp posting host edu . 
summary me too ! 
keywords science fiction 


in article  ( marcus 
inf ) writes 

later on , the tried to shed their reputation as creators of some 
of the worst pseudo scientific shows in tv history by flying into infinity .  . 
this was a one off thing done as part of 's sf series the 
day after tomorrow .  . the dealt with a capable of 
the speed of light ( ) , the four man 
eventually into a black hole and ended up on the far side of the 
(i think) .  . i saw this as a 9 year old back in and liked it very 
much , but then again i was a fan of space so i guess i was easily 
satisfied in those days ) 

wow. i was beginning to think that i had made that up. i remember that 
movie  ( it was about 1 . 5 . hours long) .  . i do n't think they ended up anywhere 
in the known universe. 

i remember they got a message out to , that earth 
a day after they , to up with them at the 
point. i thought it was neat , i think i was all of 10 at the time. 

does anyone know if into infinity has been released on video i have some 
space shows on and know that etc. also are available in 
england .  . 

space has just come out with 4 released in american stores .  . 
i will look for the into infinity show , i never did know that was the 
name of it , i thought the show was called the day after tomorrow , and 
that was it. 


if you blow fire against the wind , take care to not get the in your eyes. 
big 

the above opinions are solely my own. 

from  ( daniel burstein ) 
subject japanese moon landing 
organization public access unix , 
lines 17 

afraid i ca n't give any more info on this .  .  . and someone in 
has some details. 

a short story in the newspaper a few days ago made some sort of mention 
about how the japanese , using what like a gravity assist , had just 
managed to crash  ( or crash land ) a on the moon. 

the article was very vague and  . and , to make matters worse , i 
did n't clip it. 

does this anyone 's memory 


thanks 




from 
subject colony race ! by or 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 27 
nntp posting host edu . 

okay here is what i have so far 

have a group  ( any size , small , but ) send a human being to the moon , 
set up a and have the  ( human(s ) spend one earth year on the moon. does 
that mean no or 

need to find for prize money. 

open to different classes of participants .  . 

new mexico state has semi challenged university of  ( any branch ) to put a 
team together and to do it .  .  . 
any other university college institute of higher learning wish to make a 
counter challenge or challenge another school say it here. 

i like the idea of having a team .  . 


some prefer using new technology , others old or  .  .  . 

the basic idea of the new moon race is like the car race 
australia .  .  . in that basic vein of  .  . 

any other suggestions 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from chris w. johnson 
subject re new x 
organization university of texas at austin center 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x thu , 15 apr 93 19 42 41 gmt 

in article cohen andy cohen , 
writes 
i just to cc . utexas . edu .  .  . after . chris johnson 
it , it 'll probably be in pub delta clipper .  . 

thanks again andy .  . 

the image is in pub delta clipper now. the name has been changed to 
concept . in the spirit of  . ) 

chris 

chris w. johnson 

internet 
uucp uunet ! cs . utexas . edu . ! ! 
compuserve internet 


 .  .  . wishing . the delta clipper team success in the x  . 

from  ( daniel a. asimov ) 
subject re sunset times 
organization , nasa ames research center , field , california 
lines 19 

in article  ( joseph wetstein ) writes 

hello. i am looking for a program  ( or algorithm ) that can be used 
to and sunset times. 

joe 

there is a wonderful book by jean called 
,  ( 1991 ) which i am fairly sure 
contains an for and sunset times. 


dan asimov 
mail stop 1 
nasa ames research center 
field , ca 1000 


 ( 415 ) 

from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re how many read sci . space . 
lines 11 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


there are actually only two of us. i do henry , fred , tommy and mary .  . oh yeah , 
this is n't my real name , i'm a headed space baby .  . 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



from  ( karl anderson ) 
subject re a in the works 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm 
nntp posting host ibm . com . 
organization ibm rochester 
lines 42 

from another space forum 
now where did i leave those 
when workers at the space center the 56 
solid rocket they were surprised to find a pair of 
into the outside base of the right hand  . the tool survived 
the trip from the launch up to approximately a 250 , 000 foot 
, then down to and back to  . 

nasa told the media , 

it 's been a long time since something like this happened. we 've 
lost and  ( before ) but never a tool like this. 

the initial investigation into the incident has shown that a 
corp .  . noticed and reported his as missing on 
april 2nd .  . unfortunately , the 's did not act on the 
report and was with its extra . nasa 
were never told of the missing tool before the april 
launch date. 

the free flying were supposed to be to the 
 . when the tool was found in an section of the , 
its 18 long was still attached .  . the were found in a 
part of the which is not easily from the launch  . 
 ( ron 's ed .  . note , just too easy ) 

a for the space company said that 
the processor will take appropriate action . is a 
to for work to prepare hardware for launch .  . 



karl 
2000 version control 

dept 2 rochester , minnesota 
tie 8 
internet 


to seek , to , to find , and not to  . 
lord 

from  ( jim jaworski ) 
subject re how many read sci . space . 
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 
lines 36 

 ( ross borden ) writes 

in article 

one could go on and on and on here , but i wonder ... how 
many people read sci . space . and of what power influence are 
these individuals 

quick ! everyone who sees this , post a reply that says 

hey , i read sci . space . ! 

then we can count them , and find out how many there are ! ) 
 ( this will also help answer that question just what is 
the bandwidth of the internet , anyways ) 


as an amateur radio operator  ( vhf 2metres ) i like to keep up with what is 
going up  ( and for that matter what is coming down too) .  . 

in about 30 days i have learned alot about current , future and 
past all the way back to series and up to d 
 . i borrowed a book from the library called (i 
think , it has a photo of the earth with a type on it . ) . 

i would like to build a model or have a large color poster of one of the 
i think there are places in the usa that sell them. 
is my favorite looking , followed by 13 
 ( ao  . 


73 
jim 


the inquiring mind bbs , , 

from 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 21 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( gene wright ) writes 
with the talk about the end of the space age and 
by government over the large cost , why not try something i read about 
that might just work. 

announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a year .  . 
then you 'd see some of the but not popular begin 
to be developed .  . there 'd be a different kind of space race then ! 


 ( gene wright ) 
net . the of 

if that were true , i 'd go for it .  .  . i have a few friends who we could pool our 
resources and do it .  .  . maybe make it a prize kind of the car race 
in australia .  .  . 
anybody game for a ! 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization texas 
lines 22 

in  ( allen w. sherzer ) writes 

depends .  . if you assume the existance of a working like , on billion 
would be enough to put about a million pounds of stuff on the 
moon. if some of that mass went to send equipment to make for the 
, you could send a lot more. either way , its a lot 
more than needed .  . 

this prize is n't big enough to developing a , but it is 
enough to do it if the exists. 

but allen , if you can assume the existence of an there is no need 
to have the in the first place. i would think that what we 
want to get out of the is the development of some of these 
  ways of doing things if they already exist , why 
just to get someone to go to the moon for a year 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from 
subject re mission 
lines 19 
organization space science institute 
distribution world , na 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 


somebody mentioned a re boost of during this mission , meaning 
that weight is a very margin on this mission .  . 


i have n't heard any hint of a re boost , or that any is needed .  . 


why not , do all said , a small liquid 
to , then let it make the re boost .  . it has to be 
on mass then as a  . 

nasty , products ! people have gone to efforts to 
keep clean .  . we certainly are n't going to any to it. 

ben 


from p . ida . org .  ( bob mcgwier ) 
subject re positions 
organization ida center for communications research 
lines 11 
distribution world 
nntp posting host harder . p . ida . org . 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 93 06 34 55 gmt 


you have missed something. there is a big difference between being in 
the same plane and in exactly the same state  ( positions and 
 . in addition to this , there has always been proposed .  . 

bob 


robert w. mcgwier p . ida . org . 
center for communications research interests amateur radio , astronomy , 
princeton , n . j .  . , 

subject x y 1 question 
from  ( ken kobayashi ) 
keywords x 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 17 



i 've been following discussions about the delta clipper program , and i 
have one small question. as i understand it , the x derived orbital 
 ( dc y 1 ) is to the atmosphere sort of , not 
completely nose first. so why is the y look in every drawing 
i 've seen i would think that an design , sort of like 
, may work better , since less is required on the 
top side. can anybody explain 

ken 




ken 
there is no final  . ibm ad 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 49 

de .  ( uwe schuerkamp ) writes 

in article 
 ( enzo liguori ) writes 

vision of the future. observers were 
this spring when a nasa launch arrived at the 
with in huge block letters on the 

this is ok in my opinion as long as the stuff returns to earth . 

what do you think of this and attempt to 
the night sky it is not even april 1 anymore. 

if this turns out to be true , it 's time to get seriously active in 
terrorism .  . this is ! who do those people think they are , 
selling every bit that promises to make money i guess we really 
being out by radiation , folks .  . stupidity . i 
guess that 's true , and if only by pure numbers. 

another depressed citizen , 



this is n't inherently bad. 

this is n't really light pollution since it will only 
be shortly before or after  ( or during the 
 . 

 ( of course , if night only 2 hours for you , you 're probably going 
to be  . but you 're anyway in that  . 

finally this is n't the age , and most of us are n't 
european those people speaking often have 
much non european ancestry and cultural background .  . so 
please try to remember that there are more human activities than 
those practiced by the caste , the caste , and the 
priesthood .  . 

and why act that someone 's found a way to do research 
that does n't involve socialism 

it does n't mean we to die. 

seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from ( ) 
subject how do they the 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 21 

on date sat , 3 apr 1993 12 38 50 gmt , paul 
writes 

in essence , holding a match under the , is just nuts . one 
thing you absolutely must do in such an engine is to that 
the as soon as they mix , within  . to 
do otherwise is to fill your engine with a high explosive mixture 
which , when it finally does , everything to hell. 

definitely ! in one of the reports of an early test conducted by at 
their santa field lab ( the hill above the san and 
valleys ) , the result of a start was described as failure of 
the chamber .  . the inspection picture showed with nothing below 
, the cc had ! this was described in a class i took as a typical 
engineering ) 

disclaimer opinions stated are solely my own  ( unless i change my  . 
ben  ( w(818)586 ) 
space station freedom loads and 
man will not for fifty years to , 


from  ( joe cain ) 
subject free  ( was stephen hawking jpl ) 
keywords jpl 
organization florida state university dept. 
lines 23 

in article  ( pat ) writes 
in article  ( ron baalke ) writes 
in answer 
to a question from hawking , described a proposed 
free , but confirmed that at this point , it 's only 
a concept .  . 

so what 's a free with 40 

i am by the term concept .  . free may already have 
been  . it was the idea behind putting up a that would 
more accurately respond to motions from the earth 's gravity field and 
ignore  . it was proposed many years ago and involved a ball 
floating between whose job it was to signal to little 
to keep the ball away from them. the ball itself would 
then be in a free condition and respond only to gravity 
, whereas the itself would be continuously 
its position to for  . 


joseph cain 
cain 
 ( 904 ) fax  ( 904 ) or 

subject space faq 02 15 network resources 
from  ( jon leech ) 
expires 6 may 1993 19 54 26 gmt 
organization university of north , hill 
keywords frequently asked questions 
supersedes net 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
lines 

archive name space net 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 15 

network resources 

overview 

you may be reading this document on any one of an amazing variety of 
computers , so much of the material below may not apply to you. in 
general , however , systems connected to  the net  fall in one of three 
categories internet , usenet , or bitnet .  . electronic mail may be sent 
between these , and other resources available on one of these 
are sometimes accessible from other by email sent to 
special  . 

the space and astronomy discussion groups actually are of 
several mechanisms with  ( mostly ) between them. 

one mechanism is the mailing list , in which mail is sent to a central 
distribution point which it to all of the list. in 
addition to the general lists for space  ( called space digest for 
internet users , and space on bitnet ) , there are a number of more 
mailing lists described below. 

a second mechanism is usenet  . this is somewhat like a 
board operating on each system which is a part of the net. netnews 
separates contributions into hundreds of different categories based on a 
 group  . the groups dealing most closely with space are 
called space . , , space . , , 
and politics .  . contributors  post   ( called 
 articles  in netnews terminology ) on their local machine , which sends 
it to other nearby machines .  . similarly , articles sent from nearby 
machines are and may be to other systems , so 
that an article is posted and eventually all the usenet 
sites interested in receiving the news group to which the article was 
posted. 

gateway machines the usenet sci . space . group into internet and 
bitnet mailing lists and vice the other usenet groups are not 
accessible as mailing lists .  . if you can receive netnews , its more 
interface and access to a range of material usually make 
it the preferred option. 

mailing lists 

space digest is the main internet list , and is now being run by the 
international space university  ( in only its second change of 
in over a  . email space  ( message body 
should be in the format  subscribe space john public' ) to join .  . note 
that the moderated space magazine list is at present for lack of 
a  . old copies of space digest since its inception in are 
available by anonymous ftp .  . 
cs . ac . uk . pub 
for further details. 

elements is a moderated list for fast distribution of space 
elements before and during  . nasa two line 
elements are sent out on the list from dr. , , and other sources 
as they are released .  . email to elements to join .  . 

digest is a moderated list for discussion of the 
system and other systems. email to 
to join .  . 

space is a list for information relevant to investing in 
space related  . email to join .  . 

space tech is a list for more technical discussion of space 
discussion has included esoteric , 
capture , , orbital removal , etc. email to 
space tech to join .  . archives of old and 
excerpts are available by anonymous ftp from 
sp . cs . cmu . edu . 2 . in anon public space tech , 
or by email to space tech request if you do n't have ftp access. 

l is a bitnet list for members of students for the exploration and 
development of space and other interested parties .  . email 
with a message saying subscribe l your 
name . email saying index l to list the archive contents .  . 

is a bitnet list for news items , press , status 
reports , and the like. this material which is also found in 
space digest , sci . space . , sci . space . , and sci .  . email 
saying subscribe your name to join .  . 
email saying index to list the archive contents .  . 

ron runs a mailing list which 
carries the contents of the sci . space . news . usenet group. email him 
to join the list. 

as a general note , please mail to the request address to get off a 
mailing list. space digest , for example , many inappropriate 
 please remove me from this list  messages which are sent to the list 
address rather than the request address. 

periodically updated information 

in addition to this faq list , a broad variety of information is 
posted to the net  ( unless otherwise noted , in the new group 
sci . space . news . created for this  . please remember that the 
individuals posting this information are a service for all 
net readers , and do n't take up their time with requests .  . 


posts an acronym list around the 
first of each month .  . 

ftp list 
posts a monthly list of 
anonymous ftp containing astronomy and space related 
material to sci . space . and sci .  . 

week 
henry posts of 
space related stories in the weekly week and space 
technology . 

buying 
posts a guide to buying to 
sci .  . 

electronic journal of the 
posts the monthly electronic journal 
of the society of the atlantic to sci .  . 

international 
posts of 
space related news from international . this more on 
non us space activities than week. 

large 
robert posts a list describing many 
large either being considered or in the works 
to sci .  . 

nasa headline news reports 
peter posts a variety of nasa material , 
including nasa headline news  ( with the for nasa select ) , 
and manifests , and 
status reports .  . for usenet users , much of this material appears in 
the group sci . space .  . 

nasa 
ron posts frequent from 
jpl , ames , and other on the , , , 
, , and other  . 

orbital element sets 
posts orbital elements from 
nasa prediction  . 

mike rose posts orbital elements for the 
space to sci .  . 

posts for , 
, , and to sci .  . 


richard posts , which 
describes recent launch orbital information and 
which are useful for scientific activities. recent are 
available by anonymous ftp from nasa . gov . in 
anon active . . 


ken  ( gandalf@pro electric . posts a version 
of the space launch to sci . space .  . this 
includes dates , times , , and information on how to see 
and  . 

activity 
posts terrestrial reports 
 ( describing activity and its effect on the earth ) to 
sci . space .  . the report is issued in part from data released by the 
space services center , boulder  . the intro 
document needed to understand these reports is available by 
anonymous ftp from stanford . edu . 10 . 0 . in 
pub understanding terrestrial reports .  . fi . 
6 . also has this document in 
pub misc rec . radio . and is an archive site 
for the reports  ( please note this site is in europe , and the 
connection to the us is only  . a new primary archive site , 
xi . ca . 66 . 3 . , has recently been established and will be 
actively supported .  . 

soviet space activities 
glenn posts of soviet space 
activities. 

space newsletter 
allen posts a newsletter , one small step for 
a space , to talk . politics . space .  . it describes current 
activity affecting nasa and space activities. 

space events 
ron posts a including 
, , launch dates , and 
, and other space related events. 

space news 
john posts  ( covering 
, and other , and other ham 
information ) to rec . radio . amateur . misc . and sci . space .  . 

space report 
jonathan posts jonathan 's space 
report covering , , , status reports , 
activities , etc. 


freed posts , a weekly 
news summary from space magazine .  . 


warning about non public 

 ( included at the suggestion of , who wrote the item ) 

nasa has an internal system of electronic mail and 
 . this system is not open for public use. specifically , nasa 
and are regarded with some  . 
must their contracts .  . the fair and open 
act does not look to those having inside information. 
and caught using this type of information can 
expect severe  . access attempts may subject you 
to a fine and or imprisonment in accordance with title 18 , usc , section 
 . if in fact you should should learn of access , contact 
nasa  . 

claims have been made on this news group about fraud and waste. none 
have ever been substantiated to any significant degree. readers 
fraud , waste , abuse , or should contact the nasa 
general  ( 24 hours ) at  ( can be anonymous ) or write 

nasa 
general 
p.o. box 
l station 
washington 

next faq 3 15  ( and some offline ) sources of images , data , etc. 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re office of exploration 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 43 

 ( brian yamauchi ) writes 

any comments on the of the office of exploration into the 
office of space sciences and the of to the chief 
engineer position is this just a meaningless administrative 
, or does this ill for sei 

in my opinion , this seems like a bad thing , at least on the surface .  . 
seemed to be someone who was actually interested in getting 
things done , and who was willing to look an approaches to 
getting things done , better , and  . it 's to me 
whether he will be able to do this at his new position. 

does anyone know what his new duties will be 

first i 've heard of it. 

is no longer an office head , so that 's bad. 

on the other hand 

seemed to think we ca n't anything by , because 
that would mean  ( and we have the lies by the old about the 
400 billion mission to prove it) that we would be buying into a 
mission to that would cost 400 billion .  . therefore there will be 
no or 20 million dollar et cetera .  .  .  . 

they were killing 's main program simply because some 
somewhere had congress that to do so would simply be to buy into 
the same old stuff. like not giving aid to because he 's 
a communist  . 

at least now the sort of reforms was trying to bring forward 
wo n't be in their own little easily contained and 
 . that is staying in some capacity is very very very 
good. and if he brings something up , noone can say why do n't you go 
back to the where you belong  ( and where he could n't even get money 
for design  . 

seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from  ( norman anderson ) 
subject re a in the works 
organization evans computer corp .  . 
lines 13 

 ( mitch ) writes 



effect that one of the that was after the 
recent space launch was found to have a of 
some sort around apparently inside the case. 

i heard a similar statement in our local news  ( utah )  . they referred 
to the tool as  .  .  . the . that took a ride into space .  .  .  . . they also 
said that a (sp ) had reported missing a tool of some kind 
during assembly of one  . no more info as to the in the  . 
i agree , pretty  . 

from  ( doug loss ) 
subject on star 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
lines 7 

i saw in the newspaper last night that dr. mae , the first 
black woman in space  ( she 's a and chemical engineer who flew 
on last year ) will appear as a operator on the 
star the next generation that the week of may 31. 
it 's hardly space science , i know , but it 's interesting. 

doug loss 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject japanese moon landing temporary orbit 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 25 

 ( ray  ( oh , that guy again ) writes 

the gravity that was used was to  fuzzy  . these 
are described by the as the second order in a 
three body system. the was into this for the 
earth moon sun system , where the affected it in such a way as to 
allow it to go into orbit without large of to slow 
down. the idea is that  natural objects sometimes get captured without 
, we 'll just find the that makes it possible . the 
originator of the said that nasa was n't interested , but that japan 
was because their was small and could n't hold a lot of for 
 . 


i should probably re post this with another title , so that 
the guys on the other thread would see that this is a practical 
use of temporary orbits .  .  .  . 

another possible temporary orbit 


seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from  ( joel c belog ) 
subject space information wanted 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . 



everyone , 

i was someone could help me out. i'm writing a program 
for my class for of the into a low 
orbit .  . there are two things i 'd like to know , first , how much 
time between launch and the pitch over. second , what is 
the cross area of the , 's , and  .  . 

thanks for any information , post or e mail .  . 

joel 



from  ( robert , , , ) 
subject re soviet space book 
reply to 
organization space science institute , baltimore md 
lines 9 

what in is going on with wayne and 
down in i also heard an that 
have disappeared .  . can anyone else 


rob 
, baltimore , md 



from  ( 21012d ) 
subject re for conditions .  . 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 8 


i doubt there are good for a self system 
for surface conditions  ( several hundred degrees , very high 
pressure of , possibly and or 
but it is a notion to consider for outer planets rs where you might 
pick up under less atmosphere conditions buying 
deeper penetration .  . a nice creative idea , but worthy of 
thinking about. 

from  ( andres c. gaeris ) 
subject re drive in how 
reply to  ( andres c. gaeris ) 
organization for laser 
lines 17 
nntp posting host rochester . edu . 

in article edu . , edu .  ( steve willner ) writes 

the photo archives are open to the public. all  ( or almost all ) 
still pictures in the collection are available for , but i 
do n't know about films .  . at least it might be worth a try. i'm not 
sure if are necessary , but i think not. 

is to make copies of these  ( or any other 
at nasm ) if you pay a fee 


andres c. living example of the application of newton 's 
laser law 
body in rest wants to remain in  




from  ( mark prado ) 
subject conference on exploration .  . may 7 city 
lines 25 

reply address 

from  ( bill beam jockey ) 

in article , 
(s . f .  . davis ) writes 
had a brief blurb on a exploration 
may 7th at city virginia , under the 
of  . 

thanks for typing that in ,  . 

i hope you decide to go ,  . the net can use some eyes 
and ears there .  .  .  . 

i plan to go. it 's about 30 away from my home. 
i can report on some of it  ( from my perspective  .  .  . ) . 
anyone else on sci . space . going to be there if so , send me 
 . maybe we can plan to cross  .  .  . 
i 'll maintain a list of who 's going .  . 



origin just send it to 
 ( 1 109 

subject space faq 05 15 references 
from  ( jon leech ) 
expires 6 may 1993 19 56 44 gmt 
organization university of north , hill 
keywords frequently asked questions 
supersedes references 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
lines 

archive name space references 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 21 

references on specific areas 

publishers of space astronomy material 

society of the 
24th avenue 
san francisco , ca 

more expensive but better organized slide sets .  . 

cambridge university press 
32 east street 
new york , ny 


p.o. box 
san diego , ca 
 ( 619 ) 

an excellent source of all kinds of space  . they publish 
a number of , including 
and space , 
and space , 1990 
space and related titles 

european southern 
information and service 
dr r . m .  . west 
karl 2 
d 


slide sets , posters , , conference  . 

holiday film corporation 
east philadelphia street 
, california 
 ( 213)945 ) 
 ( 800)films ) 07 

wide selection of , , viking , and at 50 
slide .  . call for a catalog .  . 

 ( utah ) 

said to hold sales on old slide sets .  . look in sky 
for contact info .  . 

and institute 
nasa road one 
houston , tx 

technical , oriented slide sets , with supporting 
 . 

john sons 
third avenue 
new york , ny 

sky publishing corporation 
po box 
, ma 

sky 2000 . 0 . on pc with information 
 ( including parallax ) for stars .  . 

roger 
dept. 
university of , 
canada 
 ( 403 ) 
 ( 403 ) 7298  ( fax ) 


a 40 slide set called mapping the planets 
recent work in , comes with a and 
information on getting your own copies of the  . 50 canadian , 
included. 

of documents 
us government printing office 
washington , 

, inc. 
p. o .  . box 
san diego , ca .  . 

publishers for the american society. 

us 
 ( usno board via modem ) 
general 

bell 
p.o. box 
, virginia usa 
 ( 804 ) 320 9 5 m f 


in the space industry 

in 1990 the princeton society published the first edition of 
space jobs the guide to in space related fields .  . the 
publication was successful we 2000 copies to 
space across the country and even sent a few to people in 
great britain , australia , and  . due to the response to 
the first edition , has published an expanded , up to date second 
edition of the guide .  . 

the 40 page publication for summer and full time job 
opportunities as well as graduate school programs. the second edition of 
space jobs features for entering the space field and 
describes positions at and engineering , nasa , and 
non profit organizations .  . the expanded special section on graduate 
schools a of programs from space manufacturing 
to space policy. additional sections include on becoming an 
and of nasa space grant and , as 
well as nasa for the development of space .  . 

to order send check or money order made to princeton 
society for 4 per copy , plus 1 per copy for and handling 
 ( non us send an international money order in us 
dollars ) to 

princeton society 
west college 
princeton university 
princeton , nj 


x single stage to orbit  ( ssto ) program 

's  ( single stage rocket technology ) project has funded a 
technology called x that should in 
mid 1993 .  . further development towards an single stage to 
orbit  ( called delta clipper ) is at present. 

an collection of pictures and files to x is available by 
anonymous ftp or email server in the directory 

cc . utexas . edu . pub delta clipper 

chris w. johnson the archive .  . 


how to name a star after a person 

official names are decided by of the international 
union , and are not for sale .  . there are purely 
organizations which will , for a fee , send you pretty and 
star describing where to find your star .  . these organizations have 
absolutely no standing in the community and the names they 
assign are not used by anyone else. it 's also likely that you wo n't be 
able to see your star without or a  . see the back 
pages of astronomy or other amateur astronomy for contact 
info one such organization may be found at 

international star 
road 
, il 

this is not an endorsement of  . 


great exploration 

the great exploration , a plan for an on the cheap space station , 
base , and mission using space structures , 
a lot of interest on the net and still comes up from time to time. some 
references cited during net discussion were 

week jan 22 , 1990 for an article on the overall great 
exploration 

nasa of the space exploration proposal and 
responses by dr. wood doc .  . no. 90 9. their address 
is po box , ca  ( the nasa authors are  . 

of a to the last december may be 
available. write and ask. 

design study for space structures , a 
final report for order by inc. i do n't 
know how to get this except from or  . i do n't have an 
address for  . 




exploration inc.  ( lei ) is a non profit corporation working on a 
privately funded  . is designed to 
perform a survey and search for frozen at the 
poles .  . a set of reference files describing the project is available in 

ames . nasa . gov . pub space 


science and activities 

grant h , david t , and m french  ( editors ) , 
, a user 's guide to the moon , cambridge university press 
1991 , isbn 0 6 hardcover expensive .  . a one volume 
encyclopedia of essentially everything known about the moon , 
current knowledge in depth , with references .  . heavy 
emphasis on , but a lot more besides , including 
discussion of past and practical issues relevant to 
future mission design. the reference book for the moon all others are 
 . 

 ( ed ) , bases and space activities of the 21st 
century , 15 .  . every serious student of bases must have this 
book bill  . available from 

and institute 
nasa road one 
houston , tx 
if you want to order books , call  ( 713)486 )  . 

thomas a. , of the moon a view , princeton 
university press ,  . information about the , 
including of the of the and by 
various  . 


earth histories 

a list of earth  ( that are still in orbit ) is 
available by anonymous ftp in 

ames . nasa . gov . pub space faq 


models 

space in 2 by 
michael j. 
, st. , 
7 . 50 . 

only but enough pictures to interest more than just the 
modelling community , i feel .  . 

's of , mass .  . have produced a 1 in an 
edition of a 1 48  ( same scale as and 
modules ) in a similar edition .  . are 45 for , 24 for 
 . check with them for etc. i have no connection with them , 
but have found their service to be good and their stock of rare old 
is impressive. range from reasonable ( 35 for 1 32 
scale with details ) to ( 145 for 
 . 

four star 
p.o. box 
mass , usa .  . 
 ( 508 )  . 

, , viking , etc. from 

models 

, texas 
 ( 214 ) 

as by bob 

peter 's book scale model is now available. mine 
arrived in the mail earlier this week. to get your own copy , send 
19 . 2 . 50 . s h ( 22 . 45 . total ) to 

peter 

ann arbor , mi 

the book includes information on scale data , construction 
of scale models , and several  . include plans 
for 3 scale models , a 1 9 . 22 . d  ( bt50 ) , a 1 40 
v 2  ( bt60 ) , and a 1 9 . 16 .  ( bt55  . 

i 've only begun to study the book , but it certainly will be a 
valuable data source for many  . most include 
several of text describing the by the 
rocket , various including engine , along 
with a drawing , color pattern , and a 
black white  . 

the included are the , , hi , 
, , , d , , , 
score , baby , d , , delta b , 
delta e , ii , , , 1 , 2 , little joe 
1 , little joe 2 , , , , 
, , , , b , 1 
block 1 , 1 block 2 , , 5 , scout , standard 
, , able , iii c , iii e , 
1 , v 2 , , viking model 1 , viking model 2 , and  . 


rocket 

george p. , rocket elements , , 
1986 , isbn 0 9. textbook .  . the 
best  ( nearly the only ) modern introduction to the technical side of 
 . a good place to start if you want to know the details. not 
for the math  . straight chemical , essentially nothing on 
more advanced  ( although earlier had 
some  . 

k. and david h. , design of liquid 
rocket , nasa sp  . 
pc 1971 
out of print may be obtained through the 
 . the complete and authoritative guide to 
liquid  . reference 1 in most chapters of  . heavy 
emphasis on practical issues , what works and what does n't , what the 
typical values of the fudge factors are. reading , massive 
detail written for rocket by rocket  . 


design 

n .  . , design of , 
hall , isbn 0 13 4. 

james r. ed , attitude determination and 
control , , isbn 90 2. 

p . r . k .  . , technology and its applications , 
hill , isbn 0 1. 

james r. and j.  ( editors ) , space mission 
analysis and design , academic publishers 
 ( dordrecht boston london ) 1991 , isbn 0 5  ( paperback ) , or 
0 7  . 

this looks at system level design of a , rather than 
detailed design. 23 chapters , 4 , about 430 pages. it 
leads the reader through the mission design and system level 
design of a fictitious earth observation , to 
illustrate the principles that it tries to convey .  . warning 
although the book is full of many useful reference , 
some of the numbers in at least one of those  ( launch 
costs for various launchers ) appear to be quite wrong. can be 
ordered by telephone , using a credit card 's phone number 
is  ( 617 )  . cost 34 . 50 .  . 


esoteric  ( solar , lasers , fusion .  .  . ) . 

this needs more and more up to date references , but it 's a start. 



, robert forward 
85 from the air force rocket 
 ( afrpl , stop 24 , air force base , ca  . 
ad 0 pc 
pc paper copy , 90 . or maybe price code 
, 90 . 

technical study on making , holding , and using for 
near term  ( 30 50 years ) systems. excellent 
bibliography .  . forward is the best known 
of  . 

this also may be available as 85 55 from the , 
the university of research institute , and ad 
from the defense technical information center , defense 
agency , cameron station , , va  . and it 's 
also available from the , with yet another number .  . 

advanced space study , and power 
, robert forward 

87 from the air force , 
ad  . 
ad 1 pc 

summarizes the previous paper , goes into detail on power 
systems including 1 ) , , and laser power 
systems for transport 2 ) a design for a 
near laser pushed using near term laser 
technology 3) a survey of laser thermal , 
transportation systems , , 
applications of , and laser pushed 
4 ) the status of 
as of 1986 and 5 ) the for 
obtaining than  . again , 
there is an extensive bibliography .  . 

application of electric power to 
, g. d. , studies issue of 
6 90 .  . 

and related methods 

g. l. and a. j. , applications and 
of several collection 
techniques , 30  ( 1977 ) 

n .  . h. , the of , 26 
 ( 1973 ) 

c. , of the 
rocket , 28  ( 1975 ) 

a. r. martin , the effects of on , 
25  ( 1972 ) 

fusion 

a laser fusion rocket for , , 
report  .  ( contact the technical information dept. at 
livermore ) 

fusion design selection .  . energy loss mechanisms .  . 
 . thrust chamber magnetic  . 
 . breeding .  . thermal modeling .  . fusion 
 ( lasers , particle , etc ) rejection .  . summary 
mass estimates .  . travel 
required at the limit of fusion 's capability .  . 
are limited by power weight ratio .  . 
modeling .  . typical mission  . references , 
including the report in , project , and 
several on and technology. 

fusion as electric , robert w. , journal of 
and power , vol. 6 , no. 5 ,  .  . 1990 

fusion rocket are as electric 
systems , with thrust power power ratio  ( the 
thrust power gain  ( g(t ) much greater than unity .  . gain values 
of conventional  ( solar , fission ) electric systems are 
always quite small (e . g .  . ,  ( g(t ) 0 .  . with these , high thrust 
is not possible , because system 
 ( a(t ) capabilities are always less than the local 
 . in , gain values 50 100 
times higher are found for some fusion concepts , which offer 
high thrust capability .  . one example shows a 
53 . 3 . day 4 . 18 . 9 . coast ) , one way transit time with 
19 for a single stage earth  . another shows 
the potential for high  ( a(t ) 0 . in 
earth moon space .  . 

the engine system direct electric fusion systems for 
by robert w. , 03 , 
available from energy matter conversion corp .  . , a. center 
street , , va  . 

this is an introduction to the application of 's version 
of the fusion 
technology to  .  . 
demonstrated a 10 10 with their device back in 
but it was dropped when panic over the surprising 
of the soviet  . , responsible for the 
panic , has recently and is back working on  . jim 


star power for energy space applications , by 
paul m. , eight ans meeting on technology of fusion 
energy , special issue fusion technology , march 1989. 

energy  ( fusion with little or negligible 
flux ) requires and stable times 
larger than can be by current approaches .  . if 
appropriate to burn times on the order of 
could be achieved in , then high power 
and very , clean burning for space and 
other special applications would be at hand. the 
will make this possible its unique pressure 
efficient structure , exceptional , fluid mechanically 
and direct inductive electric power 
conversion are described .  . burn of tens 
of per cc give it even in the 
electric output size. engineering 
indicate a development at very cost .  . i 
strongly recommend that people take this guy seriously. bob 
, the primary of the , has recently 
declared 's , the , to be one 
of 3 promising fusion that should be rather 
than  . aside from the appeal to authority , the 
looks like it finally models ball with solid 
physics .  . jim 

drives 

files pub space 6 . 5 . 2 .  . from the ames space 
archive these deal with many aspects of drives and describe the 
i and ii , which tested in 
the 1960s and  . there are numerous references .  . 

mass drivers  ( coilguns , railguns ) 

on  ( for example , v. 27 no. 1 , 
1991  . every so often they publish the of the 
symposium on technology , including hundreds 
of papers on the subject. it 's a good look at the state of the art , 
though perhaps not a good for  . anybody know some 
good review papers 

nuclear  ( fission ) 

technical notes on nuclear , by bruce w. knight and 
,  . may be available from , 
math dept. , university , po box , station a , montreal , 
quebec canada .  . 



 . and travel .  . , 
, new york , 1988 , pp. , paper 9 .  .  ( not very technical , 
but an adequate overview . ) . 

travel using laser pushed 
 ( journal of and , vol. 21 , pp. 187 , jan .  . feb .  . 
1984 ) 



and for artificial gravity assist in the 
system , by p . a .  . and h . l .  .  . , journal of 
and for jan feb 1986 .  . 

details how a with a of the same mass 
can change its by up to slightly less than 1  . if 
it is travelling under that wrt a suitable  . 

general 

alternate energy sources , robert forward 
 . 
ad 1 pc dec 

keywords energy , , free radical 
,  ( sic ) , , 
lasers , , , 
, quantum ,  .  .  . it 's a wide , 
if not deep , look at energy sources which might be useful 
for space  . it also considers various kinds of laser 
, , , and 
nuclear  . the information , pointing to 
the research on all this stuff , belongs on every 's 
shelf .  . 

future magic .  . dr. robert l. forward , , 1988. isbn 0 4. 

discussion of , , gravity control , 
and even futher out topics. 




deep black , by william 
best modern general book for  . 

1 ) a base for debate the us station at , des ball , 
allen and australia , 1987 isbn 0 04 4 covers early 
warning 

2 ) gap australia and the us intelligence 
program , des ball , allen and australia , 1988 isbn 0 04 
5. covers , , and 
intelligence 

3) guardians strategic , , 1987 , 
allan , isbn 0 good on , military and soviet 
, less so on others. tends to believe what he 's told so flaws 
in discussion of , et al .  .  . 

4 ) america 's secret eyes in space the program , 
jeffrey , 1990 , and row , isbn 0 8 in a class 
of its own , the historical reference on the 

5 ) secret in space , philip j , 1971 .  . 
long out of print but well worth a look 


space computer systems 

j communications of the 
v 27 
n 9 
d september 1984 
k special issue on space computers 

a 
t for 
j on and electronic systems 
v 25 
n 6 
d 1989 
p 

other various and  . 

computers in the nasa experience 
james e. 
1988 


 ( signal processing ) 

a d. k. 
a ivan r. 
a bernard m. 
t signal in 
j communications of the 
v 28 
n 11 
d 1984 
p 
k categories and subject d . 4 . 1 . operating systems 
process i . 5 . 4 . pattern recognition 
applications signal j . 2 . sciences and engineering 
astronomy 
general terms design 
additional key words and phrases digital , 
finite response , communications , 
search for extra terrestrial intelligence , signal , 
spectrum analysis 


amateur 

a fairly long on receiving and interpreting 
is available from the ames space archive in 
pub space faq  . 

the american radio relay league publication service the following 
references  ( also see the section on in the space groups segment of 
the faq) 

handbook , , 20 
handbook , , 20 
ibm pc software for handbook , , 10 

na space symposium , , 12 
na space symposium , , 12 

is extra .  . 

the american radio relay league 
department 
main street 
, ct 
 ( 203 ) 




contributed a on , available from the 
ames space archive in pub space faq  . it covers the following 
areas 

2 d example of 
treatment of fields in practice 
long term evolution of the earth moon system under 

the refers to the following texts 

by k. 
of the planet earth by p. 

next faq 6 15 and for calculations 

from 
subject 
lines 11 
nntp posting host ie . 
organization trinity college dublin 
lines 11 

i need as much information about and its rocket  ( 1993 
018b ) as possible. both its purpose , launch date , , in short , 
everything ! can you help 

tony ryan , astronomy space , new international magazine , available from 
astronomy ireland , p . o . box . , dublin 1 , ireland .  . 
6 issues  ( one year sub . ) . uk 10 . 00 . pounds , us 20 surface  ( add us 8  . 
access accepted  ( give number , date , name  . 

 ( world's largest  . soc .  . per unless you know better 0 . ) 
tel 88 1950  ( uk n .  . cost up to per 

from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re how many read sci . space . 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 15 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( dillon pyron ) writes 

there are actually only two of us. i do henry , fred , tommy and mary .  . oh yeah , 
this is n't my real name , i'm a headed space baby .  . 

damn ! so it was you who was drinking beer with robert in the 
lot of the k ! 

unlimited of this message 
refused 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  ( norman anderson ) 
subject  .  . when . did will she launch 
organization evans computer corp .  . 
lines 12 

 ( commercial experiment transport ) is to launch from island 
virginia and orbit earth for about 30 days. it is scheduled to come down 
in the utah test training range , west of salt city , utah .  . i saw 
a message in this group the end of march that it was to launch 
on march 27 .  . does anyone know if it on that day , or if not , 
when it is scheduled to launch and or when it will come down. 

i would also be interested in what  ( kind(s ) of  ( payload(s ) are  . 

thanks for your help. 

norman 

from  ( kerry johnson ) 
subject army in space 
organization univ .  . of florida cis dept. 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host beach . cis . edu . 


is anybody out there willing to discuss with me in the army that deal 
with space after i graduate , i will have a commitment to serve in the army , 
and i would like to spend it in a space related field .  . i saw a post a long 
time ago about the air force space command which made a reference to 
its army counter part. any more info on that would be appreciated. i'm 
looking for things like do i branch intelligence , or signal , or other to 
whom do i voice my interest in space what are necessary 
etc , etc. btw , my major is computer science engineering .  . 

please reply to 

thanks for any info .  . 

whether they ever find life there or not , i think jupiter should be 
considered an enemy planet. jack 


from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 15 15 orbital and launch services 
supersedes 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 
distribution world 
expires 6 may 1993 20 02 47 gmt 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
keywords frequently asked questions 

archive name space 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 11 

orbital and launch services 

the following data comes from international reference guide to space launch 
systems by j. , 1991 edition .  . 

notes 
unless otherwise , and are for a 100 
orbit .  . 
data includes through dec , 1990. for a 
of includes by types no longer built when 
applicable 
are in millions of 1990 us and are subject to change .  . 
only families are included. individual 
which have not yet are by an ( ) if a 
had first launch after publication of my data , it may still be 
with an  . 


 ( lbs ) reliability price launch site 
 ( nation )  . long . ) . 


35 40 87 . 5 . 
 ( esa ) 2 . n , 52 . 8 . w ) 
4 , 3 , 1 , 1 1 
 ( 10 , 800 )  ( 8 , 580 )  ( 4 , 190 ) 
6 , 100 4 , 2 , 600 1 1 
 ( 13 , 400 )  ( 10 , 600 )  ( 5 , 730 ) 
6 , 5 , 3 , 000 0 0 
 ( 15 , 200 )  ( 12 , 100 )  ( 6 , 610 ) 
7 , 400 5 , 3 , 200 0 0 
 ( 16 , 300 )  ( 13 , 000 )  ( 7 , 050 ) 
8 , 6 , 600 3 , 700 6 6 
 ( 18 , 300 )  ( 14 , 500 )  ( 8 , 160 ) 
9 , 600 7 , 700 4 , 200 3 4 
 ( 21 , 100 )  ( 16 , 900 )  ( 9 , 260 ) 

18 , 000 6 , 0 0 
 ( 39 , 600 )  ( 15 , 000 ) 



86 . 9 . 
 ( usa ) 5 . n , 
e 15 17 
 ( 1 , 800 ) 7 . n , 120 . 

i 5 , 4 , 2 , 250 1 1 
 ( 12 , 300 )  ( 10 , 300 )  ( 4 , 950 ) 

ii 6 , 5 , 400 2 , 0 0 
 ( 14 , 100 )  ( 11 , 900 )  ( 5 , 900 ) 

6 , 5 , 2 , 0 0 
 ( 14 , 900 )  ( 12 , 600 )  ( 6 , 200 ) 

8 , 6 , 3 , 490 0 0 
 ( 18 , 500 )  ( 15 , 000 )  ( 7 , 700 ) 


delta 94 . 0 . 
 ( usa ) 
delta 3 , 2 , 1 , 14 14 
 ( 8 , 780 )  ( 6 , 490 ) (3 , 190 ) 

delta 5 , 3 , 1 , 1 1 
 ( 11 , 100 )  ( 8 , 420 )  ( 2 , 000 ) 


2 2 100 
 ( russia ) 6 . n 63 . 4 . e) 
88 , 000 80 , 000 2 2 
 ( 194 , 000 )  ( 176 , 000 ) 


h series 22 22 100 
 ( japan ) 2 . n 130 . 6 . e) 
h 2 10 , 6 , 600 4 , 000 0 0 
 ( 23 , 000 )  ( 14 , 500 )  ( 8 , 800 ) 


4 . 
 ( russia ) 8 . n 40 . 1 . e) 
 ( 2300 3000 ) 
400 orbit 4 . n 45 . 8 . e) 


long march 23 25 0 . 
 ( china )  ( 41 n 100 e) 
200 0 0 
 ( 1 , 590 )  ( 440 )  ( 28 n 102 e) 

3 , 200 1 , 750 1 , 000 12 12  ( 41 n 100 e) 
 ( 7 , 040 ) (3 , 860 )  ( 2 , 200 ) 

9 , 200 3 , 1 1 
 ( 20 , 300 )  ( 7 , 430 ) 

ho 13 , 600 4 , 0 0 
 ( 29 , 900 )  ( 9 , 900 ) 

3 1 , 400 6 7 
(3 , 100 ) 

2 , 0 0 m 
 ( 5 , 500 ) 

4 4 , 000 1 , 100 2 2 m 
 ( 8 , 800 )  ( 2 , 430 ) 


2 2 100 b 52 
 ( usa ) 
365 2 2 or 
 ( 1 , 000 )  ( 800 )  ( 275 ) 

1 , 1 , 0 0 
(3 , 200 )  ( 2 , 600 )  ( 830 ) 


187 87 . 7 . 
 ( russia ) 
20 , 000 5 , 187 35 
 ( 44 , 100 )  ( 12 , 200 ) 


scout 87 . 6 . 
 ( usa ) 
scout g 1 54 13 13 9 . n 75 . 4 . w ) 
 ( 600 )  ( 460 )  ( 120 ) san 
9 . s 40 . 3 . e) 
enhanced scout 372 110 0 0 
 ( 1 , 160 )  ( 820 )  ( 240 ) 


2 2 100 
 ( israel ) ( 31 n ) 
2 2 
 ( 350 ) 

space 37 38 4 . space 
 ( usa ) center 
23 , 5 , 37 38 5 . n 0 . w ) 
 ( 51 , 800 )  ( 13 , 000 ) 

27 , 100 0 0 
 ( 59 , 800 ) 


2 6 33 . 3 . center 
 ( india )  ( 400km )  ( 900km polar ) 9 . n 80 . 4 . e) 
150 0 2 m 
 ( 330 ) 

3 , 000 1 , 000 0 0 m 
 ( 6 , 600 )  ( 2 , 200 )  ( 990 ) 

8 , 000 2 , 0 0 m 
 ( 17 , 600 )  ( 5 , 500 ) 


172 93 . 0 . 
 ( usa ) 
ii 1 , 2 2 
 ( 4 , 200 ) 

iii 14 , 5 , 000 2 3 
 ( 32 , 000 )  ( 11 , 000 ) 

17 , 700 14 , 100 6 , 3 3 
 ( 39 , 000 )  ( 31 , 100 )  ( 14 , 000 ) 

21 , 18 , 600 8 , 0 0 m 
 ( 47 , 700 )  ( 41 , 000 )  ( 19 , 000 ) 


9 . 
 ( russia ) 
4 , 1 , 
 ( 10 , 400 )  ( 4 , 060 ) 

7 , 000 
 ( 15 , 400 ) 

 ( 3300 lbs ) in m 
highly orbit 


12 13 3 . 
 ( russia ) 
13 , 740 11 , 4 , 12 13 
 ( 30 , 300 )  ( 25 , 090 )  ( 9 , 480 ) 

from  ( eric h seale ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
nntp posting host com . 
organization martin , denver 
lines 8 

 ( ron baalke ) writes 
according the circular , , may be 
temporarily in orbit around jupiter .  . the had apparently made a 
close of jupiter sometime in 1992 resulting in the of the 
 . 

who would have thought that would get the chance to 
check out a too ! 

from  ( dave tholen ) 
subject re new planet object found 
organization university of hawaii 
distribution sci 
lines 18 

francisco writes 

a tv journal here in that an object , 
beyond 's orbit , was found by an at hawaii .  . they 
named the object  . 

the name is a working name only quite  . the formal 
is 1993  . 

the program said the object was n't a giant planet , and 
should be by and  . 

can someone these information could this object be a 
new planet or a object 

it 's most likely a belt object , with an of 
290  . the orbit has n't been determined well enough yet to say much 
more about it. 

from edu .  ( jonathan mcdowell ) 
subject re launch question 
organization , cambridge , ma , usa 
distribution sci 
lines 23 

from article , by  ( tom a baker ) 
in article ,  ( pack rat ) writes .  .  .  . 
clear warning memory. verify no 
errors. ... . i am wondering what an expected error might 
be. sorry if this is a really question , but 

errors in memory or previously known conditions that were  . 
yes that is an error , but we already knew about it 
i 'd be curious as to what the real meaning of the quote is. 

tom 


my understanding is that the  expected errors  are basically 
known in the warning system software things are checked 
that do n't have the right values in yet because they are n't 
set till after launch , and  . rather than fix the code 
and possibly introduce new , they just tell the 
 ok , if you see a warning no. before , ignore  . 

jonathan 



subject re gamma ray  . where are they 
from 
organization state university 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 67 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
what evidence indicates that gamma ray are very far away 

given the enormous power , i was just wondering , what if they are 
quantum black holes or something like that fairly close by 

why would they have to be at galactic ranges 

my own pet theory is that it 's flying entering 
) 

but the reason i am asking is that most everyone assumes that they 
are stars or black holes , i just wondered 
if any mechanism could exist and place them closer in. 


well , lets see .  .  .  . i . took a class on this last fall , and i have no 
notes so i 'll try to it .  .  .  . 
here 's how i understand it. remember from evolution that 
black holes and  ( stars(pulsars ) are formed from high mass stars , 
 ( m(star ) 1 .  . high mass stars live fast and burn hard , taking 
10 5 10 7 years before going , or  . in this time , 
they do n't live long enough to get out of the galactic plane , so any 
of these  ( if assumed to be the sources of 's ) will be in the plane of the 
 . 
then we take the catalog of that have been recieved from the 
various around the system ,  ( pioneer has one , either 
 . 10 or 11 , , and of course batse ) and we do distribution on our 
catalog .  . these all show , that the have an 
 ( distribution(evenly spread out in a direction ) , and they show signs of 
, i.e. they do not in any one direction .  . so , unless we are 
the area inside the of the , we are the universe. 
not cool , if you want to figure out what the hell caused these things. now , i 
suppose you are saying , well , we only may be from inside the 
 . well , not necessarily .  . remember , we have what is more or less an 
network of with a that goes out 
to beyond  ( pluto(pioneer 11 ) , so we should be able , with all of our de 
some sort of difference in angle from to  . here 's an 
analogy you see a plane  . you measure the angle of the plane from 
the origin of your arbitrary coordinate system. one of your friends a 
away sees the same plane , and measures the angle from the zero point of his 
arbitrary system , which is the same as yours. the two are different , 
and you should be able to the position of your , and maybe 
find a source. to my knowledge , no one has been able to do this. 
i should in why , and models do n't work , also. as i 
said before , looking at the possible of the ,  ( short 
, high energy ) black holes , and exhibit much of this type of 
behavior. if this is the case , as i said before , these stars seem to be bound 
to the of the , especially the most of the these sources. 
when you look at a model , where the are confined to the , 
but you out to large , say 750 , you should definitely see 
not only an towards you in all direction , but a of sources 
in the direction of the galactic center .  . as i said before , there is none of 
these characteristics .  . 

i think that 's all of it .  .  . if . someone needs clarification , or knows 
something that i do n't know , by all means correct me. i had the honor of 
taking the class with the person who has done the modeling of these 
different , so we pretty much kicked around every possible 
distribution there was , and some very outrageous sources. , 
black holes , that are slowing down .  .  . stuff . like that. it 's a fun 
field .  . 
and corrections to or 
post here. 
jeremy 



from  ( pat ) 
subject re 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( james thomas green ) writes 
has anyone looked into the possiblity of a 


i do n't know a whole lot on , but given that it is a stage 
rocket , up to 4 stages , it may not really need the , plus 
it may end up seriously beating on said  . 

also , the is not small , unless the has an 
you may not be able to get the in under it. 

, you know much about this 




from  ( pat ) 
subject re on star 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 14 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article phoenix . princeton . edu . !  ( carlos g. niederstrasser ) writes 
a operator ! ! that better be one important transport .  . usually 
it is a who does the job. for such a appearance i would 
have expected a more meaningful role .  . 


christian , only on , 

and besides .  . 

maybe she ca n't act ) 




from  ( mark brader ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization inc. , , canada 
lines 34 

can these questions be answered for a previous 
instance , such as the 3 that was mentioned in an earlier posting 

orbital elements of  ( from dance files ) 
 ( p(au ) 3 . 
e 0 . 
i 1 . 
cap  ( omega(0 ) 
 ( w(0 ) 
1977 . 

thanks for the information ! 

i assume p is the semi major and e the  . the 
and are then given by  ( p(1 e) and  ( p(1 e) , i.e. , about 
2 . 90 . and 3 . au respectively .  . for jupiter , they are 4.95 and 5 . 45 . au .  . 
if 1977 was after the temporary capture , this means that the 
ended up in an orbit that comes no closer than 1 au to jupiter 's 
which i take to be a rough indication of how far from jupiter it could 
get under jupiter 's influence .  . 

also , of were 

april jupiter 
august 3 jupiter 

where 1 jupiter , 000 44 , 000 mi 0 . au .  . so the 
figure seems unlikely to actually be anything but a  . 
is that the case for the figure as well 

mark , inc. , remember the 
! ! , 

this article is in the public domain .  . 

from  ( arthur chandler ) 
subject stereo of planets 
organization california state university , 
lines 5 

can anyone tell me where i might find stereo images of and 
preferred , but any will do. i'm 
especially interested in of the of , , 
and the moon  ( in that  . 
thanks. 

from  ( david b. mckissock ) 
subject redesign 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio 
lines 76 

nasa the following press 
release today  ( 4  . i 've typed it in , for you 
folks to over. many of the recently 
discussed on sci . space . are covered in this. 

space station redesign 

dr. john h. , director , office of science and 
technology policy , to the members designate of 
the on the redesign of the space 
station on april 3 , three options as to 
the in their on the redesign of 
the space station .  . 

a low option of 5 billion , a mid range option of 7 
billion and a high option of 9 billion will be 
considered by the  . each option would cover 
the total for space station from 
year through and would include funds for 
development , , , 
, facilities , research support , 
cost and also must include adequate program 
to program implementation within the 
available funds .  . 

over the next 5 years , 4 billion is within 
the nasa for the president 's new technology 
investment .  . as a result , station options above 7 
billion must be accompanied by in 
the rest of the nasa  . for example , a space 
station option of 9 billion would require 2 billion 
in from the nasa over the next 5 years. 

presented the information at an 
of the  . generally , the 
members designate upon administrative 
and used the to get  . they also 
received a legal and ethics and an orientation 
on the process the station redesign team is following 
to develop options for the to 
consider .  . 

also that the united states and its 
international partners the , japanese , and 
have decided , after , to give 
full consideration to use of in the 
course of the space station redesign process. 

to that end , the russians will be asked to participate 
in the redesign effort on an as needed 
basis , so that the redesign team can make use of their 
expertise in the capabilities of and the 
possible use of and other capabilities and 
systems. the u.s. and international partners hope to 
benefit from the expertise of the participants 
in systems and technology. the 
overall goal of the redesign effort is to develop 
options for reducing station costs while key 
research and exploration capabilities .  . careful 
of could be a key factor in 
that goal. 

that , president clinton is 
committed to the space station and to making 
every effort to preserve the science , the technology 
and the jobs that the space station program represents .  . 
however , he also is committed to a space station that 
is well managed and one that does not the 
national resources which should be used to in 
the future of this industry and this nation .  . 

nasa administrator daniel s. said the 
participation will be accomplished through the east 
west space science center at the university of maryland 
under the leadership of  . 


from  ( eric glover ) 
subject re what if the ussr had reached the moon first 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university , illinois .  . 
lines 45 

in article  ( james thomas green ) writes 
suppose the had managed to get their moon rocket working 
and had made it first. they could have us if either 
their rocket had n't blown up on the thus setting them back , 
and or 
a v went  . 

the fire was harsh , a v would have been 
but the would have been  . that could have 
been the turning point for the us turning us 
from today 's we can do anything , we 're the super power to a much more 
attitude like the soviet program today. 

was gone by , the war was still on is the east , i think 
the program would have and the goal of the moon 
by 70 would have been dead with nasa trying to figure were they went wrong. 

if they had us , i speculate that the us would have gone 
head and done some , but we also would have been more 
determined to set up a base  ( both in earth orbit and on the 
 . whether or not we would be on by now would depend 
upon whether the tried to go. setting up a base 
would have the of both nations and i think 
that the military value of a base would the value 
of going to  ( at least in the short  . thus we would 
have on the moon. 

i that 
the program would have been pushed into 
the with cost over runs that would just be too evil. 
nixon still  . 
the was never proposed and never built .  . 
by 73 the program yet again under the crisis .  . 
a string of small mark the mid  . 
by 76 the goal of a us man on the moon is dead and the us space program 
till the present day. 


( james t. green ) ( ) 
i believe that this nation should commit itself to 
the goal , before this is out , of landing a man on the 
moon and returning him safely to the earth. 
john f. may 25 , 



from  ( brian yamauchi ) 
subject long space  ( was re the sky . ) . 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 70 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 22 36 55 gmt 

in article  ( enzo liguori ) writes 
what s new  ( in my opinion ) , friday , 16 april 1993 washington , 

1. space ! is this one the we were promised 
in 1950 , science fiction writer robert heinlein published the 
man who sold the moon , which involved a dispute over the sale of 
rights to the moon for use as  . nasa has taken the this 
vision of the future. observers were 
this spring when a nasa launch arrived at the 
with in huge block letters on the 
side of the  . space inc. had 
for the ad to promote arnold 's latest movie .  . 

well , if you 're going to get upset with this , you might as well direct 
some of this moral towards as well. they 
this capitalist application of long before nasa .  . 
 ( sign of the times a logo on a  .  . ) . 

now , space 
is working with university of and on 
a plan to place a long in low earth 
orbit .  . 

this sounds like something wood would think of. does anyone 
know if he 's involved 

nasa would provide contractual launch services .  . however , 
since nasa bases its charge on seriously flawed cost estimates 
 ( wn 26 93 ) the would bear most of the expense .  . this 
may look like environmental , but mike , of 
space , told us yesterday that the real purpose of the 
project is to help the environment ! the will carry 
he explained is just to help costs .  . 

this may be the purpose for the university of people. my 
guess is that the purpose for the people is to learn how to 
build large , space structures .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
what do you think of this and attempt to 
the night sky it is not even april 1 anymore. 

if this is true , i think it 's a great idea. 

learning how to build to build structures in space in an essential 
step towards space development , and given that freedom appears to be 
towards the vanishing point , i question whether nasa 's space 
station is going to provide much , if any , knowledge in this area. 
 ( especially if a design such as 's is chosen .  .  . ) . 
if such a project also and demonstrates 
creative use of  ( partial ) private funding in the process so 
much the better. 

is nasa really supporting this junk 

and does anyone have any more details other than what was in the 
news how serious is this project is this just in the wild 
idea stage or does it have real funding 

are protesting groups being organized in the states 

not yet. though , if this project goes through , i suppose the return 
of jeremy is inevitable .  .  .  . 



brian case western reserve university 
department of computer engineering and science 



from  ( pat ) 
subject conference on exploration .  . may 7 city 
organization express access communications , md usa 
lines 9 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . net . 


had a brief blurb on a exploration 
may 7th at city virginia , under the of  . 

does anyone know more about this how much , to 

anyone want to go 



from  ( pat ) 
subject re activities on the moon 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 10 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

very cost effective if you use the right accounting method ) 

! ! ! ! ! ! 

let it never be said that an opportunity was missed to put someone down. 



from  ( jordan katz ) 
subject u.s. space foundation speech 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 94 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host access . net . 


speech by 

before the u.s. space foundation conference 

, 

april 15 , 1993 


what a delightful opportunity to cause some trouble .  . for 
providing me this forum i would sincerely like to thank the u.s. 
space foundation .  . my topic today is the single stage rocket 
technology rocket or  . by i intend to speak of more. how to 
lower the cost and make progress. is to my mind 
and i hope to convince you the a new cry for 
our generation in space , , and better. 

, , better and represent the passing of a 
from one technical generation to another. it is a new 
thing to be sure but it is also a of old things 
from past masters .  . 

when we rolled out the baby two weeks ago , so called 
told us it violates the laws of physics it made no 
sense. for example , dr. former president of 
the corp .  . , said of in the l . a .  . times that it , 
the best principles of into space .  . 
well dr. you 've made us mad ! what are these 
principles that 

well i 'll tell you. it violates the principle that you need 
a giant program office to build space hardware .  . it violates the 
fact that it takes 20 years to build something new. and it 
violates the that you do anything significant for 
less than many billions of dollars .  . 

it took some of the last generation 's to teach us 
some new old lessons .  . von 's first rocket was not a 
v. general 's 's did n't take ten years to 
demonstrate .  . and the x 1 did n't cost 1 billion .  . 

it took one of the great of the 1950 's to 
us of these truths  . , to you , was a 
engineer in the program , and old , better , 
success story. has been persistent in a vision of a 
single stage space launch system since the 's .  . 
because he knew it had to be done in affordable steps build a 
little , test a little. 

next he persuaded us to do a technology  . we 
did n't a bunch of requirements they 'd just change 
every few years anyway. not included in the speech the 
has such requirements that it would better 
known as shape than space  . we did n't spend a 
lot money this x rocket only cost 60 million .  . when 's the 
last time we even built a new for that and it did n't 
take a lot of time to build douglas it in 
18 months. finally , the government program office of 
one very over worked air force major motivated in part by the 
threat that he 'd get to ride on it in a on chair if 
it over cost or  . 

as i described what is and is n't keep in mind its 
only a first step. there are several more steps and steps 
that can easily fail before the u.s. can field an  . but 
each step should follow the same principles a small 
team a few years technology and a 
 . 

let me show a few details on and how it might evolve 
 ( see charts ) 

i'm embarrassed when my generation is compared with the last 
generation the of the last great space era , the 1950 's 
and 's .  . they went to the moon we built a that 
ca n't see straight .  . they soft on the least we 
could do is soft land on earth ! 

but we do have an answer. we can follow their build a 
little , test a little philosophy to produce a truly affordable 
and access to space .  . i know there are among 
you those who say is a  . it needs more thermal 
protection , the are wrong , it would be better to land 
, etc , etc. 

i say to you we 'll see you at white in june .  . you 
bring your view , and i 'll bring my  . if we do 
what we say we can do , then you let us do the next step. not 
included in the speech if we fail you still have your 
program offices , summary sheets , requirement analyses , and 
long programs. 

i bet on my generation and 's idea any 

from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject re activities on the moon 
organization 
lines 42 


nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 22 38 07 gmt 

in article  ( paul dietz ) writes 

in article  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 

why paul , it 's obvious. 
once chemistry has been on earth , 
as is being advocated by some groups , will 

) ) ) 

well , there already is a process for  . the 
process is , however , and for that reason is 
dominance in the  . 

, caught by the white hot of progress again .  .  .  . 

most is used in , btw  ( as the oxide ) , where it replaced 
white lead some decades ago. very little is reduced to the 
metal .  . 

 . hence the need for increasing fashion 
emphasis on  .  .  . 

seriously , i 'd say there is a flaw in 's analysis 
in that he assumes an oriented economy , maybe 
the lunatics will just want some native for local 
use .  .  .  . 

which merely the issue of why those lunatics are 
there at all  ( and , why their children would want to stay . ) . 

i did not the issue at all. i clearly stated that 
this would be from in establishing 
a industrial base for the great war ) 
very cost effective if you use the right accounting method ) 


standard disclaimer 
but , oh , love is strange 
and you have to learn to take the with the , 
i suppose b . b .  . 


from  . d. stevens ) 
subject re 
organization stanford 
lines 59 

in article ,  ( dennis newkirk ) writes 
in article  ( james thomas green ) writes 
has anyone looked into the possiblity of a 
what would be the benefits and problems with such a  ( other 
than the obvious in the now ) 


the for the is about 3  . and the 
is 4 so that 's a good fit for their existing stage , the block d 
which sets inside a just under 4  . i do n't know about 
launch loads , etc .  .  . but since the which 
are probably worse than the  ( those 's probably things 
up pretty good ) it seems  . except , the is a very 
thing and may require on the which is not available now. 
are assembled and  . does anyone know 
how much in the way of a a could support while 
to a and then taken down the road track 
and on the 

the that is being built for would be a better bet to 
onto the as the is designed for the extremely harsh 
of the launch .  . it is also closer to 4 m in  . 

you 've hit on the real , however. the is pressure  . 
it cannot hold up its own weight without pressure in the  . , 
the pressure difference between the two must be to 5  . 
that is rather to be and on the train .  . the pressure 
is how the  . on numerous 
 ( when i was there 88 91 ) the wanted to see what it would take to make 
a non pressure  . the answer a not worth  . 

the does not require on , however the 
does. i believe the on is to a great extent due to the 
requirements and , so maybe something can be 
done there .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 



they would also need and facilities added to the 
 ( unless the new second stage is actually built ) , and of course 
any support systems and facilities , no doubt from the 
us at great cost .  . these systems may us law so there are political 
problems to solve in addition to the in the cis you mention .  . 

the addition of facilities is critical as the off as it 
off. a is also needed .  . i do n't know what the uses 
for , but since they are derived from 's i would suspect that they 
use which do n't have the problem that 's 
do. if there is no at the sight at all , the addition of these systems 
could be big , not to mention the real tech issues involved with 
providing to russia .  . that issue alone might be enough to kill 
this idea. 


h . d .  . 
stanford university email stanford . edu . 
phone  ( 415 )  ( lab ) 
building  ( 415 ) 722  ( bullpen ) 
stanford , ca 94305 fax  ( 415 ) 

from  ( bruce watson ) 
subject re first 
distribution sci 
organization science computer network , denver , co .  . 
lines 13 

in article ( f . tm ) writes 
at one time there was speculation that the first 
 ( alexei ) was a fake .  . 

has any evidence to support or contradict this claim 

was this claim perhaps another cold war hallucination 

i , for one , would be an reader of a sci . space . ussr . what . really .  . 
happened. 


bruce watson 49 item extract 75 , 131 

from  ( john baez ) 
subject end of the space age 
article i.d. 
organization university of california , 
lines 
nntp posting host guitar . edu . 

there is an interesting opinion piece in the business section of today 's 
la times  ( thursday april 15 , 1993 , p.  . i thought i 'd post it to 
stir up some flame wars i mean reasoned debate. let me it by 
saying that i largely agree that the space age in the sense 
of several decades ago is over , and that like the space station 
miss the point at this time. reading , for example , what 's new 
the weekly physics update we get here on the net it 's clear that the 
of the day lies in the ever more fine of 
matter by which i include , matter physics  ( with 
its in computer hardware and elsewhere ) , and the amazing things 
people are doing with individual atoms these days. to a large extent , i 
think , the some people still have with space is a matter of 
nostalgia .  . i feel sure that someday we or more precisely , our mind 
children will spread across space  ( unless we wipe ourselves out ) but 
i think that space exploration is not what is about 
what we can do now . 

anyway , let me quote some of this article , but not all .  .  .  . 


space age glory from view 

micheal  ( writer , , and research associate at mit ) 

at 35 , america 's space age wo n't have to suffer through the of a 
crisis .  . 

the reason is that the space age is already dead. the no 
longer define our times , and the public has grown weary of the 
dollar celestial that minimal psychic or economic 
rewards .  . 

space exploration has from a central of america 's science 
and technology debate into a issue. is not a 
meaningful part of the industrial debate , our 
technology discussions or even our defense conversion 
policy. 

to be sure , america should continue to in 
for telecommunications and remote sensing cheap deep space 
would be nice too but the ideal of space as a meaningful of 
scientific and industrial is now dead. 

..... 

before the change in , it would have been foolish to 
write an for the space age. the bush white house 
supported the space program and proposed spending well over 30 billion 
to build space station freedom alone. 

even as he proposed cuts in other science and technology domains , 
office of and director richard was an 
public of big space  . the reality that much 
of the civilian space program from the to the 
to the space station was poorly conceived and 
implemented did not seem to matter much. 

political and a sense of not a 
vision or cost effective determined dollar 
space  . 

indeed , with few exceptions , such as , the post 
era is the story of the gold of space exploration 
with programs and promises that less for more and more. 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

while the clinton has kept on the highly regarded daniel 
as administrator of the national and space 
, it seems clear that space exploration is not being 
as either a or substantive of america 's 
 . the space station has been 
 . space is virtually ignored when the 
its  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

i wish this had happened 10 years ago instead of starting to happen 
now , says bruce , a caltech professor who nasa 's 
lab in pasadena .  . we 've put off a lot of things we should n't 
have .  .  .  .  . i would rather see a 10 billion nasa doing well than a 
40 billion one filled with white elephants .  . 

from  ( david h. chien ) 
subject orbit data help needed 
organization , university of california , los 
lines 43 

i have the elements at of an orbit , which i need 
to convert to something useful , distance from the earth 
in time  . a coordinate system is preferable , 
but i convert from other systems. c , pascal , or code , or 
if you can point me to a book or something that 'd be great .  . 

here 's the first few lines of the file. 

0 () 
1  ( 2x , , , a30 ) 
2  ( 2x , , , , , 
3  ( 4x , , , 
1 semi major 
1 
1 
1 of node 
1 argument of 
1 true 
1 
1 
2 3 beg 0 . 05 
3 0 . 05 
3 0 . 00 
3 0 . 02 
3 0 . 03 
3 0 . 03 
3 0 . 03 
3 0 . 06 
3 0 . 05 
2 1 0 . 05 
3 0 . 05 
3 0 . 00 
3 0 . 02 
3 0 . 03 
3 0 . 03 
3 0 . 05 
3 0 . 06 
3 0 . 05 

thanks in advance , 

larry 


from  ( tom ) 
subject nasa  ( dis)incentives ) 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 23 

questions and issues wrt congress raised and discussed 

replies 
now black when it is white is just white. except that when black is called 
white money is put into the system in a study to find out just when it is 
justified to call black , white. it is also that when white is called 
black , just the opposite occurs .  . now white is a color , but when white is 
called black , it calls into question the validity of the color spectrum .  . 
... 
it is a given however that nasa nor the military , whose in 
black from white is well known  ( remember the black and 
white on the v rocket ) that nothing will occur here either. 
when black and white are used by congress , who cares nothing for results , 
just more money for jobs brought about by the black white 
controversy .  .  .  .  . 

, why must you always see things in black and white terms ) 

tommy mac 

tom as the of vision increases , 
the of mystery grows .  . 


from  ( nick haines ) 
subject re level 5 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 21 37 55 gmt 
originator 
nntp posting host fox . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon university 
distribution sci 
lines 50 

in article  ( tom ) writes 


 ( given that i 've heard the software rated as level 5 in 
, i strongly doubt that this having lots of is the  . 

level 5 out of how many what are the different levels i 've never 
heard of this system. anyone care to clue me in 

this is a system used by arpa and other to 
measure the of a process  i.e. the entire process 
by which software gets designed , written , tested , , supported 
etc. 

see the software process  , by s. , 
1989. an excellent software engineering text. the 5 levels of 
software process are 

1. initial 
2. 
3. defined 
4. managed 
5. optimizing 

the levels are approximately characterized as follows 

1. no statistically software process control. have no statistical 
basis for how large software will be , how long it will 
take to produce , how expensive it will be , or how reliable it will 
be. most software is at this level. 

2. stable process with statistical , rigorous project 
having done something once , can do it again. 
are in detail , and there is software 
and quality  . 

3. the process is defined and understood , implementation is 
consistent .  . this includes things like software inspection , a 
rigorous software , more , 
and typically a engineering process group  within the 
project .  . 

4. statistical information on the software is systematically gathered 
and analysed , and the process is controlled on the basis of this 
information. software quality is measured and has goals. 

5. are prevented , the process is , software contracts 
are effective and  . 



from  ( simon tardell ) 
subject re sunset times 
nntp posting host nada . 
organization institute of technology , , 
lines 14 

in  ( joseph wetstein ) writes 

hello. i am looking for a program  ( or algorithm ) that can be used 
to and sunset times. 

i would appreciate any advice. 

i once thought it would be easiest fitting a to the times. but not. 
this gave discrepancy of minutes. if you fit a series 
you 'll get a very good fit after just three or four terms though. this 
presumably has to do with the of the orbit .  . 


simon , , v v ! 

from  ( gary coffman ) 
subject re what if the ussr had reached the moon first 
reply to  ( gary coffman ) 
organization destructive systems 
lines 30 

in article writes 
this is turning into  what 's a good for  , and i ought 
not to post when i 've a hundred some odd posts to go , but i would 
think that the real reason to have a moon base is economic .  . 

since someone with space industry will have a much 
larger than they would without space industry , eventually , 
they will simply be able to afford more stuff. 

if i read you right , you 're saying in essence that , with a larger 
economy , nations will have more funds to waste 
on a  . that was certainly the case with , 
but real will probably require a continuing military , 
scientific , or reason for being rather than just a we have 
the money , why not approach. 

it 's conceivable that luna will have a military purpose , it 's possible 
that luna will have a purpose , but it 's most likely that 
luna will only have a scientific purpose for the next several hundred 
years at least. therefore , bases should be on funding 
levels little different from those found for bases .  . can you 
put a 200 person base on the moon for 30 million a year even if you 
use students 



you make it , ! ! ! 
destructive systems we break it. uunet ! ! ! 
way guaranteed ! ! ! ! 
, 

from  ( tom ) 
subject fred and tom , ad 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 


i'm not very impressed by the old so called work from 
, it has almost all been towards silly processes on 
the moon as an excuse to put there. ... 

fred replies 
translation it does n't support the vision of the future 
to which you must subscribe .  .  .  . 

tom 
fred , we 're all supporting what each of us thinks should be done , to some 
degree. if you have a problem with what thinks should be done , 
address it , instead of just complaining about his doing so. 

fred again 
you really do n't get what the   are about , do you 
not incredibly clear explanation of  .  . something . between 
feelings regarding 's method , and judgments about his meaning 

t 
maybe i 'd get it if you said what the are about , rather than 
doing the same things that you mean to complain about. when you trash 
people , how am i supposed to read that as  trashing people is bad  

f 
gee , funny that you get it now , then deliberate , perhaps 

fred 's issue 1 's alleged trashing of others 

i only got it when you stopped trashing , and made your point patently , 
instead of  . that was my point all along , fred .  . 

not only 
do you do the same thing on the net  ( honestly reporting your ideas 
on matters of policy and in space ) , but your response was just 
, not even part of a debate. 

i have yet to see enter into anything remotely a 
debate . i see him flame anyone or anything who disagrees with the 
one true plan i see him attacking people , calling them lazy 
bastard because they had the to disagree with the 
i see him questioning peoples ethics , again because they had the 
to disagree with lord god  . but debate  . 

i'm glad you can laugh , since your ratio of debate insult is about the same. 

not even close , tommy , and generally only when i'm dealing with 
someone like  . 

i see we are dealing with a problem in a conflict of interpretations , not 
least of which is your belief that only you can adequately judge what is 
and is not debate. suffice to say that i disagree with you on that last 
point. why do n't you take a , fred , if you want some objective 
point of view 

and , as usual , you defend your insults with he started it. yeah , i 
took some of his research and called it my own , but he started it. so 
what if i stole his car , he stole my first. besides that , i 
think it 's still open to interpretation whether actually did start it. 
so your defense , besides being , and contradicting the first part of 
the sentence in which it occurs , may not even apply anyway. 

your defense reminds me of the guy that broke the borrowed tool i 
never borrowed it , i already gave it back , and it was broken when you 
gave it to me. make up mind , fred ! 

i'm not convinced that people are necessary in all parts of every space 
based process , and your response does n't tell me a thing about the 
reasons why you think they should be , except to the motives of 
the person with a opinion. 

who said i think they should be , tommy show me a note where i said 
that and i 'll eat this terminal .  . see below , fred 

fred , i that you did , since you took issue with it. the fact 
that my conclusion was incorrect , i.e. that you were taking issue with 
something different , is evidence that your style is 
confusing. 

or evidence that your reading and style are  . 

first , i try to address what i think you meant , for which i am rewarded 
with a denial of sorts , and a smart remark .  . then , i point out that i am 
not clear what you did mean , rather than your childish , wrongly 
interpreting you a second time , and i'm stupid for it. i just ca n't win , 
can i , fred you 've got a great point here somewhere , it 's just that 
between stupid people that you must insult , and your guarding of 
your valuable opinions , you never actually get around to making it. 

please quote the  it  i took issue with. i believe you will see  ( if 
you look ) that what i was and am taking issue with is mr 's idea 
that the program should be until such time as his 
based is finished .  . all the plan ! 

fred issue 2 's alleged meaning 

too bad the plan only exists in your mind , instead of 's , or you 
would have a really good point. instead you have provided a good reason 
to ignore your insults , since they are based on incorrect interpretations 
that you have made about others. forgive me for giving your insults more 
meaning than they ever should have had. 

my reading of what actually said is that people are n't required in 
all parts of all space processes , so your taking issue with his opinions 
regarding people in the space program , i read as people are required in 
all parts of all space processes .  . so , help me out , here , fred , since i'm 
so patently stupid. did you read wrong or are you going to eat 
your terminal now if the latter , i sure hope it 's one of those and 
string models that all the computer have been raving about ) 

the point is , i am not stupid because of your incorrect assumption .  . i 'd 
only be stupid if i insulted you for having made it. but , , that 's your 
job , fred .  . 

and , finally , your style is confusing , since you tried to make two points , 
simultaneously , with an allegory insult .  . sadly , one point addressed a  plan  
that only existed in your mind , and the other took issue with behaviors that 
you do as much as anyone. 

more deliberate lack of understanding , tommy 

no , no , i finally got it. you do n't like the plan that 's posts made 
you imagine. and you do n't like 's obnoxious behavior , even though 
it 's no worse than your own. thanks for taking the time with someone as 
as myself. 

if you have a problem with 's , address that. the way you 
, you 're the lack of discourse that you complain of. 

no , tommy , the   is that which the response. 
  i just flame him for being an obnoxious fool .  . 

i do n't really care who started it. i read this list to get information 
and other 's views on the issues to which it was dedicated , not to be 
your mom  ( he started it ! no , he did ! ) or to hear about why is a very 
bad guy. if you think flaming is bad , stop flaming , or at least get to 
the point in the first post , instead of explaining yourself all the time. 

that 's nice , tommy .  . when you pay me to post to the net you can 
complain about not getting your money 's worth .  . perhaps if you were n't 
 ( deliberately ) too thick to get the point the first time i would n't 
have to waste time explaining myself all the time 

of course , socrates .  . how could it be otherwise 

i think it 's neat how all this criticism from you started after your 
  to me about how such things should be 
outside usenet were somewhat  . being a little , 
tommy  ( to go with the immaturity ) or is this just the of a 
net . who got turned down by someone he thought was new 
 ( and hence could be  instructed  tommy , i saw you come on the  . 

who cares who came on the net first if you do , consider that you saw 
me come on after a brief , before which i was on for about 2 years. 
if you had seen me on the net first , you 'd remember when and i went 
down exactly the same road regarding rude , behavior. it 's 
just amazing to me that you continue to take issue with behavior that 's 
no worse than your own. 

let 's see here , my about your obnoxious behavior are , 
while your flames against people you decide are is n't , and my 
about your name calling are , while your name calling 
is n't .  . yeah , right. maybe if you called me some more names , i might 
see it better , fred .  . 

net . naturally , fred , you 've correctly interpreted my 
motivations , when yours are impossible to judge from your actions  ( as 
your insulting of people that try ,  . i did n't really care about 
people that fill the net with personal garbage , what i really wanted was to 
impress everyone. i only put my with your behavior on private 
mail , not because it belongs there , but because i thought you were such a 
jerk that you 'd bring it back to the net , playing right into my hands. 
, i had no idea what an intellectual master you were , turning and 
bringing the history of these posts to the net , for the noble and valuable 
purpose of me. whether i should feel stupid because i tried 
to make suggestions to such a superior , or becuase i tried to 
communicate like an adult with a self righteous ass , still is n't clear. 

well , fred , you exposed me. now i 'll never be able to get  ( a(nother ) job 
with nasa , since they all know that i'm than fred  . well , 
i just hope you 're happy. please leave me alone , now. i just do n't 
have the heart to attempt keeping up with one so far above me. maybe 
or can approach your high standards , but i'm dropping it now. 

tommy mac 

tom as the of vision increases , 
the of mystery grows .  . 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re space news from feb 15 
organization u of 
lines 23 

in article writes 
's atmosphere will start to out around , and after about 
increasing areas of both and will be in permanent 
that will make and mapping impossible. 

where does the come from there 's nothing close enough to block 
sunlight from hitting them. i would n't expect there to be anything block 
our view of them either. what am i missing 

you 're assuming that their normal carries all areas of the surface 
into sunlight .  . not so. even on earth , each gets several weeks without 
sunlight in mid  . and have much more extreme 
and a much longer orbit .  . 's north , for example , gets over 
a century of followed by over a century of perpetual light. 

at the moment , we 're in luck and are just past their 
, when the sun was just on the at both poles  ( of  . 
if we get there soon , only the immediate of one 
 ( on each ) will be in long term  . this will get steadily worse the 
longer we wait. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( del cotter ) 
subject re crazy or just 
organization university , west london , uk 
lines 26 

writes 

so some of my ideas are a bit odd , off the and such , but so was and 
, and quite a few others .  .  . sorry if i do not have the big degrees 
and such , but i think (i might be wrong , to error is human ) i have something 
that is in many ways just as important , i have imagination , dreams .  . and without 
dreams all the knowledge is worthless .  .  . 

oh , and us with the big degrees do n't got imagination , huh 

the alleged dichotomy between imagination and knowledge is one of the most 
of the new age. michael , thanks for the generous 
offer , but we have quite enough dreams of our own , thank you. 

you , on the other hand , are letting your own dreams go to waste by 
failing to get the thermodynamics chemistry  ( your choices here ) 
which would give your imagination wings. 

just to show this is n't a flame , i leave you with a quote from invasion of 
the body 

become one of us it 's not so bad , you know 

' , ' ' ' , ' , ' ' , ' ' ' , ' , ' 
' , , ' , ' del ' , , ' , ' 
' , ' ' , ' 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re race 
organization u of 
lines 13 

in article writes 
you 'd need to launch to send up large of stuff. do you know 
of a private 

you 'd need to launch to send up large of stuff if you assume 
no new development .  . if you assume new development , with 
lower costs as a specific objective , then you probably do n't want to 
build something anyway. 

nobody who is interested in things will buy  . it 
does n't take many to pay for a laser or a large 
gas gun or a development program for a big , all of which 
would have far better cost  . 

from  ( pat ) 
subject why 1 will be the way of the future. 
organization express access communications , md usa 
lines 20 
nntp posting host access . net . 



i once read an article on computer technology which stated that 
every new computer technology was actually lower and then what it 
replaced .  . silicon was less effective then the products 
then available. was less capable then silicon .  . 
were then existent single  . 

what the argument was , though was that these new promised either 
theoretically future higher or lower cost or higher  . 

i think that the 1 may g fit into this same model .  . 

's can certainly launch more weight then a , but 
an the of greater cycle times and lower costs .  . 

this is kind of a posting , but i thought i 'd it out as 
a for those interested in the project .  . 



from 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
lines 42 


in article ,  ( gregory n .  . bond ) writes 
in article  ( gene wright ) writes 

announce that a reward of 1 billion would go to the first corporation 
who successfully keeps at least 1 person alive on the moon for a 
year .  . 

and with on offer , the problem of keeping them alive is highly 
likely to involve more than just the environment ! 

oh dear , my just on the roof of acme 's base and they 
all died. how sad .  . gosh , that leaves us as the oldest residents .  . 

quick boss , the from are back , and this time they 've 
got a ! man the guns ! 

one could imagine all sorts of being developed in that 
sort of environment .  .  .  .  .  . 

greg .  . 

 ( i'm kidding , btw , although the problem of winner takes all is 
that it encourages all sorts of undesirable behaviour witness 
military programs. and is probably far too small a 
reward to encourage what would be a very expensive and high risk 
proposition . ) . 

bond young ltd australia 

hey ! my has an old and has some old in her , 
let 's put on a program ! . . . sounds good , but . . . 
let 's play a game what would be a reasonable reward what would 
have a reasonable shot at off such a feat just where in the 
would the reward come from should there be a time limit would a 
straight cash money award be enough or should we in say . . . 
exclusive rights for the first fifty years you get the idea. 

i 'd like to play but i do n't have a clue to the answers. 

tom he who refuses to understand math 
will probably never get his out. 

from  ( kenneth ng ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization private computer , , nj 
lines 18 

in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 
just a bit off ,  . we do n't nuclear because what 
you get from the plant is bomb grade  . it is 
also , given current of things , to simply new 
rather than the old ones , creating 
dangerous materials  ( from a national security point of view ) and then 
that back into  . 

with may result in something that may go 
kind of , but its hardly decent bomb grade  . if you want bomb 
grade use a research reactor , not a power reactor .  . but if you want 
a bomb , do n't use , use  . 



please reply to for now. 
all this might be an elaborate running in a little device sitting 
on someone 's table j . l .  . 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re market or gov failures 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
distribution sci 
organization texas 
lines 52 

in  ( tom ) writes 


fred saying that gov is necessary for any space program 

i reply 
btw , fred , you 've really crossed the border , since you admit that the ideas 
you support can only be carried out with power. now that 's really 
f in  , so get off high horse about tolerance .  . 

fred replies 
no , tommy , i admit that there are such things as  market failures  
which necessitate intervention by other than capitalist forces to 
correct. 

i guess your understanding of this  market failure  should be classified 
under 's  economics on the level of century medicine  , since you 
apparently completely ignored that this  market failure  can as easily , 
or even much more easily , be attributed to government intervention 
failure . so , in addition to a strong moral argument against what you 
propose , there is also a strong utilitarian argument , namely that gov 's 
destruction of wealth through and 
on a major scale has made significant private capital harder 
to make. 

i note that you make no such case as you claim can be  even more 
easily  . yes , the argument can  ( and has ) been made that current 
government policy creates even larger market than there were 
in the first place , but there is no such term as  government failure  , 
since the government can change policies whenever it  . the 
market does n't do that and is governed by  ( relatively ) well understood 
forces .  . this about  moral arguments  about 
, etc. , is , at bottom , so much simplistic economic thinking. 
it can only be  justified  by of anyone who knows more 
about economics than the which is what invariably 
happens. tripe a la tommy , the new  . 

get a clue , little boy , and go your pride in my not 
considering you infallible in some other fashion .  . i'm not interested 
in your ego games. 

, fred .  . this , besides being simply an attempt to be insulting , 
really belongs on private mail .  . if  ego games  are so to 
you , why the insults and this strange negative for me 

wherever do you get this idea of your own importance 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

subject re space research spin off 
from  ( mary shafer ) 
t 

organization nasa , , cal .  . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 6 apr 1993 02 19 59 gmt 
lines 64 

on tue , 6 apr 1993 02 19 59 gmt ,  ( phil g. fraering ) said 

 ( mary shafer ) writes 

on 4 apr 1993 20 31 10 ,  ( pat ) said 

in article 
writes question is can someone give me 10 
examples of direct nasa space related research that helped humanity 
in general it will be interesting to see .  .  . 

) i think. i think they also pushed hi tech 
for  . look at by wire .  . 

swept wings if you in you 've the benefits. 

did n't one of the early have these i also think 
the germans did some work on these in wwii .  . 

the came up with them before world war ii. nasa is directly 
descended from the , with space added in. 

you 'll notice that i did n't mention wings even though the 
x 5 , tested at what 's now , had them. we did steal that one 
from the germans .  . the difference is that swept wings do n't 
change their angle of , wings do. perhaps the similarity 
of names has caused some confusion have swept wings , f 
have wings. 

 . area ruling .  . digital by wire .  . ride  . 

a lot of this was also done by the military .  .  .  . 

after nasa proposed them and nasa test teams 
demonstrated them. richard and r . t .  . jones , at 
research center , were in the field .  . 

was involved in the of and area 
ruling  ( in the and ,  . it 's true that we 
used military as the  ( kc and 102 ) but 
that had more to do with and need than with military 
involvement .  . the 102 was completely ours and the was 
to us. the air force , of course , was interested in our 
results and of our efforts .  . 

flew the first digital by wire in the  . no 
or , to show you how confident we were. 
general decided to make the f 16 wire when they saw how 
successful we were.  ( mind you , the arrow and the x 15 were both 
by wire much earlier , but ) . 

! i'm disagreeing with mary ! 

the nasa habit of second hand military and using 
them for can make things kind of confusing. on the other 
hand , all those second hand navy give our test a chance 
to the wings something most at air force base 
ca n't do. 



mary nasa research , , ca 
of course i do n't speak for nasa 
a at your is better than no at all. unknown us 

from  ( rouben rostamian ) 
subject re sunset times 
organization university of maryland , baltimore campus 
lines 60 
nntp posting host math . edu . 

in article  ( joseph wetstein ) writes 

hello. i am looking for a program  ( or algorithm ) that can be used 
to and sunset times. 

here is a i did a long time ago that the length 
of the daylight .  . you should be able to convert the information here 
to and sunset times. 


telephone 
department of mathematics and statistics e mail 
university of maryland baltimore bitnet 
baltimore , md , usa internet 

definitions 

z the of the of the planet away from the normal to its 
orbital plane .  . in case of the earth z is about 23 . 5 . degrees , i think. 
i do not recall the exact value. in case of , z is almost 
90 degrees .  . 

u of the where the length of the day is measured .  . 
is at about 45 degrees .  . north is at 90 .  . 

a position of the planet around the sun .  . as a goes from 
0 to degrees , the planet makes a full circle around the sun .  . 
the spring occurs at a 0. 

l daylight  ( duration of daylight )  ( duration of a full  . 
on the  ( u 0 ) l is always 1 2. near the north  ( u 90 degrees ) 
l is sometimes one and sometimes zero , depending on the time of the year .  . 


define the p and q by 
sin p sin a sin z 
cos q h ( tan u tan p ) ,  ( 0 q degrees ) 

conclusion 
l q  ( if q is measured in degrees ) 
l q  ( if q is measured in radians ) 

wait ! but what is h 
the cutoff function h is defined as follows 

h  ( s ) s if s 1 
1 if s 1 
1 if s 1 

as an interesting exercise , plot l versus a. the will shows 
how the length of the daylight varies with the time of the year .  . 
experiment with various choices of and  . 
compare the behavior of the function at above and below 
the circle .  . 


telephone 
department of mathematics and statistics e mail 
university of maryland baltimore bitnet 
baltimore , md , usa internet 

from  ( james thomas green ) 
subject re  ( no , not the guy with the ears ! ) 
organization california polytechnic state university , san luis obispo 
lines 31 

in article  ( victor laking ) writes 
from  ( victor laking ) 
subject  ( no , not the guy with the ears ! ) 
date sun , 04 apr 93 19 31 54 
does anyone have any info on the apparent of 

all that i know is that there were apparently two at 
drastically different times of a small planet that was inside 's 
orbit .  . beyond that , i have no other info .  . 

does anyone know anything more specific 


as i heard the story , before albert came up the the theory 
o  relativity and space , nobody could account for 
's orbit .  . it a little fast (i think) for simple 
newtonian physics .  . with the success in finding to 
explain the odd of , it was that there 
might be another inner planet to explain 's orbit .  . 

it 's unlikely anything bigger than an is closer to the 
sun than  . i'm sure we would have it by now. 
perhaps some can that. 


( james t. green ) ( ) 
heaven , n .  . 
a place where the wicked cease from you with talk 
of their own personal affairs , and the good listen with 
attention while you your own. 
, the devil 's dictionary 

from de . ( b ) 
subject re sunset times 
organization applied math , university of , germany 
lines 15 

a related question  ( which i have n't given that much serious thought 
to) at what is the average length of the day  ( averaged 
over the whole year ) is this function a constant 
12 hours is it truly about the or is 
there some discrepancy due to the fact that the orbit is 
 ( or maybe the difference is enough to change the and 
make the in the southern more bitter , but 
is far too small to make a difference in daylight 
hours ) 

i want to know where to move. 


de . 


from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject re science news article on federal r d 
organization national 
lines 24 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( charles j. divine ) writes 
just a pointer to the article in the current science news article 
on federal r d funding .  . 

very , all r d is being to current 
advantage from things like military and other work that 
does not have as much utility .  . 

divine 

 . 

disclaimer this opinion is mine and does not represent the views of 
, universities research association , the department of energy , 
or the ward regular science fiction organization .  . 


o ) ' ' , , ' , 
) ( ) ( ) ! 
( ) ( ) 
bill national 
bitnet 
internet 


from  ( mitch ) 
subject a in the works 
originator edu . 
reply to  ( mitch ) 
organization north state university , project 
lines 19 


hi all , 

i really thought that by now i would have seen something 
about this , but i have n't , so here goes last night on 
the evening news , the said something to the 
effect that one of the that was after the 
recent space launch was found to have a of 
some sort around apparently inside the case. there 
was no as to where the item was 
found , of what type of it was , but the 
did say something about a nasa official commenting that 
there would be an inquiry into how the thing got in the  . 

has anybody else on the net whose info sources may be 
better than mine heard anything about this it seems rather 
 . 



from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re race 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 16 

in article writes 

so how much would it cost as a private venture , assuming you could talk the 
u.s. government into you a couple of in florida 

why would you want to do that the goal is to do it  ( remember , 
this is n't  . instead of an expensive launch , 
just use a and launch from a much  . 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
56 days to first of 

from 
subject re drive in how 
x id ca . 
x fri , 16 apr 93 06 33 17 gmt 
organization simon fraser university 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 15 

in article james p. , 
writes 
background the was a concept .  . 

it was more than a concept it was seriously by 
freeman et al many years ago. i do n't know how well known this is , 
but a high explosive flew  ( in the atmosphere ) in san 
diego back in or  . i was working at general atomic at the time , 
but i did n't learn about the experiment until almost thirty years later , 
when 
visited us and revealed that it had been done. i feel sure 
that someone must have film of that experiment , and i 'd really like to 
see it. has anyone out there seen it 



from  ( james davis nicoll ) 
subject re new planet object found 
organization university of western ontario , london 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 20 

in article  ( steinn sigurdsson ) writes 
in article  ( jeff foust ) writes 

in a recent article  ( james davis nicoll ) writes 
if the new belt object is called   , the next 
one should be called  . 

unless i'm things ,  ( always a possibility ) 1992 , the belt 
object discovered last year , is known as  . 

as it happens the second one is  . the first one was 
 . all subject to the of the of course , 
but i think they might let this one slide .  .  .  . 

gee , i feel so ignorant now .  .  .  . 

research , then post. 

james 


from  ( rob unverzagt ) 
subject re space food sticks 
keywords food 
article i.d. news . 
organization organization you must be kidding. 
lines 35 
nntp posting host org . 

in article ( rd48 ) writes 
i had sticks just about every morning for in 
first and second grade  ( 69 70 , 70  . they came in , 
, and butter and were about long 
and in wrapped in space  ( well , it seemed 
like space at the time) .  . 

was n't there a plain flavor too they looked more like some 
kind of industrial product than food perfectly 
with perfectly ends. kinda scary .  . 

the taste is hard to describe , although i remember it fondly .  . it was 
most certainly more than say a modern power bar .  . sort of 
a with vitamins .  . the power bar is a rough 
approximation of the taste.  . 

an other post described it as like a roll 
which the pretty well. as for taste , they were 
like , only not very does that make sense i recall 
liking them for their , not taste. i guess i have well 
developed  . 

man , these were my 60 's .  . 

it was to eat a few while watching . 
does anybody else remember that , as long as we 're off the 
topic of space 





rob 
tuesday is green day. 


from d . 
subject cold gas for sounding 
organization computing lab , university of kent at , uk .  . 
lines 14 
nntp posting host eagle . ac . uk . 

does anyone know how to size cold gas roll control 
for sounding 

well , first you work out how much cold gas you need , then make the 
big enough. 

working out how much cold gas is another problem , depending on 
, duration ,  ( which 
into pressure , which may be a factor in 
etc . ) . 

ralph 
for space sciences 
university of kent , uk 

from de .  ( uwe schuerkamp ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
nntp posting host uni . de . 
organization math , germany 
lines 26 

in article 
 ( enzo liguori ) writes 

vision of the future. observers were 
this spring when a nasa launch arrived at the 
with in huge block letters on the 

this is ok in my opinion as long as the stuff returns to earth . 

what do you think of this and attempt to 
the night sky it is not even april 1 anymore. 

if this turns out to be true , it 's time to get seriously active in 
terrorism .  . this is ! who do those people think they are , 
selling every bit that promises to make money i guess we really 
being out by radiation , folks .  . stupidity . i 
guess that 's true , and if only by pure numbers. 

another depressed citizen , 





de . 
clear skies fight light pollution ! 

from  ( greg howard ) 
subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
organization university of wisconsin astronomy department 
lines 10 
nntp posting host edu . 


actually , the stuff a fair bit like a , 
qualitative corruption of general relativity .  . nothing to do with 
the old , , though. maybe somebody could loan him 
a text at a low level. 

did n't get much further than that , tho .  .  .  .  .  . 


greg 

from  ( steinn sigurdsson ) 
subject re the sky 
organization 
lines 23 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 12 01 38 gmt 

in article ( f . tm ) writes 

from g. 

finally this is n't the age ,  .  .  . 
please try to remember that there are more human activities than 
those practiced by the caste , the caste , and the 
priesthood .  . 

right , the caste is by god , and may 
freely its presence in the evening  .  .  . 

the priesthood has never quite forgiven 
the merchants  ( aka caste sic ) 
for their rise to power , has it 

) 


standard disclaimer 
know .  .  .  . you penguin types offend me. ... 
my gosh .  .  .  . life is offensive ! ! 
 . bb 1984 

from  ( nathan wallace ) 
subject space drive 
reply to 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university computer science dept. 
lines 16 

an excellent reference for non technical readers on the system is 
the handbook , by and , isbn 
0 4. the relevant chapter is 4 nuclear  . 

the book also contains lots of technical references for the more 
inclined .  . 

enjoy ! 

c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c 
c f. c c reality is c 
c e mail c c ancient c 
c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c 




from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re dreams and degrees  ( was re crazy or just ) 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 19 

 ( bill beam jockey ) writes 

... 
like others involved in sci . space . , mr. adams shows symptoms of being a 
member of the , and i think he 's it up 
fast .  . i was a young guy with dreams once , and they led me to get a 
technical education to follow them up. too bad i wound up in an 
assembly line job out identical day after day .  .  .  . 
( 

how can you tell they 're identical 

you got one of them star the next neutrino 


seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from  ( david ward ) 
subject re questions about and 5 
distribution sci 
organization space center lab 
lines 26 
news software vax vms 1.4 

in article ,  ( garret w. gengler ) writes .  .  .  . 
in sci . space . you write 

try the at  . ftp to nasa . gov . or 
128 . 16 . , or call  ( 310)286 )  . they have data on , , , 
, delta and scout launch  . 

 . thanks for the info .  . 

i tried anonymous ftp there , but it did n't work. 
i also tried to the same address , but it asked for a 
and , although there was a note saying that the new for 
was . 

anyways , do you have any idea what else i should try 

thanks , 



the home office number for is  ( 301 )  ( note area 
code  . a friend of mine used to use it to get data , but 
he had to apply for a name and  . i have a call in for 
more info , which i hope to get in the morning. 

david w. @ 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 16 

 ( jeff cook ) writes 
... 
people in primitive tribes out in the middle of nowhere as they look up 
and see a can of flying across the sky .  .  .  . d 

seen that movie already. or one just like it. 
come to think of it , they might send someone on 
a quest to get rid of the thing .  .  .  . 

jeff 


seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from  ( terry ford ) 
subject 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 15 



could someone please send me the basics of the project 
1. the proposal objectives 
2. the current status of the project obstacles encountered 
3. chance that the project shall ever be 
or any other interesting information about this project .  . 

any help will be much 



house , , ontario , canada , earth , system , way , 
any as a direct result from the reading of this 
message including heart is not my fault in any shape or form. 

from  ( urban f ) 
subject re drive in how 
nntp posting host 
organization none. on usenet i speak only for myself. 
x alt . reply . address 
lines 14 

writes 
i feel sure 
that someone must have film of that experiment , and i 'd really like to 
see it. has anyone out there seen it 

i 've seen a film of it , my memory may be faulty , but as i 
remember it the was slightly over a long , with a 
thick 30 40 in  . i think the said 
it was by sticks .  . there were four 
within about 2 s , the second coming after about 2 m of in. 
seemed to be on the order of 50 m , but that is hard 
to judge. 



from  ( pat ) 
subject re space research spin off 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 30 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article  ( pat ) writes 
i thought the area rule was by  . 
nasa guys developed the rule , but no one knew if it worked 
until built the hardware and maybe the 

nope .  . the decisive of the area rule was when 's 102 
to being a 1 . 5 . and actually found 
to be incapable of going in level was turned into 
the area ruled which met the  . this was well before either 
the or the the 102 flew in late , and spent most 
of the first half of out what went wrong and most of the 
second half building the first  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 



good thing i stuck in a couple of question marks up there. 

i seem to recall , somebody built or at least proposed a 
civil transport .  . i thought it was a , but maybe it 
was a 8 , 9 sure it had a funny , 
but on the other hand it seemed to save  . 

i thought area rules applied even before , just 
not as  . 



from  ( doug loss ) 
subject re crazy or just 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
lines 22 

in article writes 

unfortunately h. beam killed him self just weeks short of having his 
first book published , and have his ideas see light .  .  . such a waste. 


lived in my town  ( williamsport , pa ) when he killed himself. it 
was in the early  60 's .  . he had had more than a few books published by 
that time , but he was down on his luck  . was that he 
was with for food. he viewed himself as 
a man , and (imo) decided to check out if he 
could n't support himself. the worst part is that john campbell , the 
long time editor of astounding sf magazine had cut a check for 
's most recent story , and said check was in the mail .  . if campbell 
had known 's , i'm sure he would have to say on. 
campbell was like that. 

i wish it had happened differently. i always 's stuff. 

doug loss 



from phoenix . princeton . edu . !  ( carlos g. niederstrasser ) 
subject re on star 
originator 
nntp posting host princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 33 

in article 
writes 
in article ,  ( doug loss ) 
writes 
i saw in the newspaper last night that dr. mae , the first 
black woman in space  ( she 's a and chemical engineer who flew 
on last year ) will appear as a operator on the 
star the next generation that the week of may 31. 
it 's hardly space science , i know , but it 's interesting. 

doug loss 


interesting is  .  . i wonder if they will make a mention of her being an 
in the credits .  .  . i think it might help people connect the future 
of 
space with the present .  .  . and give them an idea that we must go into space .  .  . 



a operator ! ! that better be one important transport .  . usually 
it is a who does the job. for such a appearance i would 
have expected a more meaningful role .  . 



g. only two things are infinite , 
princeton society the universe and human 
stupidity , and i'm not sure 
about the former .  . einstein 

ad per 


from  ( tom ) 
subject golden space ages 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 17 


, enough , the calls the years 
the golden age of  . i would call it the years , 
the primitive nature of it. it was , 
, those young men in their flying 
machines . but in reality , it  . death was a highly likely 
occurence , and the environment blew .  . 

yeah , but a cut down most of it. ended it completely. 

of course , the environment in space continues to ) 

tommy mac 

tom as the of vision increases , 
the of mystery grows .  . 


from  ( matthew deluca ) 
subject re !  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization the grey 
lines 13 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( david fuzzy wells ) writes 

i hear insert favorite here that it will supposedly coincide 
with the  . 

even worse , the city of has a proposal before it to space on this 
 . considering the of people running this city , 
there 's no telling what we 're going to have down at us from orbit .  . 

matthew 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! matthew 
internet 

organization european space centre 
from 
subject re training in 
distribution sci 
lines 10 

the also trained at  ( in ) in the 
area  . there is now a with a space  . 
they you by 6 . compared to a visit it 's not worth .  . 


disclaimer 
software systems 
c o neither nor is responsible 
, germany for my postings ! 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re forcing space  . 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 7 
nntp posting host access . net . 

besides this was the same line of horse the claimed 
when they were told to pay for land after strip  . 

they still mine in the , but now it does n't look like 
the moon when done. 



from  ( todd johnson ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization computing corporation , los , california 
lines 28 

in article  ( enzo liguori ) writes 
from the article what 's new apr 16 93 in sci . physics . research . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
what s new  ( in my opinion ) , friday , 16 april 1993 washington , 

1. space ! is this one the we were promised 
what about light pollution in observations (i read somewhere else that 
it might even be during the day , leave alone at  . 
is nasa really supporting this junk 
are protesting groups being organized in the states 
really , really depressed .  . 



i would n't worry about it. there 's enough space up there that 
a long would probably in some very short 
period of time  ( less than a year ) while cleaning up somewhat .  . 
sort of a giant paper in orbit .  . 

hmm , that could actually be useful. 

as for sure , why not a nasa friend and i spent one 
night out just exactly how much gold we 'd need 
to put the golden of a certain american fast food organization 
on the face of the moon. fortunately , we up in the morning. 



from 
subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
lines 3 

they must be that good eau acid to california now. 

tom 

from  ( tom ) 
subject space 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 14 



space successfully 

when i first saw this , i thought for a second that it was a headline from 
the star about the found in the recently. 

y know , sometimes they have wire built in ) 

tommy mac 

tom as the of vision increases , 
the of mystery grows .  . 


from ( ) 
subject long island  ( was why use ac at for power ) 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 21 

on date fri , 2 apr 1993 23 19 46 gmt , edmund hack arabia ! hack writes 

in article  ( pat ) writes 

i always thought 's plants were in long island .  . 

no , has a plant on long island .  . 

i do n't think ever had a plant on long island .  . the two main 
there were  ( fairchild ) which closed its doors after the 
t 46 , and  ( which is still hanging on last i time i  . 
i think also started there. if you 're ever in the area check out the 
of at field  ( now mostly lots behind the 
and the community  . good display of from long 
island , including a article. 

disclaimer opinions stated are solely my own  ( unless i change my  . 
ben  ( w(818)586 ) 
space station freedom loads and 
man will not for fifty years to , 


from  ( william lewis ) 
subject re fluids 
organization university of washington 
lines 33 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

 ( doug loss ) writes 
besides the problems of moving so a medium in out 
of the  ( diaphragm , etc . ) . , is there likely to be a problem 
with the mixture i mean , since the never all the air in 
them , the air has to mix pretty quickly with the air in 
the to provide a useful pressure of oxygen , right would 
this mixing be at the we 're 
talking about 

there was an interesting article in scientific american some time ago 
about liquid .  .  ( it was a few months before the came out . ) . 
as far as i can remember , they mentioned three things that were difficult 
to do at once with a fluid 
low if it 's too difficult to force the fluid in out 
of the , you ca n't extract enough oxygen to power your own 
effort  ( let alone anything else ) 

rate obviously , not all the air in your is 
when you out and the part that is n't 
is the part that 's the walls of the  .  ( alveolus ) 
so the trip from the blood to the new air has to be done 
by of the gas through the fluid .  . apparently oxygen 
tends to more readily than , so even if you can get enough 
oxygen in , you might not be able to get enough out. 

oxygen capacity you have to be able to enough 
gas per volume .  . 

oh , and of course , your new fluid must not the 
or interfere with their healing or anything like that .  .  .  . 


lewis , 

from  ( ralph buttigieg ) 
subject point of view 
organization  . gate admin is 
lines 29 

original to 
g  day 

29 93 07 28 , wrote to all 

 ( nick szabo ) , via 3 

here are some longer term to consider 

here are some more 

terrestrial from  . 

world and disaster system.  ( the japanese have 
already developed a plan for this , called wedos ) although this may be more 
of a public good . 

space  . 

energy relay 



ralph 

2 . 41 . 
origin s world australia  ( 02 ) 3 6 
(3 635 ) 


from  ( 21012d ) 
subject re revisited 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution sci 
lines 8 

i found it very interesting that on pressure to 
maintain geometry .  .  .  . leads . me to the question have any 
of the concepts such that the 
launch would be different from the 
one i have long been by structures 
as conceived and built by and others , a 
sounds very clever .  . 


subject life on 
from  ( don schiewer ) 
organization company , east chicago , in 
nntp posting host 
nntp posting user 
lines 9 

what is the deal with life on i save the face and heard 
associated theories .  .  ( which sound thin to me ) 

are we going back to to look at this face 
does anyone buy all the life theories 


internet great 
uucp ! uucp ! !  .  .  . 

from  ( roland karlsson ) 
subject re  ( thanks ) 
in reply to 's message of 30 1993 00 34 
lines 14 
organization institute of computer science , 


thanks ron and peter for some very nice  . 

i have an advice though. you wrote that the were reduced to 256 
 . as far ad i understand pictures gets much better  ( and 
the files smaller ) if you use the original 3 color 24 bit 
data when converting to  . 

thanks again , 


, po box , s 28 , 
internet tel 46 8 15 40 fax 46 8 72 30 
telex 

subject none 
from 
organization university of , , new 
nntp posting host ac . 
lines 12 


can someone please me who said a well known quotation 

he was sitting a rocket and afterwards , in answer to 
the question what he had been thinking about , said  ( approximately ) half a 
million components , each has to work perfectly , each by the lowest 
 .  .  .  .  . 

and correction of the quote would be much appreciated. 

clive 


from  ( jim scotti ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 33 

in article  ( mark brader ) writes 

also , s of were 

april jupiter 
august 3 jupiter 

where 1 jupiter , 000 44 , 000 mi 0 . au .  . ... 

sorry ,  .  .  . i'm . not used to talking this language. 

thanks again. one final question. the name was n't known to 
me before this thread came up , but the may issue of scientific american 
has an article about the , with a photo of neil 
, project scientist for nasa 's compton gamma ray  . 
same person 

neil is  . tom son. tom was the 
of p 3  ( as well as about 4 other the latest of which 
does not bear his name , but rather the name since he was 
observing with that system when he found the latest  . 


mark , inc. , information ! ... we want information ! 
! ! , the prisoner 


jim 


university of arizona 
tucson , az 85721 usa 


from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 13 15 interest groups 
keywords frequently asked questions 
article i.d. cs . groups . 
expires 6 may 1993 20 01 32 gmt 
distribution world 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 
supersedes groups 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 

archive name space groups 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 08 

space interest research groups and space 

groups 

industry association .  . group , with primary 
membership of major  . in the area. 
acts as the voice of the industry and it 's opinions 
are usually backed up by of analyses and the of 
the in  . 

address needed 

american institute of and  . 
association , with somewhere about 30 , 000 40 , 000 
members .  . 65 local chapters around the country largest chapters 
are area  ( 3000 members ) , la  ( 2100 members ) , san francisco  ( 2000 
members ) , seattle  ( 1500 ) , houston  ( 1200 ) and orange 
 ( 1200 ) , plus student chapters .  . not a union , but acts to represent 
and space  ( engineers , , financial 
types )  . holds over 30 a year on space and 
technical  ( aerospace journal , 
journal of and , etc . ) . , technical reference books 
and is the source on current state of the art through 
their published papers and  . also continuing 
education classes on design. has over 60 technical 
, and over 30 for industry standards. acts 
as a society a jobs 
function , provides classes on job search , low cost health and 
life , and for appropriate legislation  ( aiaa was 
one of the major organizations pushing for individual 
 . very active public policy works 
directly with the media , congress and government as a 
and for about 
technology technical issues. reasonably non , in that they 
represent the industry as a whole , and not a single company , 
organization , or viewpoint .  . 

membership 70  ( student are  . 

american institute of and 
the center 
l , sw 
washington , 
 ( 202 ) 646 

develops small  ( since the 1960s ) for a variety of 
uses by amateur radio  . has various , 
software for pc mac etc. 

amateur corporation  ( amsat ) 
p.o. box 27 
washington , 
 ( 301 ) 

australian space engineering and research association .  . an 
australian non profit organisation to coordinate , promote , and 
conduct space r d in australia , involving both australian 
and international  ( primarily university )  . activities 
include the development of sounding , small 
 ( especially microsatellites ) , high research , and 
appropriate  . provides student at all levels , and 
is open to any person or organisation interested in  . 
a monthly newsletter and a quarterly technical journal .  . 

membership  ( dual subscription ) 
 ( newsletter only )  ( journal only ) 

ltd 
po box 
, , australia , 
email 

british society. probably the oldest pro space 
group , two excellent , covering 
current space activities , and the journal of the , containing 
technical papers on space activities from near term space to 
 . has published a design study for an 
called . 

british society 
27 29 south road 
london 
england 

no information available at present. 

international space university .  . is a non profit international 
graduate level institution dedicated to promoting the 
peaceful exploration and development of space through cultural 
and space education and research .  . for further 
information on 's summer program or permanent campus 
activities please send messages to or 
contact the offices at 

international space university 
avenue 7th 
cambridge , ma 
 ( 617 ) 1987  ( phone ) 
 ( 617 )  ( fax ) 

l 5 society  . founded by keith and carolyn in to 
advocate space colonization .  . its major success was in preventing us 
participation in the un moon treaty in the late  . with 
the national space institute in 1987 , forming the national space 
society. 

national space club. open for general membership , but not well 
known at all. primarily comprised of in 
industry .  . acts as information conduit and social group. 
active in , with a chapter in la .  . monthly meetings with invited 
speakers who are heavy in the field .  . on 
space conference is the definitive source of data on government 
planning for space programs. cheap membership  ( approx 
20  . 

address needed 

the national space society. is a pro space group 
by its network of local chapters .  . supports a general of space 
development and man in space , including the nasa space station .  . 
ad , a monthly magazine , and runs 
launch and space telephone services .  . a major 
of the space development conference .  . associated with 
and , political lobbying organizations .  . 

membership 18  ( youth senior ) 35  . 

national space society 
membership department 
avenue , s . e .  . 
washington , 
 ( 202 ) 1900 

society founded by  . the largest space 
group. report , a monthly , and has 
supported hardware development  . is primarily 
support of space science , recently to include an 
international mission to  . 

the society 
65 north avenue 
pasadena , ca 

membership 35 year .  . 

the space studies institute , founded by dr.  . 
physicist freeman took over the of after 
o 's death in 1992 .  . update , a 
newsletter describing work in progress. a research program 
including mass drivers , processes and , 
from materials , power  . runs the 
princeton conference on space manufacturing .  . 

membership 25 year .  . ( 100 year and up ) most 
research .  . 

space studies institute 
road 
po box 
princeton , nj 

students for the exploration and development of space .  . founded in 
at mit and princeton .  . is a chapter based pro space 
organization at high schools and universities around the world. 
entirely student run. each chapter is independent and 
its own local activities. nationally , runs a 
competition , design , and holds an international 
conference and meeting in late summer .  . 

students for the exploration and development of space 
mit room 
avenue 
cambridge , ma 
 ( 617 ) 
email 

determined by local chapter .  . 

a political lobbying organization and part of the 
family of organizations .  . a monthly newsletter , 
news. is 25 .  . members also receive a discount 
on the space 's handbook . activities to support pro space 
legislation include meeting with political leaders and 
with  . primarily operates in the 
process. 

national office west coast office 

 . park  . 
washington , d . c .  . s 
 ( 202 ) 1900 santa , ca 

a political action and part of the family of 
organizations .  . issues , policies , and  . 
each year , the space 's handbook . current handbook 
price is 25 .  . while does not have a membership , it does 
have regional contacts to coordinate local activity. 
primarily operates in the election process , contributing money and 
to pro space  . 


 . 
washington , 
 ( 202 ) 1900 

united states space foundation a public , non profit organization 
supported by member and dedicated to promoting 
international education , understanding and support of space .  . the 
group hosts an conference for teachers and others interested 
in education. other include developing lesson plans that 
use space to teach other basic such as reading. 
, a monthly b w magazine of events and 
general space news. 

charter 50 ( 100 first year ) 
individual 35 
teacher 29 
college student 20 
jr. high 10 
elementary 5 
founder 1000 
life member 

united states space foundation 
po box 
, co 
 ( 719 ) 1000 

world space foundation has been and building a sail 
for longer than any similar group many jpl employees lend 
their to this project .  . also provides funding for the 
sky survey , an extremely successful search for near earth 
 . foundation news and foundation 
, each a quarterly 4 8 page newsletter .  . contributing associate , 
minimum of 15 year  ( but more money always welcome to support  . 

world space foundation 
post office box y 
south pasadena , california 




daily  ( mcgraw hill ) 
very good of and space issues.  . 1400  . 

air space  ( bimonthly magazine ) 
box 
boulder , co 
18 year us , 24 year international 

the european space agency a variety of , 
generally available free of charge .  . a document describing them in 
more detail is in the ames space archive in 
pub space faq  . 

final  ( mass market magazine ) history , book , 
general interest articles (e . g .  . the 7 wonders of the system , 
everything you always wanted to know about military space 
programs , etc . ) . 

final publishing co .  . 
po box 
mt. , il 
14 . year us , 19 . canada , 23 . elsewhere 

space news  ( weekly magazine ) covers us civil and military space 
programs. said to have good political and business but 
technical  . 

space news 
va 0500 
(703) 642 
75 year , may have for members 

journal of the sciences and space times of 
the american society. no details. 

business office 
mill place , 102 
, va 
(703) 

world  ( semi monthly ) reports on current and new uses of , news 
and analysis of the system and policies affecting it , and technical 
and product issues applications .  . 

world 
st. 
p.o. box 
, or 
(503) 1200 

free to qualified individuals write for free copy. 

 ( space technology ) free. published by the nasa office of 
advanced concepts and technology. a revised version of the nasa 
office of programs newsletter .  . 

in depth technical of , 
with , lists of experiments , with people directly 
involved. 
world news in depth technical of near earth 
 . mostly covers the manifests , activity 
, and post mission reports for every mission .  . 

box 
, nj 
30 year us canada 
45 year elsewhere 

space  ( bi monthly magazine ) 
british trade journal .  . very good. 75 year .  . 

space  ( weekly newsletter ) 

space daily space fax daily  ( newsletter ) 
short  ( 1 paragraph ) news notes .  . available for a fee 
 . 

space technology investor space news internet 
on aspects of space business. free. also limited 
fax and paper edition .  . 

p.o. box 
beach , ca  . 

all the following are published by 

business information , inc. 
road 
, 

financial news year .  . 
defense daily very good of space and defense issues. 
year .  . 
space business news  ( bi weekly ) very good overview of space 
business activities. year .  . 
space exploration technology  ( bi weekly ) year .  . 
space station news  ( bi weekly ) year .  . 

groups 

anyone who would care to write up descriptions of the following 
groups  ( or others not mentioned ) for in the answer is 
encouraged to do so. 

american society 
other groups not mentioned above 

next faq 14 15 how to become an 

from 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
lines 37 
organization memorial university .  . john . 's , canada 

in article ,  ( ron baalke ) writes 
in article ,  ( mark brader ) writes .  .  .  . 
so how close would the have gotten to jupiter on the pass that 
put it into temporary orbit , and how far is it likely to get from 
jupiter before it makes its escape 

the answer to all of these questions is we do n't know yet. 
we do n't know for sure if the is in a temporary orbit .  . 

i see. i was n't so interested in this particular case as in typical 
behavior , anyway. can these questions be answered for a previous 
instance , such as the 3 that was mentioned in an earlier posting 

3 was in a temporary orbit for about 3 or 4 years. i 'll 
get the orbital elements from dance of the planets and post them here. 

sorry folks , i should have done this , and meant to just after i hit the 
send key .  .  .  . 

orbital elements of  ( from dance files ) 

 ( p(au ) 3 . 
e 0 . 
i 1 . 
cap  ( omega(0 ) 
 ( w(0 ) 
1977 . 

also , of were 

april jupiter 
august 3 jupiter 

hope this helps .  .  . i'm . even less of an orbital mechanic than i am an artist. 

john 


from  ( steve collins ) 
subject re orbital 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization whole earth  link 
lines 29 


the difficulties of a high include 
long times  ( radiation damage from for both 
the and 
or xenon require huge of power so you have 
to have either nuclear power source  ( messy , dangerous and source of 
radiation damage ) or big  ( sensitive to radiation , or heavy ) 
that make attitude control and a big pain. 

if you go , you have to replace the every trip , with 
current technology. nuclear power sources are strongly restricted 
by international treaty .  . 

 ( even for very high like xenon ) is still required and 
turn out to be a pain. 

you either have to develop autonomous or long range 
to do or ( and refueling ) . 

you still ca n't do much plane change because the required is so high ! 

the air force continues to look at doing things this way though. i suppose 
they are their time till the technology becomes available and 
the problems get solved .  . not impossible in principle , but hard to 
do and than one shot , at least today. 

just a few random thoughts on high 's .  . i designed one once .  .  .  . 

steve 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject re command loss  ( re update 04 22 93 ) 
organization 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( alan carter ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article ,  ( ron baalke ) writes 
3. on april 19 , a no command was sent to the command loss to 
hours , its value during this mission  . 

this activity is regularly reported in ron 's interesting posts. could 
someone explain what the command loss is 


the command loss is part of the fault protection scheme of the 
 . if the command loss ever to zero , then the 
assumes it has lost communications with earth and will go 
through a set of steps to try to contact .  . the 
command loss is set to hours and about once a week during 
the cruise , and is set to a lower value during an  . 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from 
subject re forcing space  . 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 43 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
besides this was the same line of horse the claimed 
when they were told to pay for land after strip  . 

i talking the large or even the i am talking the small 
, the people who have themselves and a few employees  ( if at the . 
people who go out every year and set up thier box , and such and do 
the semi old fashion way .  .  .  ( okay they use modern methods  . 


lot 's of these small are no longer  . they are people living 
free on federal land , under the claim of being a  . the facts are 
many of these people do not from , do not 
often even live their full time , and do do a fair bit 
of environmental damage. 

these were created inthe 's 's when the west was 
and were designed to bring people into the  . times change 
people change .  . deal. you do n't have a constitutional right to live off 
the same industry forever. anyone who claims the have a right to their 
job in particular , is nonsense. this has been a long term 
federal welfare program , that has it 's usefulness .  . 




, do you enjoy putting words in my mouth 
come to and meet some of these  .  . i am not sure how things go down 
south in the lower 48 (i used to visit , but ) , of course to believe the 
media news its going to heck  ( or just plain  . 
well it seems that alot of types seem to think that having a job is a 
right , and not a  . right to the same job as your , see 
's and tel me what you see  ( and the families they have married  . 
there is a reason why many and sci types use and 
in the same  . 
the that i know , are just your average people who pay there 
taxes and a living .  .  . but taxes are not the answer. but maybe we could move 
this discussion to some more appropriate newsgroup .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject jpl 's project with international space 
organization 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from the jpl universe 
april 23 , 1993 

project with international space 

by ed 
members of jpl 's space very long 
 ( vlbi ) project team recently concluded a week long series of 
meetings with from russia and japan .  . 
the meetings were part of space week held at jpl in 
early march and were intended to maintain between 
international space in the development of 
the u.s. space project , a recently approved jpl 
project set for launch in  . 
u.s. space will two earth 
the japanese  ( vlbi space observing program ) 
with its 8 radio , and a 
10  . both will team up with 
ground based radio around the world to create 
a radio network that hope will expand radio 
observing power by a factor of 10. 
japan 's will use a limited hour orbit to 
conduct science , while the 
will a larger , 28 hour earth orbit to conduct 
radio astronomy .  . each will point at a source target for 
roughly 24 hours , while approximately 20 ground based radio 
will simultaneously point at the same source object 
while within view on earth. 
according to dr. joel smith , jpl 's project for the 
u.s. space , meetings like those held at jpl will 
japan and russia , who have little previous experience in radio 
, to establish working relationships with the radio 
astronomy communities that will be vital during the complex 
observations required by the space project .  . 
one of our main activities is developing the 
for international , because the two 
simultaneously rely on the while 
using the ground based radio to observe the same 
celestial objects , said smith .  . 
three new are being built at 
facilities and other three other facilities in 
japan , russia and green bank , w . va .  . this network of 
ground based radio will use precision and 
high speed to observation data and forward the 
information to a at the national radio 
astronomy in , n . m .  . the will 
and process data , then make it available to mission 
in , tokyo , and jpl via electronic mail .  . 
smith is that the massive radio created 
by the space network will provide radio with 
better resolution than has ever been achieved before by 
ground based radio , allowing to take a 
closer look at distant objects in space .  . 
there is a long history of radio astronomy using 
ground based , said smith .  . what we intend to do is to 
extend radio astronomy into earth orbit .  . our goal is to look 
deeper into the of galactic , and other 
active radio sources to understand what drives those things we 
have seen so far with radio astronomy .  . 
smith noted that if one examines the active galactic 
, you 'll find to at greater than 
light , and at energy levels that are millions of times greater 
than you would expect. 
he said some believe that black holes may be 
in the of these , and that they may 
the  . smith hopes that by using space to look further 
into the , this theory may be supported or disproved .  . 
space hardware , including and 
, are now being tested in the united states , and 
japanese hardware is scheduled to arrive for later this 
year .  . analysis of this hardware will u.s. scientists and 
to understand how to the high speed 
operating at the in order to the odd 
data patterns that will originate from the more than 20 
ground based radio involved in space  . 
smith is particularly pleased that meetings with the 
japanese and space agency like those held at 
jpl in march have proceeded  . yet he knows that the 
political uncertainty in russia could that country 's 
participation in the project .  . 
nothing is ever , he said , but the russians have 
been incredibly open with us. we always some 
likelihood that we will not succeed because of political factors 
beyond our control , yet there tends to be a way of keeping these 
things going , because scientists on both sides are trying hard , 
and people recognize the value of at this level. 
smith points out that the japanese space agency has more at 
stake than just fulfilling an international commitment to a 
science mission .  . 
the japanese have been extremely cooperative , since 
international is essential to their science mission , 
he said. 
but smith also noted that japanese space agency 
look at the u.s. space mission as an opportunity to showcase 
the technology involved with , and their highly 
regarded v launch  . 
yet regardless of the risks involved in such an 
project , jpl 's smith is satisfied that planning for the 
space project is beyond the significant financial and 
political that otherwise might threaten the project .  . 
fortunately , we have the virtue of having two partners , and 
if either falls out , we would still have something with the 
other. by themselves , both are independent , 
scientifically  . 


ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( mark adam ) 
subject re space food sticks 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host sw . stratus . com . 
keywords food 

in article , ( rd48 ) writes 
the taste is hard to describe , although i remember it fondly .  . it was 
most certainly more than say a modern power bar .  . sort of 
a with vitamins .  . the power bar is a rough 
approximation of the taste.  . 


butter was definitely my favorite .  . i do n't think i ever took a second 
of the  . 

i recently joined system and their fudge bar is very of 
the space food. this is the only thing i can find that even comes close 
the taste. it takes you back .  .  .  . your taste are happy and your 
are in  .  .  . joy ! 



mark 
my opinions are not those of stratus .  . 
hell ! i even agree with myself ! 

logic is a of pretty flowers that smell bad. 

subject space faq 01 15 introduction 
from  ( jon leech ) 
expires 6 may 1993 19 53 44 gmt 
organization university of north , hill 
keywords frequently asked questions 
supersedes intro 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
lines 310 

archive name space intro 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 10 

frequently asked questions on sci . space . sci . 

introduction 

this series of linked messages is periodically posted to the usenet 
groups sci . space . and sci . in an attempt to provide good answers to 
frequently asked questions and other reference material which is worth 
 . if you have corrections or answers to other frequently asked 
questions that you would like included in this posting , send email to 
 ( jon  . 

if you do n't want to see the faq , add  frequently asked questions  to 
your kill file for this group  ( if you 're not reading this with a newsreader 
that can kill articles by subject , you 're out of  . 

the faq volume is excessive right now and will be trimmed down 
by and over time. the faq postings are available in 
the ames space archive in faq faq . 

good will be accepted in place of the answers given here. the 
point of this is to existing information , and avoid old 
answers. better to build on top than start again. nothing more depressing 
than old for the time. references are provided 
because they give more complete information than any short generalization .  . 

questions fall into three basic types 

1 ) where do i find some information about space 

try your local public library first. the net is not a good place to ask 
for general information. ask individuals  ( by email ) if you must. there 
are other sources , use them , too. the net is a place for open ended 
discussion. 

2 ) i have an idea which would improve space 

hope you are n't surprised , but 9 , out of 10 , 000 have usually been 
thought of before. again , contact a direct individual source for 
evaluation .  . nasa fields thousands of these each day. 

3)  . 

these are addressed on a case by case basis in the following series of 
faq postings .  . 


suggestions for better 

read news . announce . newusers . if you 're on usenet .  . 
minimize cross references , do you really need to 
edit subject lines , especially if you 're taking a  . 
send mail instead , avoid posting follow  .  ( 1 mail message worth 
100  . 
internet mail readers send requests to add drop to space request 
not space .  . 
read all available articles before posting a follow up.  ( check all 
references . ) . 
cut down attributed articles  ( leave only the points you 're 
responding to remove and  . summarize ! 
put a return address in the body  ( signature ) of your message  ( mail 
or article ) , state your institution , etc. do n't assume the 
 reply  function of will work. 
use absolute dates .  . post in a way. do n't post what everyone 
will get on tv anyway. 
some and systems do character count line 
keep lines under 80 characters for those using ascii 
 ( use  . 


index to linked postings 

i 've attempted to break the postings up into related areas .  . there is n't 
a index yet the following lists the major subject areas in each 
posting. only those containing astronomy related material are posted to 
sci .  ( indicated by ' ' following the posting  . 

contents 

1 introduction 
suggestions for better 
index to linked postings 
notes on addresses , phone numbers , etc. 
contributors 

2 network resources 
overview 
mailing lists 
periodically updated information 
warning about non public 

3  ( and some offline ) sources of images , data , etc. 
introduction 
images 
archives 
nasa ames 
nasa data system 
nasa lab  ( mission information and images ) 
nasa  ( technical reports ) 
nasa 
national space science data center 
space science institute electronic info .  . service 


astronomy programs 
orbital element sets 
space digest 
nasa 

orbits 

4 calculations and interpreting data 
computing orbits and 
computing positions 
computing from earth 
map and 
n body simulations 
interpreting the fits image format 
sky  ( unix program ) 
three dimensional star 

5 references on specific areas 
publishers of space astronomy material 
in the space industry 
x single stage to orbit  ( ssto ) program 
how to name a star after a person 
great exploration 

science and activities 
earth histories 
models 
rocket 
design 
esoteric  ( solar , lasers , fusion .  .  . ) . 

space computer systems 
 ( signal processing ) 
amateur 


6 and for calculations 

7 

8 nasa , , and other space 
nasa space 
camp space commerce corporation image 
other space 

9 space answers , launch , tv 
and and how to see them 
why does the roll just after 
how to receive the nasa tv channel , nasa select 
amateur radio for 
solid rocket composition 

10 historical 
us 
 ( venus , , and orbiters ) 
 ( moon , sun , , jupiter , and and orbiters ) 
 ( lunar and impact missions ) 
 ( lunar surface photography ) 
 ( lunar soft landers ) 
viking  ( mars and landers ) 
 ( outer planet flybys ) 
soviet 
soviet 
soviet 
soviet 
japanese 
mission references 

11 and 



observer 


other space science 
proposed 

12 questions 
what happened to the v plans 
why data from space is n't immediately available 
risks of nuclear  ( rtg ) power sources for space 
impact of the space on the 
how long can a human live in space 
how the died 
using the beyond low earth orbit 
the face on 

13 space interest research groups and space 
groups 

groups 

14 how to become an 

15 orbital and launch services 


notes on addresses , phone numbers , etc. 

unless otherwise , telephone numbers , addresses , and so on are 
for the united states of america .  . non us readers should remember to add 
the country code for telephone calls , etc. 


credits 

started a series of linked faq postings some years ago which 
inspired  ( and was largely absorbed into ) this set .  . 

peter and ron have and continue to spend a lot of their own 
time setting up the space archives at nasa ames and official 
nasa  . 

many other people have contributed material to this list in the form of 
old postings to sci . space . and sci . which i 've edited .  . please let me 
know if corrections need to be made. contributors i 've managed to keep 
track of are 

 ( francis reddy ) map 
 ( steven fisk ) publication  . 
 ( richard akerman ) 
 ( lisa weigel ) info 
 ( srinivas bettadpur ) 
 ( alan paeth ) map 
 ( allen w. sherzer ) great exploration 
 ( ron baalke ) 
 ( timothy banks ) map , 
star analysis archive 
de .  ( jochen bern ) german translation 
 ( bernie rosen ) space camp 
 ( barry schlesinger ) fits format 
 ( craig e. ward ) space group contact info 
 ( tom chapin ) positions 
 . cunningham ) nasa 
 ( cliff yamamoto ) orbital elements 
 ( anthony datri ) software 
 ( dave rickel ) orbit 
 ( phil fraering ) 
 ( dani eder ) v plans , 
 ( eugene n .  . miya ) introduction , 
nasa contact info , started faq postings 
 ( patrick m. french ) space group contact info 
 ( gary morris ) amateur radio info 
 ( terry gaetz ) n body calculations , 
orbital 
 ( steve grandi ) positions 
 ( dale m. greer ) 
 ( henry spencer ) survival in , 
how to , disaster , publication , x 
 ( william higgins ) , publishers , 
, , , face on 
 ( hal mueller ) map , 
orbital 
 ( josh hopkins ) launch services 
 ( jim bowery ) , launch services 
 ( james n .  . head ) scale heights 
 ( jim scotti ) positions 
 ( kieran a. carroll ) for design 
 ( kenneth ng ) 
 ( ken jenks ) roll 
 ( larry klaes ) history 
 ( jon leech ) 
 ( lou adornato ) orbital 
 ( maury markowitz ) 
 ( erik francis ) 
n body calculations 
 ( marc wayne mcconley ) space 
 ( mark brader ) 1 info .  . 
 ( mark maimone ) space digest 
 . watkins ) models , 
 ( olivier r. hainaut ) publishers , 
 ( graham o'neil ) 
 ( kenneth w durham ) orbits , 
 ( paul blase ) 
 ( peter scott ) 
 ( paul w. schleck ) , contact info 
 ( rodney brown ) 
 ( ran atkinson )  . programs 
 . michael jungclas ) models 
 ( curt roelle ) german translation 
 ( david seal ) mission 
 ( mary shafer ) , 
 ( willie smith ) 
 ( stephen dixon ) 
 ( ray sterner ) positions 
 ( phil stooke ) 
 ( ted anderson ) 
 ( terry hancock ) nasa center info 
 ( bill thorson ) fits info 
 ( todd l. masco ) space digest 
 ( tom horsley ) for 
 ( veikko makela ) orbital element sets 
 ( wales larrison ) groups 
 ( wayne hayes ) 
 ( matthew p wiener ) history 
 ( yoshiro yamada ) 
 ( peter yee ) ames archive server , 


in net 


next faq 2 15 network resources 

from 
subject re drive in how 
x id ca . 
x sat , 17 apr 93 02 42 51 gmt 
organization simon fraser university 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 11 

in article henry , 
writes 
the national air space has both the and the film .  . 
when i was there , some years ago , they had the on display and 
the film continuously repeating .  . 

great ! i 'll visit the national air and space at the end of the 
month with my wife , who was also working at general atomic at the time. 
once again netnews has enriched my life. 



from  . patrick molloy ) 
subject re forcing space  . 
nntp posting host 128 . 30 . 103 . 
reply to  . patrick molloy ) 
organization nasa 
lines 40 

in article , 
writes 
here is a way to get the into space and 
exploration .  . 

basically get the to make it so hard to get the on earth .  .  . 
you think this is crazy. well in a way it is , but in a way it is reality. 

there is a the congress to do just that .  .  . basically to make it so 
expensive to mine in the us , unless you can by off the or 
tax  .  . what i understand from talking to a few friends 
of mine , that they  ( the congress ) propose to have a tax on the gross of 
the mine , versus the , also the state governments have there 
normal taxes .  . so by the time you get done , paying for materials , workers , and 
other you can owe more than what you made. 
basically if you make a 1000 . 00 . and spend  . , you can owe 
600 . 00 . in federal taxes .  .  . it is driving the off the land .  .  . and 
the only who benefit are the  .  . 

basically to get back to my beginning statement , is space is the way to go 
cause it might just get to expensive to mine on earth because of either the 
or the  .  . 
such fun we have in these interesting times .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

the current and were set in the 's ! 
what the so called want to do is to simply bring those 
in line with current economic reality. currently , 
can get access to on public lands for low 
something like 50 ! the lobby has for decades managed to block 
any reform of these outdated  . in fact , the latest attempt to reform 
them was again president clinton by taking the 
fee reforms out of his  94 , and plans to draft separate 
legislation to fight that battle .  . 
if you want to discuss this further , i suggest you take this to talk . environment .  . 

g. patrick 
, 

from  ( mark brader ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization inc. , , canada 
lines 20 


also , s of were 

april jupiter 
august 3 jupiter 

where 1 jupiter , 000 44 , 000 mi 0 . au .  . ... 

sorry ,  .  .  . i'm . not used to talking this language. 

thanks again. one final question. the name was n't known to 
me before this thread came up , but the may issue of scientific american 
has an article about the , with a photo of neil 
, project scientist for nasa 's compton gamma ray  . 
same person 

mark , inc. , information ! ... we want information ! 
! ! , the prisoner 

this article is in the public domain .  . 

from  ( charles j. divine ) 
subject space station redesign chief for health reasons 
organization nasa maryland 
lines 12 

writer reported in today 's washington post that joseph , the 
head of the space station redesign has for health reasons. 

was shortly after his selection in february .  . he returned 
yesterday to lead the formal to the independent white house  . 
's was rambling and almost  . 

's , former bryan o'connor , will take over the effort .  . 

asserted that the redesign effort is on track .  . 

divine 

from  ( charles chung ) 
subject re what if the ussr had reached the moon first 
lines 24 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

in article  ( gary 
coffman ) writes 
why do you think at least a couple centuries before there will 
be significant activity on the moon 

wishful thinking mostly .  . 
lots of stuff about how the 

then what do you believe will finally motivate people to leave the 
earth i'm not trying to flame you. i just want to know where you 
stand. 





 ( 919 )  ( o ) 
duke university dept. of physics  ( 919 )  ( h ) 
, n . c .  . 

if pro is the opposite of con , 
then what is the opposite of progress 



from  ( richard buenneke ) 
subject white house options for station , 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 

blind carbon copy 

to , 
subject white house options for station , 
date tue , 06 apr 93 16 00 21 pdt 
from richard 

4 06 93 space station redesign 

nasa , washington , d . c .  . 
april 6 , 1993 

release 93 64 

dr. john h. , director , office of science and technology 
policy , to the members designate of the on the 
redesign of the space station on april 3 , three options as 
to the in their on the redesign of the space 
station .  . 

a low option of 5 billion , a mid range option of 7 billion and a 
high option of 9 billion will be considered by the  . each 
option would cover the total for space station from 
year through and would include funds for development , 
, , , facilities , research 
support , cost and also must include adequate program 
to program implementation within the available funds .  . 

over the next 5 years , 4 billion is within the nasa 
for the president 's new technology investment .  . as a result , 
station options above 7 billion must be accompanied by 
in the rest of the nasa  . for example , a space station 
option of 9 billion would require 2 billion in from the nasa 
over the next 5 years. 

presented the information at an of 
the  . generally , the members designate upon 
administrative and used the to get  . they also 
received a legal and ethics and an orientation on the process the 
station redesign team is following to develop options for the 
to consider .  . 

also that the united states and its 
international partners the , japanese and have 
decided , after , to give full consideration to use of 
in the course of the space station redesign process. 

to that end , the russians will be asked to participate in the 
redesign effort on an as needed basis , so that the redesign 
team can make use of their expertise in the capabilities of 
and the possible use of and other capabilities and systems. 
the u.s. and international partners hope to benefit from the expertise of 
the participants in systems and technology. the 
overall goal of the redesign effort is to develop options for reducing 
station costs while key research and exploration  . 
careful of could be a key factor in 
that goal. 

that , president clinton is committed to the 
space station and to making every effort to preserve the 
science , the technology and the jobs that the space station program 
represents .  . however , he also is committed to a space station that is well 
managed and one that does not the national resources which should 
be used to in the future of this industry and this nation .  . 

nasa administrator daniel s. said the 
participation will be accomplished through the east west space science 
center at the university of maryland under the leadership of 
 . 

end of blind carbon copy 

from  ( claudio egalon ) 
subject re no , not or 
organization nasa research center 
lines 16 
distribution world 
reply to  ( claudio egalon ) 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

another legend with the name was the planet , much like earth , 
in the same orbit 

there was a science fiction movie sometime ago (i do not remember its 
name) about a planet in the same orbit of earth but hidden behind the 
sun so it could never be from earth. turns out that that planet 
was the exact image of earth and all its looked like 
the with the difference that their was in the opposite 
side like the heart was in the right side instead in the left and they 
would hands with the left hand and so on .  .  .  . 







from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject re conference on exploration .  . may 7 city 
organization national 
lines 31 
distribution na 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article , (s . f .  . davis ) writes 
in article ,  ( pat ) writes 

had a brief blurb on a exploration 
may 7th at city virginia , under the of  . 

does anyone know more about this how much , to 
here are some excerpts of the invitation form they 
sent me. without permission , all 's are mine. 

thanks for typing that in ,  . sounds like a fall back and 
strategy session. 

i wanted to add that my copy of the arrived with a 
cover letter 

are being extended to those who have demonstrated a 
strong to space program development and have been 
in its  . we sincerely hope you will be able to 
 . 

wow ! i wonder which of my contributions to the conquest of space 
convinced them to send me this letter 

i hope you decide to go ,  . the net can use some eyes and ears 
there .  .  .  . 

bill if we can put a man on the moon , why ca n't 
we put a man on the moon bill 
if we can put a man on the moon , why ca n't 
we put a woman on the moon bill 

from  ( joe cain ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
organization florida state university dept. 
lines 4 

this discussion is better followed in talk . politics . space . 
joseph cain 
cain 
 ( 904 ) fax  ( 904 ) or 

from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject nasa ames server  ( was re space station redesign , alternative 4 ) 
organization national 
lines 14 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( ken nasa ) writes 
i just posted the files out for anonymous ftp on server edu .  . 
... 
sorry it took 
me so long to get these out , but i was trying for the ames server , 
but it 's out of space .  . 

how ironic .  . 

bill , beam treat your like 
national your  . do n't let 
bitnet anybody else use it 
internet and get a new one every 
months. 

from  ( dave stephenson ) 
subject re science team 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization dept. of energy , , and resources , ottawa 
lines 32 

 ( nick haines ) writes 

in article  ( dave stephenson ) writes 

remember the first government scientist in the british empire was 
the , who was paid ... from the department 
of (i . e .  . the  . house  ( the original 
rgo ) was built out of army ( a gate house at the of 
london ) , and paid for by the sale of time ... 

at the time , astronomy was vital to the military , in that 
and were of primary to the military , and good 
was impossible without good astronomy .  . 

the relevance these somewhat less obvious. 



it still applies , except the astronomy these days is very long 
radio astronomy coupled to and laser  . the data 
from nasa 's and the 's  ( among others ) is a vital 
source of data for studies into , earth , and 
 . every time there is a leap second added to the new year , 
remember the military and science are still co nicely .  . the 
same was used to track as it passed the earth , and used 
so little that it can afford to observe ida .  . 


dave 
survey of canada 
ottawa , ontario , canada 
internet 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re space food sticks 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 9 
nntp posting host access . net . 
keywords food 

comments that space food sticks may have bad properties .  . 

i do n't think so. i think most nasa food products were designed to 
be low  zero  products so as to minimize the difficulties 
of waste  . i 'd doubt they 'd anything that caused whole sale 
 . there are n't enough plastic in the world for 
a bad case of disease. 



from 
subject re on star  ( better ideas ) 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 31 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
in article phoenix . princeton . edu . !  ( carlos g. niederstrasser ) writes 
a operator ! ! that better be one important transport .  . usually 
it is a who does the job. for such a appearance i would 
have expected a more meaningful role .  . 


christian , only on , 

and besides .  . 

maybe she ca n't act ) 




better idea for use of nasa and is have them be found 
lost in space after a accident with a worm hole or other space time  .  . 

maybe age a few years  ( makeup and such ) and have her as the only 
of a failed mission that got lost .  .  . 

of late , they way they have been having problems in the media , 
anything can happen .  .  . 

imagine a member to find themselves in the 24th century as the 
object of interest of an alien civilization , maybe or helped by the 
 .  .  . i know and such was okay , but this could be better .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re oxygen  ( was astronaut ) 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 11 
nntp posting host access . net . 



i thought that under emergency conditions , the can 
put down at any good size airport .  . if it could take a c 5 or a 
, then it can take an  . you just need a 

i do n't know if they need  . 



anyone know for sure. 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re operation of us space  . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 10 

i know people hate it when someone says like there was an article 
about that somewhere a while ago but i'm going to say it anyway. i read an 
article on this subject , almost certainly in space news , and something like 
months ago. if anyone is really interested in the subject i can probably 
hunt it down given enough motivation .  . 

hopkins 
ce un capable d , d 
capable de 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re race , nasa resources , why 
organization u of 
lines 33 

in article writes 
so how much would it cost as a private venture , assuming you could talk the 
u.s. government into you a couple of in florida 

why must it be a us government space launch directly i mean .  .  .  . 

in fact , you probably want to avoid us government anything for such a 
project .  . the is invariably too high , either in money or in 
hassles .  . 

the important thing to realize here is that the big cost of getting to 
the moon is getting into low earth orbit .  . everything else is practically 
down in the  . the only part of getting to the moon that poses any 
new problems , beyond what you face in low orbit , is the last 
the actual landing and that is not difficult. of course , 
you can spend  ( saga is the for 
and beelyuns ) on things other than the , but you do n't have to. 

the major component of any plan to go to the moon  ( for 
more than a brief visit , at least ) is low cost transport to earth orbit .  . 
for what it costs to launch one or two , you can develop 
a new launch system that will be  .  ( delta clipper 
might be a bit more expensive than this , perhaps , but there are less 
ways of bringing costs down quite a bit . ) . any plan for doing 
exploration using existing launch systems is wasting 
money in a big way. 

given this , questions like whose launch facilities you use are not a 
minor detail they are very important to the cost of the , which 
the cost of the project .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from 
subject station space 
lines 24 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

seems that the long and any other space 
object station or what ever have the same problems.  ( other than being a little 
bit different than the normal space ideas , such as and shuttles ) 

but also and such .  .  . why not the discussion of how and to 
the same topic 

i the idea of a in space .  . but problem. how do you 
service it a 1 to near it and then and to it 
or what or a special section for 1 

also what if the a leak self and such 


just thinking  ( okay  .  . 

also why must the now , not be covered in the inside by a 
harder substance  ( such as a or other agent ) and then the now hard 
would be a now giant structure space station 

or am i missing something here .  .  .  ( probably am ! ) 

michael adams , i'm not high , just 


from  ( doug loss ) 
subject re death and taxes  ( was why not give 1 billion to .  .  .  . 
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon 
lines 7 

in my last post i referred to michael adams as  . completely my 
error adams was a film and tv actor from the  50 's and early  60 's 
 ( remember , the rebel ) .  . he was from my part of the country , 
and michael 's email address of ... probably helped confuse things 
in my mind. purely user error on my part. sorry. 

doug loss 

subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
from robert 
distribution world 
organization 1776 , ma 
lines 23 

writes 

also , of were 

april jupiter 
august 3 jupiter 

where 1 jupiter , 000 44 , 000 mi 0 . au .  . so the 
figure seems unlikely to actually be anything but a  . 
is that the case for the figure as well 

sorry ,  .  .  . i'm . not used to talking this language. 

hmmmm .  .  .  .  . the is greek , not , so it 's usually used 
with the greek form of the name of the body being orbited .  .  ( that 's why 
it 's rather than , rather than , 
and rather than  . ) . so for jupiter i 'd expect it 
to be something like  . ) . ) 

bob 
) ) 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ( ) ( 
robert k. 14 , , 

from  ( jon leech ) 
subject space faq 10 15 history 
supersedes 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 
distribution world 
expires 6 may 1993 19 59 36 gmt 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
keywords frequently asked questions 

archive name space 
last modified date 93 04 01 14 39 19 

historical 

this section was lightly adapted from an original posting by larry 
, mostly minor changes .  . matthew 
contributed the section on 
, and the section on was obtained from material 
posted by 

us 


 ( venus , , and orbiters ) 

1 , the first u.s. attempt to send a to , failed 
after launch in  . the instructions from the ground 
stopped the rocket due to a problem with its , so the 
computer took control. however , there turned out to be a bug in 
the software , and the rocket went off course , so the 
range safety it. although the bug is sometimes claimed 
to have been an incorrect do statement , it was actually a 
transcription error in which the bar  ( indicating smoothing ) was 
from the r bar sub n  ( nth value of 
of  . this error led the software to treat normal minor variations 
of as if they were serious , to incorrect  . 

2 became the first successful to in december 
of , and it returned information which confirmed that is a 
very hot  ( 800 degrees , now revised to degrees f . ) . world 
with a cloud covered atmosphere primarily of carbon 
 ( sulfuric acid was later confirmed in  . 

3 , on 5 , , was lost when its 
failed to as the was placed into 
space .  . unable to the sun 's energy for power from its 
, the soon died when its out and is now in 
orbit .  . it was intended for a with 4. 

4 , the sister to 3 , did reach in and 
took the first close up images of the surface  ( 22 in all ) as it 
flew by the planet. the found a world with an atmosphere 
much than previously thought. many scientists concluded from 
this preliminary that was a dead world in both the 
and biological sense. 

5 was sent to in  . it the data on that 
planet five years earlier by 2 , plus the information 
that  pressure at its surface is at least 90 times 
that of earth 's , or the equivalent of being 3 , feet under the surface 
of an  . 

6 and 7 were sent to in and expanded upon the work 
done by 4 four years earlier. however , they failed to take away 
the concept of as a dead planet , first made from the basic 
measurements of 4. 

8 ended up in the atlantic in 1971 when the rocket 
failed .  . 

9 , the sister to 8 , became the first to 
orbit in 1971 .  . it returned information on the red planet that no 
other had done before , revealing huge volcanoes on the 
surface , as well as giant canyon systems , and evidence that water once 
across the planet. the also took the first detailed 
images of  two small , and  . 

10 used as a gravity assist to in  . the 
did return the first close up images of the atmosphere in 
, revealing previously unseen details in the cloud cover , 
plus the fact that the entire cloud system circles the planet in four 
earth days. 10 eventually made three of from 
to before running out of attitude control gas .  . the revealed 
as a world with a mass much greater than 
thought. this would seem to indicate that has an iron core which 
makes up 75 percent of the entire planet. 


 ( moon , sun , , jupiter , and and orbiters ) 

1 through 3 failed to meet their main objective to 
the moon close up but they did reach far enough into space to provide 
new information on the area between earth and the moon , including new 
data on the van allen radiation circling earth. all three 
had failures with their rocket  . 1 was on 
october 11 , , 2 on 8 , and 3 on december 6. 

4 was a moon which missed the moon and became the first 
u.s. to orbit the sun in  . 5 was originally 
designed to , but the mission was down and it instead 
studied the environment between and earth out to 
36 . 2 . million in , a record until 2. 6 
through 9 were placed into orbit from to 6 , 7 , 
and 8 are still information at this time. e  ( would 
have been number 10 ) suffered a launch failure in  . 

10 became the first to jupiter in  . 
11 followed it in , and then went on to become the first to 
study in  . both should continue to function through 
and are heading off into space , the first ever 
to do so. 

1  ( 1978 )  ( also known as , or 
12 ) burned up in the atmosphere on october 8 , 1992 .  . made 
the first studies of the planet 's surface via  . 
2  ( also known as 13 ) sent four small into the atmosphere 
in december of  . the main burned up high in the 
atmosphere , while the four descended by towards the 
surface .  . though none were expected to survive to the surface , the day 
did make it and for 67 . 5 . on the ground before 
its failed .  . 


 ( lunar and impact missions ) 

1 and 2 were test for the impact series .  . they 
were meant for high earth orbit in , but rocket problems 
left them in useless low orbits which quickly  . 

3 , on 26 , , was intended to land an 
instrument on the surface of the moon , but problems during the 
launch caused the to miss the moon and head into orbit .  . 
3 did try to take some images of the moon as it flew by , but the 
camera was unfortunately aimed at deep space during the attempt .  . 

4 , april 23 , , had the same purpose as 3 , but 
suffered technical problems and on the , 
the first u.s. to reach the moon , without returning data .  . 

5 , october 18 , and similar to 3 and 4 , lost 
all and power and eventually missed the moon 
and off into orbit .  . 

6 through 9 had more modified they were to send 
back live images of the surface as they headed towards an impact 
with the moon. 6 failed this objective in when its 
did not operate .  . 7 through 9 performed well , becoming the first 
u.s. to return thousands of images through  . 


 ( lunar surface photography ) 

1 through 5 were designed to orbit the moon and image 
various sites being studied as landing areas for the 
of  . the also contributed greatly to our 
understanding of surface features , particularly the  . 
all five of the series , from to , were 
essentially successful in their  . they were the first u.s. 
to orbit the moon. all los were eventually into the 
surface to avoid interference with the  . 


 ( lunar soft landers ) 

the series were designed primarily to see if an 
could land on the surface of the moon without into the 
 ( before this time , it was by some that the moon was covered 
in great layers of , which would not support a heavy landing 
 . was successful in proving that the surface was 
strong enough to hold up a from to  . 

only 2 and 4 were  . the rest became the 
first u.s. to soft land on the moon , taking thousands of images 
and the for analysis. 12 600 feet from 
3 in and returned parts of the to earth. 7 , 
the last of the series , was a purely scientific mission which 
the in  . 


viking  ( mars and landers ) 

viking 1 was from , florida on august 20 , on 
a rocket .  . the went into orbit on june 
19 , , and the set down on the western of 
on 20 ,  . it soon began its programmed search for 
 ( there is still debate as to whether the 
found life there or not ) , and sent back incredible color of 
its surroundings .  . one thing scientists learned was that  sky was 
in color , not dark blue as they originally thought  ( the sky is 
pink due to sunlight off the particles in the 
thin  . the set down among a field of red sand and 
out as far as its could image. 

the viking 1 kept until august 7 , , when it 
out of attitude control  . the was switched into a 
reporting mode , where it had been hoped it would keep 
through but after 13 , , an command 
had been sent to the accidentally telling it to shut down until 
further orders .  . was never again , despite the 
 efforts through may of  . 

an interesting side note viking 1 's has been the 
thomas a. memorial station in honor of the late leader of the 
team .  . the national air and space in washington , 
d . c .  . is with the of the station until 
it can be attached to the by a  . 

viking 2 was on september 9 , , and arrived in orbit 
on august 7 ,  . the down on september 3 , in 
utopia  . it accomplished essentially the same as its 
sister , with the exception that its worked , recording 
one  . the had a series of attitude control gas in 
, which prompted it being shut down that  . the was shut 
down on april 12 ,  . 

the orbits of both viking should around  . 


 ( outer planet flybys ) 

1 was september 5 , 1977 , and flew past jupiter on march 
5 , and by on 13 ,  . 2 was 
august 20 , 1977  ( before 1 ) , and flew by jupiter on august 7 , 
, by on august 26 , , by on 24 , 1986 , and 
by on august 8 , 1989. 2 took advantage of a rare 
once every years to its way from outer planet to 
outer planet. 1 could , in principle , have headed towards , 
but jpl for the sure thing of a close up. 

between the two , our knowledge of the 4 giant planets , their 
, and their has become  . 1 2 discovered 
that jupiter has complicated , and 
 . three new were discovered .  . two of the major 
surprises were that jupiter has and that has active 
volcanoes , with major effects on the  . 

when the two reached , they discovered over 1000 
and 7 , including the predicted shepherd that keep 
the stable .  . the was compared with jupiter massive 
with minimal (a 33 year great white cycle 
is  . 's atmosphere was  .  appearance was 
one massive impact gave it the death star appearance. 
the big surprise here was the stranger aspects of the  . , 
, and were both and difficult to explain. 

2 , thanks to engineering and programming efforts , 
continued the mission to and  . itself was highly 
in appearance. one was that its magnetic was 
found to be highly skewed from the already completely skewed 
, giving a peculiar  . were found on 
, and was a bizarre of different  . 10 
and one more were discovered .  . 

in to , was found to have rather active , 
including numerous cloud features .  . the turned out to be bright 
on one  . two other , and 6 other , were 
discovered .  . 's magnetic was also skewed .  . had a 
appearance and  .  ( what 's liquid at ) 

the two are expected to last for about two more decades .  . their 
on target gives negative evidence about possible planets 
beyond  . their next major scientific should be the 
of the  . 


soviet 

since there have been so many soviet to the moon , , and 
, i will only the primary 


soviet 

luna 1 impact attempt in , missed moon and became first 
in orbit .  . 
luna 2 first to impact on surface in  . 
luna 3 took first images of in  . 
3 took first images of in since luna 3. was 
also a test for future  . 
luna 9 first to soft land on the moon in , returned images 
from surface .  . 
luna 10 first to orbit the moon in  . 
luna 13 second successful soviet soft landing mission in  . 
5 first successful  . 6 through 8 
accomplished similar through  . the were 
of a type  . 
luna 16 first to land on moon and return samples of 
to earth in  . luna 20 accomplished similar mission in 
 . 
luna 17 the first to the moon 's 
surface , 1 , in  . a similar feat was accomplished 
with luna 21 2 in  . 
luna 24 last soviet mission to date. returned samples in 
 . 


soviet 

1 first acknowledged attempt at mission .  . transmissions 
lost in  . 
2 attempt to image during mission in with 
3. ceased just before in 
february of  . no images were returned .  . 
3 attempt to place a on surface .  . 
transmissions ceased just before and entire 
became the first to impact on another planet in  . 
4 first to successfully return data while 
through atmosphere .  . by air pressure before 
surface in  . 5 and 6 mission 
similar in  . 
7 first to return data from the surface of another planet 
in  . 8 accomplished a more detailed mission in 
 . 
9 sent first image of surface in  . was also the 
first to orbit  . 10 accomplished similar 
mission .  . 
13 returned first color images of surface in  . 
14 accomplished similar mission .  . 
15 accomplished mapping with 16 of sections of 
planet 's surface in more detailed than  . 
1 accomplished with 2 first of 
atmosphere in 1985 , including two  . buses went on 
to become first to study close up in 
march of 1986 .  . 


soviet 

1 first acknowledged in  . transmissions ceased 
the following year .  . 
2 first possible attempt to place a on 
surface .  . ceased in  . 
2 first soviet to land crash on 
surface .  . section first soviet to circle the red 
planet in 1971 .  . 
3 first successful soft landing on surface , but 
ceased after 90 seconds in 1971 .  . 
4 attempt at in , failed to 
fire , went on into orbit .  . 
5 first fully successful soviet mission , in 
 . returned images of surface comparable to u.s. 
9. 
6 landing attempt in  . into the surface .  . 
7 missed completely in , went into a orbit 
with its bus. 
1 first attempt to land on surface of  largest 
moon ,  . failed in 1988 due to 
human computer error. 
2 attempt to land on moon  . the did 
enter orbit in early 1989 , but ceased one week 
before scheduled landing .  . 

while there has been talk of soviet jupiter , , and even 
within the next thirty years , no major steps have 
yet been taken with these  . more studies of the moon , 
, , and various have been for the , and a 
mission to orbit and land on the tiny world has been 
for  . how the many changes in the former soviet union  ( now 
the commonwealth of independent states ) will affect the future of their 
space program remains to be seen. 


japanese 

 ( ms t5 ) was from the space center by on 
8 1985 , and approached 's within about 7 million 
on march 11 , 1986 .  . the is carrying three to 
measure magnetic field wind , all of 
which work normally now , so made an earth by on 
8 , 1992 into an orbit similar to the earth 's .  . the 
approach was at  ( jst 9h ) on 8 , 1992 .  . the 
geocentric distance was 88 ,  . this is the first planet for 
a japanese  . 

during the approach , observed the  . some 
passages will be scheduled in some years hence .  . the second earth 
will be on june 14 , 1993  ( at 40 re  ( earth 's radius ) , and the third 
october 28 ,  ( at 86  . 


, a small , was into earth orbit on 24 , 
1990. the was then known as a , but was to 
once in orbit .  . the 430 out from earth and made its first 
on march 19 , where it dropped off its 26 
,  . japan at this point became the third nation to 
orbit a around the moon , the states and ussr .  . 

the smaller , , remained in orbit around the moon. an 
apparently broken radio caused the japanese space scientists 
to lose track of it. 's rocket fired on on march 
19 , but the 's failed immediately .  . the 
rocket firing of was confirmed using the 
camera  ( 105 , at the in japan .  . 

made multiple at approximately monthly and 
performed experiments using the earth 's atmosphere .  . 
made a close approach to the moon at 22 33  ( utc 9h ) on february 15 , 
1992 at the of from the moon 's surface , 9 . and 
fired its system for about ten to put the into 
orbit .  . the following is the orbital results after the 
approach 

about 49 , 400 
about 9 , 600 
34 . 7 .  ( to plane ) 
period 4.7 days 


mission references 

i also recommend reading the following works , categorized in three 
groups general , specific books on particular space , 
and sources on space  . this list is by no means 
complete it is primarily designed to give you places to start your 
research through generally available works on the subject. if anyone can 
add pertinent works to the list , it would be greatly appreciated. 

though naturally i recommend all the books listed below , i think it 
would be best if you started out with the general overview books , in 
order to give you a clear idea of the history of space exploration in 
this area. i also recommend that you pick up some good , up to date 
general works on astronomy and the system , to give you some extra 
background .  . most of these books and can be found in any good 
public and university library. some of the more recently published works 
can also be purchased in and or ordered through any good mass market 
bookstore .  . 

general  ( in order by author ) 

j. kelly et al , the new system , 1990. 

e. and bruce c. , the view from space 
exploration of the planets , 1971 

, the illustrated encyclopedia of space 
technology , 1990 

, , 

r. , , 1987 

douglas hart , the encyclopedia of soviet , 1987 

l. johnson , handbook of soviet and 
exploration , 

clayton r. , jpl and the american space program a 
history of the , 

richard s. lewis , the illustrated encyclopedia of the 
universe , 

mark , planets beyond the outer 
system , 1988 

f. and l. , the 
handbook a s guide to travel , 1989 

frank and , race to the 
, 1988 

bruce , journey into space , 1989 

w. , far , 1985  ( nasa sp 480 ) 

james e. , uncovering soviet the 
limits of , 1988 

, , 1986 

, the cosmic connection , 

, planets ,  ( life science library ) 

smith , exploration thirty years of 
space , 1988 

andrew ,  ( jane's ) system log , 1987 

specific mission references 

charles a. cross and patrick , the of , 1977 
 ( the 10 mission to and , 1975 ) 

joel davis , the of 2 , 1987 

, first to the story of 2 , 

margaret and l. , the story of a 
space mission , 1984 

, of earth ,  ( deals with the earth 
information records placed on 1 and 2 in case the 
are found by in space , 
as well as the and mission objectives 
themselves . ) . 

other works and 

nasa has published very detailed and technical books on every space 
mission it has  . good university will carry 
these books , and they are easily found simply by knowing which mission 
you wish to read about. i recommend these works after you first study 
some of the books listed above. 

some i recommend for reading on space are national 
, which has written articles on the to earth 's 
moon luna and the planets jupiter and , the , 
, , and to luna , the 
to , , and , the viking to , and the 
to jupiter , , , and  . 

more details on american , soviet , european , and japanese 
can be found in sky and , astronomy , science , nature , and 
scientific american  . time , newsweek , and various major 
newspapers can supply not only general information on certain , 
but also show you what else was going on with earth at the time events 
were , if that is of interest to you. space are 
affected by numerous political , economic , and factors , as you 
probably know. 

depending on just how far your interest in space will go , you 
might also wish to join the society , one of the largest space 
groups in the world dedicated to exploration .  . their 
, the report , details the latest space 
 . write to the society , 65 north avenue , 
pasadena , california usa .  . 

good luck with your studies in this area of space exploration .  . i 
personally find to be one of the more areas 
in this field , and the benefits human society has and will receive from 
it are incredible , with many yet to be realized .  . 

larry 

next faq 11 15 and 

from  ( mark prado ) 
subject two thousand  ( was re how many read sci . space . ) 
lines 32 


reply address 

if anyone knows anyone else who would like to get sci . space . , 
but does n't have an internet feed  ( or has a internet 
feed ) , i would be willing to feed it to them. i have a nice 
message reader editor , an mailer 
program which will pick up mail  ( quickly and easily ) , 
and an to set them up  . no charge for 
the sci . space . feed , though you have to washington , d . c .  . 
this is not a bbs it 's a forward system for mail 
, with minimum connect times.  ( i'm used to 
calls . ) .  ( this is not an offer for a free feed for any other 
particular newsgroups . ) . of up to  ( v32bis ) are 
supported .  . 's might be offered other free services , such 
as internet address and other  . 

i get my feed from uunet and run a 4 line  . i 've been 
for years i have an extremely reliable  . 

the software i provide runs under dos  ( and 2 and 
as a dos  . other , compatible software exist for 
the and unix .  . 

any responses should be private and go to 


 ( by the way , to all , my apologies for the public traffic on my 
question. i really did n't expect public  . but thanks 
to bill for the interesting statistics and the lead . ) . 

origin internet gateway  ( 1 109 

from  ( eric van drunen ) 
subject re big amateur 
nntp posting host ps . edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 30 

actually , they are legal ! i not familiar with the ad you are speaking of 
but knowing popular science it is probably on the fringe .  . however , you 
may be speaking of public , inc. , which is a legitimate company 
that has been around for a while. 

due to advances in , are now available for model 
using similar to , roughly 3 times more 
powerful than black  . they are even available in a 
form , i.e. , end , o ( ! ) .  . the range 
from d all the way to m in common manufacture , n and o i 've heard of 
used at special  . 

to be a model rocket , however , the rocket ca n't contain any metal 
parts , amongst other requirements .  . i 've never heard of a 
model rocket doing 50 , 000 .  . i have heard of 20 , 000 foot  . 
these require  ( of course ! ) .  . there are a few large national 
 ( ldrs , fireballs ) , at which you can see many k engine 
 . actually , using a g engine constitutes the area of high 
power , which is from normal model  . 
of like i have been describing require membership in the national 
association of , the tripoli  . , or you have to 
be part of an institute or company involved in  . 

is another area. i'm not really familiar with this , 
but it is an area where metal parts are allowed , along with liquid 
and what not. i do n't know what kind of are involved , but 
i'm sure they are numerous .  . 

high power is very ! if you are interested or have 
more questions , there is a newsgroup rec . model .  . 

from  ( marcus inf ) 
subject into infinity  ( was re  ( was re ) 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 1993 22 22 19 gmt 
organization university , finland 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 36 

in writes 

in article ,  ( bill beam jockey ) writes 

this was known as journey to the far side of the sun in the united 
states and as in the u . k .  .  .  . later , they went 
on to do more live action sf series and space . 

the astronomy was lousy , but the lifting body , 
, and mighty launch complex were wonderful to 
look at. 

exactly. some of the space effects remain first rate even today. 

they a lot of models and theme music for  . some of the 
concepts even showed up in space  . 


later on , the tried to shed their reputation as creators of some 
of the worst pseudo scientific shows in tv history by flying into infinity .  . 
this was a one off thing done as part of 's sf series the 
day after tomorrow .  . the dealt with a capable of 
the speed of light ( ) , the four man eventually 
into a black hole and ended up on the far side of the (i 
think) .  . i saw this as a 9 year old back in and liked it very much , but 
then again i was a fan of space so i guess i was easily satisfied in those 
days ) 

does anyone know if into infinity has been released on video i have some 
space shows on and know that etc. also are available in 
england .  . 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  ( tom o'reilly ) 
subject mission 
organization observer project , asu , tempe az 
distribution sci . space . 
lines 11 

yes , the mission did return some useful data including images of 
itself. the best i 've seen had a surface resolution of about 40  . by 
the way , the new book entitled  ( kieffer et al , 1992 , university of 
arizona press ) has a great chapter on exploration of the planet. 
the chapter is co authored by v . i .  . of the space research institute in 
, and includes details never before published in the west .  . do n't 
know of any ftp sites with images though. 

tom o 
department of 
arizona state university 

from  ( joseph askew ) 
subject re the call to space  ( was re ) 
keywords calls , , public perception 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 32 

in article  ( pat ) writes 
in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 

it is n't for japan to try to the amount of oil they 
would need to run their if they did no use nuclear power. 

of course , given they 50 of the , what do they do. 

well they do n't anywhere near 50 of their  . mexico 's perhaps 
but not their own. they actually around the 9 10 mark. similar 
to most developed countries actually. australia a larger share 
of as does the united states  ( 14 i think off hand. always likely to 
be out by a factor of 12 or more though) this would be immediately obvious 
if you thought about it. 

anything serious enough to the sea for oil will 
also their  . 

it is their import that count. they can do without but 
they could n't live without for any longer than months if that. 

given they import everything , oil is just one more critical  . 

too true ! but one that is and hence a source of serious worry .  . 

joseph 


joseph , and proud in the , see the , 
remote in , the grief .  . 
disclaimer , see if i care north of our , the sky must end , 
actually , i rather like beyond the pale , the river on. 

from  ( marvin batty ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
nntp posting host cc 
organization , coventry , uk 
lines 30 

in article  ( enzo liguori ) writes 
from the article what 's new apr 16 93 in sci . physics . research . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
what s new  ( in my opinion ) , friday , 16 april 1993 washington , 

1. space ! is this one the we were promised 
in 1950 , science fiction writer robert heinlein published the 
man who sold the moon , which involved a dispute over the sale of 
rights to the moon for use as  . nasa has taken the this 
vision of the future. observers were 
this spring when a nasa launch arrived at the 
with in huge block letters on the 
side of the  . 

things could be worse. a lot worse ! in the mid the 
adult sci fi  ( fleetway ) produced a short story 
the award character judge . the story 
on an agency of the future who use high 
lasers search pointed at the moon to 
images on the moon. to say , this use off a load of lovers , 
and crazies .  . the ad guys got , the service 
 . a cautionary tale indeed ! 

marvin  . 


marvin 
and they shall not find those things , with a sort of rafia like base , 
that their fathers put there just the night before. at about 8 o ! 

from  ( robert sheaffer ) 
subject re astronomy program 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 23 

in article  ( kevin marcus ) writes 
are there any public domain or astronomy programs which will 
map out the sky at any given time , and allow you to planets , , 
and so forth if so , is there any ftp site where i can get one 

i posted my public domain program sunlight . zip . to sci . yesterday. 
it easily the sun , moon , and planets , and can also be used to 
other objects if you their right and  . 
use to extract .  . 




robert maximus 

past chairman , the bay area skeptics for whom i speak only when ! 

and feminism are one and that one is 

and , 
quoted by above the first chapter 
of her a theory of the state 


from  ( robin kenny ) 
subject re !  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization response centre  ( melbourne ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 5 . 
lines 26 

david fuzzy wrote 

i love the idea of an 1 long sign .  .  .  .  . it will be a 
really neat thing to see it explode when a  ( or even better , a 
! ) comes into it at 10 a  . 

!  .  .  .  .  .  . , 

okay , pretend it would make a sound ! 


just a thought .  .  .  .  ( let 's pretend it is and pressurized ) would n't 
there be a large build up around the 
if the is behind a clear sandwich  . insulated ) then the 
would generate electrical interference 

by the way , any serious high impact would simply cut a 
bunny hole through the , highly unlikely to , and the fabric 
would almost certainly be  . 


regards , a private and personal opinion , not in any way 
, or known by my  . 

what the heck would i know about space i'm stuck at the 
bottom of this huge gravity well ! 

from john 
subject re x update 
organization mystery bbs 
reply to 
lines 12 

 ( henry spencer ) writes 

the first will be a low that will demonstrate a 
landing .  . there will be no  . x will never carry any kind 

exactly when will the test be done , and will any of the tv 
carry it. i really want to see that .  .  .  . 


john 
mystery bbs , oak , mi 


from (s . f .  . davis ) 
subject re conference on exploration .  . may 7 city 
organization 
distribution na 
lines 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 

had a brief blurb on a exploration 
may 7th at city virginia , under the of  . 

does anyone know more about this how much , to 

anyone want to go 



here are some excerpts of the invitation form they 
sent me. without permission , all 's are mine. 


low cost access a one day conference to the means and 
benefits of a human program .  . 

friday , may 7 , 1993 
city 
arlington , va 

about the conference 
the low cost access conference will be a forum for the exchange of 
ideas on how to and structure an affordable human program .  . 
inherent in such low cost programs is the principle that they be 
implemented rapidly and meet their objectives within a short time 
frame .  . 

more deleted 

conference program  ( preliminary ) 

in the washington room 

9 00 9 10 a . m .  . remarks 
dr. m. 

9 10 9 30 a . m .  . address 
mr. brian 

9 30 10 00 a . m .  . u.s. policy 
john , american of scientists 

a discussion of the for the introduction of a new low cost 
in view of the direction the space 
program is taking .  . 

10 00 12 00 noon morning 

on , systems , and concepts .  . 
emphasis will be on mission approaches that produce significant 
beyond yet are judged to be affordable in the 
present era of severely 


in the room 

12 00 1 30 p . m .  . lunch 
speaker mr. john w. young , 
nasa special assistant and former 

in the washington room 

1 30 2 00 p . m .  . international policy 
 ( invited ) 
, washington office 

the prevailing situation with respect to international space 
, with insights into for european 
entry into new agreements , as would be required for a cooperative 
program .  . 

2 00 3 30 p . m .  . afternoon 

on scientific objectives , benefits , and applications .  . 
emphasis will be placed on the scientific and value 
of a program and its  . 




there is a form and the fee is us 75 . 00 .  . the mail address 
is 

american institute of and 
dept. no. 
washington , 

and the fax no. is 

 ( 202 ) 646 

or it says you can on site during the meeting 
and on friday morning , may 7 , from 7 30 10 30 


sounds interesting. too bad i ca n't go. 


! ! ! ! 
davis 
( o o ) 
douglas 
i do n't represent space systems company 
anybody but myself. ( ) houston division 


from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject update 04 22 93 
organization 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords , jpl 
news software vax vms 1.41 

from , mission director 


mission director status report 
post launch 
april 16 22 , 1993 




1. on april 19 , cruise science memory  ( mros ) were performed for the 
extreme  ( euv ) ,  ( dds ) , and 
 ( mag )  . preliminary analysis indicates the data was received 
properly. 

2. on april 19 , a command signal to ratio  ( cdusnr ) test 
and a radio automatic gain control  ( rfsagc ) test were 
performed using the 1  ( low gain 1 ) over dss 63  ( madrid 70 
antenna ) and dss 61  ( madrid 34 antenna ) , respectively .  . data analysis 
is in process. these are periodically performed to provide detailed 
information relative to the command hardware  . 

3. on april 19 , a no command was sent to the command loss to 
hours , its value during this mission  . 

4. on april 21 , the first of two suppressed  ( deep space network ) 
advanced receiver characterization was performed over dss 14  ( goldstone 
70  . the index was from 43 degrees 
to 90 degrees for a range of ground receiver bandwidth  . 

5. the ac measurement has not significant change 
 ( greater than 25 dn ) throughout this period but the 
measurement has .  . the ac measurement reads 20 5 .  . the 
measurement has from 43 6 . volts ) to 138 2 . volts ) and 
currently reads 138 2 .  . these measurements are consistent with 
the model developed by the ac special team .  . 

6. the status as of april 22 , 1993 , is as follows 

a ) system power margin 
b ) spin dual spin 
c ) spin rate 3 . star 
d ) attitude is approximately 21 degrees 
off sun  ( lagging ) and 5 degrees off earth  ( leading ) 
e) rate  ( 40bps(coded ) 1 
f ) general thermal control all within 
acceptable range 
g ) all within acceptable range 
h ) science on are the , 
, , , , , and 
i ) off , within 
acceptable range 
j ) loss setting hours 
time to hours 




as of noon thursday , april 22 , 1993 , the 
status was as follows 

distance from earth , , 14 . au ) 
distance from sun , , au ) 
heliocentric speed 91 , 200 per hour 
distance from jupiter , , 
round trip light time 18 , seconds 


special topic 

1. as of april 22 , 1993 , a total of real time commands have been 
to since launch .  . of these , were initiated in the 
sequence design process and initiated in the real time command process. 
in the past week , one real time command was one was initiated in 
the sequence design process and none initiated in the real time command 
process. the only command activity was a command to the command loss 
 . 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( jordin kare ) 
subject re long space  ( was re the sky . ) . 
organization 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host gov . 

 ( brian yamauchi ) writes 
 ( enzo liguori ) writes 
what s new  ( in my opinion ) , friday , 16 april 1993 washington , 

now , space 
is working with university of and on 
a plan to place a long in low earth 
orbit .  . 

this sounds like something wood would think of. does anyone 
know if he 's involved 

no. the idea was suggested around here during discussions of possible 
near term space activities. one of the folks involved in those 
discussions , a 
engineer named , passed the suggestion on to 
some types , and mike is apparently going ahead with 
it. is now at , and is working with space on 
the that might be carried .  . 

nasa would provide contractual launch services .  . however , 
since nasa bases its charge on seriously flawed cost estimates 
 ( wn 26 93 ) the would bear most of the expense .  . 

actually , that sounds unlikely .  . i do n't know what the launch 
would be , but i would expect it to go on a 
certainly not on the and the of the cost paid to nasa 
for , e.g. , launch support would probably 
cover nasa 's costs pretty well. 

this 
may look like environmental , but mike , of 
space , told us yesterday that the real purpose of the 
project is to help the environment ! the will carry 
he explained is just to help costs .  . 

this may be the purpose for the university of people. my 
guess is that the purpose for the people is to learn how to 
build large , space structures .  . 

no , as noted , is involved in lightweight design , per 
and related programs. i'm sure folks around here would like to 
see a of a modern structure , but after all , 
the u.s. did the long ago , and an structure 
would not be much closer to an space station than was 
 ( or a , for that  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
what do you think of this and attempt to 
the night sky it is not even april 1 anymore. 

while i happen to personally dislike the idea , mostly because i 've got 
a background in astronomy , it 's hardly it would be a short lived 
on the night sky , doing no permanent damage and actually 
only a small subset of  . on the other hand , it would certainly 
draw attention to space .  . 

if this is true , i think it 's a great idea. 

learning how to build structures in space in an essential 
step towards space development .  .  .  . 

which , unfortunately , this is not likely to contribute much to. 

if such a project also and demonstrates 
creative use of  ( partial ) private funding in the process so 
much the better. 

is nasa really supporting this junk 

as far as i know , it 's a purely venture .  . 

and does anyone have any more details other than what was in the 
news how serious is this project is this just in the wild 
idea stage or does it have real funding 

i gather it is being very seriously discussed with possible  . 
, however , generally do n't get funding they 
get whether it will have remains to be seen. 

are protesting groups being organized in the states 

not yet. though , if this project goes through , i suppose the return 
of jeremy is inevitable .  .  .  . 

 . he 's too busy watching for bacteria to notice anything in 
the sky ) 


brian case western reserve university 
department of computer engineering and science 

lawrence national 

these are my personal views only and do not represent official statements 
or positions of , the university of california , or the u.s. doe .  . 

from  ( william reiken ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization univ .  . , , japan 
lines 4 


thanks for the update .  . 

will .  .  .  . 

subject to sci . space . sci . frequently asked questions 
from  ( jon leech ) 
expires 6 may 1993 19 50 16 gmt 
organization university of north , hill 
supersedes 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 
lines 

archive name space 

since last faq posting  ( in posting order ) 

 ( these are hand edited context do not attempt to use them to patch 
old copies of the faq) .  . 


t c 18 . faq . intro . 
, thu apr 1 14 47 22 1993 
faq . intro . thu apr 1 14 46 55 1993 

, 
nasa  ( technical reports ) 
nasa 
national space science data center 
space and image 
space science institute electronic info .  . service 


, 

130 , 
129 , 
great exploration 

science and activities 
earth histories 
models 
rocket 
design 


t c 18 . faq . net . 
, thu apr 1 14 47 24 1993 
faq . net . thu apr 1 14 46 57 1993 

, 63 
, 67 
elements are sent out on the list from dr. , , and other sources 
as they are released .  . email to elements to join .  . 

digest is a moderated list for discussion of the 
system and other systems. email to 
to join .  . 

space is a list for information relevant to investing in 
space related  . email to join .  . 


, 
, 
 . if in fact you should should learn of access , contact 
nasa  . 

claims have been made on this news group about fraud and waste. none 
have ever been substantiated to any significant degree. readers 
fraud , waste , abuse , or should contact the nasa 
general  ( 24 hours ) at  ( can be anonymous ) or write 

nasa 
general 
p.o. box 
l station 
washington 

next faq 3 15  ( and some offline ) sources of images , data , etc. 


t c 18 . faq . data . 
, thu apr 1 14 47 26 1993 
faq . data . thu apr 1 14 46 54 1993 

216 , 
telephone  ( 301 ) 

email address 


space and image 

available 24 hours a day via anonymous ftp from unm . edu .  . has 
approximately 150 's full of imagery , raw , and data .  . to 
start , get the file 

unm . edu . pub info info 

this will give you all of the information you need to get data 
from their machine .  . info has been translated to other 
, you should look inside pub info for the particular language 
that your needs. 

contact 


space science institute electronic information service 
216 , 


t c 18 . faq . math . 
, thu apr 1 14 47 28 1993 
faq . math . thu apr 1 14 46 56 1993 

60 , 65 
60 , 
gives series to positions accurate to 1 minute for a 
period or years from now. is included but stated to 
have an accuracy of only about 15 minutes. 

interactive computer  ( mica ) , produced by the us 
 . valid for years 1990  . 55 ( 80 outside  . 
available for ibm  ( order 500163hdv ) or  ( order 
 . from the sales , (703)  . i believe 
this is intended to replace the 's interactive computer  . 

interactive computer  ( from the us observatory ) 
on ibm pc , 35  ( willmann  . covers dates 


t c 18 . faq . references . 
, thu apr 1 14 47 30 1993 
faq . references . thu apr 1 14 46 59 1993 

93 , 100 
us 
 ( usno board via modem ) 
general 
office  ( info on the interactive 
computer ephemeris ) 

bell 
p.o. box 
93 , 

138 , 
's  ( single stage rocket technology ) project has funded a 
technology called x that should in 
mid 1993 .  . further development towards an single stage to 
! orbit is at present for more detail on 
! the program , get the document 

! ames . nasa . gov . pub space faq 

! by anonymous ftp or through the email server .  . 


how to name a star after a person 

official names are decided by of the international 
, 
's  ( single stage rocket technology ) project has funded a 
technology called x that should in 
mid 1993 .  . further development towards an single stage to 
! orbit  ( called delta clipper ) is at present. 

! an collection of pictures and files to x is available by 
! anonymous ftp or email server in the directory 

! cc . utexas . edu . pub delta clipper 

chris w. johnson the archive .  . 


how to name a star after a person 

official names are decided by of the international 

, 
, 
university press ,  . information about the , 
including of the of the and by 
various  . 


earth histories 

a list of earth  ( that are still in orbit ) is 
available by anonymous ftp in 

ames . nasa . gov . pub space faq 


models 


t c 18 . faq . addresses . 
, thu apr 1 14 47 34 1993 
faq . addresses . thu apr 1 14 46 51 1993 

75 , 80 
75 , 85 
the latter , an sf is useless. employees are caltech employees , 
, and for the most part have similar  . 
they offer an alternative to funding after other nasa  . 

a fact and description of jpl is available by anonymous 
ftp in 

ames . nasa . gov . pub space faq 

nasa johnson space center  ( jsc ) 
houston , tx 


t c 18 . faq . new . 
, thu apr 1 14 47 38 1993 
faq . new . thu apr 1 14 46 1993 

8 , 13 
8 , 19 
team , launch , press  . 


 ( astro d )  ( japan ) x ray astronomy , into 
earth orbit on 2 20 93 .  . with large area wide  ( 1 20 
angstrom ) x ray , x ray , and gas 
proportional counters .  . 


and atmosphere  . is a 
nasa project designed to an exploration of the 
system with its and  . 

, 115 


mapping mission .  . has almost the entire 
! surface at high resolution .  . currently  ( 11 92 ) in mapping cycle 4 , 
! a gravity map .  . 


observer including 1 . 5 . m resolution camera .  . 
! 9 24 on a iii  . is currently (3 93 ) in 
transit to , arriving on 8 24 93 .  . will start 11 93 for 
one year  ( 687  . 


! us french earth observing , in 
! august 1992 on an 4  . the primary objective of the 
project is to make precise and accurate 
observations of the sea level for several years , 
increasing understanding of  . the also 
, 


mapping mission .  . has almost the entire 
! surface at high resolution .  . currently  ( 4 93 ) a gravity 
! map .  . 


observer including 1 . 5 . m resolution camera .  . 
! 9 25 on a iii  . is currently  ( 4 93 ) in 
transit to , arriving on 8 24 93 .  . will start 11 93 for 
one year  ( 687  . 


! us french earth observing , 
! 8 10 on an 4  . the primary objective of the 
project is to make precise and accurate 
observations of the sea level for several years , 
increasing understanding of  . the also 


t c 18 . faq . 
, thu apr 1 14 47 43 1993 
faq . thu apr 1 14 46 52 1993 

162 , 
specific standards 

distant 
! 20 100 or better , 
to 20 20 , each eye. 

blood pressure 
90 measured in sitting position. 

! 3. between 60 and 76  . 

candidate 

162 , 
specific standards 

distant 
! 20 150 or better , 
to 20 20 , each eye. 

blood pressure 
90 measured in sitting position. 

! 3. between 5 . and 76  . 

candidate 

from  ( charles j. divine ) 
subject washington post article on us space 
organization nasa maryland 
lines 23 

reported yesterday in the washington post  ( kathy , writer ) 

the article plays down the role in us space .  . 

 ( science to clinton ) sent a letter indicating 
nasa should not limit redesign options to those compatible with 
orbit .  . 

the white house thinks expectations for have been 
raised too high. 

the article reports that some think the spending and limits 
for space station are so that the redesign is nearly 
impossible. that 's why some think has begun looking at 
hardware .  . 

states nasa will present all options to the 
which will then have decision making power. 

and the white house have totally ruled out using to 
boost the station .  . 

divine 

organization queen 's university at 
from 
subject re what if the ussr had reached the moon first 


lines 9 

this is turning into  what 's a good for  , and i ought 
not to post when i 've a hundred some odd posts to go , but i would 
think that the real reason to have a moon base is economic .  . 

since someone with space industry will have a much 
larger than they would without space industry , eventually , 
they will simply be able to afford more stuff. 



from 
subject space race ideas moon base on the cheap .  . 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 

that is an idea .  .  . the most efficient moon  .  . 

also the idea of how to get the people off the moon once the prize was won .  .  . 

also the idea of how to rescue someone who is dying on the moon. 

maybe have a area where they can all see each other , and can help each other 
if something happens .  .  . 

i the idea of one prize for the first moon landing and return , by a 
non body .  .  . 

also the idea of then having a moon race .  .  . 

i know we need to do to get people involved .  .  . 

would be nice .  .  . we see how old 
about it .  .  . after all it would be a great thing and a way to show he 
does care about and the people .  .  . will try to the 
subject to him .  .  . 

on the cheap is a good idea .  .  . nasa and friends seem to take to much 
time and give us to expensive stuff that of late does not work  ( hubble and 
 . basically what is the difference between a of junk and a 
piece of junk .  .  . i know junk .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( david b. mckissock ) 
subject re space station redesign , alternative 4 
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio 
lines 102 
distribution world 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 

description of external option for redesign deleted 

mark proposed this design at joe 's in city , 
and he reports that he was received .  . however , the 
i hear say that a design based on a space 
seems more likely. 

yo ken , let 's keep on top of things ! both the external and 
options have been deleted from the redesign 
options list. today 's  ( 4 23 ) edition of the new york times reports 
that o'connor told the that some redesign have 
been dropped , such as using the giant external used 
in space , and building a station around 
an existing space with its wings and tail removed. 

currently , there are three options being considered , as presented 
to the meeting yesterday  ( and as reported in 
today 's  . 

option a low cost approach 
this option is being studied by a team from  . as an aside , 
there are redesign teams at , , and supporting 
the  ( station redesign team ) in city. both lerc and 
reston folks are also on site at these , helping the respective 
teams with their redesign activities. key features of this 
option are 
uses 1 , a developed by that 's 
qualified for and 's .  . the provides , c 
communications , data  . developed this 
for the air force. 
a power station capability is obtained in 3  . 
are used to provide 20 of power. the 
in an arrow mode to the environment. 
would the as a power 
source for 30 day  . 
human tended capability  ( as opposed to the old sexist term 
of man tended capability ) is achieved by the addition of the 
us common  . this is a modified version of the existing 
lab  ( docking are added for the international 
partners  labs , taking the place of the on  . the 
can be to the station for 60 day  . 
the would provide capability .  . 
international human tended .  . add the , and 
add another 20 of power 
permanent human presence capability .  . add a 3rd power , 
the u.s. , and an  ( assured return 
 . 

option b space station freedom derived 
the option b team is based at , and is lead by mike  . 
this option looks alot like the existing design , which we 
have all come to know and love ) 

this option assumes a lightweight external is available for 
use on all assembly  ( so does option a ) .  . also , the 
number of is for a 51 . 6 . orbit , 
for both options a and b . 

the build up occurs in phases 
initial research capability reached after 3  . power 
is transferred from the to the , when 
it  . 
man tended capability  ( griffin has not yet non sexist 
language ) is achieved after 8  . the u.s. lab is 
, and 1 power provides 20 of power. 
permanent human presence capability occurs after 10 , by 
keeping one on orbit to use as an  ( so sometimes 
there would be two on orbit the , and the 
second one that comes up for re  . 
a two fault tolerance capability is achieved after 14 , 
with the addition of a 2nd power , another thermal 
control system , and more  . 
after 20 , the are on board. more power , 
the , and an are added to finish the 
assembly in 24  . 

most of the systems currently on are used as is in this option , 
with the exception of the data system , which has major 
changes .  . 

option c single core launch station .  . 
this is the lead option. basically , you take a 23 
that 's long , 3 space main on 
the , put a nose on the top , attached it to a 
regular external and a regular set of solid rocket 
, and launch the can. some key features are 
complete end to end ground and 
4 mounted fixed 
body mounted  ( which protection against 
orbital debris ) 
2  ( one on each end ) 
7 
a single volume , approximately 26 , 000 feet 
 ( twice the volume of  . 
7 , center between 
10 of power 
with failures  ( 8 power , 4 thermal 
loops , dual environmental control life support system ) 
increased time for 
1 g thru out the core 

from  ( m veikko ) 
subject re astronomy program 
organization university of 
lines 20 

in article 
 ( kevin marcus ) writes 

are there any public domain or astronomy programs which will 
map out the sky at any given time , and allow you to planets , , 
and so forth if so , is there any ftp site where i can get one 


there are several star map programs available. your 
job is to choose that you like. try anonymous ftp 
from 

ftp . fi . pub pc stars 
pc 
mac 



regards , 


from 
subject what do space surveillance 
organization science applications l corp .  . san diego 
lines 

that i am , i 've assumed that we and the 
were the only countries with significant capabilities to track 
non cooperative objects in low earth orbit .  . in a couple of 
recently , i found that japan has some capabilities 
along this line , and also uses a designed for other purposes 
for orbital  ( it is n't clear whether the can 
determine orbital elements for the objects it  . of 
the articles are  . 


this leads to the more general question do yet other people than 
the us , russia , and japan do space surveillance , and if so , how and 
why 

allen , va , usa 



of the experimental  ( egs ) 
, , , 
radio research , review  ( issn 801x ) , vol. 34 , 
march 1988 , p. 23 34 .  . in japanese , with abstract in english. 
this paper reports the results of 
 ( experimental satellite ) which was on august 13 , 
1986 , by  . the experiment process and an 
outline of the radio research  ( rrl ) ground 
station are discussed .  . a star for 
equipment and for orbit 
prediction improvement are also described .  . the accuracy of 
data obtained by at the request of is also 
discussed .  . in addition , it is demonstrated that the 
position of the japanese amateur  ( jas 1 ) which was 
with the , was accurately determined by means of a 
video .  . it is clear from this experiment that 
observation data (i . e .  . , direction data ) are very 
useful for orbit determination during initial launch 
stages .  . furthermore , the results the of these 
two techniques .  . 


measurements of orbital 
, , , , 
 ( kyoto university , japan ) 
, nasa , and , orbital conference technical issues and 
future , baltimore , md , apr .  . 16 19 , 1990. 10 p. 
paper 90 
of orbital versus and cross 
section are determined from a series of observations made with a high 
power  ( mu radar ) of japan .  . an data 
has been developed to discriminate of 
objects from those of undesired such as trail 
or  . although the results are preliminary , 
they showed good agreement with those from 
observations using a much higher  . it is found that the 
of a space station of 1 x 1 size at an 
of with is expected to be as high as 
once per two years. 


of the pattern by  ( exos c ) 
, t. , y .  . , s.  ( kyoto univ .  . , japan ) , s. 
univ .  . ,  . radio science center .  . 
in international council of scientific , middle atmosphere program .  . 
handbook for map , vol. 20 5 p 
publication date  . 1986 
as the first attempt among mst  ( mesosphere 
troposphere ) type , the  ( middle and atmosphere ) 
features an active system. unlike the conventional large 
, in which output power of a large is 
to individual elements , each of solid state power 
each element .  . this system very fast 
beam as well as various by the 
into independent , because shift and signal 
division combination are performed at a low signal level using 
electronic devices under control of a computer network. the 
beam can be switched within 10 to any direction within the 
angle of 30  . since a precise of each element 
is crucial to realize the excellent of this system , careful 
of the output of each power and 
element was carried out. among various which may be used for 
this purpose artificial have an advantage of being able to 
make a long term with the same system. an pattern 
system for the was developed using the scientific 
 ( exos  . a receiver named  ( mu 
monitor ) on board the measures a signal of 100 to 400 
from the  . the principle of the measurement 
and results are discussed .  . 


system 
, , , , 
 ( kyoto university , , japan ) 
 ( cospar , , , et al. , meeting , , 
and symposium on the earth 's middle atmosphere , 
, finland , 18 29 , 1988 ) advances in space research 
 ( issn 1177 ) , vol. 10 , no. 10 , 1990 , p. 154 .  . 
a large clear air with the of an incoherent 
for observing the whole atmosphere up to 1000 
is now being designed in japan .  . the will be built in 
, west , indonesia 03 . n , 109 . 29 . e) .  . the 
system is a 47 with an active 
similar to that of the in japan , which has been 
in successful operation since  . it will have a pa product of about 
3 x 10 to the w m  ( p average power , a effective 
aperture ) with a of approximately 10 times that of 
the  . this system to beam 
within 20 from the  . as is the case of the , 
a variety of will be made under the of 
the  . a brief description of the system 
is presented .  . 


from  ( craig deforest ) 
subject re cold gas for sounding 
organization stanford center for space science and 
lines 29 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 16 apr 93 14 28 07 gmt 

in article d . writes 
does anyone know how to size cold gas roll control 
for sounding 

well , first you work out how much cold gas you need , then make the 
big enough. 

our sounding rocket , with , , etc. etc. and a 
, around pounds .  . it uses for 
and a for  ( ie 
during our eight in space , the are pretty much 
continuously firing on a 10 duty cycle or so .  .  . ) .  . the also 
need to kill from the spin , and 
flip the around to look at the sun .  . 

we have two , each holding 5 of  ( i'm speaking 
only from memory of the last  . the ground at choose how 
much to use based on some black magic  . they have 
extra that just into the stack .  . 

this should give you an idea of the order of magnitude for cold gas 
quantity .  . if you really need to know , send me email and i 'll try to get you 
in touch with our ground people. 

cheers , 
craig 


t drink ! ! ok ! 

from 
subject re small ground station 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 21 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article writes 
how difficult would it be to set up your own ground station 

ground station for what at one extreme , some of the amateur radio 
have sometimes been with hand held  . at the 
other , nothing you can do in your back will let you listen in on 
 . please be more specific .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 


specific 
basically to be able to do the things the big can do .  .  . , and 
control if need be the  .  .  . 

such as the one in australia and such .  .  .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from 
subject astronomy and physics 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 



astronomy and physics 

orthodox , , and 
claim to be looking for a field theory in which all 
of the forces of the universe can be explained with a single 
set of laws or  . but they have been systematically 
ignoring or suppressing an excellent one for 30 years ! 

the late physicist dewey b. 's comprehensive 
general theory of the physical universe , which he 
calls the system , is built on two fundamental 
postulates about the physical and mathematical of 
space and time 

(1) the physical universe is entirely of one 
component , motion , existing in three , in discrete 
units , and in two forms , space and time. 

(2) the physical universe to the relations of 
ordinary mathematics , its are 
absolute , and its geometry is euclidean .  . 

from these two postulates , developed a complete 
universe , using various combinations of 
, , , and 
motions , the concepts of in ward and out ward 
scalar motions , and in relation to the speed of light 
 ( which called and the natural 
) .  . 

at each step in the development , was able to 
match objects in his universe with objects in the 
real physical universe ,  ( photons , sub atomic particles 
incomplete atoms , charges , atoms , , star 
, , star systems , systems , white 
stars , , , etc . ) . , even objects not yet 
discovered then  ( such as , and gamma ray 
 . 

and applying his theory to his new model of the atom , 
was able to precisely and accurately inter 
atomic in and , 
and thermal of , and other properties of 
matter. 

all of this is described in good detail , with out fancy 
complex mathematics , in his books. 



books of dewey b. 

the following is a complete list of the late physicist 
dewey b. 's books about his comprehensive general 
theory of the physical universe. some of the early 
books are out of print now , but still available through 
inter library loan .  . 

the structure of the physical universe  ( 1959 ) 

the case against the nuclear atom  ( 1963 ) 

beyond newton  ( 1964 ) 

new light on space and time  ( 1965 ) 

and  ( 1971 ) 

nothing but motion  ( 1979 ) 
a 9 . 50 . for the 8 . 3 . billion super 
. 
the last four chapters explain chemical  . 

the facts of science  ( 1982 ) 

the universe of motion  ( 1984 ) 
final solutions to most all 
mysteries .  . 

basic properties of matter  ( 1988 ) 

all but the last of these books were published by north 
publishers , p.o. box , , or , and 
should be available via inter library loan if your local 
university or public library does n't have each of them. 

several of them , including the last one , are available 
from the international society of science  ( isus ) , 
e.  . , salt city , utah  . this is the 
organization that was started to promote 's theory. 
they have other related , including the quarterly 
journal . 



physicist dewey b. 's background 

physicist dewey b. was a engineer 
 ( chemical or  . he was about 91 years old when he 
died in may 1989. he had a of science degree in 
engineering science from state university .  . he 
developed his comprehensive general theory of the 
physical universe while trying to develop a way to 
chemical properties based only on the elements used. 

's lack of a fancy d .  . degree might be one 
reason that orthodox are ignoring him , but it is 
not a valid reason. sometimes it takes a relative outsider 
to clearly see the through the trees. at the same 
time , it is clear from his books that he also knew orthodox 
physics and astronomy as well as any physicist or , 
well enough to point out all their contradictions , ad hoc 
assumptions , principles of , in , etc .  .  . 

did not have the funds , etc. to 
test his theory. and it was not necessary for him to do so. 
he simply compared the various parts of his theory with other 
 experimental and data .  . and in 
many cases , his explanation fit better. 

a self consistent theory is much more than the orthodox 
and have ! they claim to be looking 
for a field theory that works , but have been 
ignoring one for over 30 years now ! 

modern physics does not explain the physical universe 
so well. some parts of some of 's books are full of 
quotations of orthodox and who 
agree. and remember that , , 
, flat earth theory , etc. , also once seemed 
to explain it well , but were later proved wrong. 


 . frank h. , professor of superior , 
was is a strong of 's theory , and was  ( or 
still is) president of 's organization , the 
international society of science , and editor of 
their quarterly journal . he moved to 
after  . 



super ! 

i am against of the super 
, in texas or anywhere else. it would be a gross 
waste of money , and contribute almost nothing of scientific 
value. 

most do n't realize it , but , according to the 
comprehensive general theory of the late physicist 
dewey b. , as described in his books , the strange 
particles ( , , alleged , etc . ) . 
which they are finding in existing  ( fermi lab , 
, etc . ) . are really just atoms of anti matter , which are 
created by the high energy , and which quickly 
like cosmic rays because they are incompatible 
with their environment. 

a larger and more expensive will only create a 
few more elements of anti matter that the have not 
seen there before , and the will be even more 
confused than they are now ! 

are a few more types of anti matter atoms worth the 8 . 3 . 
billion cost ! ! do n't we have much more important uses for 
this money ! 


another thing to consider is that the primary proposed 
in texas has a serious and growing problem with some 
kind of fire ants eating the off 
 . how much poisoning of the ground and ground water 
with will be required to keep the ants out of 
the ! 


the super after ronald , as 
proposed , is totally absurd ! if it is built , it should be 
named after a particle physicist .  . 



anti matter 

in 's comprehensive general theory of the 
physical universe , anti matter is not a simple case of 
opposite charges of the same types of particles .  . it has more 
to do with the of and of the 
of which they are made , in relation to the 
and of the speed of light , 
which calls and the natural . 

in 's theory , a is actually a particle of 
matter , not anti matter. when a and meet , 
the  ( charges ) and of their 
respective  ( of which they are made ) each 
other. 

in 's theory , the anti matter half of the physical 
universe has three of time , and only one dimension 
of space , and exists in a relationship to our 
material half .  . 



relativity 

the point in the orbit of the planet 
has been observed and precisely measured to advance at the 
rate of seconds of per century. seconds of this 
advance are attributed via calculations to 
from the other planets  ( venus , earth , jupiter , 
etc . ) .  . the remaining 43 seconds of are being used to 
help prove einstein 's general theory of relativity . 

but the late physicist dewey b. achieved results 
closer to the 43 seconds than general relativity can , by 
instead using special relativity . in one or more of his 
books , he applied the transformation on the high 
orbital speed of  . 

totally rejected general relativity as another 
mathematical fantasy .  . he also rejected most of special 
relativity , including the parts about mass increases near 
the speed of light , and the use of the on 
shifts ,  ( those with red shifts greater than 
1 . 000 . really are moving than the speed of light , 
although most of that motion is away from us in time . ) .  . 

in 's comprehensive general theory of the 
physical universe , there are three of time instead 
of only one. but two of those can not be measured 
from our material half of the physical universe. the one 
dimension that we can measure is the time. at low 
relative , the values of the other two are 
negligible but at high , they become significant , and 
the transformation must be used as a fudge factor .  . 
often used the term coordinate time when writing 
about this. 


in regard to mass increases , it has been proven in 
atomic that drops zero near 
the speed of light. but the for is 
force mass , (a f  . orthodox 
are ignoring the third factor force. in 's theory , 
mass constant and force drops zero .  . force is 
actually a motion , or combinations of motions , or relations 
between motions , including and scalar motions .  . 
the of the universe , for example , is an 
scalar motion inherent in the universe and not a result of 
the so called big bang  ( which is yet another mathematical 
 . 



the universe of motion 

i wish to recommend to everyone the book the universe 
of motion , by dewey b. , 1984 , north 
publishers , o .  . box , , 97213 ) , 
pages , , hardcover .  . 

it contains the portions of a general 
theory of the physical universe developed by that 
author , an genius , more than thirty years ago. 

it contains final solutions to most all 
mysteries , including the formation of , and 
multiple star systems , and systems , the true origin of 
the 3 degree background radiation , cosmic rays , and gamma 
ray , and the true nature of , , white 
, , etc .  .  . 

it contains what and are all 
looking for , if they are ready to seriously consider it with 
open minds ! 

the following is an example of his theory 's success 
in his first book in , the structure of the physical 
universe , predicted the existence of 
, several years before started finding 
them. they are a necessary consequence of 's 
comprehensive theory. and when were discovered , he 
had an immediate related explanation for them also. 



gamma ray 

and are still 
their heads about the gamma ray  . they were 
originally thought to originate from stars in the 
of our  . but the new gamma ray now in 
earth orbit has been them in all 
, and their source in space do not 
correspond to any known objects ,  ( except for a few cases of 
 . 

gamma ray are a necessary consequence of the 
general theory of the physical universe developed by 
the late physicist dewey b.  . according to page of 
his book the universe of motion , published in 1984 , the 
gamma ray are coming from in the 
anti matter half of the physical universe , which calls 
the cosmic . because of the relationship between the 
anti matter and material of the physical universe , and 
the way they are connected together , the gamma ray can 
pop into our material half anywhere in space , seemingly at 
random .  .  ( this is why the source of the do 
not correspond with known objects , and come from all 
) . 

i wonder how close to us in space a source 
would have to be for a gamma ray to kill all or most 
life on earth ! there would be no way to one , nor to 
stop it ! 

perhaps some of the mass of the past , which 
are now being blamed on of and , were 
actually caused by nearby gamma ray ! 



star formation 

about half of all the stars in the in the 
of the sun are or double .  . but orthodox 
and still have no 
theory about how they form or why there are so many of them. 

but star systems are actually a likely 
consequence of the comprehensive general theory of 
the physical universe developed by the late physicist dewey 
b.  . 

i will try to summarize explanation , which is 
detailed in chapter 7 of his book the universe of motion 
and in some of his other books. 

first of all , according to , stars do not generate 
energy by fusion . a small comes from slow 
collapse .  . the rest results from the complete 
of heavy elements  ( heavier than  . each 
element has a destructive limit .  . the the 
element is , the lower is this limit .  . a star 's internal 
increases as it grows in mass via and 
of the products of cosmic rays , gradually 
the destructive limit of and 
elements .  . 

when the internal of the star the 
destructive limit of iron , there is a type i 
! this is because there is so much iron 
present and that is related to the structure of iron atoms 
and the atom building process , which explains in some 
of his books better than i can . 

when the star , the material on the 
outer portion of the star is blown in space at less 
than the speed of light. the material in the center 
portion of the star was already around at close to 
the speed of light , because of the high  . the 
that material over the speed of light , and 
it in time , which is equivalent to in 
space , and it often actually for a while. 

over long periods of time , both masses start to fall 
back  . the material that had been blown 
in space now starts to form a red giant star .  . the 
material that had been blown in time starts to form a 
white star .  . both stars then start moving back 
the main sequence from opposite on the h r 
 . 

the chances of the two masses falling back into the 
exact same in space , making a single lone star 
again , are near zero .  . they will instead form a 
system , each other. 

according to , a white star has an 
 ( is at its surface ) , because the 
material at its center is most widely  ( blown 
outward ) in time. this the need to resort to 
mathematical fantasies about matter , 
stars , black holes , etc .  .  . 



system formation 

if the mass of the heavy material at the center of the 
star is relatively small , then , instead of a single 
white star , there will be several white 
stars  ( revolving around the red giant star , but probably 
still too far away in three dimensional time to be affected 
by its , etc . ) .  . these will become planets ! 

in chapter 7 of the universe of motion , used all 
this information , and other principles of his comprehensive 
general theory of the physical universe , to derive 
his own version of 's law. 



black hole fantasy ! 

i heard that physicist stephen w. hawking recently 
a mathematical analysis of two black 
holes together into a single black hole , and 
concluded that the new black hole would have more mass than 
the sum of the two original black holes . 

such a result should be recognized by everyone as a red 
flag , causing widespread doubt about the whole idea of black 
holes , etc. ! 

after reading physicist dewey b. 's books about 
his comprehensive general theory of the physical 
universe , especially his book the universe of motion , it is 
clear to me that black holes are nothing more than 
mathematical fantasies ! the strange object at x 1 is 
just an unusually massive white star , not the black 
hole that orthodox and so want 
to prove their theory. 


by the way , i do not understand why so much is 
being given to physicist stephen hawking .  . the and 
seem to be acting as if hawking 's severe physical 
problem somehow makes him . it does not ! 

i wish the same attention had been given to physicist 
dewey b. while he was still alive .  . widespread 
and attention should now be given to 's 
theory , books , and organization  ( the international society of 
 . 



electro magnetic 

i heard of that concept many years ago , in connection 
with 's and , but i never was able to 
find out how or why they work , or how they are constructed .  . 

i found a possible clue about why they might work on 
pages of the book basic properties of matter , by 
the late physicist dewey b. , which describes part of 
's comprehensive general theory of the physical 
universe. i quote one paragraph 

as indicated in the chapter , the development 
of the theory of the universe of motion arrives at a totally 
different concept of the nature of electrical resistance .  . 
the electrons , we find , are derived from the environment. it 
was brought out in volume i 's book nothing but 
motion that there are physical processes in operation which 
produce electrons in substantial , and that , 
although the motions that constitute these electrons are , in 
many cases , absorbed by atomic structures , the opportunities 
for utilizing this type of motion in such structures are 
limited .  . it follows that there is always a large excess of 
free electrons in the material material half of the 
universe , most of which are  . in this 
state the electrons cannot move with respect to extension 
space , because they are inherently units of space , 
and the relation of space to space is not motion. in open 
space , therefore , each remains 
in the same with respect to the natural reference 
system , in the manner of a  . in the context of the 
reference system the , 
like the , is carried at the speed of light by 
the progression of the natural reference system. all 
material are thus exposed to a of electrons 
similar to the by of radiation .  . 
there are other processes , to be discussed later , 
whereby electrons are returned to the environment. the 
population of a material such as the earth 
therefore at an level. 

note that in 's theory , electrons are 
also , and are basically of light of a 
particular  ( above the frequency ) 
around one at a particular rate  ( below the  . 
( is the speed of light , and there are 
and to the speed of light , 
according to 's theory . ) . i might have the above and 
below up. 

is saying that outer space is filled with mass 
less un charged electrons flying around at the speed of 
light ! 

if this is true , then the electro magnetic 
fields of might be able to interact with these 
electrons , or other particles in space , perhaps giving them a 
charge  ( and mass ) and shooting them the to 
achieve  .  ( in 's theory , an electrical charge 
is a one dimensional of a particular 
 ( above the frequency ) on the 
of the particle . ) . 

the paragraph quoted above might also give a clue to 
confused about how and why is 
generated in  . 



of physics 

the comprehensive general theory of the physical 
universe developed by the late physicist dewey b. has 
been available for more than 30 years , published in in 
his first book the structure of the physical universe . 

it is totally un scientific for hawking , , , 
and the other sacred priests of the religion they call 
science  ( or physics , or astronomy , etc . ) . , as well as 
the scientific literature and the education systems , to 
totally ignore 's theory has they have. 

's theory has excellent explanations for many 
things now orthodox and , such 
as gamma ray and the nature of  . 

's theory deserves to be honestly and openly 
discussed in the physics , chemistry , and astronomy , 
in the u.s. and elsewhere. and at least the basic principles 
of 's theory should be included in all related 
at ec , madison , cambridge , university , and 
elsewhere , so that students are not kept in the dark about a 
worthy alternative to the dogma they are being fed .  . 



for more information , answers to your questions , etc. , 
please consult my cited sources  ( especially 's  . 



un altered reproduction and of this 
important summary is encouraged .  . 


robert e. 
b . s .  . , physics and astronomy , ec 



from  ( george william herbert ) 
subject re race 
organization 
lines 14 
nntp posting host soda . berkeley . edu . 
summary hmm .  .  .  . 

hmm .  . 1 billion ,  .  .  . i can probably launch 100 tons to at 
200 million , in five years , which gives about 20 tons to the 
surface one way. say five tons of that is a return and its 
, a bigger or something  ( might get that as low as two 
tons ) , leaving tons for a one man and a year 's 
gee , with that sort of mass i can build the systems off 
the shelf for about another hundred million  . that leaves 
about 700 million profit .  . i like this idea 8 ) let 's see 
if you guys can push someone to make it happen 8 ) 8 ) 

slightly seriously 

george william 


from  ( mike fleice ) 
subject last call s w position at  ( cupertino ca ) 
nntp posting host 130 . 252 . 
organization computers incorporated , , ca 
lines 28 

well , we got some responses and are doing some with interesting 
 . however , just in case the other posting was by an 
incredibly person ... mea culpa for posting this here for mike , 
but we 're looking for someone special 

computers is currently looking for a software to help 
us architect implement a fault tolerant 
as part of our operating system  ( tns 
 . the is a , loosely coupled parallel , 
message based operating system. the has wide 
to open standards. 
in this key individual role , you will work with other 
working on various components of the 
 . 
your background needs to encompass some of the following 4 categories 
(3 of 4 would be excellent ) 
category 1. math working knowledge of statistics , real analysis , as 
used in experimental physics or chemistry , or in engineering .  . 
category 2. working knowledge of issues i.e. time series , 
, and statistical correlation of data  . 
category 3. test of systems under test , 
i.e. , , etc. 
category 4 software engineering programming , , and 
systems software techniques .  . 

please send your to mike , computers 
ct .  . , 100 27 , , ca fax  ( 408 ) 
or e mail 

from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject re japanese moon landing 
organization 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article  ( daniel burstein ) writes 
a short story in the newspaper a few days ago made some sort of mention 
about how the japanese , using what like a gravity assist , had just 
managed to crash  ( or crash land ) a on the moon. 

the japanese , , on the moon last weekend. for the 
past three years it has made several and even did some 
experiments with earth 's atmosphere .  . it was placed in 
orbit in february 1992 , and i guess it finally out of and was 
unable to maintain its orbit around the moon. 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re pushing the 
organization texas 
distribution na 
lines 35 

in  ( elijah millgram ) writes 


a friend of mine and i were wondering where the pushing 
the comes from. anyone out there know 

every has for speed power. when 
, these define the   of that , 
presumably so named because the line  ( envelopes ) the 
area on the that represents conditions where the 
does n't fall out of the sky .  . hence ,  pushing the  becomes 
 operating at  ( or beyond ) the of the  ( or operational ) 
 . 

note that the is n't precisely known until someone actually 
the in those regions up to that point , all there are 
are the predictions .  . hence , one of the things test 
do for a living is  push the  to find out how close the 
correspondence between the paper and the metal one is in 
essence ,  pushing back  the edges of the to where 
the actually starts to fail to fly. note , too , that this is 
done is a quite calculated and careful way are generally 
carefully and just what is going to be  pushed  and how 
far is precisely  ( despite occasional deviations from plans , 
such as the  early  first of the f 16 during its high speed 
 . 

i'm sure mary can tell you everything you ever wanted to know about 
this process  ( and then  . 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( dave rickel ) 
subject re so i'm an idiot , what else is new 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization mentor 
keywords 
lines 17 


in article ,  . e. mcelwaine ) writes 
russia s 

in march 1993 , president 
proposed to the united states and the united nations a 
defense  ( with star wars type weapons ) against 
... 

funny .  . a bit  . a posting seems somewhat , even 
if the subject is as notorious as  . 

followups should definitely not go to sci . space .  . 


david 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re on star  ( better ideas ) 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 11 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article writes 

better idea for use of nasa and is have them be found 
lost in space after a accident with a worm hole or other space time  .  . 

maybe age a few years  ( makeup and such ) and have her as the only 
of a failed mission that got lost .  .  . 


of course that the mission was able to launch ) 


from 
subject space station redesign  ( 30826 ) option c 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 22 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article , writes 
i like option c of the new space station design .  .  . 
it needs some work , but it is simple and  .  . 

its about time someone got into simple construction versus overly complex .  .  .  . 

basically just strap some and a nose on the and go for 
it .  .  . 

might be an idea for a moon base to .  .  . 

where is  ( eugenia(sp ) when you need it  ( reference to heavy 
, i think) .  . 

michael adams , i'm not high , just 






this is a report , i got the subject up .  .  . 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re planets still images orbit by twist 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 8 

the only i see here is the stuff you must 
have been before you posted .  .  .  . 


seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from  ( greg nicholls ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3 . 1 . 
x x from 

lines 14 

in writes 
let 's play a game what would be a reasonable reward what would 
have a reasonable shot at off such a feat just where in the 
would the reward come from should there be a time limit would a 
straight cash money award be enough or should we in say . . . 
exclusive rights for the first fifty years you get the idea. 
a cash award is ok. a time limit would be nice. you ca n't give away 
rights  ( assuming there 's anything to mine ) because you do n't own 
them. 

 . sig . files are like ... every yo yo 's got one. 

greg ...  ( business ) or 
 ( private ) 

from  ( dennis newkirk ) 
subject re first 
organization motorola 
distribution sci 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 43 . 
lines 14 

in article ( f . tm ) writes 
at one time there was speculation that the first 
 ( alexei ) was a fake .  . 

has any evidence to support or contradict this claim 

was this claim perhaps another cold war hallucination 

this claim was made when someone training film footage into 
the footage of the actual  . 


motorola , land products 
, il 

from  ( scott i chase ) 
subject re the sky .  . 
organization lawrence berkeley berkeley , ca , usa 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 128 . 3 . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( phil g. fraering ) writes .  .  .  . 
 ( jeff cook ) writes 
.... 
people in primitive tribes out in the middle of nowhere as they look up 
and see a can of flying across the sky .  .  .  . d 

seen that movie already. or one just like it. 
come to think of it , they might send someone on 
a quest to get rid of the thing .  .  .  . 

actually , the idea , like most good ideas , comes from , not 
the gods must be crazy. in one of his lesser known books (i ca n't 
remember which one right now ) , the are in a , 
travelling over africa on their way around the world in the , when 
one of them drops a watch .  . they then speculate about the reaction 
of the to finding such a thing , dropped straight down from heaven. 
but the notion is not further than that. 

scott 
new  . sig . under construction 
scott i. please be patient 
thank you 

from  ( george hastings ) 
subject re space on other 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( richmond ) 
lines 17 

we run views on our bbs , a local 
operation running software with the capability to link to 
over other bbs 's in the u . s . a .  . and canada through  . 
having just started this a couple of months ago , our sub us 
currently by only about ten other , but more 
are being added .  . 
we get our news articles re on internet , via ftp from nasa 
sites , and from a variety of related  . we 
get a fair amount of questions on space from students 
who access the system. 

george 
space science teacher if it 's not 
mathematics science center bbs fun , it 's 
street office probably not 
, va fax 6529 science ! 


from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re and space station ! 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 20 

in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 

why ca n't the government just be a 

i think this would be a great way to build it , but unfortunately 
current spending rules do n't it to be workable .  . 

actually , that is no longer true. in the last few years congress has 
laws to provide whatever is needed .  . note that both 
and are funded this way. 

the problems are n't legal nor technical .  . the problem is nasa 's culture .  . 

allen 



allen w. a great man is one who does nothing but leaves 
nothing 
days to first of 

from  ( peter j. scott ) 
subject re drive in how 
organization , nasa caltech 
lines 19 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 

in article , writes 
in article henry , 
writes 
the national air space has both the and the film .  . 
when i was there , some years ago , they had the on display and 
the film continuously repeating .  . 

great ! i 'll visit the national air and space at the end of the 
month with my wife , who was also working at general atomic at the time. 
once again netnews has enriched my life. 

sorry to put a on your plans , but i was there three weeks ago and 
it was n't there. not that i would have known to look for it , of course , 
but i the space pretty thoroughly and something like that 
would have caught my attention  . 


this is news. this is your peter scott , nasa jpl caltech 
brain on news. any questions 

from  ( james p. goltz ) 
subject drive in how 
organization uunet , falls church , va , usa 
lines 31 
nntp posting host net . 


background the was a concept .  . it 
would be a drive using to drive a  . 
the idea was that you 'd devices with somewhere from one to 
ten behind a attached to the main 
 . the wave from the would 
to the  . 

now , in an atmosphere i can see this. the energy of the 
the atmosphere , which and a wave 
into the  . but in a , only two things i can see are 
going to hit the fusion products  ( barium , krypton , 
, , bomb casing ) and 
radiation  ( gammas mostly , some light from 
 . 

would this work i ca n't see the em radiation very much 
 ( especially given the mass of the plate ) , and it seems 
to me you 're going to get more throwing the bombs 
out the back of the than you get from them once 
they 're there. 

i must be missing something. would someone enlighten me via email 

thanks. 


jim 


jim engineer 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re army in space 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 10 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . net . 


there is the army missile defense organization .  . 

they were the to  . and still exist under 
that umbrella .  . army signal corp 's and defense agency 
oops , they just changed names do space work. that 's 
the point of all those defense  . 

but do n't worry , there are lots of jobs that need , 
somehow you 'll end up there ) 

from 
subject message from space digest 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 62 





press release no . 19 . 93 
, 22 april 1993 

users of 's report on the outcome of 
their experiments 

today europe 's space telecommunications would not 
be as it now does , had not provided 
a for the and services of the . this 
the general conclusions of speakers and 
participants at the conference on held in 
on 20 22 april 1993 .  . the conference was by 
the european space agency  ( esa ) and the spanish centre for 
the development of industrial technology  . 

has been particularly useful 
in bringing telecommunications to thousands of 
new users , thanks to with very small 
 . experiments have tested 
data , , business television , 
distance teaching and , to give but a few 
examples .  . 

in the door to new telecommunications services 
which could not be on the crowded lower 
was the first over 
europe to offer capacity in the 20 30  . 

in establishing two way data relay links 
received for the first time in europe , over several months , 
high volume data from a low earth and 
then it to various in europe .  . 

when was on 12 1989 it was the 
world 's largest telecommunications and no other 
has yet its in four 
different in a wide variety of  . 

users range from individual to some 
of the world 's largest  . access to the is 
given in order to test new telecommunications techniques or 
services over the past four years some 200 and 
made use of this opportunity , as well as over 
100 members of the distance learning 
organisation .  . 



as the new and services tested by these 
users enter the market , they then 
make use of such as those of 
 . 

will continue through 1993 and , 
when the will run out of as it approaches the 
end of its design life. 



from  ( gert jan van lochem ) 
subject symposium 
summary u het symposium 26 4 93 
keywords , symposium 
organization physics department , university of , the 
lines 122 

symposium   
26 april 1993 


in het , na de van de 
van , de 
 . de 
 . , de 
, en de 
in de , en de 
van het  . is het 
 . 

de en 
, in het , 
de van   
 . is er 
, de 
met en de dies 
 . er 
 . 

en 26 april 
 . de van het 
symposium van de van het 
het de 
  , de in de van  . 
de van het is de 
en van 
de stand van in het  . in de 
,  . 
van de van , 
de in van 
half de 
 . na van is er 
het van  . het 
apart  . 
het van de is 
en  . 
van ! 

de van  . , 
, de van de 
via 
het , en het van 
, , 
in de door en  . 
 . de  ( elkaar 
radiostraling ) en 
 . 
het van experiment en met de 
 . de 
, na van 10 
is van 30 
! het symposium 
er lang de 
in live het  . 

het symposium f 4 ,  ( exclusief lunch ) en 
f 16 ,  ( inclusief  . door het 
over 
44 . 46 . t . n . v .  .  . het van de 
bank is  . de 
of men is van de  . na 
de  . na 
31 de lunch  . 

het symposium in i , 
 . 

over het symposium men 
, p a s . r . o . n .  . , 2 , ca  . 
tel .  .  . e mail 






9 30 met thee 

10 00 
 . dr. h . j . g . l . m .  .  ( utrecht ) 

10 10 
 . dr. h . j . g . l . m .  . 

10 25 
 . dr. j . m . e .  .  ( utrecht ) 

11 00 in 
 . dr. f.  ( utrecht ) 

11 50 van 
 . dr. j. van  ( amsterdam ) 

12 25 van 
 . r . f .  . van  ( utrecht ) 

13 00 lunch 

14 00 er 
dr. r . g . m .  .  ( amsterdam ) 

14 35 
en 
dr. m. van der  ( amsterdam ) 

15 10 thee 

15 30 en met en 
 . dr. v.  ( leiden ) 

16 05 

16 25 


jan van what is it 
something blue 
shapes , i need shapes ! 


from  ( david fuzzy wells ) 
subject re space 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 6 

there is a guy in nasa johnson space center that might answer 
your question. i do not have his name right now but if you follow 
up i can dig that out for you. 

, , potter , ,  .  .  .  . 


from andrew 
subject re life on 
x wed , 21 apr 93 16 03 51 gmt 
organization engineering sciences company 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 9 

in article , 
writes 
what is the deal with life on i save the face and heard 
associated theories .  .  ( which sound thin to me ) 

are we going back to to look at this face 
does anyone buy all the life theories 

try alt . alien . 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host access . net . 
keywords 



somebody mentioned a re boost of during this mission , meaning 
that weight is a very margin on this mission .  . 

how will said re boost be done 

, , it in bay , do burn to high , 

, , , fix , 

then return to earth 

my guess is why bother with to 

why not , do all said , a small liquid 
to , then let it make the re boost .  . it has to be 
on mass then as a  . that way , now that 
they are going to need at least 5 , then they can carry 
an , and sit on station and even maybe do the 
fix .  . 



from  ( wyatt miler ) 
subject virtual reality network announcement 
organization nyx , public access unix @ u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 


posted to the internet by 



the tele operation model one  ( ltm1 ) 

by david h. 
march 23 , 1993 

introduction 

in order to increase public interest in space based and , a 
real like environment is being constructed on which to test 
tele operated models .  . these models are remotely controlled by individuals 
world wide using their personal computers , for 
purposes. 
not only does this provide a test for simple tele operation and 
tele presence activities but it also provides for the of 
information 
on methods of operating in space , including , but not limited to , of 
a 
colony , tele operating machines for work and play , 
information , providing and for and 
achievement and provides a new way for students to participate in 
twenty first century remote learning methods .  . 

because of the nature of the project , people of all ages , interests 
and 
can contribute and , models and structures , 

and , software and  . in operation is an evolving 
and that can be used by children , students and 
 . using a personal computer at home or a terminal at 
a institution a user is able to tele operate real models at 
the 
base for experimental or purposes. because a real 

exists , ample opportunity is provided for media of the 
construction 
of the model , its operation and new features to be added as suggested 
by the users themselves. 

this has broad inherent interest for a wide range of groups 
tele and virtual reality research 
radio control , model and ham radio operation 
astronomy and space and science 
art and 
bbs and network users 
software and game 
and of model , cars and trains 
children 
the child in all of us 

overall design 

a room 14 feet by 8 feet contains the base  . the walls are used 
for of distant moon mountains , star fields and a view of the earth. 
the is the surface .  . a call for contributions 
is hereby made for material for the surface , and for the design and 
creation of scale models of colony elements , , and 
machine lets .  . 

the initial design has 3 tele operated 
1. an scale model which will be able to lift off , and land 
2. a which will be able to move about in a area and 
3. a moon train which will most of the surface .  . 

each has a small tv camera utilizing a tv chip mounted on 
it. a personal computer the image  ( including reducing picture 
content and doing data to allow for minimal images to be sent 
to the operator for control purposes ) and also return control  . 

the first to be set up will be the moon train since model trains 
with tv built in are almost off the shelf items and control 
for starting and stopping a train are minimal .  . the user will 
receive an image once every 1 to 4 seconds depending on the speed of their 
data link to  . 

next , an scale model with a tv chip will be from a 
operated wire frame mounted on the allowing for the 

to be controlled by the operator to take off , over the entire 
landscape and land. 

finally , some models will be modified to be tv chip 
 . the entire initial will allow remote operators 

to receive minimal images while actually operating models for landing and 
, and doing work. the entire system is based on 

available items and parts that can be easily obtained except for the 
interface which is well within the capability of many advanced 
ham radio operator and computer hardware software  . 

by taking a oriented communications program  ( dmodem ) and adding 
a tele and , the necessary user interface can be 
provided in under 80 man hours. 

plan of action 

the virtual reality network has agreed to this project by 
providing a host computer network and internet access to that network. 
is providing the 14 foot by 8 foot for actual construction 
of the model .  . has , in stock , the electronic that can be 
modified and one tv chip .  . also agrees to provide stock 
for the train model .  . will make available the 
communications and it for control of the machines lets .  . 
an initial ground breaking with will be performed for 
a live photo and news conference on april 30 , 1993 .  . the initial 
models will be put in place. a time record will be started for 
historical purposes. it is not expected that this event will be completely 
serious or  . the colony will be declared open for additional 
building , and experiments .  . a will be present and 
the taken will be converted to  . images for distribution 
world wide to major and bbs 's .  . a press release will be 
issued 
calling for contributions of ideas , time , talent , materials and scale 
models 
for the colony .  . 

a for new designs and techniques for working on the moon will then 
be 
 . universities will be invited to participate , the goal being to 
find who wish to have class participation in various aspects of 
the colony model .  . field trips to can be and at that 
time 
the results of the class work will be added to the model .  . contributors will 
then be able to tele operate any contributed machine lets once they return 
to 
their campus .  . 

a monthly newsletter will be issued both and via 
conventional means to the media. any major new tele operated equipment 
addition will be with an invitation to the television news media. 
having a large , real model space colony will be a very attractive photo 
opportunity for the television community. especially since the action 
will 
be controlled by people all over the world. science fiction writers will be 
invited to issue challenges to engineering and human factors students at 
universities to build and operate the tele operated equipment to perform 
 . using counter weight and systems , 1 6 gravity may be 
to some extent to try various challenges .  . 

the long term goal is creating world wide interest , education , 

and remote operation of a colony .  . has the potential of being a 
long 
term method for space activities and may be the generic 
example of how to teach and in many other subject areas not limited 
to space  . all of this the kind of spirit which can 
lead to a generation of people who are ready for the leap to the stars ! 

conclusion 

is the of education and  . anyone who has 
ever seeing will probably see the potential impact of a 
available for recreation , education and 
purposes. by creating a tele operated model colony we not only create 
world wide , but also a method of trying new ideas that require 
real 
 ( not virtual ) and open a new method for putting people 's minds in 
space .  . 




the path of knowledge about space and development .  . 
the following people are already engaged in various parts of this work 
, , , , , , , the dark one , , 
the mad , sir ,  . 

come join the discussion any friday night from 10 30 to in 

virtual reality network. ideas welcome ! 

internet to 215 . 11 . 1 . or com . 

 ( voice ) 1776 
 ( 2400bd ) 1200 
 ( 9600bd ) 

email to project leader 
or directly to on  . 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re level 5 
organization u of 
lines 31 

in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 
 ( given that i 've heard the software rated as level 5 ... 
level 5 out of how many ... 

... also keep in mind that it was 
not achieved through the use of sophisticated tools , but rather 
through a  brute force and ignorance  attack on the problem during the 
they simply threw hundreds of people at it and 
did the whole process by hand .  .  .  . 

i think this is a little , based on 's account of the 
software development process before the  . fred is basically 
correct no sophisticated tools , just a lot of effort and 
care. but they got this one right before cited 
the software people as exemplary compared to the engine people.  ( he 
also noted that the software people were starting to feel 
pressure to cut , but had n't had to give in to it much yet . ) . 

among other things , the software people worked very hard to get things 
right for the major pre simulations , and considered a failure 
during those simulations to be nearly as bad as an in failure .  . 
as a result , the number of major failures could be counted 
on one hand , and the number of in failures was zero .  . 

as fred mentioned elsewhere , this applies only to the software .  . 
software that runs experiments is typically mostly put together by the 
, and gets nowhere near the same level of tender loving care. 
 ( none of the could afford it . ) . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( josh hopkins ) 
subject re office of exploration 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 23 

 ( brian yamauchi ) writes 

any comments on the of the office of exploration into the 
office of space sciences and the of to the chief 
engineer position is this just a meaningless administrative 
, or does this ill for sei 

unfortunately , things have been ill  ( is that a legitimate ) 
for a while. while the office of exploration had some great ideas , they never 
got much money. i 've heard good things about , but it 's hard to want 
him back in a job where he could n't do anything. 

does anyone know what his new duties will be 

the group examining the freedom based space station redesign is 
headed by michael , nasa 's engineer in the words of space news. 
i believe this is him. 


hopkins 
ce un capable d , d 
capable de la 


from 
subject re death and taxes  ( was why not give 1 billion .  .  . ) . 
lines 48 

, university of writes 

a good deal of healthy if not deeply thought out deleted 
below. 

major question is if you decide to mine the moon or , who will stop you 
... can the truly it ... 

if their parent company does business  ( and they will ) on the face of the earth 
then they are vulnerable to govt. sanctions .  . yes they can be stopped .  . 

if you go to the moon as declare that you are now a nation , who will 
stop you from doing it. ... 

for the first 100  ( imho ) years nobody will have to. the will 
be too dependent on earth too pull it off. eventually they will , history 
shows us that. 

also once you have the means to mine the moon  ( or whatever ) then just do it. 
the un if done right can be made to be so busy with something else , they will 
not care ... 

what exactly do you mean here terrorism start an international incident 
so your dream can come true crack a few eggs to make the this 
sounds fairly  . 


basically what i am saying is where is that drive of to go a 
little bit out , to do little bit more , and to tell the to 
off .  .  . if my ancestors thought the way many today think , id have been born 
in central europe just north of the black sea .  .  . 

again , the tie that will be much stronger for space than 
any immigrants that have gone before. even those 
that crossed the land did not have to carry their 
air on their backs .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

keep the dream alive , maybe dream it a little more  . 

tom there once was a man 
who built a 
to sail away in. 
it sank .  . 
j . p .  . 
fairy tale of new york  ( maybe ) 

from  ( chris jones ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
reply to  ( chris jones ) 
organization square research corp 
lines 13 
in reply to  ( pat ) 

in article ,  ( pat ) writes 
has the unusual luck to be on a stable out of the 
system. all it 's doing is fields data , and routinely 
it down. one of the is also in stable 
orbit , and still providing data .  . 

there are no from which we are still receiving data .  . i believe 
you are referring to one or more of 6 through 9  ( launched from 
december through 1968 ) , which were put into orbits to study 
space .  . i recall reading that at least one of them was still 
25 years after launch .  . 

chris jones 

from 
subject re x test 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 53 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article  ( paul johnson ) writes 
this bit interests me. how much automatic control is there is it 
purely autonomous or is there some degree of ground control 

the stick and man is always the computer .  . the computer 
normally gets its orders from a program , but they can be 
from the ground. 

how is 
the from  ( if what it is) to 
accomplished this is the really new part .  .  .  . 

it 's also one of the tricky parts. there are four different ideas , and 
x will probably end up trying all of them.  ( this is from talking to 
, who 's one of the x test , at making orbit . ) . 

(1) pop a from the nose , light the once the thing 
base first. simple and reliable .  . heavy loads 
on an area of structure that does n't otherwise carry major loads .  . 
needs a door in the hot part of the structure , a door whose 
operation is mission critical .  . 

(2) switch off pitch the is at 
wait for it to flip , and it at 
degrees , then light  . a bit scary .  . 

 ( 3 ) light the and use thrust to push the tail around. 
probably the preferred method in the long run. tricky because 
of the feed the will start off in the 
of the , then down to the during the flip .  . 
keeping the properly fed will be complicated .  . 

 ( 4 ) build up speed in a , then pull up hard  ( losing a lot of speed , 
this thing 's l d is not that great ) until it 's headed up and 
the drops to zero , at which point it starts 
to fall tail first. light  . also a bit scary , and you 
probably do n't have enough left to try again. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

since the x is to take off , why not land that way 
why do the landing thing .  .  . or am i missing something .  .  . do n't know to 
much about x and such .  .  .  ( overly obvious ) .  . 

why not just fall to earth like the in then .  .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

please enlighten me .  .  .  . ignorance is easy to correct. make a mistake and 
everyone will let you know you up .  .  . 

from lawrence 
subject re big amateur 
organization student , public policy and , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 26 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

let 's see. these are n't , in a strict sense , amateur  . that term 
denotes , the of which are constructed by the user .  . the 
you describe are called , or high power , to 
distinguish them from  ( smaller ) model  . they use made 
in plastic 
with  . the are classified by  . a d 
engine , for example , can have no more than 20 newton seconds of  . 
an f engine can have no more than 40  . each letter corresponds to a 
of the  . so far , up to size o are 
available pretty much off the shelf .  . of size h and above are 
as class b , and as such are controlled .  . of 
size f and below are as class c , and are not as 
controlled .  . class f , btw , are not , but model rocket 
 .  ( class g go in and out of legal ) . 

there is an society , the tripoli rocket society , i believe , which 
holds events at various sites throughout the year , with all legalities 
 ( faa included ) taken care of. the national association of 
is more concerned with below h , though it is involved 
in as well. these societies users of , and 
will not sell to individuals .  . 

bottom line it 's  . i suggest you send for a catalog but forget 
the , will 

larry c. 

from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
organization university of virginia 
lines 13 

in article  ( pat ) writes 
the better question should be. 
why not o m of all birds to a separate agency with funding 
to support these kind of science  . 

since we do n't have the money to keep them going now , how will 
changing them to a agency help anything 


greg , university of virginia 
mail astronomy department , , va 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from 
subject re death and taxes  ( was why not give 1 billion to .  .  .  . 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 55 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article , writes 
in my first posting on this subject i threw out an idea of how to 
such a without delving to deep into the  . i mentioned 
rights to the winner  ( my actual wording was , 
rights . ) . somebody pointed out , quite correctly , that such rights are 
not anybody 's to grant  ( although i imagine it would be a 
situation for the winner . ) . so how about this give the group 
(i ca n't see one company or corp doing it) a 10 , 20 , or 50 year 
on taxes .  . 

tom 


who says there is no rights to be given who says the un or the us 
government 
major question is if you decide to mine the moon or , who will stop you 
the un ca n't other than legal tom  .  . can the truly it 

if you go to the moon as declare that you are now a nation , who will 
stop you from doing it. maybe not acknowledge you 

why ca n't a small company or corp or organization go an the great 
beyond of space what right does earth have to say what is legal and what is 
not .  .  . maybe i am a few years ahead on this .  .  . it is the old catholic church 
stating which was and what was , and along came the reformation 
and made it all null and  .  . 

what can happen is to find a nation which is acknowledged , and offer your 
services as a space and then go mine the moon or what 
ever .  .  . as long as does not get in trouble .  .  . 
basically find a country who wants to go into space , but ca n't for soem reason 
or another , but who will give you a home  .  .  . such as arabia or 
whatever .  .  . 
there are nations in the world who are not part of the un , got to them and 
offer your services and such .  .  . i know that sound crazy , but .  . is it .  .  . 
also once you have the means to mine the moon  ( or whatever ) then just do it. 
the un if done right can be made to be so busy with something else , they will 
not care .  .  . 
if your worried about the us , do the same thing .  .  . 

why be limited by the short people of earth .  .  . after all they have many 
other things to worry about that if someone is the moon or or what 
ever .  .  . 
basically what i am saying is where is that drive of to go a 
little bit out , to do little bit more , and to tell the to 
off .  .  . if my ancestors thought the way many today think , id have been born 
in central europe just north of the black sea .  .  . 

i just read a good book , of the gods interesting .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 




from  ( jon leech ) 
subject weekly for frequently asked questions list 
supersedes 
organization university of north , hill 
lines 36 
distribution world 
expires 7 may 1993 17 25 40 gmt 
nntp posting host cs . unc . edu . 

this notice will be posted weekly in sci . space . , sci . , and 
sci . space .  . 

the frequently asked questions  ( faq ) list for sci . space . and sci . is 
posted approximately monthly .  . it also covers many questions that come up on 
sci . space .  ( for launch dates , see below) .  . 

the faq is posted with a long date , so a copy may be in your 
news directory  ( look at old articles in sci .  . if not , here are 
two ways to get a copy without waiting for the next posting 

(1) if your machine is on the internet , it can be obtained by anonymous 
ftp from the space archive at ames . nasa . gov . 102 . 18 . 3) . in directory 
pub space faq .  . 

(2) otherwise , send email to  archive 
containing the single line 

help 

the archive server will return on how to use it. to get an 
index of files in the faq directory , send email containing the lines 

send space faq index 
send space faq 

use these files as a guide to which other files to to answer 
your questions. 

launch dates are posted by ken periodically in 
sci . space .  . a copy of his is now available in the ames 
archive in pub space faq and may be requested from the email 
archive server with  send space faq  . please get this document 
instead of posting requests for information on and  . 

do not post followups to this article respond to the author. 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year lo 
organization u of 
lines 16 

in article writes 
i 'd be inclined to make the prize somewhat larger , but might be enough. 

this all sounds like that proposal movie .  . would n't there be 
a lot of people that would try this with little hope of working just 
to get the if you have a 1 100 chance and it costs you , 
then you might pay some a few grand to be your lucky hero .  . 
just send up a few dozen and 1 is bound to survive enough to make you 
rich. 

any prize like this is going to need to be carefully enough that 
you cannot get it without demonstrating and reliable capability , 
rather than a lucky one shot .  . it can be done. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject i want that billion 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 37 
reply to 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article writes 
you 'd need to launch to send up large of stuff. do you know 
of a private 

you 'd need to launch to send up large of stuff if you assume 
no new development .  . if you assume new development , with 
lower costs as a specific objective , then you probably do n't want to 
build something anyway. 

nobody who is interested in things will buy  . it 
does n't take many to pay for a laser or a large 
gas gun or a development program for a big , all of which 
would have far better cost  . 

henry , i made the assumption that he who gets there with the 
 . 

, you want to put in fine print which says thou shall do r d 
rather than use off the shelf hardware sorry , did n't see that in my copy. 
most of the run along the lines of some dollar 
amount reward for some simple goal . 

you go ahead and do your development , i 'll buy off the shelf at higher cost  ( or 
even but i also assume that there 'd be some buy us in there ) 
and be out in the moon while you are and little 
in with your laser or gas gun. and working out the 
of assembly in  . 

oh , hey , could i get a couple of for the environment i 
do some while i'm up there .  .  .  . 




software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re !  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization u of 
lines 21 

in article  ( david m. palmer ) writes 
 .  .  . 

i would just like to point out that it is much easier to place an 
object at orbital than it is to place it with orbital 
 . for a target above the surface of earth , 
you need a delta v of 2.5 s. assuming that with specific 
of seconds are easy to produce , a rocket with a 
weight of 50 would require only about 65 of  .  .  . 

unfortunately , if you launch this from the us  ( or are a us citizen ) , 
you will need a launch from the office of space 
transportation , and i think it may be difficult to get a for 
an weapon .  .  .  . ) 

the at which kicks in is roughly  . 
 ( the rules are actually in more complex ways , but that is 
the result . ) . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from 
subject re army in space 
lines 13 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

last i had heard because of and such the air is the only space 
command left .  .  . the rest were generally given to the air  .  . 

probably a good reason for me to from the army guard to the air 
guard .  .  . 

i hate walking with a pack on my back , and how do you put on your application 
for a job as a kitchen , that you have done a lot of  ( kitchen 
 .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 


from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject mission scheduled for 11 days 
organization 
lines 88 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
keywords 
news software vax vms 1.41 

ed 
, washington , d . c .  . april 23 , 1993 
 ( phone 358 1780 ) 

herring 
johnson space center , houston 
 ( phone 5111 ) 

release 93 76 

mission scheduled for days 

the december of on space mission 61 to 
service the space  ( hst ) has been scheduled as an 11 day 
mission designed to a record five with the capability 
for an additional two , if needed .  . 

the decision to five activities , or , was 
reached following extensive of training , times 
required using the 's based on software simulations and actual 
on previous  . 

basically what we 've done by going to five rather than three is 
to our margin so that we have the capability to respond to the 
, or , of , mission director said. 
it the for mission success while providing added 
flexibility and for to real time situations .  . 

in out the specific to be on each of the 
, have determined that changing out the , 
and the wide field camera  ( wf pc ) and the 
space replacement  ( costar ) are priority objectives 
during the mission .  . 

when we looked at all of the , highest through 
lowest priority , and recognizing that the major , , 
pc and would most of the time set aside for each 
, five were deemed appropriate , said , lead 
director for the mission .  . 

while the five will be , the use of two 
alternating teams will more on the than 
previous requiring two , three or four  . 

we have paid close attention to lessons learned during previous 
and these into our estimates for five , 
said. in planning for all space , it is necessary to 
formulate a work that represents as a as possible 
to the mission objectives .  . 

planning currently calls for at least five water training 
that include support from the mission control center , called integrated 
simulations , lasting between 10 and 36 hours. in addition , many stand alone 
training runs will practice individual in each  . 

various to the specific on each will be 
made based on actual training experience during the months prior to the 
mission .  . also , lessons learned from other up to the 
will be valuable in the 61 in its training techniques .  . 

's june and 's mission both will include 
to some of the unique tools to be used on the mission .  . 
the will help in better understanding the differences between the 
actual of space and the ground training in the water at 
the johnson space center , houston , and the marshall space center , 
,  . 

also , the experiences will assist in 
further insight into the time required for the various and expand the 
experience levels among the corps , the and 
 . 

designed to be by a space , was built with 
and to assist in the capture and  . 

the was aboard in april 1990. at that 
time the nasa showed the first mission to in 
1993 to change out science and make any that may have 
become necessary. 

end 

ron 
lab 
) m s the from new 
pasadena , ca is part and 
part  . 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re keeping on after funding cuts .  . 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 54 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( james thomas green ) writes 
 ( pat ) 



i heard once that the had a built in 
that essentially says if you never hear from earth again , 
here 's what to do. this was a back up in the event a receiver 
out but the could still send data  ( limited , but 
still some  . 


has the unusual luck to be on a stable out of the 
system. all it 's doing is fields data , and routinely 
it down. one of the is also in stable 
orbit , and still providing data .  . 

something in a orbit , is subject to much more complex forces .  . 

, in stable orbits , require almost daily 
 . 

for the occasional deep space , like after , sure 
it could be left on . but things like or 
, i 'd suspect they need enough that 
even they 'd end up after a while. 

the better question should be. 

why not o m of all birds to a separate agency with funding 
to support these kind of science  . 



when ops are mentioned , it seems to always quote 
and data analysis. how much would it cost to the data 
and let it be whenever .  . kinda like all that data 
that sat around for 15 years before someone it for the hole .  . 

even if you let teh , it may get by some 
cosmic phenomena .  . 

since this would be a that may never be for 
, if some type of cosmic took out the , it might 
not be such a big loss. obviously you ca n't plan for 
everything , but the most obvious things can be considered .  . 


( james t. green ) ( ) 
i know you believe you understand what it is that you 
think i said. but i am not sure that you realize that 
what i said is not what i meant. 



from  ( ralph buttigieg ) 
subject why not give 1 billion to first year lo 
organization  . gate admin is 
lines 34 

original to 
g  day 

21 apr 93 22 25 , wrote to all 

 ( craig keithley ) , via 3 


but back to the goals , there was a recent article in 
about a 
low cost  ( it 's all relative .  .  . ) . return to the moon. a general 
scheme involving a to lift a 
stage , , and  . the mission consists of two 
to the surface , followed by a mission .  . 
total cost us was 10 13 billion .  .  ( esa ) nasa project was 
6 9 
billion for the us share .  . 

moon for a year .  . hmmm .  . not really practical .  . anyone got a 
better way of 15 20 to the surface 
within 
the anyone have a more precise guess about how much a year 's 
supply of and equipment would 

why not the plan into 's moon direct scheme let 
one of those early carry an plant and make your own. 



ralph 

2 . 41 . 
origin s world australia  ( 02 ) 3 6 
(3 635 ) 

from  ( brian yamauchi ) 
subject x choice of a new generation  ( was re roll out speech ) 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 27 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 1993 22 09 32 

in article  ( jordan katz ) writes 

speech by  . simon p. , 
the for technology , 

most of you , as am i , are children of the 's .  . we grew 
up in an age of miracles inter missiles , 
nuclear energy , computers , to the moon. but these were 
miracles of our parent 's doing. 

speech by 
before the u.s. space foundation conference 

i'm embarrassed when my generation is compared with the last 
generation the of the last great space era , the 1950 's 
and 's .  . they went to the moon we built a that 
ca n't see straight .  . they soft on the least we 
could do is soft land on earth ! 

just out of curiousity , how old is 



brian case western reserve university 
department of computer engineering and science 



from  ( bruce watson ) 
subject quotation was  ( re none ) 
organization science computer network , denver , co .  . 
lines 12 

in article writes 

can someone please me who said a well known quotation 

he was sitting a rocket and afterwards , in answer to 
the question what he had been thinking about , said  ( approximately ) half a 
million components , each has to work perfectly , each by the lowest 
 .  .  .  .  . 

sounds similar to something said. 

bruce watson 49 item extract 75 , 131 

from  ( doug mohney ) 
subject re !  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization computer aided design lab , u. of maryland college park 
lines 24 
reply to 
nntp posting host queen . eng . umd . edu . 

in article ,  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article  ( david m. palmer ) writes 
 .  .  . 

i would just like to point out that it is much easier to place an 
object at orbital than it is to place it with orbital 
 . for a target above the surface of earth , 
you need a delta v of 2.5 s. 
unfortunately , if you launch this from the us  ( or are a us citizen ) , 
you will need a launch from the office of space 
transportation , and i think it may be difficult to get a for 
an weapon .  .  .  . ) 

well henry , we are often reminded how canada is not a part of the united states 
(yet) .  . you could have quite a a sat , er sky cleaning service going 
in a few years. 

clear skies in 48 hours , or your money back .  . 
discount available for  . 



software engineering that 's like military intelligence , is n't it 


from  ( ron baalke ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( eric h seale ) writes .  .  .  . 
 ( ron baalke ) writes 
according the circular , , may be 
temporarily in orbit around jupiter .  . the had apparently made a 
close of jupiter sometime in 1992 resulting in the of the 
 . 

who would have thought that would get the chance to 
check out a too ! 

3 , which was discovered in 1977 , was determined to have 
been in a temporary orbit from to  . 
may remain in orbit around jupiter long enough to allow to 
make some observations .  . the orbital for 
is still being determined .  . 

ron 
lab 
) m s being cynical never helps 
pasadena , ca to correct the situation 
and causes more 
instead. 

from  ( michael robert williams ) 
subject re drive in how 
organization university of virginia 
lines 25 

in article writes 
in article james p. , 
writes 
background the was a concept .  . 

it was more than a concept it was seriously by 
freeman et al many years ago. i do n't know how well known this is , 
but a high explosive flew  ( in the atmosphere ) in san 
diego back in or  . i was working at general atomic at the time , 
but i did n't learn about the experiment until almost thirty years later , 
when 
visited us and revealed that it had been done. i feel sure 
that someone must have film of that experiment , and i 'd really like to 
see it. has anyone out there seen it 



nope , i have n't seen the film , but 's ( the curve of 
binding energy ) contains a short section on and this test  . 
apparently it was quite , and got von very  . 

in real life mike perpetual student 
e mail it 's not just a job , it 's an 

if you ever have a world of your own , plan ahead do n't eat it. 

from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject re level 5 
organization national 
lines 20 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( bret wingert ) writes 
3. the software project was rated level 5 by a nasa team .  . 
this group 20 40 of verified code per year for nasa .  . 

will someone tell an ignorant physicist where the term level 5 comes 
from it sounds like the risks digest equivalent of large , extra 
large ,  .  .  . or maybe it 's like 5 .  .  .  . 

i gather it means that software was developed with extreme 
care to have and safety , and almost everything else in 
the computing world is level 1 , or software .  . not 
surprising .  . but who is it that this standard , and how come 
everyone but me seems to be familiar with it 

of course , what bill , beam 
originally wrote was first thing national 
we do , let 's kill all the  . bitnet 
but for some reason it did n't internet 
survive past the first draft .  . 
david d. 

from  ( charlie prael ) 
subject re activities on the moon 
organization bbs  ( clanzen radio network ) , ca 1 408 
lines 10 

 ( paul dietz ) writes 

which merely the issue of why those lunatics are 
there at all  ( and , why their children would want to stay . ) . 

paul for the same reason that many other are founded .  . why not 


charlie 
bbs  ( clanzen radio network ) , ca 1 408 

from  ( richard buenneke ) 
subject x report 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 124 


douglas rolls out x 

beach ,  . on a picture perfect southern 
california day , douglas rolled out its x rocket last 
saturday .  . the company hopes this single stage rocket technology 
will be the first step towards a single stage to orbit  ( ssto ) 
rocket  . 

the white was scheduled to go to the white 
missile range in new mexico this week. will start in 
mid june .  . 

although there was n't a cloud in the sky , the for 
research remains  . the organization which paid 60 
million for the x ca n't itself afford to full development of a 
follow on  . to get the necessary hundreds of millions required for 
a sub orbital , is passing a tin cup among its sister government 
 . 

originally funded research as a way to cut the costs for 
orbital of space based and  . however , recent 
changes in 's political orders and cuts have made 
less of a priority .  . today , the agency is more interested in using x as 
a step towards a low cost , sounding rocket .  . 

has already done 50 to other government , 
said  . simon , 's for technology. but 
declined to say how much the would have to up for the 
program .  . i did n't make by telling my how much money i 
have available to spend , he at a press conference at 
douglas  . 

while has lowered its sights on the program 's orbital 
objective , agency the x as an example of the better , 
, approach to hardware development .  . the agency believes 
this philosophy can produce that ahead of 
evolutionary technology developments .  . 

said the x how a build a little , test a 
little approach can produce results on time and within  . he said 
the program which went from concept to hardware in around 18 months 
showed how today 's could move beyond the miracles of our 
parents  time. 

the key is , said. had a very light hand 
on this project .  . we had only one overworked major ,  . 

although the next may involve more , said 
and a sense of government industry will be 
crucial .  . it 's essential we do not end up with a large 
structure where the price goes up  . 

's approach also won praise from two california members of the 
house science , space and technology  . this is the direction 
we 're going to have to go , said  . george brown , the 's 
democratic chairman .  . programs that stretch 10 to 15 years are n't 
 .  .  . nasa . has n't learned it yet. has .  . 

 . dana , brown 's republican , went further. 
that a is a fish designed by a nasa design team , 
that the program ever would have been if it 
were left to the civil space agency .  . 

, whose orange district includes 
douglas , also criticized nasa air force work on conventional , 
as new around old missile technology. let 's not 
build fancy ammunition with on top .  . let 's build a ! 

although 's , he said the 
private needs to take the lead in developing technology. 

douglas , which faces very with its 
c 17 transport and space station freedom programs , were more 
about a large private commitment .  . on very large , 
put in seed money , said charles , douglas  
vice president for space systems. you need strong government 
 . 

while the government and industry continue to differ on funding 
for the , they agree on continuing an approach to 
development .  . history , they liken the process to douglas 
's  . just as two earlier the way for 
the 3 transport , a gradual evolution in single stage could 
eventually lead to an orbital delta clipper  ( dc  . 

this summer at white will expand the 
of , with increasing speed and  . the 
first will reach 600 feet and demonstrate , 
take off and landing .  . the second series will send the x up to 
5 , 000 feet. the third and final series will take the up to 20 , 000 
feet. 

will become more complex on third  . the final 
will include a pitch over that the back 
into a bottom down for a soft , four landing .  . 

the test series will be by charles 
, who performed similar on the 12 moon landing .  . 
now a douglas vice president , the 
like approach to  . features include 
check out and access for easy  . 

if the program to the next stage , engine technology will 
become a key consideration .  . this engine would have more thrust than the 
5 used on the x. each uses liquid 
and liquid oxygen to generate up to 14 , pounds of 
thrust 

based on the engine used in stages , the a 5 model 
has a thrust designed for sea level operation and three to on 
capability .  . it also is designed for repeat and 
 . 

said future single stage could 
tri engine technology developed in the former soviet union .  . 
the resulting could burn a at and 
then switch to liquid at higher  . 

the mechanism for the may already be in place. has 
a technology agreement with , the design bureau responsible 
for the tri and  . 



from  ( sean michael gallagher ) 
subject funding for nasa 
article i.d. 
lines 8 
nntp posting host its . edu . 

i am doing a political science paper on the funding of nasa and 
politics. i would be interested in information about funding practices and 
histories of some of the major programs  ( apollo , , , etc ) and the 
funding of to  . could someone please recommend some sources 
that would be useful thank you. 




from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re space station redesign , alternative 4 
organization u of 
lines 14 

in article  ( michael f. santangelo ) writes 
... the only thing 
that me is the part about simply 3 's and 
a on it and just it. i have this vision 
of something going terribly wrong with the launch resulting in the 
complete loss of the new space station  ( not just a of 
it as would be the case with in orbit  . 

it does n't make a whole lot of difference , actually , since they were n't 
building of the station hardware anyway. ) . at least this 
is only one launch to fail .  . 

a high speed henry @ u of 
between and  . dick dunn ! henry 

from  ( joseph wetstein ) 
subject sunset times 
organization university , college of engineering , philadelphia , pa 
lines 8 


hello. i am looking for a program  ( or algorithm ) that can be used 
to and sunset times. 

i would appreciate any advice. 

joe 


from  ( layne cook ) 
subject and the moon  ( was why not give 1g ) 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque , 
lines 19 
distribution world 
reply to  ( layne cook ) 
nntp posting host com . 

all of this talk about a space race (i . e .  . to the first 1 year 
moon base ) is intriguing .  . similar have 
development before. the prize helped sell his spirit of 
saint venture to his financial  . 

if memory serves , the prize would not have been enough to totally 
some of the more expensive  ( such as 
's , and other engine  . however 
ultimately kept his total costs below that amount .  . 

but i strongly suspect that his saint had the to 
realize that much more was at stake than 25 , 000 .  . 

could it work with the moon who are the far financial of 
today 



douglas space systems co .  . 

from  ( claudio egalon ) 
subject re japanese moon landing 
organization nasa research center 
lines 13 
distribution world 
reply to  ( claudio egalon ) 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

there is no such thing as a stable orbit 

is it right that is new stuff for me. so it means that you just can 
not put a around around the moon for too long because its 
orbit will be if so , what is the reason is that because 
the combined of the sun , moon and earth 
that does not provide a stable orbit around the moon 







from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re x test 
organization texas 
lines 14 

in writes 

since the x is to take off , why not land that way 
why do the landing thing .  .  . or am i missing something .  .  . do n't know to 
much about x and such .  .  .  ( overly obvious ) .  . 

you missed something. i think it takes off and is intended 
to land the same way. 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( pat ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 45 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( fred j 3539 ) writes 
in  ( paul dietz ) writes 

paul , quite frankly i 'll believe that this is really going to work on 
the typical trash one needs to process when i see them put a couple 
tons in one end and get  ( relatively ) clean material out the other end , 
plus be able to run it off its own power. sounds almost like 
perpetual motion , does n't it 

i will believe that this process comes even close to 
and economic  ( given the nature of the 
trash that will have to be run through it as opposed to the costs of 
separating things first and having a different  run  for each 
actinide ) when i see them dump a few tons in one end and pull 
 ( relatively ) clean material out the other. once the costs , 
risks , etc. , are taken into account i still class this 
one with the idea of throwing waste into the sun .  . sure , it 's possible 
and the physics are well understood , but is it really a reasonable 
approach 


how is it ever going to be an off the shelf technology if someone does n't 
do it maybe we should do this as part of the design goals. ) 

gee fred .  . after your bitter defense of 20 power as a basic technology 
for , id think you would support a minor research program like this. 

and does anyone who knows more particle physics then me , know if the 
could prove this technology 


the real reason why or are not being 
built is that there is n't any reason to do so. natural is 
still too cheap , and of looks 
technically reasonable .  . 


it may also help there is political on the entire 
nuclear technical  . there were big political to 
fast  . is being fought to death in courts .  . 
even if you could make a nuclear , do you really think 
even smith would accept it rules 
nuclear power concerns .  . only the medical community has been 
able to nuclear technology opposition .  . 


from  ( allen w. sherzer ) 
subject re nasa 
organization evil for a better tomorrow 
lines 91 

in article writes 

i do n't care who told you this it is not generally true. i see every single 
line item on a contract and i have to sign it. there is no such thing as 
at this university .  . 

, i have worked on or written worth tens of millions 
of . included government  ( including nasa ) , for profit and 
non profit  . all expected a  ( usually called a  . much 
of the work involved and costing the work of  . 
the where universities , for , non , and 
even some of the nasa for the of space .  . all 
charged as part of the work. down the street is one of the nasa 
they charge a fee .  . 

now , i'm sure your a engineer , but you clearly lack 
experience in several areas .  . your posts show that you do n't understand 
the importance of in large  . you also show a lack 
of understanding of costing efforts as shown by your belief that it 
is reasonable to charge costs for everything. this is n't 
a flame , a statement. 

your employer does charge a fee .  . you may not see it but you do. 

sounds like they are adding it to their rate .  . go ask your 
costing people how much fee they add to a project .  . 

i did they never heard of it but suggest that , like our president did , that 
any percentage number like this is included in the  . 

well there you are  . as i said , they simply include the fee in 
their  . many the fee since the fee structure can 
change depending on the customer .  . 

no allen you did not. you merely repeated allegations made by an 
of the capital of nasa .  . 

, , is n't  . 

nothing that reston does could not be dont 
better or at the other nasa where the work is going on. 

, reston has been the only nasa agency working to reduce costs .  . when 
02 was out a billion , the you love so much where 
doing their best to cover it up and ignore the problem. reston was the 
only place you would find people actually interested in the 
problems and building a station .  . 

kinda funny is n't it that someone who talks about a problem like this is 
at a place where everything is  . 

when you have a bit more experience , you will realize that 
is n't  . it is the single most important part 
of a successful large scale effort .  . 

why did the space news point out that it was the 
demanded change that caused the problems that you are being 
selective with the facts again. 

the story you refer to said that some nasa people blamed it on 
congress .  .  . the fact remains that it is the 
you support so much who covered up the and would n't address 
the problems until the press published the story. 

are you saying the reston where wrong to get nasa to address 
the you approve of what the did to cover up the 

if it takes four a year to the station and you have a cost 
of million a then you pay 2 billion a year .  . you stated that your 
friend at reston said that with the current station they could it 
for a billion a year if the were gone . this merely points out a 
in your numbers that you fail to see. 

you should know that nasa does n't include transport costs for 
 . that comes from the  . what they where saying 
is that costs could be cut in half plus transport .  . 

sorry but i have a for a so someone else is going 
to have to do allen 's math for him for a while. i will have little chance to 
do so. 

i do hope you can find the time to tell us just why it was wrong of 
reston to ask that the problems with 02 be addressed .  . 

allen 



sir , if you were my husband i would poison your coffee ! 
w. , if you were my wife , i would drink it. 
60 days to first of 

from  ( nathan wallace ) 
subject level 5 
reply to 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university computer science dept. 
lines 15 

according to a software engineering professor here , what was actually rated 
level five was an ibm which produced part of the software for the , 
by not means all of it. 

interesting note 90 of the software development groups were at 
level 1. the ibm groups was the only one at level 5 ! 


c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c 
c f. c c reality is c 
c e mail c c ancient c 
c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c 




from  ( pat ) 
subject re why not give 1 billion to first year long moon residents 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 26 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( allen w. sherzer ) writes 
in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 


in spite of my great respect for the people you speak of , i think their 
cost estimates are a bit over  . if nothing else , a working 
is at least as complex as a large and has a smaller experience 
base .  . it therefore seems that development should cost at least as 
much as a typical development .  . that puts it in the to 
range .  . 


, 

do n't forget , a huge cost for is 
 . the joke is when the paperwork teh weight 
of the , it will fly. 

the , and teh x 15 both highly space were done 
on very narrow engineering  . partly because they did n't spend much 
on paper pushing .  . there is some company in missouri trying to 
get funding to build light on a low cost basis , 
mostly by reducing costs .  . 




from  ( kevin w. plaxco ) 
subject re !  .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena , ca 
lines 22 
nntp posting host wag . caltech . edu . 

in article  ( bruce watson ) writes 

and two were with a substance 
which expanded in  . 

called gas . 

once the substance was no longer 
needed since there is nothing to cause the to collapse .  . 
this structure could suffer multiple holes with no 
 . 

the were in sufficiently low orbit that they experienced 
some air resistance .  . when they were finally , this 
 ( and the internal that was needed to maintain 
a shape against this resistance ) caused them to 
 . the large 
that remained were easily for some time before 
, though no longer useful as a passive  . 

the should pop like a  . 


from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject  ( was re no , not or haphaestus ) 
organization national 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( claudio egalon ) writes 
there was a science fiction movie sometime ago (i do not remember its 
name) about a planet in the same orbit of earth but hidden behind the 
sun so it could never be from earth. 

this was known as journey to the far side of the sun in the united 
states and as in the u.k. it was produced by the great 
team of and  ( whose science was usually a bit 
better than this) .  . it may have been their first using live 
they were better known for their shows , 
such as , , and . later , they went 
on to do more live action sf series and space . 

the astronomy was lousy , but the lifting body , 
, and mighty launch complex were wonderful to 
look at. 

bill , beam in a in the 
national where the 
bitnet there grow and other 
internet by  . 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re forcing space  . 
organization u of 
lines 22 

in article writes 
here is a way to get the into space and 
exploration .  . 

basically get the to make it so hard to get the on earth. 

they are n't going to leave a loophole as as space  . quite a 
few of those people are , when you come right down to it , basically against 
industrial civilization .  . they wo n't stop with down the here 
that is only a means to an end for them now. 

the worst thing you can say to a true is that his revolution 
is unnecessary , that the problems can be without radical change .  . 
telling people that paradise can be without the revolution is 
treason of the kind. 

trying to these people to support is like trying to 
a buffalo to pull your  . he 's got plenty of , all 
right , but the will go where he wants , not where you want. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from 
subject re on star 
article i.d. 1 . 
organization university of 
lines 16 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( doug loss ) writes 
i saw in the newspaper last night that dr. mae , the first 
black woman in space  ( she 's a and chemical engineer who flew 
on last year ) will appear as a operator on the 
star the next generation that the week of may 31. 
it 's hardly space science , i know , but it 's interesting. 

doug loss 


interesting is  .  . i wonder if they will make a mention of her being an 
in the credits .  .  . i think it might help people connect the future of 
space with the present .  .  . and give them an idea that we must go into space .  .  . 


michael adams , i'm not high , just 

from  ( bill beam jockey ) 
subject two thousand  ( was re how many read sci . space . ) 
organization national 
lines 67 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( ross borden ) writes 
in article  ( mark prado ) writes 

one could go on and on and on here , but i wonder ... how 
many people read sci . space . and of what power influence are 
these individuals 

quick ! everyone who sees this , post a reply that says 

hey , i read sci . space . ! 

then we can count them , and find out how many there are ! ) 
 ( this will also help answer that question just what is 
the bandwidth of the internet , anyways ) 

a practical suggestion , to be sure , but one could also into 
news . lists . , where brian has posted usenet report for 
93 .  . another posting called usenet summary report for 
93 gives the and of 's survey .  .  ( these 
postings failed to appear for a while i wonder why but they are 
now back . ) . 

, , gives us no measure of the power influence of readers .  .  .  . 
sorry , mark. 

i suspect mark , out there on , may not get news . lists . 
so i 've him copies of these reports .  . 

the bottom line 

total number of people who read the group ,  . 
actual number of readers in population 
propagation how many sites receive this group at all 
recent traffic  ( messages per month ) 
recent traffic  ( kilobytes per month ) 
percentage 
cost ratio us month 
share of 
who read this group. 
v v v v v v v v 
88 80 9 . 19 0 . 10 . 2 . 9 . sci . space . 

the first figure indicates that sci . space . ranks among most read 
newsgroups .  . 

i 've been keeping track to watch the growth of traffic 
and  . you might be to see this. 

91 55 2 . 21 0 . 04 . 4 . 2 . sci . space . 
43 2 . 13 0 . 06 . 4 . 1 . sci . space . 
48 80 3 . 12 0 . 04 . 3.8 sci . space . 
may 45 8 . 13 0 . 04 . 4 . 1 . sci . space . 
 ( some kind of in number of readers happens here ) 
45 80 2 . 16 0 . 11 . 3 . 6 . sci . space . 
78 2 . 17 0.08 2 . 8 . sci . space . 
 ( revision in groups happens  ( here  ) 
93 88 80 9 . 19 0 . 10 . 2 . 9 . sci . space . 

possibly old usenet hands could give me some more background on how to 
interpret these , , or the history of 's reporting 
effort .  . take it to e mail it does n't belong in sci . space .  . 

bill , beam in a in the 
national where the 
bitnet there grow and other 
internet by  . 


from 
subject space clipper launch article 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 40 

to all i thought the net would find this amusing .  .  . 

from the march 1993 vision  ( the newsletter for the employees 
of douglas at beach ,  . 

space successfully 

on monday , march 15 at noon , quest education , inc. 
two y space in the near the  . 
the first rocket was by dr. bill , director and 
program , and the second by air force ed 
, who with  . represents air force 
space command , which was requested by to assess the x for 
potential military use. both rocket were 
successful .  . the first to the ground between the 
and building 11 , and the second on the roof of the 
 . 

quest 's space clipper is the first flying model rocket of the 
douglas x. the 1 semi scale model of the 
douglas delta clipper has an 
of feet. the space can be used in 
to teach mathematics and science , as well as social 
studies and other applications .  . the space clipper is available 
either in the 35 space clipper , which includes everything 
needed for three , or as individual for 12 each .  . 
both are available through or by calling 1 
 . 

by the way this is not an endorsement to buy the product nor is 
it an to buy the product .  . i make no claims about the 
product .  . this is posted for public information only  ( hey , i found 
it amusing .  .  . ) . , and is merely a repeat of what was included in the 
beach newsletter .  . 


space technology investor 


maximus 2 . 01wb . 

from  ( william reiken ) 
subject re nuclear waste 
organization univ .  . , , japan 
lines 12 

in article ,  ( matthew deluca ) writes 

greedy little oil do n't blame them oil just supply the 
demand created by you , me , and just about everyone else on the planet. if we 
run out , its all our  . 


ok , so how about the creation of oil producing bacteria i figure 
that if you can make them to eat it up then you can make them to shit it. 
any comments 

will .  .  .  . 

from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re why 1 will be the way of the future. 
organization texas 
lines 22 

in  ( pat ) writes 

in article  ( james davis nicoll ) writes 
hmmm .  . i seem to recall that the attraction of solid state record 
and in the 1960s was n't better but lower 
per cost than systems. 



i do n't think so at first , but solid state offered better , 
id bet , and any lower costs would be only after the processes really up. 

careful .  . making statements about how solid state is  ( generally ) more 
reliable than will get you a nasty follow up from tommy mac or 
 . wait a minute you are  . pleased to see that you 're not 
suffering from the of a small mind. ) 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( dave rickel ) 
subject re us 
article i.d. news . 
organization mentor 
lines 14 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 


in article ,  ( nick haines ) writes 
oh , and the other advantage is that you do n't have shit like 
32 .  . hanging around. 

no , instead you have stupid things like and and and 
458 . and 9 . and ... 

how many cc 's in a anyway the system has its problems , just not 
as many of them. 


david 


from  ( greg nicholls ) 
subject re biosphere ii 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
news software 3 . 1 . 
x x from 

lines 10 

in writes 
the work is privately funded , the data belongs to  . i do n't see 
either george or fred , ibm research division for 
not data .  . 
we publish plenty , you just have to look. 

 . sig . files are like ... every yo yo 's got one. 

greg ...  ( business ) or 
 ( private ) 

from  ( mats lindgren ) 
subject re in temporary orbit around jupiter 
organization university 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 

p roman also spent some time as a temporary 
to jupiter a few years ago if you believe the calculations 
by , g. , , m. and , h .  .  . , 
, pp. ,  . 




mats 

box 
20 phone ( 46 )  ( 0)18 ) 51 35 22 
fax 52 75 


from  ( fred j 3539 ) 
subject re vs english 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization texas 
lines 31 

in  ( dave jones ) writes 

keith wrote 
bruce  ( bruce dunn ) writes 
separates the concepts of mass , force and weight 
which have gotten horribly up in the us system. 

this is not a problem with english units. a is defined to 
be a of force , period. there is a perfectly good called 
the , which is the mass of an object 32 . 2 . at sea level. 
 ( g 32 . 2 . 2 , of course . ) . 


american military english units , perhaps. us real english types were once 
taught that a is mass and a is force  ( being that force that 
causes 1 to at 1 s .  . we had a rare doing 
our in those units and as well. 

american , perhaps , but nothing military about it. i learned  ( mostly ) 
when we talked english units in high school physics and while 
the teacher was an ex navy the book certainly was n't 
produced by the military .  . 

were just too small and made the math come out 
funny sort of the same reason of give for using that. 


on perfect safety is for people who do n't have the to live 
in the real world. mary , nasa ames 

i do n't speak for others and they do n't speak for me. 

from  ( tom ) 
subject level 5 
x added by space digest 
organization via international space university 
original sender 
distribution sci 
lines 13 



 ( given that i 've heard the software rated as level 5 in 
, i strongly doubt that this having lots of is the  . 

level 5 out of how many what are the different levels i 've never 
heard of this system. anyone care to clue me in 

tommy mac 

tom as the of vision increases , 
the of mystery grows .  . 


from 
subject news 
x sender 0.08 feb 23 1993 
lines 28 

many of you at this point have seen a copy of the 
resources data act by now. this bill , also known as the back to 
the moon bill , would the u.s. 
government to science data from private 
and non profit , on the basis of , with an 
cap on of 65 million .  . 
if you have a copy of the bill , and ca n't or do n't want to go through 
all of the contained in all federal legislation , do n't both you have 
a free resource to the bill for you. your local congressional office , 
listed in the phone book , is by people who can forward a copy of the 
bill to legal  . simply ask them to do so , and to consider supporting 
the resources data act. 
if you do get , negative or positive , from your congressional 
office , please forward it to david 
e.  . , g 14 , , ca , 
or via e mail to 
another resource is your local chapter of the national space society. 
members of the chapter will be happy to work with you to and support 
the back to the moon bill. for the address and telephone number of the 
chapter to you , please send e mail , or check the latest issue of ad , in 
a library near you. 
finally , if you have requested , and not received , information about 
the back to the moon bill , please re send your request. the for the 
bill was recently corrupted , and some information was lost. the authors of the 
bill thank you for your patience .  . 


maximus 2 . 01wb . 
