from  ( roger a williams ) 
subject re public domain software 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 1 

does n't motorola have something on the bbs yet  ( 512 891 3733 ) 

from  ( john haddy ) 
subject re help with long 
organization university 
lines 60 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 

in article , writes 
i have a project that was in my that is somewhat a pain to design. 
what i am looking for is a stable long solid state  . what they want 
to do is to place this thing on the ice shelf and measure the amount 
of fall over a period of weeks. every two weeks , they want to trip a 
to different by gas pressure out across the 
 . then by down into the , the fall amount can be measured 
as they come to the different color  . 

the problem is trying to build a that would stand the cold ( 40 degrees ) 
and a power source that would n't  . i have looked at the timers and 
the standard dual timers , but thier wo n't go that low. also , 
two weeks to 1 , , 600 seconds per firing , which means one big 
cap ! i have found 2.2  ( yes , ! ) caps that have a working of 
5 and are small in size. but again , the time of at 40 or lower 
degrees is n't  . i was thinking of using several timers together 
to fire the at the end of the period , but that blasted cold and 
the on a over weeks is the pain. one possibility would be to 
use , but this is during the month  . anyone have any 
good ideas 

thanks in advance .  .  .  . 



firstly , i would never consider trying to make a one shot  . your cap 
will have been designed as a , rather than for use in 
applications where you wish to the cap with a constant current .  . their 
, in some respects , is more akin to than to a normal cap .  . 
the other point is that big electro 's are usually rated with 5 20 , 
so exactly what you have  ( particularly when considering 
the  . 

you should be looking at a and , 
that rolls over  ( from zero to count , or vice versa ) once every 
1 , , 600 seconds .  . if you were to use something like a , you would 
need a of 2 27 , to give an error of less than one percent in the 
firing times over the week period. of course , you could trim the 
to give you exact time , but the of the 
remaining exactly constant at 40 is low anyway. 

i would suspect that there would be far more in firing the 
than there would be in the  . 

i'm not experienced in low , so i ca n't 
that this  ( or any other ) approach is the best for 
conditions .  . 





department 
( ) ( ( ( school of 
university 
, australia 

email , 61 2 , fax 61 2 



from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re cheap products 
organization corporation 
lines 30 

in article  ( 90 ah ) writes 
 .  .  . stuff . deleted .  .  .  . 

i was also sceptical about the being built in the far east 
or where ever. but if you look in the and see what components 
they use and how it was designed , you can easily see why the 
sound so  . 

good point .  .  . also . , i would n't be surprised that the components 
they use off are of inferior quality .  . as long as it was 
properly designed and , components are used , it 
should n't matter where it is assembled .  . 

i cannot see why people say the wo n't last not with 
those quality components inside. sure the runs very fairly 
hot but that 's how you get an to sound incredibly good. 

an that runs hot has no bearing on how it 's gonna sound. 
the you have probably is running class a the whole day. 

actually , i 'd be wary of excessively hot ,  even though 
the components inside may be rated to run that way , excessive 
will the life of any electronic component 
regardless of quality .  . in fact , an that does run hot to the touch is 
because either the engineer or of that wanted 
to on or to save costs !  .  .  .  . 

aaron 

. 

from  ( john de armond ) 
subject re help with long 
article i.d. 8 . v ! 
organization communications public access. the mouth of the south .  . 
lines 44 

writes 

i have a project that was in my that is somewhat a pain to design. 
what i am looking for is a stable long solid state  . what they want 
to do is to place this thing on the ice shelf and measure the amount 
of fall over a period of weeks. every two weeks , they want to trip a 
to different by gas pressure out across the 
 . then by down into the , the fall amount can be measured 
as they come to the different color  . 

the problem is trying to build a that would stand the cold ( 40 degrees ) 
and a power source that would n't  . i have looked at the timers and 
the standard dual timers , but thier wo n't go that low. also , 
two weeks to 1 , , 600 seconds per firing , which means one big 
cap ! i have found 2.2  ( yes , ! ) caps that have a working of 
5 and are small in size. 

why are you around with for this job a single chip 
and a will do the job and easily. an only 
costs about 5. that and a 1 and you 're in business. 
the whole thing in a blanket , power it from a cell , 
use the excess power to the assembly during the day and rely 
on the to hold the during  . if you do n't want 
to try thermal , contact someone like and have them cut 
you a special low  . it 'll cost at most 20 .  . 

if you use a single chip , you 're looking at a parts count of 
maybe 7. a processor , a , two caps on the , a power 
to fire the a and a  . this is parts than 
you can build an for and is infinitely more reliable .  . add 
a power  ( for heat ) and a cell and the parts count 
up to 9. 

are available for all the common single chip  . this 
application is so trivial you could even look up the codes in the 
programmer 's guide and create the with a editor .  . 

john 

john de , interested in high 
engineering  ( magazine(tm ) interested in high tech and computers 
, send mail address to 
for a free 
need usenet public access in write me for info on com .  . 

from  ( douglas s. rand ) 
subject re power , signal in home .  .  .  . 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 93 20 37 19 gmt 
organization open software foundation 
lines 76 

in article  ( randall rhea ) writes 

 ( greg stovall ) writes 
anyway , over the , i was on the  ( in between chores ) , 
and noticed that i picked up what like ham radio traffic 
over my stereo and television , even though both were off. also , all the 
touch sensitive in my house start going , through 
their four states. 

i presume that some ham operator with an illegal past 
my house (i live on a busy thoroughfare ) would this be a correct 
what kind of power must he be putting out to cause the effects 
the affected equipment is about 100 feet from the road .  .  .  . 

are unlikely to have an illegal , and are also unlikely to 
have a  . 

can legally run up to  . it is very unlikely , however , 
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. ham 

not possible either. you 'd need about a for 
just the  . i can just see it. you need to slow 
down on a , so you hit the push to talk  . 

for cars put out around 100  . it is possible that a 100 
radio would cause interference to consumer electronic 100 feet 
away. most , , and have very poor  . 
if you experience the problem frequently , it may be 
caused by a ham , , or other radio operator in a base station 
nearby .  . the interference may have been caused by a radio 
used for other purposes , such as police , fire , 
etc. if you heard over your stereo , i think you are 
correct in assuming that the source is an  . 

if you have frequent trouble , you may want to try the 
available at radio shack .  . the interference is probably 
being picked up by your speaker , and those can 
be on the very easily  ( without cutting them) .  . 
good instructions are included with the  . 
if that does not solve the problem , you may want to search your 
neighborhood for a radio operator .  . look for on the roof 
or car. talk to him her about your problem. there are things 
a radio operator can do to reduce interference .  . 

and please remember to be friendly when your 
local radio operator .  . this person may or may not be the 
cause of your , and you 'll get better 
and help if you assume that he is going to be helpful  ( most 
 . it was amazing the accusations that we sometimes 
dealt with as i grew up. we were blamed for  ( ghost 
pictures on the tv that occur at peaks ) , c . b .  . 
, dead grass ) , you name it. 

btw , the local operator should try and help you whether or 
not he or she is directly responsible .  . it is part of 
being a good neighbor and that is how the views it. 
too bad they do n't require the consumer equipment makers 
to take any  . 

last , you can usually tell ham radio vs.  . ham operators are 
required to declare their call  ( sign ) every so many  ( no more 
than  . so if you hear this is or some other call starting 
with a , w or k and no more than 6 total characters , you heard a ham .  . 
probably wo n't sign (i do n't know that they 're even required 
to) and fire police have other private  . 







douglas s.  . 
11 cambridge center , cambridge , ma 
disclaimer i do n't know if agrees with me .  .  .  . let 's vote on it. 
amateur radio 

from  ( cyberman ) 
subject re 
lines 31 
x 1 . 

michael said 
balanced 
to all on 04 15 93 01 08 
i am trying to build a and i 've hit a  . 
in my application i want to be able to change the gain of an 
from 1 to 1 , via a digital input. 
the most obvious way i 've come up with is to use 
to the gain of the  . the only switch i have 
experience with it the  . unfortunately i want to switch an 
ac signal which goes from about to , and the is only 
for positive  . 

how about using a it has a ground for the 
 . it would get you 3 bits. 

another part which caught my eye was the devices  . this 
is a balanced which appears to fill exactly the need i 
have. the data was somewhat on application notes .  . could 
someone comment on using this chip for the following application 

or how about a d a this is 
what you are  . 


stephen 
mangled on fri 04 16 1993 at 13 36 11 

... the blue wave ! 

blue wave 12 . 


from 
subject next cube board 
organization university computer services 
lines 8 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 

hi all ! 
quick question. could someone please send me a of 
the that goes between a next cube and the also , 
i am interested in the video signal  ( sync type , rate ) 
so any information on that would be greatly also. 

thanks ! 
ryan 

from 
subject 
article i.d. 
lines 3 


they detect the operating in the  . saw a story about 
their use in canada .  . now do n't go putting in your cars .  .  .  . ) 

from  ( david lesher ) 
subject re history question 
organization clinic for netnews 
lines 24 
reply to  ( david lesher ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 

others said 
early pa 
i recall reading of a which used  . 
air was out of a which was controlled by the 
 . the result was and lo fi , but much 
than a conventional  . it tended to wear the out 
pretty quickly though. 

an now told us willing students about a project he had 
worked on during wwii .  . 

they needed a power pa with very clear quality .  . the purpose 
was to at from  . 

their solution was a giant air source , and a with 
parallel worked by a small system. i think he said it 
worked very well , thus the war dept. cancelled the project . 



a host is a host from coast to 
no one will talk to a host that 's close .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56 
unless the host  ( that is n't  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
is busy , or dead .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( john haddy ) 
subject re help wanted 
organization university 
lines 54 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 

in article ,  ( ogawa stephen  ( ise ) writes 
could someone please tell me if a 1 4 is the same as a 1 to 4 
 . i know how to link 2 of these to get an 8 output , 
but how do i link 5 of these to make a 1 16  . sorry if this 
seems like a question , but i'm only a newbie to , and i 
have to do this  . please make any mail as as possible. 

thanx , 



a 1 of 4 need not be the same as a 1 to 4 , although 
many allow you to use one as such. strictly , 
a 1 of 4 need only take two lines in and make one output change 
state , according to the  . 

a , on the other hand , uses two control to determine which 
of four will reflect the state of the signal .  . so there are 
three required. 

a can be used as a if it is with an output 
, since this can be used as the data (e . g .  . when high , all 
are high when low , only the  ( by control inputs ) output 
will be  . 

an eight way is created by using the high order bit  ( bit 2 ) to 
select which of two four way is enabled .  . thus you achieve your 
aim of having only one output of eight the bits. note 
that this method cannot be used to create a true eight way , since 
you have no data  ( the line on a four way decoder ) left 
once you commit the lines to their intended purpose. 

a way obviously requires four , four way , plus 
a mechanism to only one of the four at a time. therefore , use 
the , attached to the two high order bits , to provide the 
four lines. 

of course , the two low order bits must be connected in parallel to the 
four final stage  . 

please give me the credit when you submit your homework .  . 





department 
( ) ( ( ( school of 
university 
, australia 

email , 61 2 , fax 61 2 



from  ( andrew karanicolas ) 
subject re ic 
organization mit technology laboratories 
lines 31 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article  ( seema varma ) writes 
getting a made is too expensive , so 
i am trying to choose between a and a 
chip  . the would be hard 
to test since it has to be on to the test 
setup and i would spend loads of time 
as i kept changing the test chip .  . the chip 
also have long lead lines and may 
not work at high  . 

does anyone out there have experience knowledge 
of this field i would greatly appreciate help ! any ideas 
names of manufacturing 
would help. 

check with america , inc. 
24 prime park way , 150 
, ma 

they are one of the largest of ic in the 
world. 

it sounds like you would be a good candidate for or at 
least ic to test  . , and 
tektronix should be able to help you here. one note , at high 
accurately can be an expensive business. 


andrew 
mit technology 


from  ( peter tryndoch ) 
subject what s a good ic for 
lines 13 

cool 's a good ic for 

from  ( tall cool one ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
i'm looking for an ic that will convert levels to 
levels .  . something relatively would be nice , too. anyone 
a suggestion thanks. 

try a 8 pin , converts to for  . 
what a clever little ! 

peter t. 


from  ( gary gendel ) 
subject re a question about  . 
organization mentor corp .  . ic group 
lines 42 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host warren . com . 

in article , writes 
in article ,  ( russ crisp ) writes 
so .  .  . here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the 
same electrical if i the from the neutral 
over to the ground on new  three   . 
what 's wrong with my reasoning here 

what you can do if you want three without additional is 
to use a  ( or , but the will be  . in fact , 
depending on where you are putting your new  ( outlet(s ) , a may be required . 

you still need to supply a proper ground for a ground fault ! 
so is still a part of this job , however , the ground may be connected to 
a local earth ground , rather than back at the box .  . 

as said , devices are required by code in a number of places , most 
notably , and outside the house. i do suggest the use of , 
rather than the  . you will end up with much less  . 
in long runs is sometimes enough to cause frequent tripping of the  . 

devices do save lives , if you decide to them , be sure to check them 
regularly  ( using the test  . 

running the family business  ( electrical and lighting ) for many years , i 
have seen too many , because they forgot to double check 
their common sense list. please exercise  . 


vice president current 
corp mentor corporation 
9 woods drive 15 independence 
, nj warren , nj 

phone  ( 908 ) phone  ( 908 ) 
fax  ( 908 ) email 








from  ( rajan ranga ) 
subject an external 
article i.d. gap . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 8 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

i was wondering if anyone knows of a chip that that is similar to 
the internal 0 on the i want a that has 
a a and b and the output should the same as 's  . i called 
and they told me that they do n't make such a chip .  . any suggestions 
are welcome. thanks in advance. 


e mail 

from  ( eric h. taylor ) 
subject re help with device 
summary and methods 
keywords , , , , , , radio 
nntp posting host org . 
organization 4 l laboratories 
expires fri , 30 apr 1993 06 00 00 gmt 
lines 36 

in article writes 
... 
there are a variety of water proof i could use but the real meat 
of the problem is the  .  . hence . this posting. what kind of 
would be reliable , in or even night time 
conditions i'm not sure if sound is given the under 
water .  .  . obviously . direction would have to be accurate but range could be 
relatively short (i imagine 2 or 3 hundred would be more than enough ) 

jim 

refer to by james harris 
, 1 , , 1 , , 1 , , 103 1 , , 1 , , 
1 , , 1 , , 1 , 316 , 

he details methods of and communications .  . 
for a review , refer to electrical , march and june  . 

 methods were used during the world war , and was 
after the war. supposedly , the government this 
soon after , and was forgotten. 

the bottom line is that all that are grounded send half of 
their signal thru the ground. the half that thru space is 
quickly  ( by the square of the distance ) , but that which 
thru the ground does not at all. furthermore , 
the published data showed that when out regular 
, the would virtually free. 

if you find this hard to believe , then refer to the work of the 
man who invented  . confirmed that  methods 
were correct , while wave theory was completely . 


et was 100 years ahead of his time. perhaps now his time comes .  . 


from  ( adrian blockley ) 
subject integrated type by  . 
lines 15 
nntp posting host edu . au . 

where can i buy 1 or 2 of these  ( pref in australia ) 
what is name and address of  

dan 




! i may say something profound 
environmental science ! here one day. 
university ! 
western australia , ! 
! 
phone 09 ! 


from  ( donald d rice ) 
subject heavy duty software 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization institute , , 
lines 21 


i would be interested in hearing from anyone who knows of good software for 
, particularly in source form suitable for unix workstations 
 ( though good pc software would also be of  . 
i'm aware of the numerous mutations , and have been using mn for 
some time now. i'm primarily interested in , , and low ( mhz ) 
designs , mostly wire , but for thick and as well 
as for your basic thin wire assumption .  . 
is anything interesting happening with itself i 've seen a version 
that was mutilated to run  ( sort of ) under , but i'm not 
sure how many new and improved versions of the code might be out there 
somewhere. 
i 'd also be interested in non  . the ones i 've seen have 
been aimed at applications , but if there is something out there 
useful at the lower , i 'd like to know about it. 
thanks , 

rice e mail  ( internet ) 
institute  ( bitnet ) 
university of  ( span ) 
, phone  ( 907 ) 64 . 212 . 

from  ( galen watts ) 
subject re 's 
distribution na 
nntp posting host storm . edu . 
organization college of natural resources ,  . state univ .  . 
lines 16 

in article r . writes 
can anybody recommend a good , application oriented 's reference 
to circuits 
steve at t bell labs 

i have the handbook for the radio amateur , and i'm getting the 
solid state design for the radio amateur .  . 

the handbook is 25 and solid state is 12 from , main , , 
ct but you should be able to find them at or amateur radio 
stores .  . 
will want 5 or so for  . 
good luck , 
, 



from  ( kirk cowen ) 
subject references .  .  .  . 
distribution world 
organization computer club 
lines 12 

i 've got the same problem i ca n't dig up any info on the 
on the 3.5 drives .  . 

can anyone recommend a reference  ( book(s ) on the subject , rather than a 
quick fix type answer i was going to start up things and 
the results , but the of a ten second test deters 
me .  .  .  . 

thanks ,  . 

via pro 


from 
subject re cheap products 
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma .  . 
lines 22 
nntp posting host eng . stratus . com . 

in article  ( roger a williams ) wrote 
 ( mike donahue ) writes 


i do not know much about products , but i do know for a fact 
that does not make its own high end home and that 80 
of it comes directly out of  .  .  . 

like most high volume , has most of its pc 
assembled off  ( in their case , mostly in the far east) .  . final 
assembly and are done in east  . 


and of course you older folks on the net will remember 
way back when got its and  ( ca 
1985 or so ) their and were not only 
designed here but built here in the usa .  . then they 
went to mexico and then to taiwan right after their 
sales because of their 
review ! ! ! if you have units that old look for made in 
stickers on your  . 


from 
subject home made remote 
organization state university 
lines 19 

here 's a question for all you electrical out there 

i bought an   at radio shack for 3 . it is a 
little that senses and produces an output signal .  . then 
i the output through a to an led .  . the works 
like a remote control in my car all remote commands are 
to the hidden in the  . it works fine with 
my , but when i tried to build the same for a friend 's 
, it did n't work. 
the appears to work for other  ( you can see with a 
camcorder ) but it only seems to work for my 
 .  .  . 

any advice would be  .  .  .  . 
brian 


@ edu . 


from  ( mark c. langston ) 
subject negative logic high 
summary help ! ! ! 
distribution world 
organization state university 
lines 28 

this may sound like a simple minded question , but this is the first time 
i 've ever had a need for this 

i 've been some relatively simple chip circuits based on things 
like  ( you know , no light to , a logic 
high , etc . ) .  . 

anyway , i 've got some lying around , and i wanted to do some things 
with them using digital logic .  . i know all about having to the signal 
and everything , i just have one problem i'm assuming i need a negative 
 ( yes , negative ) logic high to get the thing to turn in the direction 
opposite the direction it would turn under normal logic high. 

is a negative logic high (i 've seen this in schematics ) the same thing as 
an active low , or what i'm not using a power source , so how 
would i get a negative logic high out of this thing i need to have all 
three available logic high , logic low , and negative logic high. 

any help would be greatly appreciated. also , please reply via email , as i 
never seem to have time to read this  ( or any other ) group lately. 

thanks much , 
mark 






from  ( paul wallich ) 
subject re help with long 
organization r us 
lines 16 

in  ( john haddy ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael covington ) writes 
instead , use a and divide its by 2 40 times 
or something like that. 
... would n't a be affected by cold my gut feeling is that , as a 
mechanically device , extreme cold is likely to affect the 
( terminology ) of the , and hence its  . 

yes , but in a fairly way. 40 is only a of the 
distance to absolute zero .  . and in any case you 're going to have to 
borrow space from a lab or someone to test this 
anyway. btw , you 're probably going to want those big 
you found to fire the high current on frozen 
can be an thing. 

paul 

from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re illusion 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 31 

i missed the first article s on this line due to not having a 
chance to read the news for a couple of days .  .  .  . 

the idea is in at least one product , the private 
eye. that 's a small cube device that the user around 
the head similar to a  . there is a that comes from 
the side on which the device is mounted so that it is 
in front of the user 's eye. 

the private eye we had here for evaluation was 
compatible .  . the are a row ( 400 leds ) that are swept up 
and down by a like movement .  . the result is that the 
sweeping led bar forms a  . there is a virtual image 
in front of the user that the system tends to 
with the background .  . 

i did n't like the device very much. i found it easiest to use if i 
looked at a white wall. i had problems with focus 
if i down to look at my keyboard for an out of the way key .  . 
the also a soft and which i found 
annoying. some people did n't seem to mind the  . properly 
used , however , the image clarity was quite  . 

i do n't know if the company has taken the technology any further in 
the last year or two , but it did seem to have promise. 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( paul johnson ) 
subject re program for 
reply to  ( paul johnson ) 
organization research centre , great , uk 
lines 30 

in article  ( fred w. culpepper ) writes 
i am making a search for a program that does a decent job 
of making  . the program needs to be in 
dos , if possible. 

what i want the program to do is to draw by 
elements onto the , and in this the elements 
needed are as as to  ( case with  . 
it also needs to have for adding legends to the 
components as well as their values .  . in other words i want to 
produce quality  . would be to either 24 pin 
and or laser  . 

i would suggest draw for  ( by  . i have this on my 
home box .  . its quite impressive and only cost  . it has a rather 
nice clip art library which you can expand with your own 
 . there is no component clip art included , but you 
could add your own quite easily. 

it works with any of course , and can also 
embedded and files. 

note i am not connected with in any way. 

paul .  . 

paul johnson  ( paj@gec co .  . tel 44 

these ideas and others like them can be had research is not 
for 0 . 02 . each from any  . responsible for my opinions 

from  ( kevin doherty ) 
subject hard drive component costs 
organization e systems , division 
lines 17 

does anyone have some information on the relative of the final 
cost of each component in an average hard drive for instance , i'm pretty 
sure the heads and the are the most expensive parts , with the 
assembly costs running a close third .  . cost of the is likely 
in the  . 
any hard numbers ( or percentage ) thanks. 



kevin e systems division 
principal engineer falls church , va (703) 



kevin e systems division 
principal engineer falls church , va (703) 


from  ( tall cool one ) 
subject can i use a for digital 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 14 

as the subject says can i use a for digital i do n't see 
why it could n't handle digital , but i could be wrong. anyone have 
any advice thanks. 


i i 
( @ ) ( @ ) 
raymond internet 

ee student at the 
university of illinois compuserve , 
at urbana champaign 
( ) ( ) 
i i 

from  ( john haddy ) 
subject re help with long 
organization university 
lines 39 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 

in article ,  ( michael covington ) writes 
(1) do n't use big  . they are unreliable for due to 
 . 

instead , use a and divide its by 2 40 times 
or something like that. 

1 divided by 2 40 1 cycle per 2 weeks , approximately .  . 

(2) i would n't expect any components  ( other than or 
capacitors ) to fail at 40 c  ( or 40 f for that matter either ) ) .  . 
the is going to be your big problem. also , of course , your 
should n't depend on exact values of  ( which a 
controlled wo  . 


... would n't a be affected by cold my gut feeling is that , as a 
mechanically device , extreme cold is likely to affect the 
( terminology ) of the , and hence its  . 


michael a. internet 
artificial intelligence programs phone 
the university of fax 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 






department 
( ) ( ( ( school of 
university 
, australia 

email , 61 2 , fax 61 2 



from  ( gerard v. talatinian ) 
subject low cost 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 12 

i am looking at buying a low cost ( 500 ) for general purpose use. 
any is this info in a faq somewhere 
any appreciated. 
thanks , 
 . 



network systems 
university computing services fax  ( 812 ) 
university voice  ( 812 ) 


from  ( scott dorsey ) 
subject re log stereo high quality pot  ( hi fi ) 
organization nasa research center and farm 
lines 20 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

in article (c . m .  . hicks ) writes 
 ( cobus theunissen ) writes 

hi there , 

i am looking for a high quality log stereo pot for an 
 . the design 2 , but i cannot 
find it anywhere ! any suggestions 

the best around  ( imho ) are made by in the uk .  . their 
basic model has a solid case , and plastic elements 
to 0 . across the whole  . the is that they 
cost of 50 each ( 

the p g are very good. the ones are usually carried by 
the same folks who run the amateur magazine .  . 

i 'll also recommend the noble , if you do n't mind 
sizes on everything. 
scott 

from  ( david prutchi ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host 
organization washington university , st. 
lines 30 

in article  ( eric cantrell ) writes 
back someone posted some information on where you can get 
to build an  . does anyone remember where you could get 
this. i'm very interested in getting some info on this. thanks 
in advance. 

eric 




contact inc. , 4 park st. 12 , , ct 
 ( 203)875 ) , fax  ( 203)872 ) and about 4 
 . 

in addition , if you want to build your own system from board level 
 ( biosignal , and isolated multiplexers ) 
you can contact the group , p.o. box , , il 
fax  ( 708)948 )  . 

david 



david 
washington university 
campus box 
one drive 
st. , 


from mike mike 
subject anyone know about data i o device 
x id slip 1 80 . edu . 
x sat , 17 apr 93 16 03 50 gmt 
nntp posting host slip 1 80 . edu . 
organization cat co .  . 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 9 

i keep finding these in local junk  . this may 
mean that they are indeed junk but i 'd like to hear from anyone 
else that may have met up with them. the basic device is a 
data i o universal programmer , and the usual is a 
with a programming 
 . i 'd really like to hear from anyone who knows whether 
these are worth bothering with. all i want to do is 
 . ideas , folks 
mike .  . 

from  ( mike lee ) 
subject wire table needed 
organization san diego state university computing services 
lines 5 
nntp posting host eng . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 


does anyone has a table about the size of the wire to the amount of current it can carry .  . probably in the 1 range .  . my friend is interested in converting a into an electric car. needed information for  . thanks in advance. 

p.s. any info on electric will be greatly  . 


from  ( stich , christian e . ) . 
subject re motorola and 
organization university of houston 
lines 26 
distribution world 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 
keywords motorola , , , , 33 50 , problems  ( fpu exception ) 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( stich , christian e . ) . writes .  .  .  . 
i just a motorola in an board  ( 25 
with capability to the  . previously 
a was and everything was working perfectly .  . now the 
systems a  ( indicating a exception ) when it check for 
the presence type of  . when i an the system works 
fine , but with the even at 25 it does not work. the designer 
of the board mentioned that putting a on data  ( 470 ohm ) 
might help , but that did n't change anything. does anybody have some 
suggestions what i could do does this look like a communications 
problem or is the particular chip dead  ( it is a pull , not new ) 
moreover , the place i bought it from is sending me an  . i thought 
that the were labeled not  ( for not  . 
are there any 

thanks 
christian 


it appears as if the problem is related to the 50 's need for very fast 
 ( and clean ) signal  . i got some email  ( vielen , thomas ) stating 
that motorola provides a solution for this problem in their manual .  . 
since my manual  ( 1989 ) the 50 i could n't find it. 
could someone please email me the 
thanks 
christian 

from  ( baldur thorgilsson ) 
subject receiver system 
summary channel receiver system 
keywords , receiver system 
organization national hospitals , 
lines 19 


dear netters 
i want to send from a running person to a computer .  . 
each signal is wide and there is up to 30 of them on each 
running person. the signal is only to be sent over a few hundred 
 . it seems to me that the intended for this use is 
about and about  . 
to make the as light as possible i suppose it will be best 
the to send the in an form. as this application is rather 
i do not expect to be able to buy the exact 
units i need. 
on the other hand i imagine that i can buy the receiver somewhere. i 
need a  ( up to 30 channels ) receiver or 30 complete 
in some system where one can add as many 
as needed in the particular case. 
do anybody know if there is existing such receiver 
system on the market 

 ( tf3bp )  ( please respond by email rather than nn ) 

from  ( mark e. ,  . 8056 ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
nntp posting host gov . 
organization computing division 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( john whitmore ) writes 
in article  ( john eaton ) writes 
s . walker . man 50 wrote 

during the nuclear reaction the can get hot enough 
to  . when this happens the liquid is to the 
where it is into the air. 
... 
contact with the cool outside air 
will the and it will fall back to the  . 
there it is by a cleaning using and is then 
into for reactor use the next day. 

another april 1 posting. ahhh .  . 


mark e. , 
bitnet unix is to computing 
internet as an a sketch is to art .  . 
 ( vms ! ) 



from  ( richard o .  . white ) 
subject re help with long 
organization university 
lines 49 


in article , 
writes 
i have a project that was in my that is somewhat a pain to design. 
what i am looking for is a stable long solid state  . what they want 
to do is to place this thing on the ice shelf and measure the amount 
of fall over a period of weeks. every two weeks , they want to trip a 
to different by gas pressure out across the 
 . then by down into the , the fall amount can be measured 
as they come to the different color  . 

the problem is trying to build a that would stand the cold ( 40 degrees ) 
and a power source that would n't  . i have looked at the timers and 
the standard dual timers , but thier wo n't go that low. also , 
two weeks to 1 , , 600 seconds per firing , which means one big 
cap ! i have found 2.2  ( yes , ! ) caps that have a working of 
5 and are small in size. but again , the time of at 40 or lower 
degrees is n't  . i was thinking of using several timers together 
to fire the at the end of the period , but that blasted cold and 
the on a over weeks is the pain. one possibility would be to 
use , but this is during the month  . anyone have any 
good ideas 

thanks in advance .  .  .  . 



just a suggestion 
take a motorola set it up to give you a once every or ten 
with either a rc or input. then feed to a as 
and output for 1 , , 600 output , might have to add a few  and  
or to get output and back to the to 
cycle .  .  .  . a from the the one shot then 
goes to a to drive the mechanism to fire the  .  . 
these require of current , between 5 15 , so a 12 
cell of a few would last the weeks. 
then take the board in 3 or 4 of or build a box 
of out of the stuff .  .  . with . or metal  .  .  . 
build a small out of 10 50 in series to keep the 
and warm .  . 
2nd thought use 2 one for one for and  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  . even . though the state that the al 
rated devices are good to 55 c .  .  . the have a 
in capacity .  .  . oh . make sure the area inside has air  .  . 

hope this helps 
( is this to long for the net  ( (be )  .  .  . 


from mike mike 
subject 16 bit serial 
x tue , 20 apr 93 06 56 45 gmt 
nntp posting host slip 1 34 . edu . 
organization cat co .  . 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 2 

someone was looking for these a few weeks ago check out 
mike .  . 

from  ( henrik bohre ) 
subject digital answering 
keywords digital 
nntp posting host 
organization university of technology , 
lines 10 

does anybody know anything about the from 
telecommunications 

i 'd greatly appreciate information about price , and  . 

regards , 



@ 

from  ( bill shymanski ) 
subject re advice needed 
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 
lines 41 

 ( joel kolstad ) writes 

in article 

if you are going to use one where it  ( eg , space , 
etc ) then i suggest you go and buy a fluke  ( never seen a beckman ) , however 
for every other use you can buy a  . 

my died a few days ago , thanks do about a 4 or 5 foot drop onto a 
lab table .  . ! @ ! @ ! @ @ probably not of anything , but i 've 
already filled out the for a fluke 87 .  . ) 

oh yeah , and sometimes our measurements here do count. not often , but often 
enough that i want at least one good ! 
joel 

we used to buy 110 and ( ) versions for use 
by in the mill where i work. after a while we 
got round to filling all the current with 
have a habit of not checking where the last 
guy left the leads before using a 3 1 2 0 . 5 . 400 
to check if a is good or not. its very hard on 
 ( and electricians ) when you put the across a 600 
bus. 
but that 's not why we stopped buying after a while a 
lot of them got funny in the display .  . a black would 
spread from one , or else they 'd come from those 
and fail to operate .  . now we buy , the 
low end 20 series mostly ( and we still fill the jack with 
 . 
what the world needs is a that wo n't let you change ranges or 
turn it on off with a lead stuck in the jack a little bit of 
clever plastic detailing would take care of this and make the world 
safer for , anyway. 
not that i 've ever put a on the wrong range into a live 
, no , not me .  .  . not . more than a dozen times , anyway .  .  .  .  . 
bill 



the inquiring mind bbs , , 

from michael 
subject re cheap products 
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma .  . 
lines 20 
nntp posting host eng . stratus . com . 


off assembly is one reason that is able to make products 
that perform as well as those from people like research and van 
 ( and better than and forte' ) , but at a much lower cost .  . 

how do you 

i gather by off assembly you mean that are built by 
blue 's who are into that fi sound (i agree on that one) .  . 
my did sound better after the famous 
running the class a , and replacing the metal 
bottom cover with , , too bad the could not make em sound 
better , , but better sound , unfortunately , does not appear to be a priority 
with , else the would neither have been necessary , nor would they 
have improved what was already as state o d art  . 
i really want to hear from all those people out there who have up 
from an  ( even an ! ) to a etc. , or maybe from those that 
have their  for a etc .  .  .  .  . 



from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re 
organization u of 
lines 17 

in article  ( wayne smith ) writes 
no was placed 
on receiving  ( or , , ) . enforcement 
of the virginia law is in violation of the of  . 

n't there some kind of rule  ( regulation , law , whatever ) in some 
that the use of police 
in and that transmissions are included in the police 
so they get covered by the same 

those rules laws would be subject to the same attack that 
they are attempting to federal authority to  ( or not ) 
radio communications .  . of course , as the original poster noted , court 
challenges of this kind can get expensive .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( mont pierce ) 
subject re 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 31 

in article  ( cole ) writes 
i would like to experiment with the family. does anyone out 
there know of any good ftp sites that might have , , 
etc. 

well , it 's not an ftp site , but i got an number for bbs .  . 

the bbs contain some pretty good items for the  . i am 
currently using the following files which i from them 

zip . 's family macro assembler 
zip . file load and go using 
 ( allows you to your program into a 
and then execute from  . works great .  . tell 
me if you want more  . 
zip . for feature help 

they have lots of coding examples , , and misc .  . tools .  . 

bbs numbers are  ( 800 ) 
 ( 408 ) 

have fun , 

pierce 


ham call internet 
80 40 20 15 10 2 ibm 
modes , , 


from  ( robert smith ) 
subject re plastic , what happened 
organization systems , 
lines 7 

if you 're thinking of they 're making safe 
out of it. as far as being goes anything with 
a resistance less than 10 to the power per measure 
is classed as per for protection. my 0 . 02 . 
( 0 .  . 

bob .  . 

from  ( morgan j bullard ) 
subject re power supply 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 47 

 ( aaron lung ) writes 

in article com .  ( chris best ) writes 
i'm no expert at 's , but you said something that made it sound like 
you did n't realize something. on a typical  ( well , on ours , anyway ) , 
there is no from ac to  . all the protected equipment is 
always running from the  ( via an inverter ) , with the usual 
condition of also having them on charge .  . if the power fails , big deal 
the computers never see it  ( until the start to , but 
there 's something like 60 car in that , so it 
takes a  . 

if you were gonna run the on straight instead of an , 
why not do it all the time then there 'd be no to 
things up , and no having to sense the failure fast .  . just keep the 
on charge when the power is on , and it 'll be there in zero time when 
you need it. 


actually , it 's a bit more complicated than that .  .  . i . sounds to me , 
your takes in ac , it to to charge the , and 
then takes the and it to ac again , feeding your 
equipment. this approach is the easiest and way to 
from the to once your power kicks out since , 
as you mentioned , nothing will know about what happened down the line. 

another way to do the scheme is to use the until you 
lose power , and then kick in the with it 's to 
replace the lost power. the problem here is the time and 
you 've got to the ac in no time flat .  . 
that 's a not a , otherwise there would be no  . 
many units are as 's though. 

or 


unfortunately , most everything is built around the assumption that 
ac is available , so the guys have to provide and ac output to 
be  .  . have to make it work with what there already. 

similar story with our telephone system. it was first invented back 
in the 's .  . we 're still using the same damn system  ( media ) as they 
did back then. if i have a phone from back then , i can you 
it 'll work on today 's phone system. it costs too much to 
everyone to a new system , so they make it work with what is out there. 

. 

from  ( matt block ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
article i.d. reed . 
organization reed college , , 
lines 36 

in article  ( babak sehari ) writes 


i was wondering , what copy protection techniques are , and how 
effective are they has anyone have any experience in this area 

with highest regards , 
 . 

uh oh .  .  .  . 
umm , there are a number of copy protection  . some involve 
the physical media , and some involve , c. 
all of the ones that have existed over the course of computing have 
been successful for a time. i recall , however , near monthly of new 
ways to crack the copy protection scheme of the latest  . the fact 
is , none of them are completely secure , or anywhere near it. some are more or 
less difficult to crack , and some have already been  . 
i guess what i am saying is that your question is difficult , if not 
impossible , to answer. what exactly do you want to know do you need a good 
one for a project you are working on how secure must it be are you trying 
to crack one that someone else has used i can probably make suggestions , 
assuming the activity is strictly legal .  .  ( in general , it is a bad idea , 
legally , to with copy protection. it can also lead to corruption of 
files which you necessarily do not have back of  ( being as they are copy 
protected , ) which can be ) . do you have absolutely no ideas for 
practical applications , and are merely curious 
please clear up those questions , and i 'll try to help as much as i 
can. 

, the uh oh .  .  .  . at the top is of the dread 
anyone who has watched their friends equipment be off 
when they are asked how to hack .  . the area you are is wrought with 
, many of which include breaking the law , or at least addressing it 
 ( from one side or the other . ) . 

matt 

from  ( filip gieszczykiewicz ) 
subject faq corrections 
summary pcb correction , ftp site , etc 
organization medical , pittsburgh , pa usa 
lines 29 


 . i received a reply stating that unless someone else 
that the following company is operating , i should 
remove it from my 

pcb of , 
ronald baker 
south east 
, 
tel read below 

this is from the pcb . faq .  ( commercial pcb  . 

also , i do n't have time to get the faq onto the sci . answers . 
because of what i like to refer to is red after the 
finals , i 'll see what i can do .  .  .  . in the mean time , anyone know 
of an ftp site that would n't mind a file ) 

and last , i have some new for the list  ( mostly 
stuff ) but was wondering should i keep 
the restrictions on the price of the software to be considered 
under 600 or should i include all those in 4 also 

take care. 

i 'll buy a  . best e mail 
all ideas are mine but they can be yours for only 0 . so respond now ! ! ! ! 
i live for my ee major , , programming , , and assorted dreams .  . 
drive has and dos has  . dos is worried ) 

from  ( steve verity ) 
subject need help with video 
organization systems n software 
lines 55 



i am trying to build a that the presence of video  . 
a screen ) by the r , g , and b of a 
card .  . it should be able to detect the presence of a single at 
65 , which would mean a 15  . it should also be 
able to tell the difference between a  ( about mv ) 
and a dim  ( say , around 310  . oh yes , it also needs to be 
cheap .  . 

my first was a failure .  . i used 3 each 
had the going to one of the guns , the 
went to a reference created by a  ( divider(a  . 

the first problem was that the was way too slow .  .  . i 
needed to get several in a row before it would fire the 
, so i could have a whole full of text , but my 
would not detect it. 

the second problem is that there was more on the reference then 
the smallest difference between a and a dim screen. in 
fact the difference between completely black and completely white is 
only  . i am wondering if i am going to have to the 
video to make this work. 

there are , but they are expensive , and require 
split  . i would need to replace my  . 49 . quad 
with three 1 . 89 . , and create a whole new power supply 
 . 

at this point , i think what i need is some sort of 
 . are fast and cheap and should do the trick .  .  .  . 

unfortunately , i am way out of my league when it comes to 
circuits , so i am appealing to the net for help. any 
ideas , , circuits , , references , etc. would be greatly 
appreciated. 

oh yes , i only the output of this thing every second or so , so 
i do n't need a fast response time at all , however , i have n't found a 
way to take advantage of that fact. 

thanks a lot for any help anybody might be able to give .  . of course , 
you will have my undying  . 


steve 





 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ... ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . 
steve  .  .  . on . 
 .  .  . 

from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re telephone on off ok 
organization corporation 
lines 59 

in article  ( john thomson ) writes 
just a thought of mine here 
since an on line is 48 , and off it usually drops below 1 
how about an led in series with a say around  . 
on led on 
off led off. 
would this work if anyone tries tried it , please let me know. 

, there 's the rub if you draw enough current to light an led , the 
equipment at the phone company will think you 've gone off  . 
in the on state you 're not supposed to draw current .  . 

which means you should just use your digital  . you can use an 
old but the phone company equipment can detect that and might think 
there 's something wrong with the  . 


look guys , what 's the problem here if you want a light that goes on when 
the  phone is off , all you need it to run it in series with the 
line , as i mentioned in my previous post. if you want a light that goes on 
when the  phone is on , all you need is a  . 

if you 're going to do the series thing  ( which is the easiest ) , just 
make sure that the led can take the current (i ca n't recall it off hand , but 
it 's something like or more ) 

careful now folks .  .  .  . also consider the that is forced on 
and when the phone 's supposed to ! even with a simple 
and led setup , you might end up with some carbon real quick .  . whatever 
scheme you use , make sure you 've got at least rated components on 
the  . 

also remember that , if i'm not mistaken , the phone line is a 
equivalent  . any current you draw from the or so gets 
dropped across that  . that 's fine until you 're down to roughly 
, when ma bell considers it to be off  . but dropping it that 
far down is probably a big no no. 

the easiest implementation to the above 




v 



v led 




this is only a suggestion .  .  . go . ahead and blow holes in it , but you 
get the idea. choose a high led so you do n't need much 
current to get it to light up. choose values for the other components 
as required. 

aaron 


from  ( john schuch ) 
subject re need for a chip 
nntp posting host mot . com . 
organization motorola computer group , tempe , az .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 59 

in article  ( mont pierce ) writes 

i bought this chip from technology and tried to build their 
 . but it 's not working .  .  .  . 

if anyone has the and possibly the i 'd sure 
it. 

i presume it is the m from corporation .  . 

pin description 

1 
2 
3  ( gain select through use of feed back resistor ) 
4  ( reference output , about 2 ) 
5 connect to 
6 connect to 
7 
8 output  ( connect across 7 and 8 ) 
9 
10 output  ( logic high allows data output ) 
11 data output 
12 data output 
13 data output 
14 data output 
15 output  ( any other company would call this  data ) . 
16 early output , sort of like i'm starting to hear a tone . 
17 guard time output 
18 

power supply 4 .  . , 5 .  . 
current 3 . , 7 .  . 

but .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

you really should have bought the motorola part from me. ) 
(i still have them in stock ) 

john 



if someone could fax , email , or mail a copy 
of the for this chip that would be even better. ) 

please email me if you can help. 

thanks in advance , 

pierce 


ham call internet 
80 40 20 15 10 2 ibm 
modes , , 




from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
keywords nuclear 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 25 

just to complete that thought , the cool water that 
through that the 
back into for the that 
energy from the reactor 's  . 


, etc 
. 
reactor . 
c. t. 


the reactor has a closed loop to prevent 
contamination of the the  . 

the is a separate to contamination of 
the with , etc. 
is important business at both fossil 
fired and nuclear generation facilities .  . 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( charlie brett ) 
subject  ( trons(sp ) 
nntp posting host com . 
organization site 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 5 . 
lines 5 

has anyone ever heard of  ( or is it , ,  .  .  . ) .  . 
these were replacement for  . i'm looking for 
applications where they were used. 

charlie brett  . 

from  ( joel kolstad ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 38 

in article cc . edu .  ( babak sehari ) writes 

i have written a program and i want to market it. i would like certain degree 
of protection , since my main are individuals and not the 
 . i know laser hole burning method , and hardware key method , 
however , my software is going to cost only 15 . 00 . , so i can not afford that. 
also , at this low price i can not afford people make too many copy of my 
software .  . well , i guess say 20 copying is ok by me. 

however , i do not want someone to get a copy of and copy my software .  . 
off course , i never meant to forbid the true from copying , since they 
can a better program anyway. 

i would n't bother with the copy protection , if i were you. if you program 
is any good , the will have the protection and will be 
the version is well under a week. 

hardware methods prevent j. random from using his copy ii pc to 
your software , but does n't stop anyone who knows a few people with enough 
to real who will be able to defeat your check for the 
hole code. 

you may want to price your software  ( depending on what it is) a 
higher .  .  .  . a price change from 15 to 25 probably would turn off very few 
, and that way you could tolerate more  ( whose 
numbers do n't change with the  . 

as for the 20 figure .  .  .  . ha , ha .  . of course , a lot of just 
have this thing about having software , even if they never use it , 
so perhaps that really would n't count towards 20 . even so , 20 is awfully 
low. 


joel 

p.s. i assume you 're talking pc software .  . if you 're talking unix , 
48 , or something else somewhat obscure , copy protection might be a 
slightly more viable alternative .  . 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re help real time mode 
organization u of 
lines 20 

in article  ( martin john gregory ) writes 
i am having trouble obtaining the current from 
a real time  .  .  . 
lowest current i can at 3 . is  . this is 
three times the  .  .  . 
1 ) made sure that is asserted for after , and as is 
low during this time. 
2 ) made sure that there is a cycle on as after the negation of or 
during which was asserted .  .  .  . 

are any of the to the chip coming from 
for typically apply only if are all the way down 
to zero or all the way up to  . is n't good at doing the former and 
it wo n't do the latter at all without help from  . this 
sort of thing can easily multiply power by a 
factor , because the that are supposed to be off are n't 
all the way hard off. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( ted van heuvel ) 
subject motorola and 
originator 
organization 
lines 12 


let me try sending this message again , i up the the 
first time sorry  that ) 

does anyone out there know of any products using motorola 's  ( neuron(r ) 
or  . if so , what are they and are they utilizing 
standard network types  ( snvt ) 


van 



from  ( ed ravin ) 
subject re electronic parts in 
organization why me 
lines 19 

, street between the only one left in 
what was once an entire district of stores .  . a little expensive .  . 

am , street near 7th lots of type 
stuff. 

several other or type places are still on 
street. 

i think bronx wholesale radio is still in business road not 
too far from avenue in the bronx .  . also in the bronx is 
 ( or was it northeast ) on avenue near 
park  . they 're mostly a tv parts supply house , but when 
i was building radio , they were quite  .  . 

ed a tv cop a gun three times an hour .  . a real cop 
services co .  . a gun only once every five years. 
white , ny d i s c l a i m e r w a s h e r e 
1 or 

from  ( jeff gruszynski ) 
subject re digital how does it work 
organization 
lines 66 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 2 . 

, wrote 
, 

let me introduce a problem 

when i measure a wave  ( voltage ) with a digital , using 
ac mode , my output is an value (a value over 2  . right 
when i measure a square wave in the same mode  ( ac ) , my output is equal 
to a value , actually , to the flat of the wave .  . 
i assumed , that a digital makes some kind of of the 
value , and it over the wave period. right 
now , i used it to measure the same square wave as above , but 
by high  . ideally , output should be the same , but .  .  .  . 
the output value was only about 10 of the previous one ! 
why what is the nature of this output value what does the 
actually measure and what does it show 


re readings 

unless the says it 's measuring , it 's probably average  . 
the is and measured as  . if it says it 's 
and but measures square triangle etc. incorrectly , it 's measuring 
average and by a correction that 's only true for 
(i . e .  . 0 .  . if you want correct for  ( most ) 
any , you need a true which literally does the 
root mean square in either or digital  . 


related question  ( less important to me ) 
what are and of digital to compare with 
ones 

the last significant advantage of (imo) was being able to 
see the signal if it was changing over time (e . g .  . checking 
 . 

anymore , most have , etc. that this. 


thank you for your attention , you could mail me your opinion at 
or open a discussion here. i would appreciate either 
way. 


v. 


power system phone office  ( 409 ) 
department of electrical engineering phone home  ( 409 ) 
texas a m university fax  ( 409 ) 
college station , tx , usa internet 





jeff 
test equipment 
systems engineer 


 ( 415 ) or t 




from  ( robert g. carpenter ) 
subject re can be used to 
organization 
lines 6 

where can you get info  .  . ) . on systems and where to 
buy them 





from  ( stan burton ) 
subject re 
content type text plain 1 
nntp posting host stan 
content 
organization defence research 
x 1 . 01 . by michael b. smith mike 
version 1.0 
distribution na 
lines 25 

in article  ( louis leclerc ) writes 

in article you write 
va , ct , and i think canada where i 've heard they actually 
use  . 

nope , not in british  . are legal here in , i 've even 
got one. 

in and ontario they 're illegal , and devices are sometimes 
used. i 've heard the police in ontario prefer a much more direct method of 
 . just the gun , watch for people on the 
, and search the car. 


david 



are legal in , the old law was a long time ago. 



stan  ( dnd agcg ) 
 ( 403 ) , box , medicine hat , , canada , 

from  ( glenn elmore ) 
subject re single chip receiver for 
organization  ( srsd mid ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 2 . 
lines 78 

john x wrote 
my next project is to come up with an if for fast 
to 250 packet radio use. no fancy scheme , just 
wide for use at or  . 

i'm a bit familiar with the motorola chip , but i wonder if there 
are newer designs that might work at higher  . 

my goal is to come up with an design for a receiver back 
end with if on one end and an on the other. i'm 
particularly interested in ways to use a higher if than 10 . 7 . do any 
current work up to , say with internal so a 
normal if filter can be used 

any suggestions 

john 

what you describe is very close to what i built and described in the 
computer network conference  . 

i built 10 at  . they are essentially 
double conversion with digital and at 29  . 
the receiver uses the which is the same receiver chip i used 
in the 2 10 data link i first published in ham 
radio and which is now also in the handbook .  . 

the , which includes a section , could also be used 
at these  . there is a newer and perhaps slightly improved design 
of this  ( the if i remember  . 

while using this would have let me reduce the external if count on 
receive , it did n't really offer all that much help on so i 
did n't bother with it. 

the i built were first designed and built for in a 2 
channel but later reduced to half that. these 256 
actually have done quite well in across the at and 
speed is pretty much a function of filter design. handling the data 
is another matter entirely .  . 

some of the existing are currently on in a 
test mode .  . while there is not yet end end two way data 
due to lack of resources to software for the digital hardware  ( mio 
also shown in the proceedings ) , data is perfect copy at  . even 
though the data is currently at about half speed , the a 2 
of the test text  ( chapter 55 of isaiah ) takes only a little over 1 8 of 
a second .  . 

i 've been that someone would get interested enough to step in 
and get involved in writing code to make the whole thing  ( borland 
environment with remote possible as mentioned in the 
proceedings ) but to date a couple of us have been on our own and running 
low on resources of time , money and energy .  . 

if anyone in the sf bay area wants to check it out there is also a 
id after the text on the mark side at 740 . from on 
and black  ( overlooking  . the is 
 . 

i guess in retrospect my suggestions are that this is a fairly 
approach if the are intended for users rather than and 
you might want to carefully consider your target . if you ca n't 
your such that you have complete line of sight i think 
you 'll want to address the inter symbol interference caused by 
and probably link c n if are very far from los .  . 
for more details , see the  . i'm currently working on a spread 
spectrum , direct conversion design to address some of these problems. 
i 'd be glad to help as i can with any design problems. 

73 
glenn 

@ 
amateur 
internet 



from r . 
subject 's 
organization at t bell laboratories 
distribution na 
lines 14 

can anybody recommend a good , application oriented 's reference 
to circuits 

i am pretty good on theory know what different types of mean , 
but do n't have a lot of practical experience. a book detailing working 
circuits of different types  ( modulation , power , , what is legal , 
what is not , et cetera ) , would be very helpful .  . 

thanks. 


steve at t bell labs 
! ! 


from  ( david f. newman ) 
subject needed ! ! ! ! ! 
organization division of academic computing , university , boston , ma .  . usa 
lines 13 

hi there , 
i have a mac with a burned out part which looks like a 
 . the part number is and i believe the is 
thomas judging by teh logo printed on the  . if anyone 
has teh for this part i would greatly appreciate an email with 
the import info so i can find a replacement .  . thanx in advance. 

dave 


btw i do n't need people telling me to the computer away. if 
i had the money the thing would be in the trash in a second , but 
it does make a good terminal if nothing else. 

from  ( steven l. finberg ) 
subject new england ham electronic dates 1 april update 
keywords ham radio computers 
article i.d.  . 
expires 6 may 1993 
distribution na 
organization institute of technology 
lines 
nntp posting host 5 . mit . edu . 




new england area major market dates 1993 p 1 of 2 
all events are ham radio electronic related except 

1993 contact source 


3 april river nj 9 3 sell jack d 

4 april ct 3 3 203 f 

17 april nh rc @ church ray 

18 april cambridge ma at mit f 
buy 10 35 for pass 
3rd sunday each month april thru october 

18 april webster ma @ rest 3 10 203 f 

18 april ma @ rec bob 203 f 

23 , 24 , 25 april oh 11 sell 30 50 767 f 

2 may ny a 

7 8 may rochester nh traders off 16 5 noon fri 

15 may n main 

16 may cambridge ma at mit f 

16 may ma sell buy 

21 22 23 may rochester ny ny @ f 

5 june s vt 

6 june ct 203 

12 june me es 34 . 94 2 roger 

20 june cambridge ma at mit f 

17 nh rc @ church ray 

17 union me @ state 


last update 3 29 93 de p 1 of 2 

additions corrections via internet 
us mail mit cambridge ma 
for updated copy as issued .  . 



1993 contact source 


18 cambridge ma at mit f 
3rd sunday each month april thru october 

24 manchester nh 4  ( no tg ) f 

8 white ny d 

8 ma wars college t 

14 me @ club 

15 cambridge ma at mit f 

29 fall river ma tom t 

11 me @ 

12 md far nancy j 

12 s ma mass dan 

19 cambridge ma at mit f 

19 ct a 

25 me ed 

26 ma @ f 

26 ny 70 a 

15 , 16 rochester nh traders off 16 5 noon fri 

17 cambridge ma at mit f 

13 ma rc hall 9 3 jim 

14 ct brad 203 t 

last update 3 29 93 de p 2 of 2 
source f flyer j john list a list 73 
t early info d new info this month 
this list has been compiled from many sources. while we believe the info to 
be accurate the author can not be responsible for changes or errors. 
check with the organizations for more details. 
this list will be posted monthly to usenet if additions have been made. 
copies are sent when additions are made. 

additions corrections via internet 
us mail mit cambridge ma 
for updated copy as issued .  . 

from 
subject re need source for old radio shack 
id r ca . 000 
from com . ! apr 21 09 36 00 1993 
lines 5 


it 's made by  .  ( as is all  . call and ask if 
you can get a  ( it 's only like a 2  . 



from  ( dave medin ) 
subject re police  .  .  . just . how does it work 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( michael deaddio ) writes 

the  beam  is split in two , with one beam aimed at the target car  ( sort of ) and 
the other at the ground. the of each are for the final 
number 

actually , this is true on the more expensive ones , but the ones 
just read the  . 

i 've never seen a reading model .  . are you sure who makes 
them consider the difficulty of reading the on various makes 
of cars in use .  .  .  . i 've seen single beam moving mode and split beam 
moving mode .  . 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re receiver system 
keywords , receiver system 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 22 

one thing to consider is time division the 
to reduce the number of you have to generate .  . 
if you the at , that would probably be 
sufficient for most studies  ( you 'd have per 
channel rate . ) . that level of should 
be rather easy to  . 

a lot of is pretty tricky to do without 
 . a system to be carried by a is 
in a fairly harsh environment and would probably be difficult to 
keep balanced .  . 

a hand held could probably be employed with 
a little to widening the bandwidth .  . 
obviously , this has to be done in accordance with whatever laws 
the use of in your  . 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( baden de bari ) 
subject re 's 
organization system bbs , canada 
lines 36 

 ( brad meier ) writes 

hi , i'm looking for a , that is called a 's . 
this little box is usually seen in sci fi  . it consists of 
two of wire into the air , with little blue 
starting at their base  ( where the two are closer to each other ) , 
moving up the to the top , and ending in a small  . 

could anyone supply me with the for the of this box 

thanks in advance 
mike 

 ( please reply by email to 


the 

when it 's over i 'll go home , 
until then , i stay ! me 


i 'd like any information on this as well please. 

thanks. 




de 
o o 






from 
subject help wanted 
organization university of , ireland 
lines 8 

i need information on design especially 
filter design for the 1 range .  . can you recommend any 
good books , , or design software .  . 
. 
all help 

, ece department , of , ireland .  . 


from  ( patrick j. horne ) 
subject thermal wanted 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 21 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
keywords 

i have a thermal from a apple ii power supply  ( made 
by cannon ) that i need to replace .  . the is not the standard 
thermal like those found in hair etc , but is a 
rectangular plastic , much like a or  . it 
is about 0 . 2 . 2 . 1 . , with both leads coming out of one of the 
0 . 1 . 1 . sides. i have been told that it was made by , a 
company , but i can find no information as to a  . this 
is rated at 1a ,  . does anyone have a source for this i 
only need 5 or so , which means that the would n't even want 
to talk to me , let alone , deal with me. 

please via e mail .  . 

thanks , 



i like and bicycles , they 're than 
, network , , hardware 
cs dept , university of texas , austin , tx .  . usa 
voice  ( 512)471 ) , fax  ( 512)471 ) , uucp cs . utexas . edu . ! 

from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re building a 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 13 

you can get a little by putting a heavy filter  ( deep purple ) in 
front of an ordinary  ( the you can  . 
my father used a setup like this in law enforcement work  . 

good ( ) work like  . i 'd proceed by 
getting a cheap light , then going to an 
electrical supply house and finding a that would fit it. 


michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  ( gerald belton ) 
subject pc games  ( joystick ) 
article i.d. 
reply to  ( gerald belton ) 
distribution world 
organization , inc. , the hole bbs 
lines 29 

subject says it all could someone tell me the 
for a pc type 

a 
1 5 
2 1 
3 x 
4 ground 
5 ground 
6 y 
7 2 
8 5 
b 
9 5 
10 1 
11 x 
12 ground 
13 y 
14 2 
15 5 


. 2 . 1 . . soft judges make criminals .  . 


the hole bbs a private board service  ( 504)891 ) 
3 full service 16 . 10 100 , 000 files 
new ! network mail usenet newsgroups 
please route all questions or to 

from  ( christopher john powell ) 
subject 8 
keywords , , , ( 
organization university of , 
lines 23 

i have a which has been removed (i believe ) from a digital 
x ray machine  ( takes x ray pictures without  . the part number 
is  . 

i have obtained some data on the device , it is 8 type 
of megabyte capacity  ( though i was told it was over  . 
however , there is very little information on the interface standard used. 
it appears to use two balanced line , but what each connection 
corresponds to i know not. one connection is a 30 way , the other a 
60 way  . 

if anyone has any information on this device , i would be most 
if you could provide it. 

thanks. 


chris  . 


the man from janet 
internet 
nyx 

from  ( brian day ) 
subject re 
organization nasa 
lines 12 

 ( cole ) writes 

i would like to experiment with the family. does anyone out 
there know of any good ftp sites that might have , , 
etc. 

try gov . pub 


brian day 
new technology , inc.  ( 205 ) 
mission software development division opinions are my own 

from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re question function 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 36 

1 ) output offset obtain the service manual for the 
and the internal output offset  . there is virtual 
certainty that there is an internal for the offset 
control 's zero position. 

2 ) verify that the function is properly loaded .  . many 
expect you to supply a 50 load .  . go to a 
market and around for a pass through 50 
that has a male and female  ( or whatever ) 
on it. the on my tektronix is designed to put out 
 . into a 1 load , but  . 1 . into a 50 load .  . you may 
also find that the output of the function also 
reduces the  . 

build an  . you do n't have to use  ( and i would n't want to 
use ) the of the device under test as part of the 
to drop the test  . consider this 



gen 50 d . u . t .  . 
 ( loaded ) 


think about the ratio of 50 and then think about the accuracy 
to which you can read on your  . you can 
virtually discount the of the d . u . t .  . also you have the 
test you want. 

good luck , 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re laser vs 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 29 

the actual of an 
is 1  . the and of the ink 
, however , limit you to at per  . 
on almost any paper , the ink more than 1 anyway. 

the method of and of a 
results in much less spread than ink drop technology. 

it does n't take much investigation to see that the and 
electronic complement of a laser is more complex than 
ink  . recall also that laser 
offer a much higher 10 for a laser versus about 1 
for an ink  . 

something else to think about is the cost of over the 
life of the  . a 3000 page is about 
us 75 80 at discount while high capacity ( 1000 page yield ) 
are about us 22 at discount .  . it could be that over the 
life cycle of the that for laser are 
less than ink  . it is getting closer 
between the two  . laser are usually 
for higher duty in pages per month and longer product 
replacement  . 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( neil b. gandler ) 
subject need model for 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 15 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 


im a with just a silicon  . i dont need 
to any of the  . but the problem will not accept the following 
statement 

 . model . d 

the book i have is terrible .  . i would appreciate any help. 


neil 


home electronic design technology 


from () 
subject seeking 
reply to () 
organization materials research lab 
lines 17 



i would like to be able to a signal which is 
output from a , by a factor of 
100 or 1000 so that the resulting can be fed 
more easily into a personal computer based data 
card .  . 

might anyone be able to point me to references to such 
circuits i have seen simple circuits before , but 
i am not sure how well they work in practice. 

in this case , i 'd like something which will sufficiently 
nicely to be used for  ( say , a few degrees 
accuracy or  . 

any would be greatly ! 

from  ( john nagle ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 42 

wayne martin writes 
excerpts from netnews . sci . 16 apr 93 re what do nuclear 
site 's  .  .  . by r tim 
from r tim 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
date fri , 16 apr 93 21 27 21 pdt 

in article 
( s . walker . man 50 ) wrote 
i really do n't know where to post this question so i that 
this board would be most appropriate. 
i was wondering about those massive concrete that 
are ever present at nuclear sites .  . they look like 
that have been in the middle .  . does anybody know what the 
actual purpose of those things are . i hear that they 're called 
  but what the heck do they cool 
great , however you left off one detail , why do you always 
see them at nuclear plants , but not always at fossil plants .  . at 
nuclear plants it is to run the water closed cycle , whereas 
fossil plants can in some cases get away with dumping the hot 
water .  . as i recall the water is n't as hot  ( thermodynamically ) in many 
fossil plants , and of course there is less danger of 
contamination .  . 

actually , fossil plants run than the usual 
water reactor nuclear plants .  .  ( there 's a in the industry 
that nuclear power uses 1900 steam  . so it 's 
more important in nuclear plants to get the cold end of the system 
as cold as possible. hence big  . 

oil and gas fired steam plants also have , but they 
usually are to get the steam back into hot water , not most of the 
way down to  . some plants do cool the with water , 
rather than air as one canadian official , asked about thermal 
pollution de a river , said , up here , we view as a resource . 

everybody runs closed cycle  . the water used is 
of , which otherwise up the when 
the water boils .  . water for use is a bigger job than 
it , so the water is  . 

john 

from  ( mike linnig ) 
subject re books info on 
in reply to 's message of 6 apr 93 13 36 13 gmt 
nntp posting host com . 
organization texas , defense , systems and group. 

distribution rec , sci 
lines 25 

in article  ( chris smith ) writes 

i'm looking to build a for guitar  . hence lots of background 
information would be really useful ! 

if anyone 's got any info , could they email .  .  .  .  .  . 

well , i'm not sure i 'd use this to process a guitar but there was a 
filter construction article in the issue of magazine  ( ham radio 
 . the is available in form for about 120 .  . 

this particular filter was to remove 
 . i built it and it really works well. the source code is 
available too. it makes a signal much easier to hear .  . note that 
this is for applications and is not high fidelity . 





mike , texas inc. 43 . of all statistics are made 
phone  ( 214 ) call up most of them 6 . percent ) 
internet are wrong. 



from  ( joseph krzeszewski ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 9 
nntp posting host edu . 

well , this is my second try at posting on this subject. here goes .  .  .  . 
in texas  ( corpus at least ) if you pick up the phone and 
the phone company will read the number of the phone you are on 
back to you. i believe the service department uses this to make 
certain they are the correct lines when they open the big 
boxes .  . i do n't know if it will work but you can give it a 
try. good luck. 



from  ( christopher james bruno ) 
subject 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 11 
nntp posting host edu . 

hey everyone , i'm new to this newsgroup so please excuse me if this is a 
question .  .  .  . i . want to build a for my stereo and i need 
a with an of 6 .  ( actually i need  . i was wondering 
if anyone knew where i could buy these or how to make these. i 've called 
many places and no one i can find them. if you have the answers just 
e mail me .  .  .  .  . 
thanks in advance .  .  .  .  . 
chris 




from  ( christopher kushmerick ) 
subject red position 
organization national 
distribution na 
lines 16 

i am looking for information on red based position  . 

the idea would be to the source off a and the device would 
read out the distance .  . 

preferable it would be rs 232  . 



any leads 



chris 

i found my in life , i just did n't fit in. 

from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re tv ! 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution usa 
lines 6 

sounds like the picture lost  . this would cause the 
to and could actually turn the from a to a pressure 
, followed by an when the assembly  ( mostly likely 
to begin with ) off. during the whole sequence of events , 
the other circuits may continue , which accounts for not 
sound. 

from  ( scott dorsey ) 
subject re power , signal in home .  .  .  . 
organization nasa research center and farm 
lines 41 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

in article  ( douglas s. rand ) writes 
in article  ( randall rhea ) writes 

can legally run up to  . it is very unlikely , however , 
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. ham 

not possible either. you 'd need about a for 
just the  . i can just see it. you need to slow 
down on a , so you hit the push to talk  . 

now , that indeed is possible. a good friend of mine is running about 1 
from his car. yes , he does have a second  . yes , he calls 
the an electronic since the engine when the 
key is down. 

my car , unfortunately , has so much computer junk under the that it 's 
sensitive to  . if i key a over the engine with 
the open , the car loses due to the into the 
 . very poor design. 

i will , however , point out that ham radio operators are usually quite willing 
to help when interference is detected .  . remember that any interference is 
power if i put out in the tv , that 's that i am not putting 
out in the i am trying to on , and can often be the difference 
between a nice card hanging on the , and nothing. , however , are 
usually not as helpful .  . most illegal , however , will stop operation 
when you them of a problem. the rest of them will stop operation when 
you the local office of the problem  ( in writing , and giving details 
and  . 

last , you can usually tell ham radio vs.  . ham operators are 
required to declare their call  ( sign ) every so many  ( no more 
than  . so if you hear this is or some other call starting 
with a , w or k and no more than 6 total characters , you heard a ham .  . 
probably wo n't sign (i do n't know that they 're even required 
to) and fire police have other private  . 

good advice. will frequently give their call , and will never use 
a handle .  . they are less to use of as well , 
but that 's not to say that they do n't from time to time. 
scott 

from  ( pat leblanc ) 
subject data 
organization michigan state university , college of medicine 
lines 5 
nntp posting host edu . 

i am involved with a michigan company that has an application requiring 
data  . if you have expertise or information that may 
assist us in this project , please contact me  ( internet 
 . 


from (j .  . m. carmack ) 
subject re tv 
nntp posting host engr . engr . edu . 
organization university of 
lines 21 

just a thought .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . maybe . it possibly has to do with the fact that it 
is an  . i 've got an which is 6 in the series .  . returned 
it times for various and never the same problems. got tired of taking it 
back and fixed it myself. the hi fi was a bit off. something like 
the hi fi fine  . when i was a associate in '88  89 , 
we had at least one returned as every single day. how 's that for 
reliability face it can make stuff  ( albeit not of 
quality ) , but they can t make anything as complex as video equipment with 
reliability imho .  . please , no flames .  . just had to share my disaster 
in the light of this tv. 
jc 





la c ! not present error 
this message printed on abort , , fail 
100  . ! ! 



from (c . m .  . hicks ) 
subject re pre low 
organization eng . 
lines 22 
nntp posting host eng . ac . uk . 

 ( david josephson ) writes 

in  ( alan macaluso ) writes 

i'm looking to build a that has very good low characteristics , large clean gain , and power  ( 20 48  ( dc ) for a  . i'm towards a good , low cost ( ) to maintain the balanced from the , for its good , internal , and because i can use a minimal of parts. 

does anyone out there have any experience , suggestions , advice , etc .  .  . that . they 'd like to pass on , i 'd greatly appreciate it. 

without doing anything really tricky , the best i 've seen is the 
brown  . their shows a good application of this 
chip as a power pre .  . 

i 've had very good results from the from  ( part of 
 . they have also now introduced the which looks good on 
paper , but which i have n't tried yet. 




paradise is a world 
 ( also reported to taste hot and sweaty ) 


from  ( malcolm d. ) 
subject sale modems , , etc best offer 
distribution na 
organization , md , usa 
lines 26 


please take these and use them. take advantage of me .  .  .  . i really 
do n't know what they are worth .  . 

2 modems , model , rs 
interface , appear new. i have up but that 's all , 
i have not used them and i cannot tell you whether they 
work or not. 
make offer .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

1 , model sm 120 , interface 
rs , internal fan , powers up fine but otherwise condition 
unknown , phone for the company is 408  . 

make offer  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

1 motorola 212 a d , rs 232 interface appears to work 
but i have not and cannot check it. 

make offer  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

thanks and please buy this stuff or it goes out the door 



. 

from  ( dale ulan ) 
subject re what to do with old 
nntp posting host ee . ca . 
organization university of , canada 
lines 28 

state . edu .  ( daniel j rubin ) writes 

how hard would it be to somehow interface them to some of the popular 
motorola  . i am a at , but i am 
starting to get into them for some of my  . i have several 
around from and if i could use them as free 
memory in one or two of my that would be great .  . one project that 
comes to mind is a id device that would require quite a bit of 
to several records etc .  .  .  . 

assuming  .  .  . 
in expanded mode , you could do it. much easier if you get a 
ic .  . the could be used to implement this , or you 
could use a counter and a huge to provide row 
address  . the thing with is that they require 
, address , and  . 

actually , if you wanted to use a ic , you could look at , which 
has a neat built in. there is also the , i think one 
of those has the built in. this one is for the 
, however , the has only one more address line , adding only 
another component or so. the are basically 8 or 9 
 ( or their equivalent in  . 

it can be done , just takes a bit of logic design. i'm actually 
about to do it using a chip .  .  .  . i 've got 8  .  .  . that 's 
2 on my apple e .  .  .  .  ( used to be in my  . 


from  ( anthony s. pelliccio ) 
subject re style and 
organization 's italian kitchen and in operating network 
x newsreader v1 . 02 . 
lines 26 

 ( david f. newman ) writes 

hi there , 
can anyone tell me where it is possible to found 
on most style games. many i am working on would 
be greatly if i could implement them. thanx in advance. 

dave 



contact chris at chris 
he lots of old video and games and knows where to get 
parts. 

tony 


anthony s. , yes , you read it right , the 
system @ garlic . com . man who went from no code 
 ( thhhppptt ! ) to extra in 
flame sysadmin exactly one year ! 

this is a calm  . sig . ! 



from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
distribution usa 
lines 33 

yes , 

take i 70 to the route 48  . go south on 48 about 
2 1 2  . right on road. the is 
at the , which is about 1 west and on the north 
side of the road. at the is limited .  . is 
probably entirely up within a 40  . good luck. 


48 

.... 


x 
 ( mall ) 
s. 

it is possible to park at the to the west .  . there are 
running between the and the  . 

if possible , get a , oh map from your local 
office. it should be free if you are an member. 

if you do n't already have definite plans , now is not a particularly 
good time to start to think about going to the  . 




bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( scott dorsey ) 
subject re r s of the month club 
organization nasa research center and farm 
lines 9 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

in article  ( jason waterman ) writes 
i talked to a friend who works for radio shack , and he said the deal 
with the red were that they had too much lead in them. 
the red had a life cycle than a , 
i think the was worried about all those being out. 

pardon me , but why would carbon cells have any lead in them at all. 
scott 


from  ( mycal ) 
subject need to find out number to a phone line 
distribution world 
organization , inc. 
lines 14 


try i was reading a thread a while back about an number 
that you could  . worked here. it was a sales line for i think 
telling you that you could have all your numbers using there 
, then it told you your number .  . should work with any modern switch .  . 





pgp key on request. 

's way of 
turn , turn , turn , air , survive , survive , survive .  .  .  . no risk , no rush 

from  ( paul elliott ) 
subject re balanced 
distribution na 
organization access products 
lines 53 

in article  ( michael fulbright ) writes 
i am trying to build a and i 've hit a  . 
in my application i want to be able to change the gain of an 
from 1 to 1 , via a digital input. 
the most obvious way i 've come up with is to use 
to the gain of the  . the only switch i have 
experience with it the  . unfortunately i want to switch an 
ac signal which goes from about to , and the is only 
for positive  . 
... 
i have a signal which varies between and  . i want 
to an signal by feeding the signal thru a 
with a gain of 1 when the is at , and thru a 
with a gain of 1 when the is  . the output is then 
low pass filtered .  . i believe this is called lock in as well 
as  . 

look at the  . this is a 2 to 1 gate 
, with positive and negative power  ( can be run 
from a single ended supply as  . with dual , the logic 
still range from ground  ( 0 volts ) to  . 

this is a neat  ( well , i think so ) design for a polarity 






output 



control x  ( analog switch ) 





all are equal value. when the switch is closed , 
the is gain of one. with the switch open , it is 
non gain of one. you can clean up the to trim 
out offset current if this the  ( this would show 
up as feed  . 

for high , the rate of the might cause problems , 
especially if it is n't  ( and it usually is  . 


paul , ca usa 
uunet , pyramid , ! ! or 
i used to think i was , but now i'm not so sure. 


from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re help how to reduce the of a fan 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
distribution na 
lines 18 

yes , you increase the slip of a type fan by 
a in series with the fan 's power supply .  . the air of 
small 3.5 can be reduced by about 50 by using a 1 to 4 
 . use a good grade with working 
around 250  . note that some study is 
usually required to determine the best size 
for a given application .  . 

for applications , try the radio shack 12 box fan .  . 
it can run and start from as low as about 4 . 5 .  . it is 
quiet , but at admittedly low flow. i wish i knew who 
made the for radio shack .  . 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( andrew macrae ) 
subject re style and 
reply to  ( andrew macrae ) 
organization sun , view ca 
lines 14 
nntp posting host corp . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( david f. newman ) writes 
hi there , 
can anyone tell me where it is possible to found 
on most style games. many i am working on would 
be greatly if i could implement them. thanx in advance. 


just outside chicago these. i do n't remember which 
they are in. the are pretty reasonable and they are 
easy to up. i bought a new coin mechanism from them for 25 . 00 . 
a couple of years ago. 

andrew 


from  ( engineer by day by night ) 
subject re answers to many questions 
organization michigan university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 19 

bill wrote 
i have notice a lot of questions by people who are obviously not 
in to  . many of them have rather simple answers , and 
many of them require a  . 

rather than up the network , why do n't you write to me , send a self 
addressed , , and i 'll answer your questions , if i can. 

w. l. , p. e. 
114 circle 
, 

because the network is quicker , easier , and free  ( at least to  . 



wolf electrical engineer 

remember , even if you win the rat race you 're still a rat .  . 

from  ( john x 2966 ) 
subject single chip receiver for 
reply to  ( john x 2966 ) 
organization corporation law department 
lines 21 

my next project is to come up with an if for fast 
to 250 packet radio use. no fancy scheme , just 
wide for use at or  . 

i'm a bit familiar with the motorola chip , but i wonder if there 
are newer designs that might work at higher  . 

my goal is to come up with an design for a receiver back 
end with if on one end and an on the other. i'm 
particularly interested in ways to use a higher if than 10 . 7 . do any 
current work up to , say with internal so a 
normal if filter can be used 

any suggestions 

john 


john r. , jr. law department , corporation , , ohio 
 ( 513 ) 
packet radio 44 . 70 . 12 . 232 . 

subject , 
from  ( juhan poldvere ) 
organization university , department of chemistry 
nntp posting host ee . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 lines 10 
lines 10 


hi , 
could some kind soul post me the power current of 
and , their types and  . 
they are used in the portion of a tv set .  . 
thanks in advance , 

, 
university , dept. of chemistry fax 372  ( 34 ) 
2 st. , ee , , , via voice 372  ( 34 ) 

from 
subject re what 's a good ic for 
lines 18 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 

in article ,  ( frank ka3uww ) writes 
in  ( tall cool one ) writes 

i'm looking for an ic that will convert levels to 
levels .  . something relatively would be nice , too. anyone have 
a suggestion thanks. 

well it looks as if key a chip with the number that does what 
you want. they are selling it for about 3 . 50 .  .  .  . 

key also quad line , parts  ( 68cents ) and 
 . a quad line , part  ( 48cents ) , is also sold .  . i guess 
if you do n't wo n't to supply , the with the up might 
be worth the extra cost .  . but 's and 's are available at your friendly 
neighborhood rs , parts  ( 276 2520 ) for 1 . 29 . and  ( 276 2521 ) for 
1 . 29 .  . 

jeff white 

from state . edu .  ( mark fontana ) 
subject 
organization the ohio state university dept. of computer and info .  . science 
lines 37 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cis . ohio . state . edu . 


hi all , 

i'm an assistant at a local art here in  . i 'd 
like to expand our show a bit namely add the capability to 
use to bring the up. our current 
date from the early 60 's and do n't provide this function. 

we already have the contact to read the , 
and our system will raise the when its up control 
 ( 120 vac ) is momentarily closed , for at least 0 . 5 . second .  . 

i 've tried the control to a relay , when the 
the  . low tech and simple , but there 's one 
problem in order to get the 1 2 second , there needs to be 
a load of on the film .  .  ( 35mm runs at 90 feet per minute , 
so to get a 1 2 second , there needs to be at least 9 of solid 
! ) 

ideally , i would like to use a single cross to this function. 
(a single strip of to the length of the film ) 
this would give a of approximately 1 100 of a second .  . 
what i need is a to detect the short and the relay 
for around 1 2 second .  . the ability to how long the relay 
is would be nice. i figure this would require an rc 
of some sort .  . i'm sure some of you already have the solution 
out in your heads .  . any suggestions and would be ! 


thanks , 

mark 


of all the arts , the is mark a. 
the most important. computer and information science 
v . i .  . lenin the ohio state university 

from  ( chris hand ) 
subject re pc based program 
organization de university , , uk 
lines 26 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

frank wrote 
the  . zip . files contain , and have to be 
via d . then an s to three creates the 
needed to do the  . 

i'm still not sure how this is supposed to work , since the  . zip . files 
took up about 2 . , so it must be a on those  .  .  . 

however , i managed to and i'm pretty impressed .  . i created 
a couple of without problem , but whenever i try to 
create a pcb from one of my circuits  ( rather than the demos ) 
it does n't work. i'm wondering if maybe a file is n't where it should 
be .  .  .  . 

can anyone who has a printed manual comment on whether the 
fee is worth paying 


chris 



chris hand , internet mail 
dept of computing science , voice 44 
de university , the gateway , fax 44 2 32 . 50 . 
, uk free unix for ibm ! 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re public domain circuits in applications 
organization u of 
lines 31 

in article  ( david prutchi ) writes 
can circuits found in  ( with no disclaimer ) 
be used legally as of a 

there are two issues here and  . 

the magazine article 's contents are , and may not be , 
translated , etc. , without the 's permission .  . however , this 
does not cover the ideas expressed , only the form of  . copying 
their or pc board pattern is  . but 
it 's unlikely that they could stretch far enough to claim that 
the design itself is  . so long as you draw your own 
and out your own , should n't be an issue. 

are different. the author does not have to give you any warning 
that the design is covered by  ( although it would be sensible for 
him to do  . in fact , it 's possible that he was infringing on someone 
else 's without realizing it. ignorance of the patented status is 
not a defence against , although it might reduce the 
a court would award .  . 

however .  .  .  . unless there was something seriously novel about the , 
almost certainly it is obvious to one in the art and therefore 
 . engineering is not  ( in theory ) 
cover only , ideas that are new. 

i am not a lawyer .  . a would be wise if 
significant of money are at stake .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( mark zenier ) 
subject re trace size for a 15 supply 
organization , inc. , seattle , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 12 

r . g .  . wrote 
a quick and way to get higher current carrying capacity 
on pc board traces for one or few of a kind is to 
strip some 14 house to bare , form 
the bare to follow the trace , and it down. 

and if it 's not quick and , you can get that 
are out with leads that insert in the pc board. 

mark 



subject re can be used to 
from  ( weston r beal ) 
distribution world 
organization utah state univ .  . ee 
nntp posting host ee . edu . 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( robert g. carpenter ) writes 

it seems reasonable to me that a receiver setup could 
do the job. for example , say you want to map an lot , it 'd be convenient 
to place mw around the lot 's periphery  ( either 2 or 3) and then 
carry a hand held and walk to a point on the lot , press a and 
the of the 's is as digital data .  . 

what 's the chance of this working any systems like this already exist 
what kind of accuracy could you expect what would something like this 
cost to is there a better alternative than 

of course you could this system , but there is already a system called 
 . it gives three dimensional anywhere on earth. 
many use this system with a receiver to get 
within  . basic with resolution of a few  ( on 
a good day ) are available from many sources. 





r 


electrical engineer 
utah state university 

that 's the wonderful thing about they can take you to 
more places than a can. 



from  ( thomas j. trebisky ) 
subject re a question about  .  . 
keywords 
organization , univ .  . of arizona , tucson 
lines 19 

 ( chris richmond ) writes 
well , my house was built just last year , and the box is wired the 
same way. all the white and ground are on a common bus. except for 
the circuits , only black are to the  . it was 
the same way in the last two houses i had also. are you sure this is wrong 
i still have the building 's signature on the box .  . 

the point is that the original poster was talking about connecting 
ground and neutral in the box  ( big no no ) , and you are talking 
about them being connected in the box  ( as things should  . 

if this is not obvious , the point is that there should be current 
in the white , i.e. neutral return when things in the 
house are operating .  . there should not be any in the ground 
unless there is a fault condition. notice also that in the box 
there is a wire from the above mentioned to earth ground , 
usually a or driven into the ground. 

tom 

from  ( galen watts ) 
subject re suggestions on 
nntp posting host storm . edu . 
organization sound 
lines 25 

in article  ( tom , of old equipment .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . campus ) writes 
in article ,  ( aaron lung ) writes 
in article  ( billy quinn ) writes 
i built a little project using the radio shack to switch 
 . i got pretty bad   when the thing switched .  . i was doing 
my question is 
is there a good relay relay that i can use for switching 
, so that there will be no of any kind on the lines. 

are you switching high level or low level like pre 
a novel i used to build was a primitive  .  .  . it consists 
of a and a , all in a  . when the is 
off the cell is high resistance .  . turn the on and the resistance 

i use an to switch level  . 
there is no click , since i put a  . cap across the led .  . 
measurement are very low with level , and they went up to 0 . 03 . at a 
14 line level. all i did was put the in series with one 
of the balanced line. no , pops , just jumping out of silence .  . 
the runs about 100 million with the led dark and drops to 150 200 
with it on. 

hey , it works , and works well. 
, 


from  ( sean borman ) 
subject info wanted 
organization university of town 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 15 


hi there 

does anyone know how to get hold of data as well as stock of the 
used in the tv game machines 

any information be most appreciated. 

please e mail any replies to 



thanks 



from 
subject 
article i.d. austin . 
reply to 
organization ibm austin 
lines 3 
originator 


does anyone out there have the free  ( catalog request and order line ) for 
please post the number if you 've got it ! thanks. 

from  ( eric h. taylor ) 
subject re electronic 
summary real world applications 
keywords , , , , , , , ac , 
nntp posting host org . 
organization 4 l laboratories 
distribution world 
expires fri , 30 apr 1993 06 00 00 gmt 
lines 48 

in article  ( david prutchi ) writes 
in article  ( jerry long) writes 
fred w. wrote 
... 
a couple of years ago i put together a which 
was published in an magazine and could have been 
the which is referred to here. this one used a 
from a tv onto which you wound your own 
primary  . it also used 2 power in a to 3 
... 
10 years ago i built a 1 000 , 000 , and the thing was very 
, but besides amazing friends  ( depending on their 
knowledge of science ) , and strong , i never found anything 
useful that could be done with it ... is there any real world application 
for today 

david 

first of all , realize that invented ac power , , 
, , etc. technically , all are 
 . in general though when someone refers to a , they mean 
an air core . the tv version 
 ( see the encyclopedia of electronic circuits , 1 for 
diagram ) has not an air core .  . it is of a class of called 
 . generally 's are highly 
efficient , but this version uses and , 
which are very devices .  . typically used active 
instead of passive , so that he could achieve 
of 5 . , and better. the usual application of an air core 
, or of an , is to produce strong 
for broadcasts .  . how well do you think your computer 
would work if we removed the  ( flyback ) 
from it if we were to remove from our homes and all 
, our would go dark , our cars would 
and die , our would go silent , our would 
to a , and we would have to go back to using for , 
gas for , horses for transportation , steam for power , and 
for  . is that real world enough for you 

get the message ! we would not have 1 100 the we have 
today if not for  . give credit where credit is due ! 

if it had been up to , we 'd still be in the century. 
 ( flame me at your own peril .  . i'm very good at putting  . 


et was 100 years ahead of his time. perhaps now his time comes . 


from  ( gunnar horrigmo ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
lines 25 
nntp posting host 
organization college 

in article  ( babak sehari ) writes 

i was wondering , what copy protection techniques are , and how 
effective are they has anyone have any experience in this area 

with highest regards , 
 . 

one of the easiest , and really very used ways of , is to mark 
a specific on the bad. this is very easy to get 
around , though , if you have any knowledge of , but most  normal  
users  ( yes those key punchers ) do n't .  . whatever you do , please do 
not use a hardware key .  . these were very popular a few years ago , and they 
stink ! ! 

mail mail mail 
17 
n norway 

disclaimer the above posting may seem like insignificant rubbish at 
first , but if you read between the lines , you will be 
surprised to discover the of , world peace , 
oxford advanced readers dictionary , quantum physics made easy , and an 
easy to use step by step on how to make a time travelling 
device that actually works. 

from  ( david prutchi ) 
subject weight scale 
nntp posting host 
organization washington university , st. 
lines 13 

does someone sell scale units with either or digital output 
i need something like the used in supermarket cash , 
with a range of a few pounds and reasonable accuracy .  . 

any sources david 


david 
washington university 
campus box 
one drive 
st. , 


from 
subject re emergency traffic light 
organization university of pa 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( mike linnig ) writes 
folks , 

here in the area i have noticed that it is quite common to see an odd 
on top of traffic  . these have been here for at least 
years. i 've often wondered what they are. 
. . . 
mike , texas inc. 43 . of all statistics are made 

here in , pa there is a system in the inner city called (a 
trade name) which allows police and to gain right of 
way by controlling traffic through radio  . the 
look much like what you describe , but they include a whip  ( less 
than a foot tall ) and a light which on and off to let traffic know that 
an emergency has taken control and is  . local 
says this system was invented here i do n't know if this company has any 
other  . it has been in operation for at least 30 years , going 
only by my memory. 

bob 
univ of pa 

from  ( chris smith ) 
subject re books info on 
distribution rec , sci 
organization computer science , university 
lines 28 
nntp posting host ac . uk . 

in sci . , rec . david s. writes 

i assume these are appropriate newsgroups for this question. i am looking 
for a good book , articles , anything on  . theory is nice , but 
i'm really looking for something very much on the applications side. 
i want to look into it as my new , so i need all the direction 
i can get .  . any comments would be welcome , too. 

i'm looking to build a for guitar  . hence lots of background 
information would be really useful ! 

if anyone 's got any info , could they email .  .  .  .  .  . 

thanks in advance .  .  .  . 

chris ) 


name mr chris smith on that  ole guitar ! 

uni university quest to build more and more hardware 
computer science 


what ever the sun may be , it is certainly not a ball of flaming gas ! 
d . h .  . lawrence .  . 

all views expressed are my own , and reflect that of private thought. 

from  ( paula stockholm ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
reply to 
organization the northern bbs , , me 
lines 7 
x newsreader reader mailer  ( beta ) 

in most areas of the country , by  ( or cess ) , your phone 




, usa 


from  ( john de armond ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization communications public access. the mouth of the south .  . 
keywords nuclear 
lines 33 

( s . walker . man 50 ) writes 

i was wondering about those massive concrete that 
are ever present at nuclear sites .  . they look like 
that have been in the middle .  . does anybody know what the 
actual purpose of those things are . i hear that they 're called 
  but what the heck do they cool 
i hope someone can help 


the actual is and is designed to generate a draft , 
the effect. around the base of the is a 
of water  . warm river water , coming from the steam 
in the plant , is over  . the draft being through 
the the water by both and  . the 
sensible extracted from the water is the driving force for 
draft generation .  . 

it should be noted that the are used on 
both and nuclear plants .  . it should also be noted that at 
where water is , the are only used part 
time , when the would some release limit .  . 
it was once thought that the warm water was damaging to fish. 
know that is thoroughly incorrect .  . , , 
usually state , remain in some instances .  . since it typically 
takes 60 , 000 worth of to move the volume of water needed 
to cool a 1000 plant , the cost of using the is not insignificant .  . 

john de , interested in high 
engineering  ( magazine(tm ) interested in high tech and computers 
, send mail address to 
for a free 
where are when we need 

from  ( alan peterman ) 
subject fluke for sale  ( was advice needed ) 
keywords fluke 115 
article i.d. 1992 . 
organization research laboratories of ,  . 
lines 13 


i have a spare fluke  . this is a true digital with 
4 . 5 . display .  . it 's in average condition  ( been used ) but 
works fine which is what fluke 's are all about. btw according 
to the fellow who designed these , they can be converted to 
function by a , and adding the 2 extra  .  . 
like i said 115 seems fair these sell for new. 



l. (503) 1984 work 

it 's odd how as i get older , the days are longer , but the years are ! 

from mike mike 
subject programmer bits 'd 
x sat , 17 apr 93 04 10 01 gmt 
nntp posting host slip 1 90 . edu . 
organization cat co .  . 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 5 

help ! ! i'm looking for a card and software for a 
logical devices programmer  ( it good without these ) 
can anyone help with either of these items 
cheers 
mike .  . 

from  ( john whitmore ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 18 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( scott babb ) writes 
brian day wrote 
on december 29 , 1992 , it was illegal to operate a 
in the state of virginia .  . if one got caught , one got fined 65 . 00 .  . 

the federal communications act of made it legal for you to 
operate a radio receiver of any kind , on any  ( including 
x , k , and bands ) in the united states. 

and the commonwealth of virginia has not exactly 
against the issue on those grounds .  . the claim is that as a matter 
of traffic safety one is not allowed to have a 
on the while operating a  . 

yes , the argument is bogus , but .  .  .  . it has n't been successfully 
challenged in court. yet. 

john 

from  ( dave medin ) 
subject 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 23 

a dealing buddy of mine came up with two 

 ( for development  . target 
processor .  . head. does not include board that into 
the  . 

applied , head. 

if you have an interest in either , let me know. they look to 
be in excellent condition. he does n't know what to do with them , which 
may mean that they 'll be cheap .  . 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( sebastian filzek ) 
subject  cards  
summary cards .  .  . 
keywords card 
organization monash university , melb .  . , australia .  . 
lines 23 

hi people .  .  . 

ok my problem .  .  .  .  . 
i keep hearing about these little credit card type of things which 
detect light .  .  .  .  . 

i believe that you have to  charge them up  under normal  ( visible ) light 
and then if they are exposed to light they or something like 
that .  .  .  . 

i think that they are in the states and even in england , but 
i live in australia .  . could someone please me if i can get 
these things over here , and if so where and how much 

also are they really commonly in the states , and if so , then 
how much are they and who them  ( maybe if i get one here , i 'll 
write to one of the over seas .  . ) . 

anyway .  .  .  .  . thanks in advance .  .  .  . 


93 


from  ( scott babb ) 
subject re 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 24 

brian day wrote 
on december 29 , 1992 , it was illegal to operate a 
in the state of virginia .  . if one got caught , one got fined 65 . 00 .  . 
ask me how i know. 

the federal communications act of made it legal for you to 
operate a radio receiver of any kind , on any  ( including 
x , k , and bands ) in the united states. the electronic 
communications act of  ( 1989 ) restricted the of 
by making it illegal to receive the land telephone service , 
including (i believe )  . no was placed 
on receiving  ( or , , ) . enforcement 
of the virginia law is in violation of the of  . if you have 
lots of time and money  ( and a lawyer , which i'm not , ) you can 
argue this in a federal court and try to have the law  . 

i can hardly wait to see the responses to this one , but somebody 
had to say it .  .  .  . 


may disagree so these are solely the opinions of 
scott l. 
we did n't inherit the earth from our parents , 
we are borrowing it from our children. 

from  ( jimmy mosquera ) 
subject re help how to construct home built for 3rd grade sci report 
keywords 3rd grade science report 
nntp posting host 
organization  ( nasa ) 
distribution usa 
lines 22 

in article  ( michael covington ) writes 
almost any two in almost any 
liquid .  . 

example and in coca  .  .  . 

and nails in a  .  .  . 

do n't expect much power out , but it should be easily detectable 
with a  . 


michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 



a and a in a also work nice. 



from  ( rich kennehan ) 
subject message on tv 
organization university 
lines 11 
nntp posting host logic . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 



hi. i was doing research on suggestion for a psychology 
paper , and i read that one hidden messages on the 
tv at 1 of a second .  . is that possible i thought the 
rate the tv was even capable of images was 1 
of a second .  .  ( or 1 of a second for an image of only odd 
or even lines ) 

rich 


from  ( bruce p. sidari ) 
subject re a question about  .  . 
organization 
lines 29 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( russ crisp ) writes 
i'm considering some old in my home , and 
i need a little advice on  . several 
are the old  two  type , without the ground. naturally , 
the wire feeding these is 12 2 , without the ground 
wire .  . i noticed at the that some circuits have the 
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground 
wire was to the same as the neutral  ( white ) wire .  . 

they are supposed to be connected together at the  .  .  . but nowhere , 
repeat nowhere , else.  ( well , almost .  . there are strange exceptions for things 
like sub ) . 


, mode systems , san diego ca 
internet uucp uunet ! ! cis , 


not even in sub ! the only place the neutral should be connected to the 
ground is in a service ! in your house the main serves as 
the service  . sub in your or for example must 
maintain neutral and ground because they are not service 
equipment. 


steve , not a , but i can read the book. 
 ( my brother is though) ) 


from  ( david vanderbyl ) 
subject re power , signal in home .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host chip 
reply to  ( david vanderbyl ) 
organization ltd .  . 
lines 10 

 ( douglas s. rand ) writes 

can legally run up to  . it is very unlikely , however , 
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. 

not possible either. you 'd need about a for 
just the  . 

it is too possible. as the original poster said it is very unlikely 
but definately possible.  ( can you say ) 

from  ( frank filipanits ) 
subject re style and 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 19 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

can anyone tell me where it is possible to found 
on most style games. many i am working on would 
be greatly if i could implement them. thanx in advance. 

just outside chicago these. 
andrew 

actually , it 's , and some of their equipment can be found in the 
parts express catalog  ( 1  . they show for 2 , 
for 13 and for 80 .  . they also have parts. 

good luck. 




frank jr. b . s .  . ee music , california institute of technology  
m.s. music engineering , university of miami  94 
no , , i do n't know how fast i was going .  . 

from  ( stefan g. berg ) 
subject re motorola and 
reply to  ( stefan berg ) 
distribution world 
organization not an organization 
x 1 . 17 . by mike michael b. smith 
lines 25 

in article  ( stich , christian e . ) . writes 
i just a motorola in an board  ( 25 
with capability to the  . previously 
a was and everything was working perfectly .  . now the 
systems a  ( indicating a exception ) when it check for 
the presence type of  . when i an the system works 
fine , but with the even at 25 it does not work. the designer 
of the board mentioned that putting a on data  ( 470 ohm ) 
might help , but that did n't change anything. does anybody have some 
suggestions what i could do does this look like a communications 
problem or is the particular chip dead  ( it is a pull , not new ) 
moreover , the place i bought it from is sending me an  . i thought 
that the were labeled not  ( for not  . 
are there any 

i , too , have a math , which i 
in my  ( clocked at 33  . i have tried 
my at 28 to 50 and it all worked just fine. i have a 
33  . i do n't know why my has an  ( my original 
was label 33 ) , but it seems to work fine on my system. maybe you 
just have a bad chip .  . 



p.s. or does it mean experimental chip instead of motorola chip . ) 

from  ( doug claar ) 
subject los traffic reports 
nntp posting host cup . com . 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 9 . 
lines 8 

while driving through the middle of nowhere , i picked up , am 1070 , 
a clear channel station based in los  . they had an ad 
claiming that they were able to get traffic information from 
all of the thousands of traffic that has placed 
under the  . does sell this info does have 
an exclusive what 's the deal 

doug former l . a .  . 

from () 
subject re 
organization at that 's a joke. 
lines 24 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

it is illegal to use anything you on for a business 
or for an illegal use. that ban or 
police , are essentially making the claim that there is no 
other reason for a or police radio  . 

the results of fighting these claims in courts have been  . 
the federal courts are not anxious to intervene and state courts 
have sometimes held that the feds have exclusive jurisdiction 
and sometimes they have not. a lot of state courts do not have 
enough imagination to see any use for a besides 
avoiding law enforcement action for speeding .  . 

when you buy a , amongst the , instructions , 
explanations , and other , is an invitation to join an 
association dedicated to your right to use a  . 
(i promise i am not making this up ! ) 

i do not think would be making any 
at all in if police enforced speed 
laws with a strict eye to public safety and a blind eye to the 
aspect of  . 

mike 


from f . 
subject 2 level xmas light set  ( for easter 
keywords xmas 
organization at t 
lines 54 


yes , i know it 's nowhere near christmas time , but i'm gonna loose 
net access in a few days  ( maybe a week or 2 if i'm lucky ) , and wanted 
to post this for interested people to save  till xmas .  . ( 
note bell labs is a good place if you have a and a good boss , i 
have neither .  . 


subject xmas light set with 2 levels of 

another version of a xmas light set 
this set starts with a 2 35 string .  . 

2 way set 

b ! 
! b ! 
! 
! 

modified set for 2 level 

string 1 
! 
! 
! string 2 ! 
b ! 
! ! 

note no to to the right of this point. 

only one is used. 

note that the would not have as much current thru it as the 
string 1 , because of the second string of in 
parallel with it. that 's why the use of the 
here to add extra current thru the to make up for the 
current thru the second string while the is glowing 
and the second string is not glowing .  . when the goes open , 
this has only a slight effect on the of the 
, slightly , slightly  . 
or use a in place of the if you can get 
one. , do not replace with a standard , as these 
draw too much current and burn out the  .  . 

what you 'll see when it 's working , string 1 will light 
at full , and b will be , most of the current 
from the second string , making them not light. b will open , 
both in series , making the string that was out to at a 
low , and the other string that was on before to 
at reduced  . 

be sure to wire and the , leads , and cut 
in a safe manner ! 

from  ( ed hall ) 
subject re los traffic reports 
organization 
lines 29 
nntp posting host org . 

in article  ( charlie brett ) writes 
while driving through the middle of nowhere , i picked up , am 1070 , 
a clear channel station based in los  . they had an ad 
claiming that they were able to get traffic information from 
all of the thousands of traffic that has placed 
under the  . does sell this info does have 
an exclusive what 's the deal 

well , they claim they are the only radio with this 
information. but the city 's channel  ( 35 in areas ) 
shows this information map during travel times  ( 6 and 4 , i 
 . most of the major la are covered .  . the 
computer generated map shows green , , red , or red 
 ( respectively , 25 , , and incident i might be off 
a little on the , since this is from  . 

i often look at this display in the morning to see if i really want to 
fight the traffic on the pass or work from home for a little 
while to wait for it to clear. 

another poster explained the origin of the information  ( embedded 
wire loops ) in the near and every half or so. 
has had a big board driven from this data in their traffic control center 
for some time. i do n't know if they are selling the data or if anyone 
with the equipment necessary for its and display can have 
it. 

ed hall 


from 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
nntp posting host com . 
organization corp .  . , 
lines 30 

in article writes 

! 

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't 
know the number of the line. and i do n't want 
to call up the operator to place a trace on it. 

question is there a certain device out there that i can 
use to find out the number to the line 
thanks for any response. 
al 



do you get a tone when you plug a phone into the jack if not , 
then the line is possibly from the 
box .  . if you do get a tone , then surely the is sending a bill 
for the line to or somebody . are you sure that what you 
are doing is on the level. sounds to me like you are just trying to get 
at somebody 's number .  . fess up. 

keith 



keith boyd  ( ncr ) . nothing could be than  and 
 . and  in south ! me 
west  . , s . c .  . go ! 
or from uunet uunet ! ! ! ! keith 

from  ( internet surfer ) 
subject new  .  . soon .  .  . utopia . service 
organization boston computer society 
lines 9 

for all those who are interested and would like to discuss the popular 
secret life .  . and . or other technical  .  . please email me 
as i am starting a newsgroup 



its not impossible , just improbable 
 ( zaphod beeblbrox ) 
 ( being a ham is so grand ) 

from  ( john haddy ) 
subject re advice needed 
organization university 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 


what the world needs is a that wo n't let you change ranges or 
turn it on off with a lead stuck in the jack a little bit of 
clever plastic detailing would take care of this and make the world 
safer for , anyway. 
not that i 've ever put a on the wrong range into a live 
, no , not me .  .  . not . more than a dozen times , anyway .  .  .  .  . 
bill 



the inquiring mind bbs , , 

the fluke 87 at you if you try to take it out of a current measuring 
range while there is still a lead in to the current sense  . 

... this should solve your problem unless you are in a environment. 





department 
( ) ( ( ( school of 
university 
, australia 

email , 61 2 , fax 61 2 



from  ( baden de bari ) 
subject student help ! 
organization system bbs , canada 
lines 40 


well , i 've now been working on this damned board 
since  . it 's now 6am .  .  .  . i'm off. period. , i can 
drive the through the 's no problem  ( that 's with the 
6 wire , 2 to , and the other 4 are the  . problem 
1 i 've got some 4 wire  . i put the line to and the 
other 3 to the  .  .  . worked , kinda .  . tried it with a 
 ( moves the head back and forth , 4 wires ) , did n't work too well. it 
would 
shift back and forth  ( use something like a instead ) also i 've 
been 
trying to get a bunch of 's to work with it .  .  .  . no luck .  .  .  . tried 
's , 
still no luck ! ! ! i do n't know if i'm on this or what , but i feel 
my brain with the thought of ... ! ! ! 
i do n't know what 's wrong with the up  ( to 

type ) , also the type .  .  .  . no luck. 

i'm going to try getting some z 's , and i hope 
you 
can help me with this problem. 
if someone can please help me with this soon , it would be greatly 
 .  .  . 

thanks. 






inspiration 
comes to o 
those who ( ) 
seek the de 
unknown .  . 


l 

from  . c. bowman ) 
subject 
keywords , , 
organization box of rain 
lines 27 




i just bought a new for the office , and i notice that 
it proudly proclaims 8 times on the box .  . now while i think 
i understand what is  ( the rate of discrete samples 
the highest component of interest by some factor ) , 
i do n't understand this 8 times business .  .  .  . it seems to me that when 
i bought my first  ( was it really 10 years ago ! ) , the 
said 4 times ... could someone please tell me whether i'm getting 
if i'm not , then what good does it do for the to take 
samples at a higher rate if i really wanted better fidelity , would n't 
i have to have the same higher rate of during the recording 
process furthermore , am i wrong in interpreting the rate 
 ( from the 's point of view ) as being the same thing as the data 
rate for the bit coming off the medium does this mean 
that the data rate  ( related to the speed of the disk ) has 
changed since 

i'm so confused .  .  .  . 




, box , , ar 
i'm pretty sure the world is n't fair .  .  .  . if it  ( 501 ) 
were , i 'd be a lot worse off ! 

from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re power supply 
organization corporation 
lines 40 

in article com .  ( chris best ) writes 
i'm no expert at 's , but you said something that made it sound like 
you did n't realize something. on a typical  ( well , on ours , anyway ) , 
there is no from ac to  . all the protected equipment is 
always running from the  ( via an inverter ) , with the usual 
condition of also having them on charge .  . if the power fails , big deal 
the computers never see it  ( until the start to , but 
there 's something like 60 car in that , so it 
takes a  . 

if you were gonna run the on straight instead of an , 
why not do it all the time then there 'd be no to 
things up , and no having to sense the failure fast .  . just keep the 
on charge when the power is on , and it 'll be there in zero time when 
you need it. 


actually , it 's a bit more complicated than that .  .  . i . sounds to me , 
your takes in ac , it to to charge the , and 
then takes the and it to ac again , feeding your 
equipment. this approach is the easiest and way to 
from the to once your power kicks out since , 
as you mentioned , nothing will know about what happened down the line. 

another way to do the scheme is to use the until you 
lose power , and then kick in the with it 's to 
replace the lost power. the problem here is the time and 
you 've got to the ac in no time flat .  . 

unfortunately , most everything is built around the assumption that 
ac is available , so the guys have to provide and ac output to 
be  .  . have to make it work with what there already. 

similar story with our telephone system. it was first invented back 
in the 's .  . we 're still using the same damn system  ( media ) as they 
did back then. if i have a phone from back then , i can you 
it 'll work on today 's phone system. it costs too much to 
everyone to a new system , so they make it work with what is out there. 

. 

from  ( hou lin ) 
subject laser vs 
organization university 
lines 12 

well , i'm not too sure if this would be the right place to post this , but 
anyway , here goes i was just that some of the current 
up to resolution while a lot of lower end laser 
only offer  . however , the laser still seems to be 
than the  .  .  . how is this or am i missing 
something about the resolution thing 







from r tim 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 41 

in article 
( s . walker . man 50 ) wrote 
i really do n't know where to post this question so i that 
this board would be most appropriate. 
i was wondering about those massive concrete that 
are ever present at nuclear sites .  . they look like 
that have been in the middle .  . does anybody know what the 
actual purpose of those things are . i hear that they 're called 
  but what the heck do they cool 

except for their size , the on nuclear power plants 
are identical in construction and operation to 
designed and built in the 's (a hundred years ago ) for 
fired power plants used for and early electric  . 

, the supports a air draft when 
its air is by hot water and or steam thru a network 
of that fill about the lower 1 3 of the  . to assist 
and the draft , water are added that cold water over the 
hot  . the cold water , removing the than 
just air from the draft would and the resulting water is 
rapidly carried away by the draft .  . this produces the frequently 
seen out of these  . 

that slight  ( maybe 2 3 of the way up the tower ) is there because 
it produces a very significant increase in the strength and rate of 
the air draft produced , compared to a straight shape .  . 

the are used to the steam in the steam 
system of the power plant so that it can be back to the 
and used again. the the difference across 
the used in the power plant the more they are and 
by the steam in the before sending it 
back to the you maintain a very wide difference 
 ( sometimes as high as 1000 degrees or more from first stage hot 
to final stage cold  . 

r. tim 

usenet r tim 
technology , n .  . domesticated natural phenomena 

from  ( mark j. musone ) 
subject 
organization 
lines 20 
nntp posting host buffalo . edu . 

hi , i was wondering if anyone would be able to help me on related 
subjects .  . i am currently learning about am and 
circuits .  . i understand a lot of things , but a few things i am confused 
 . the first is the , to mix the and local 
to make the if .  . does anyone have any  ( as 
simple as possible ) for this kind of i have come across a 
chip but i have not been able to find it in any 
 ( active , etc .  .  . ) . 

along the same note , are there any simple receiver circuits anyone 
may have away somewhere and they let me see . 

p.s. any really good books on am theory along with detailed 
electrical would help a lot. 
i have seen a lot of theory books with no circuits and a lot of 
books with no theory , but one without the other does not help. 

thanks , 

mark 

from  ( jerry long) 
subject re principle of the 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization 
lines 31 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 

william wrote 
does anybody out there know how the hand held used 
by our police works i would like to hear about this and the more 
general problem of by machine .  . 

thanks , william .  . 




from what i have read about these little , it works on 
a principle .  . the sensing has a 
chemical which produces an electrical proportional 
to the amount of chemical compound it is designed for ... in this case 
i believe it is the group 

i have also heard not tested ) since common is also 
a member of this group , it will also cause a failing 
failure ! next time you get stopped for , say you just gas from 
your car  ( you know .  .  .  .  .  . the credit card ) and chances 
are you wo n't get a ! ! ! ! 



jerry long 



disclaimer .  .  .  .  . opinions are my own and 
do not reflect those of my employer .  . 


from  ( seema varma ) 
subject ic 
organization university 
x posted from britain . edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 28 

hi , 
i am looking for some help in choosing a 
for a high speed silicon  ( 100mhz ) currently being 
 . this is a research project and i have to test 
the chip at speed on a pcb .  . i expect to have roughly 100 
circuits and will do , low speed and high speed 
using 3 different set for the test chip .  . 

i know for sure that a will not work 
 ( the long lead lines have too high an  . 
getting a made is too expensive , so 
i am trying to choose between a and a 
chip  . the would be hard 
to test since it has to be on to the test 
setup and i would spend loads of time 
as i kept changing the test chip .  . the chip 
also have long lead lines and may 
not work at high  . 

does anyone out there have experience knowledge 
of this field i would greatly appreciate help ! any ideas 
names of manufacturing 
would help. 

p.s. the fancy seem like a bit 
of  ( overkill ) 



from  ( fergason ) 
subject re what to do with old 
organization 
lines 21 

in article  ( john haddy ) writes 
in article ,  ( jason haines ) writes 

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old 
 . i have a bunch of them for the apple mac 
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to 
sell them but have gotten no interest .  . 

so , if you have an use  ( or want to buy 
some 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing 
about it. 

the most practical use i 've seen for them is as key ) 



i used a bunch as , when building a model  . them 
on the , across the , or whatever. worked pretty well. 

kelly 


from  ( alan cooney ) 
subject re with legend .  . 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution usa 
lines 21 

try the folks at corp .  . , la , ca  . 
their number is  ( 818 )  . they make 
that are very flat , in from 2 to 128  . they 
have standard models , models  ( with 
under each key to make a  click  you can feel ) , as well as 
models .  . some of them can even be cut with scissors 
to form a shape other than a rectangle .  . many of the 
models are available in a   which includes a , 
and plain key covers , and rub on to make 
your own  . one piece are n't cheap , though , 
as they want 10 for one four position , and 45 
for a 40 position . 

i have no with or any company connected 
with them. i have purchased a couple of from them , 
and am pleased with what i got .  . 

cheers , 




from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re what are some good of 
organization corporation 
lines 44 

in article  ( paul simundza ) writes 


anyone know of any good 's of , one that could have almost 
any chip i need i do n't want to hunt down all the i may need so 
it would be greatly if anyone knows of a good 
 .  .  . 



paul , 

unfortunately , there are not too many that 'll stock 
just about every chip made. the stuff they will stock are the ones 
that 'll sell , like standard 's , 's , 's , etc , etc. 
i.e. i t think of any  one stop shopping   . 

the you can get is to pick up a copy of magazine or 
the , popular , and the like and flip 
through them. 

like , , , 
etc , etc , do n't normally deal with end users like ourselves where 
we only a couple of everything .  .  . they . only deal with people who buy 
by the hundreds or more. each represents and a variety of 
different non competing  . what do i mean by this 
suppose abc 's .  . it 's a pretty good 
bet that they wo n't be selling any of 's 's , or vice  . 
they also can obtain just about any chip you want from a 
they represent .  . 

who knows you might be lucky to be able to buy from one of them. 
but i 'd be suprised if you do. also bear in mind that the 1 or 2 
they will charge you will be much greater than what 
a mail order will charge .  . 

my advice if you 're gonna be anything , try to stick 
with off the shelf stuff. you 're going to get stuck if you use 
too many esoteric parts sooner or later. 

good luck , 

aaron 


from 
subject chip for code 39 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 15 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

distribution usa 
reply to 

while i'm on the net bugging everyone , is there such a thing as a chip 
or to code 39 i ask for a couple of reasons 
mainly i want a reasonably scheme to write information 
on cards and code 39 appears to be about right.  ( if the  right  
way to do it is something else , and it 's reasonably easy , can someone let 
me know ) 

i might not get a chance to reply too quickly to this or my earlier post , 
but i 'll get to them within a couple days , i think  .  .  . 

thanx everyone ! 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re 
organization u of 
lines 86 

in article  ( marxhausen paul ) writes 
ok , what 's a quick on all the series variations we 're 
something with a on it and the question , well , 
do i really need the act part through key i see 
, as , c , , ac , , act , , ,  .  .  . 

here 's something i posted about this a few years ago. it 's not fully 
up to date with all the new variations  ( some of which are just different 
's synonyms ) 


in practical terms , ignoring the details , this is my view 
of the families  ( nb i am not a giant corporation , which influences my 
views on things like and compatibility ) 

74 the original .  . speed good , power fair .  . effectively 
now use or later , except for a very few 
functions like which are hard to find in newer families .  . 

of 74 for higher speed , at the cost of higher 
power  . very use  . 

of 74 for lower power , at the cost of lower speed .  . 
very use  . 

later of 74 for even higher speed , at some cost in 
power  . effectively use  . 

combination of and , for speed comparable to 74 with lower 
power  . best all round now , variety of 
devices .  . 

fast as , power not too bad. the clear choice for high 
speed in  . and generally good. 

failed to , although a few parts do things 
that are hard to find in and thus are still useful. 

possible replacement for  . generally up. still fairly 
new , and possibly a problem. 

fairly old family , devices with  . with 
series , not too successfully. use or newer 
74 families .  . 

 ( thrown in as the major non 74 non logic family . ) . the old 
family , still viable because of very wide range of devices , low 
power , and wide range of supply  . not fast .  . 
very forgiving and easy to work with  ( beware , 
but that comment applies to many other modern logic families too) .  . 
there are neat devices in this family that exist in no other. the 
clear choice when speed is not important. 

a new attempt at 74  . fast compared to old , power 
often lower than  . possibly a good choice for 
general purpose logic , assuming and  . 
logic levels , not ones. beware very limited range of 
supply compared to older , also major rise of power 
at  . 

with logic levels .  . much the same comments as  . read 
the fine print on things like power 
in involves some  . 

 ( thrown in for speed ) . the low end of  . various sources 
claim that it is easier to work with than super fast for 
serious high speed work. less forgiving , though read and follow 
the rules or it wo n't work. to limited , 
can be expensive .  . 

 ( for real speed ) . hot  . harder to handle than , and 
 . much more useful , however. 

as for between families the 74 families  ( except and 
74hc ) are all more or less logic level compatible , but how many devices 
you can drive from one output varies with x and y .  . you just 
have to read the and do the arithmetic .  . and are compatible 
with the others with a bit of  . can be a bit of 
or a lot of depending on what supply is using .  . 
or to anything else is  . 

me i use and with a of  . t and are 
interesting but i have n't used either yet. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( philip peake ) 
subject re 
distribution na 
nntp posting host sun com . 
organization mentor 
keywords 
lines 33 

in article ,  ( wayne smith ) writes 
in article  ( scott babb ) writes 

no was placed 
on receiving  ( or , , ) . enforcement 
of the virginia law is in violation of the of  . 

n't there some kind of rule  ( regulation , law , whatever ) in some 
that the use of police 
in and that transmissions are included in the police 
so they get covered by the same 

what do you mean by police there is no such thing. 

anyway , work in shared  . 
if you applied your test , all of those operated door 
in would be illegal .  . 

one of the great problems here is that there are too many 
ill  ( read illiterate ) people making too many laws 
about subjects on which they are incompetent there may well 
be laws to police , they are almost certainly 
local in  ( state or county ) created by well meaning , 
but incompetent idiots .  . 

, laws do not have to be sensible  ( or even  . 
lawmakers exist to pass laws and will continue to do so , until 
the day where you are with death for not doing x , and 
of all your for doing x ... the choice will be yours. 

note no  . 

philip 

from  ( bill willis ) 
subject answers to many questions 
organization engineering services , university 
lines 10 

i have notice a lot of questions by people who are obviously not 
in to  . many of them have rather simple answers , and 
many of them require a  . 

rather than up the network , why do n't you write to me , send a self 
addressed , , and i 'll answer your questions , if i can. 

w. l. , p. e. 
114 circle 
, 

from  ( patrick , the sounding board ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
nntp posting host 138 . 85 . 85 . 
organization network systems , inc. 
x disclaimer this article was posted by a user at  . 
any opinions expressed are strictly those of the 
user and not necessarily those of  . 
lines 36 

in article  ( bill mayhew ) writes 
from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
date wed , 21 apr 1993 13 19 08 gmt 

write a good manual to go with the software .  . the of 
the manual is offset by of 
the for only 15 .  . also , consider offering an 
but attractive for users. for instance , a coffee 
 . you could produce and mail the incentive for a couple of 
dollars , so consider the product at 17 .  . 

or , documentation for the program ) .  . a lot of out there is 
very similar in the approach send in your money , and you get 
documentation , and a free to the latest version. perhaps even 
support of some small degree. whatever you want to offer that is better 
than the version. 

you 're lucky if only 20 of the instances of your program in use 
are non users. 

figure about 50 , as i have seen. 

the best approach is to estimate your loss and that into 
your price structure .  . sure it legitimate users , but too bad. 

it does n't really hurt users. is still much than 
the alternatives .  . 


visit the sounding board bbs 1 , a ! bbs 

all opinions are specifically disclaimed .  . no one is responsible .  . 

patrick , network systems 
do n't let the  . fool you 

from  ( kimball ng ) 
subject re laser vs 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( kimball ng ) 
organization university 
lines 44 

 ( joel kolstad ) writes 

one other thing .  .  .  . there are , and then there are  . 
there are a few out there that produce rather output 
 ( such as 's little bubblejet ) , whereas most produce really good 
looking output  ( such as 's  . ibm and both produce some of 
the really good style  . 

p.s. if you 're in the market for a , i can 
highly recommend the , although i 've heard the 
are good too (i needed support ,  . with the 
, you even get an card ! 

i second that suggestion .  . although i do n't own the , 
i do own the  . it gives the , with only 
a minor loss of quality .  . for all purposes  ( papers , letters , 
resumes ) , i treat my like a laser  ( you do have to 
look a bit closely to see the in the  . only one 
, the ink that gives you does rather quickly in the 
presence of  ( even though the ink is  . however , 
you would have to spend about more for laser quality .  . 

the are nice , however they do n't seem to have as 
much support  ( eg drivers for popular programs ) as the ink  . 
also  ( regular , plus , , 500c ) accepts paper (i believe 
that the cut is an option for the  . 

if you do n't mind your with cheap ink  ( say 
fountain pen ink ) , then the are very cheap to maintain 
(i paid 3 . 50 . for my last bottle of ink and i expect it to last 9 
 . 

 ( who does n't work for , but just loves his 
very much ! ) 

ps i have a question for you netters , i'm too afraid to with 
the they sell in art supply houses because i had brought 
a bottle of ink and it up my  . i 
wonder what is a  good  ink  ( aside from buying kits ) 
to my 





from  ( joel kolstad ) 
subject re question function 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 35 

in article  ( david jacobowitz ) writes 

i have a new and i thought i 'd save a few by 
buying one with a function built in. 

hmm .  .  .  . now where was that ad for the combination radio hand 
i saw ) 

function has a offset , and the 's too high 

is there any way i could make myself a little box that could 
solve this little problem. the box would the function 
, lower the and give an output that is some 
low , number .  . i would want to lower the by a factor 
of one hundred or so. i could just build a little , but i 'd 
like to have this box not be active .  . 

sure , you 've already got the right idea. 

ignoring the 50 internal resistance of the for a second , just 
run it into , say , a made of in series with 10 
 . this new is the equivalent of one that puts out 
1 100 of the original , and has an output impedence of 
less than 10  . you may want to with the values a little 
depending on whether you care more about the exact ratio or 
the of parts. 

that sound 

joel 

p.s. this is why those 1000 1 high for can be 
accurate but still cheap .  . they have something like 100 in series with 
, which does n't load the  ( often high impedence ) source much , as well as 
keeping the  ( probably 10 impedance ) happy. 

from  ( scott dorsey ) 
subject 
organization nasa research center and farm 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

i have a out of a power supply , for which i have no 
manual .  . it 's a motorola part with a date code and the number 

4 

which the motorola folks me is a house number , which they ca n't 
help me with. any suggestions from folks out there i ca n't put it on 
a curve to try to get an equivalent , since it 's completely shot .  . 
scott 

from  ( john de armond ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization communications public access. the mouth of the south .  . 
lines 

 ( john nagle ) writes 

great , however you left off one detail , why do you always 
see them at nuclear plants , but not always at fossil plants .  . at 
nuclear plants it is to run the water closed cycle , whereas 
fossil plants can in some cases get away with dumping the hot 
water .  . as i recall the water is n't as hot  ( thermodynamically ) in many 
fossil plants , and of course there is less danger of 
contamination .  . 

actually the reasons you do n't see so many at fossil plants are 
1 ) fossil units  ( multiple units per plant ) are generally smaller than 
nuclear plants .  . seemed to be a very popular size when many 
fossil plants were built .  . the average nuclear plant is 1000  . 2 ) many 
fossil plants were when water were 
( why those old ca n't harm anything , let 'em go. ) .  . 
3) draft , low enough to the ground to be generally 
not from off site , are quite popular with fossil plants .  . 4 ) fossil 
plants used to get much less attention than  . 

actually , fossil plants run than the usual 
water reactor nuclear plants .  .  ( there 's a in the industry 
that nuclear power uses 1900 steam  . so it 's 
more important in nuclear plants to get the cold end of the system 
as cold as possible. hence big  . 

oil and gas fired steam plants also have , but they 
usually are to get the steam back into hot water , not most of the 
way down to  . some plants do cool the with water , 
rather than air as one canadian official , asked about thermal 
pollution de a river , said , up here , we view as a resource . 

actually the environment is essentially the same for plants 
of similar size. the issues are the same regardless of where the 
comes from. are run at as high a as possible in 
order to reduce on the  . the pressure is 
normally water 's pressure at the  . it is 
desirable that the steam be free of water because 
in the steam causes severe damage to the 
low pressure and because water moving at high 
causes of the  . the and thus lowest 
pressure environment is always the best. 

a related issue is that of the from the  ( where 
the water ends up after off the ) . since the 
is at a very low pressure , the only force driving the 
into the is gravity .  . if the is too 
hot or the gravity head is too low , the will into 
steam and cause the to  . this is a 
particularly destructive form of that is to be avoided at all 
costs .  . 

the are in the lowest point in the plant 
in order to provide a gravity head to the  . how much lower 
they must be is a function of how hot the water is allowed to get in 
the  . typically run between 100 and 120 
degrees depending on the of the river water  ( this term is 
used to describe the river grade water even when the 
system is operating in closed loop mode and essentially no river water 
is ) . when the river water is high in the summer , 
operators will typically allow the level to rise in order 
to provide more gravity head. there is a involved since higher 
levels will onto the and reduce the 
area. 

at least in the east and elsewhere where actually exists in the 
air ) , the river water will almost always be than the 
water from the  . the of the water 
from the is set by the air and 
 . it is very rare in the east to hear of actual river water 
70 degrees .  . a vast difference from the typical 
days  ( 95 degrees , humidity ) we see routinely in the east .  . 
it is not unusual , particularly where the have been successful 
in water limits on a plant , for the 
plant to have to reduce the firing rate when the air gets 
too high and the cannot handle the load without excessive 
pressure .  . 

everybody runs closed cycle  . the water used is 
of , which otherwise up the when 
the water boils .  . water for use is a bigger job than 
it , so the water is  . 

true. actually secondary plant  ( the part that makes and 
to the boiler ) water chemistry has been the bastard 
until recently and has not gotten the respect it deserves .  . 
the plant have just in the past or so fully understood 
the costs of water .  . by , i mean water with a few 
dozen extra of and or a few of 
oxygen .  . secondary water is now typically the most pure one will 
find outside the  . 

john 

john de , interested in high 
engineering  ( magazine(tm ) interested in high tech and computers 
, send mail address to 
for a free 
where are when we need 

from  ( john haddy ) 
subject re 
organization university 
lines 86 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 

in article ,  ( jeroen belleman ) writes 
in article  ( david jacobowitz ) writes 
is it just me , or does anybody else out there not like digital 
 . my school has ... 

david 


oh no you 're not the only one. give you  ( or me , at 
least ) a fair idea of what 's going on in a  . digital 
seem to have a habit of a part of it. e.g. even 
when there are only a few samples per period , our a 
continuous , complete with non existing  . i 've 
through lots of manual pages and , but i have n't found yet 
how to turn this off. it does n't show which points have actually 
been measured , as opposed to those which have been , 
either. 

perhaps you 're using the wrong brand !  ( sorry all , but i have 
a hard time being convinced that their match the rest of their 
 ( excellent )  . 

one of the principal functions i look for when considering a is 
whether you can turn interpolation off. the other important feature 
is to i.e. being able to lock 
the instrument into real time capture mode .  . 


secondly , i do n't like  . i want to see all common functions 
with their own  .  ( you 'll have guessed i love tek 
scopes ) i 'd choose a with printed legend over an on 
display with up down right away. the single of most 
digital never seems to be connected to the right function 
at the right moment .  . 


i agree with you here. the only consolation is that are 
beginning to pay attention to when the  . 
however , to be fair , it seems that first time users  ( our students ) 
seem to to easier than around the twenty or 
more required of a real ) 

last but not least , you never know if the is old 
or recent , or just , heck , you do n't 
even know if it really looks the way it 's  . digital 
only show you a tiny of what 's going on. most of the time 
the 're busy computing things. 

this is one area that newer are addressing .  . i recently evaluated 
the latest box from tek their which seems to be a worthy 
alternative to a standard  . this instrument has 
a , s , meaning that it is always in real time 
capture mode .  . the also equivalent in 
the range .  . the is that the instrument uses again , but at 
least they appear to be logically laid out. 

there are only three situations for which i would prefer a digital 
looking at what happened before the , looking at rare 
events , and the data to have my computer play with it. 


let 's hope are listening .  .  .  . 

best regards , 



one more thing about the new , simpler , front  . these 
tend to use digital as now. this is a vast improvement 
over the old oak switch .  . the single most common cause of failure in our 
 ( other than students blowing up ! ) is wear on these 
 . i look at the new as a great step increasing the 
of the  . 





department 
( ) ( ( ( school of 
university 
, australia 

email , 61 2 , fax 61 2 



from  ( martin john gregory ) 
subject help real time mode 
organization public access unix  ( adelaide ) 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . au . 


i am having trouble obtaining the current from 
a real time  . has anyone out there had some experience 
in doing this the call for a few sequences to be met before 
mode is , and are a bit hard to on that , but 
i thought that i had it worked out. however , with a the 
lowest current i can at 3 . is  . this is 
three times the under the conditions i am attempting 
to create .  . 

i have done the following things 

1 ) made sure that is asserted for after , and as is 
low during this time. 


2 ) made sure that there is a cycle on as after the negation of or 
during which was asserted .  . 

what am i doing wrong 

thanks very much , 

martin .  . 

from  ( jeff depolo ) 
subject need manual for 
organization university of 
lines 14 
nntp posting host seas . edu . 


i have a that (i think) has a problem in the section .  . 
started turning on and off on its own , making 
bright on the , and then finally , passed away. if you 
have a manual  ( or any suggestions ) , please send me mail .  . will 
pay reproduction costs plus a little for your efforts for 
the manual .  . thanks in advance. 

jeff 


jeff twisted pair  ( 215 ) 
700 . 24 . 150 . 
university of 

from  ( dave medin ) 
subject re what is zero 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 

in article ,  ( babak sehari ) writes 
in  ( mark underwood ) writes 

i am somewhat familiar with the measurements as they apply to 
electrical circuits i.e. it is the gain of  ( for example) an 
measured on a scale. however , this requires that you have a 
reference value i.e the is (e . g . ) . with respect to the 
signal .  . 

stuff deleted 

what you actually talking about here is and not  . however , the terms 
are used loosely by most people.   is power with to , whereas 
is a ratio .  . now , like these two english statement 

1. i am doing well. 
2. i am doing good. 

similarly , people usually use for  . another common mistake is 
  instead of   as you did in your article. see the   is for 
  company , the mother of at t and should be  . 

with highest regards , 
 . 

good ! are all  . the question that remains in 
any ratio is the reference used. sometimes , this will be a reference 
power , such as 1  ( given a certain which 
should also be included in the fine print or known , like 50 
in an of that impedance ) , to an accepted 
of  . maybe it might be , disregarding the of 
the and power developed , using 1 as reference 
 ( rather than reference  . or , it might have an arbitrary or 
reference that is not included in the , to just plain  . 
so. look at it this way   has an implied reference while 
such as   has an explicit reference. 

for power 

10  ( log  ( p(measured )  ( p(reference ) ) 

for 

20  ( log  ( a(measured )  ( a(reference ) ) 

 b  is for , which is a standard term for a log ratio to the base 
10 , named after graham bell .  . a   is 1 10 of a  . 
it has nothing to do with the bell telephone company except for 
the common founder 's name. the small  d  large  b  is per 
 . i do n't know anyone that 's been crucified for it up. 

common references for are 

0 1 across 600 
0 1 

0 (a zero on the meter ) 4  ( pro gear line level ) 
0  ( consumer gear line level ) 


often times , a power will be using 
the rated power of the as the 0 point. it is all 
done to whatever reference is reasonable for the application 
or moment .  . 

note that in a with a given  ( and maybe unknown ) 
, if the goes up so many , the 
power will also increase the same amount .  . this proof can be done 
with the above two and 's law. 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( michael fulbright ) 
subject re balanced 
distribution na 
organization university of arizona unix users group 
lines 13 

 ( kenny adams ) writes 

hi , 
instead of using a supply for the try using a 7 and 7 
supply .  . i have some equipment that uses this approach 
for ground referenced  . they use the 7 supply as the logic 
ground. 

in this case would the switch control be to turn the switch 
off and to turn the switch on 

michael 


from  ( carlos montenegro ) 
subject low and questions. 
organization university of michigan , mathematics department , ann arbor 
lines 12 
nntp posting host math . umich . edu . 

1. can low be controlled with an by putting it 
before the it seems to work , even the works. not very 
reliable .  . will it damage the can it be done 

2. i put a motion switch  ( heath ) to a low light , it worked but now it is 
broken , too much current how can i get that 

3. how can i increase the of a light using the pc computer 
interface without having it go 100 on first and then down. i am doing 
my own , not the program .  . 

thanks c. 

from  ( john thomson ) 
subject re what is zero 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 33 

wrote 
in article ,  ( john thomson ) writes 
joseph wrote 

and the measure of current , , is actually named after both the company 
and the company .  . both by 
realizing that the of and 
were affected by the amount of current running through the  . 

sorry. the for current is the which is the name of a french man 
named who studied electrical current .  . the term is just an 
of it. the company came after the was already in use. 

the company was the first to characterize by numbers , thus 
our use of the  .  .  . 

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right. 
are you  ( two ) 
is the entire internet flaming you  ( two ) 
! , now i remember that company was the first introducing the pink 
, only for working ) 

true e mail 


yes , i have taken a bit of flame on this one. i must 've been half when 
i posted a response to joseph .  . 

 . 

greg 
bell northern research inc. , ottawa canada 
my opinions not bnr 's 

from  ( david jacobowitz ) 
subject question function 
originator 
organization university of virginia 
lines 35 


i have a new and i thought i 'd save a few by 
buying one with a function built in. after having it 
i noticed two things about the function  . for one , there 
seems to be a bias even when the  pull offset  is pushed in. that is , 
i have to pull that know and it to get a signal some 
random bias .  . 
the other really thing is that the damn output 
wo n't go below about p p. i am a student ( you may have guessed 
from my previous posts ) , and i often have to measure the 
of various circuits i build . many . of the circuits have 
of way less than and most have 
in the 10 's of range .  . the thing is , in order to 
use my function i have to divide the to some thing 
reasonable .  . then , of course , to of my 
i am going to have to in another in series .  . 
with the output of the i could just ignore it , but now 
with this little there i have to figure that in. it 's kind of 
a pain in the ass. 
is there any way i could make myself a little box that could 
solve this little problem. the box would the function 
, lower the and give an output that is some 
low , number .  . i would want to lower the by a factor 
of one hundred or so. i could just build a little , but i 'd 
like to have this box not be active .  . 
any quick ideas. the 's not broken. for other reasons i 
had sent it to the to get and they replaced it. the 
function was the same way on that one , too. 

please help as i am feeling very stupid 
today , 

dave 



from  ( gary segal ) 
subject needed for 
nntp posting host 
organization motorola inc. , group 
lines 17 

i 've recently picked up some display , but i ca n't find 
any information on them. it seems they are no longer made by , and 
i do n't have an old enough data book. ( 

it appears to have a led display capable of showing one 
 . it is in a 14 pin , but 6 , 9 , and 11 are not 
present. 

if you have any information on this part  ( pinout , power , 
functions ,  .  .  . ) . please send me e mail .  . 

thank you , 


motorola inc. 
division 
we are standing here only to gaze at the wind 

from  ( mont pierce ) 
subject need for a chip 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution usa 
lines 19 


i bought this chip from technology and tried to build their 
 . but it 's not working .  .  .  . 

if anyone has the and possibly the i 'd sure 
it. if someone could fax , email , or mail a copy 
of the for this chip that would be even better. ) 

please email me if you can help. 

thanks in advance , 

pierce 


ham call internet 
80 40 20 15 10 2 ibm 
modes , , 


from  ( lukas zahas ) 
subject re how do boxes work 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 19 

in article  ( stephe lewis foskett ) writes 

i'm doing sound for a couple of around here and we need direct 
boxes for the  . these are the little boxes that take a 
line level out of the keyboard and it into low z for the run 
to the  . sadly they cost like 50  ( or more ) each and i'm going 
to need like 5 or 10 of them ! i looked inside one  ( belonging to 
another band ) and it looks like just a  . does anyone have 
any plans for building them 

50 each ! ! do n't bother trying to make one yourself , just around a 
little. i 've found brand boxes for as cheap as 20 each .  . you can 
get higher end ones for more , but for pa use for , i would n't bother .  . 
making one yourself might work , but getting a enough might 
be hard  ( they 're made of heavy metal , since they 're always on the , 
being kicked around a  . for any additional questions on this topic , you 
might want to post to rec . pro . 



from  ( mark w. tilden ) 
subject beam games next week in  . 
organization university of 
lines 17 


one week to the games. fire up the for combat 
and come on down. 

please note that there has been a slight change the 
will now be in the forward building of the science centre rather than 
in the main competing hall .  . when you arrive , please go to this desk. those 
that have pre by real mail will find badges waiting. 

is all. see you here. 



mark  ( glitch ! ) m . f . c . f . hardware design lab .  . 
u of  .  . can , 
 ( 519)885 )  . 
my opinions , you hear ! mine ! mine ! mine ! mine ! mine ! ah ! ! 

from  ( mustafa kocaturk ) 
subject how starters work really 
keywords 
nntp posting host f . seas . edu . 
organization school of engineering applied science 
lines 28 

in article  ( peter tryndoch ) writes 

so when you turn on the power , this causes the to work like a , 
heating up and out , thus providing a loop to power the in 
the main  . when the , insufficient current runs through the 
to keep the up and the strip out 
 ( o  . 

imprecise .  . this description 

1. the role of the , 
2. the heating effects in the  . 

the strip down immediately after the contacts 
short , because the stops , and much less 
is generated from the i loss in the metal as compared to 
the  . 

the contacts open before the  . actually , 
the as a result of the back generated in the 
because of this immediate of the 's contacts .  . 

a is connected in parallel with the contacts to prevent 
excessive during the firing .  . the but does not draw 
sufficient current to prevent firing of the itself. 

ee dept. , room ,  . 
home office box , , tx 

from  ( john whitmore ) 
subject re help with long 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 25 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( john haddy ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael covington ) writes 
(1) do n't use big  . they are unreliable for due to 
 . 

true  ( especially for at high  . 

instead , use a and divide its by 2 40 times 
or something like that. 

... would n't a be affected by cold my gut feeling is that , as a 
mechanically device , extreme cold is likely to affect the 
( terminology ) of the , and hence its  . 

low power are usually 32  ( and these 
have significant , which one does n't often notice 
while wearing the watch on one 's  . low 
is available in other types , which unfortunately 
are larger and higher  ( 1 or so ) and take more 
power. 

timers might be less accurate , but they 
are more power than suitable  . 

john 

from  ( geva patz ) 
subject how do i make me own really short run 's 
summary i want a really short run of music how 
keywords short run music 
lines 13 
organization university electrical engineering 

i want to be able to take a bunch of home made  ( from or other 
suitable master ) and output them to a short run  ( 10 20 off ) of standard 
music  . would one of the designed for work 
for this purpose , is there a service that does this sort of 
thing for a fee 

i'm after as much information as possible on the alternatives  ( cost , lead 
time , equipment required , procedure to follow , etc . ) . email replies would be 
appreciated. 


department of computer science , university 


from  ( kevin routh ) 
subject f . y . i .  . to  .  .  . 
organization company research 
lines 53 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

article from 
author was kevin 
posted on 19 apr 1993 12 35 55 gmt 

for your information 

i up my i to my serial and used the c 
in 3 . 1 .  . the i am using is a straight thru 
connected to a null i got at radio shack  ( catalog 
26 1496a ) for 4 .  . it seems to work fine with both dos and  . 
i used the following command in dos 

c dos mode , n , 8 , 1 , p 

and set up the the same way in the setup .  . 

the null are as follows 

1 to 1 
2 to 3 
3 to 2 
4 to 5 
5 to 4 
6 8 to 20 
20 to 6 8 
7 to 7 

i printed from several applications and all seems ok. 


kevin c. internet 
 ( profs ) 
ic engineering 
drive , b voice mail  ( 313 ) 
, mi  ( 313 ) 




kevin c. internet 
 ( profs ) 
ic engineering 
drive , b voice mail  ( 313 ) 
, mi  ( 313 ) 



kevin c. internet 
 ( profs ) 
ic engineering 
drive , b voice mail  ( 313 ) 
, mi  ( 313 ) 


from  ( neal patrick howland ) 
subject re 
organization kansas state university 
lines 23 
nntp posting host matt . ksu . ksu . edu . 

 ( randy agee ) writes 

it used to be that the only way the law could be enforced was for 
an to actually see the  . not any more ! many 
law enforcement are now using  . 
right , a super sensitive receiver that is capable of picking up 
from the itself. my first reaction was no way ! 
but , guess again , these little really work and the police 
are writing right and left for people using 
 . one news story quoted an as saying that he had 
found the in all of the cars he stopped except one , 
and he could never figure out where it was but he knew it was 
there. this tends to make one assume there are few false arrest .  . 

from what i understand about all they are is a passive 
device much like the radio in your car. they work as an picking 
up that that the gun sends out. therefore there would 
be no way of a any more than there would be of 
whether some one had a radio in their car. 

howland 



from  ( michael golan ) 
subject how can 0 . be different from two 0 . in series ! 
originator 
nntp posting host princeton . edu . 
organization princeton university 
lines 29 

i was looking at the for , and i 
was amazed to find a difference between the us and canadian model 
on the  ( capacitor(s ) that off the output to the speakers 

to speaker  ( identical both models 
from 
 ( idnetical both models ) 
10 




0 . canadian model only ! 
us model 0 . 
and world wide 
model only .  . model only ! 
0 . 



the board itself is also identical , with room for all three caps .  . the 
us can versions is clearly indicated in both places. 

how does that make sense 0 . 2 is 0 . , essentially 0 . for caps 
 ( there are just standard caps , no special w type  . 

please explain this 
michael 


from  ( tall cool one ) 
subject question how do i go from a pcb 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 17 

after i have produced a with logic , how do i import it into 
pcb to create a pcb pattern the only way i 've gotten it to work is 
to output a , and then import this into pcb .  . is there 
another way of doing this i did n't see any information in the instructions 
provided , but i might have missed something. any suggestions would be 
greatly appreciated. thanks ! 


i i 
( @ ) ( @ ) 
raymond internet 

ee student at the 
university of illinois compuserve , 
at urbana champaign 
( ) ( ) 
i i 

from  ( andy collins ) 
subject and current limiting 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 37 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
summary need help ! ! ! 

one not so quick question to out there for you guys .  .  .  . 

for our class project , we need to design and build a power supply 
to the following 

from 1 
current limited at 1a 

must stay within 2 of value for i from 0 1a 
ac less than 5  ( rms ) 

of course , we ca n't just use an , current limiting 
chip ) 

our problem is with the current limiting (i . e .  . we 've found stuff to 
do the rest of the parts of the  . what the supply must do , 
if presented with a load which would draw more than 1a , given the 
supply , is reduce the so that the current will equal 
one  . thus , if we were to short the thing with the , we 
should read one  . if we measure the current through a 1 
at , we should read one  ( and the output , by 
necessity , must be  . 

the only basic idea we have seen for the current involves 
a which will pull current off of the base of the output 
power , and therefore reduce the output .  . 

so , does anybody have any ideas we could work from 

thanks in advance. 

andy , 


ps if anybody wants to flame this as a stupid project , i agree fully , 
but i still have to do it , its ) 


from  ( john whitmore ) 
subject re minimal 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 41 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( daniel jimenez ) writes 
suppose we have a function which is a minimal sum of products 
 ( derived from a k map or something ) , like this 

 ( f(a , b , c , d )  d   abc  c 

the books on logic design i have all seem to imply that this 
is where the analysis ends ... but by out the 
 term in the function , we can get 

 ( f(a , b , c , d )  d   ( a(cd'  b'c ) , 

which 9  . 

yes , but .  .  .  . the of is important in part 
because of  . a gate has the basic structure 
of and or , and an of a sum of a product is just 
exactly one gate delay .  . the reason to find a minimal sum of products 
is that this a hardware  . 

a positive or gate  ( such as the 9 gate solution uses ) has 
two gate  ( and there 's another gate delay in the second term ) 
so that the second solution , while simpler in logic symbols , can 
be expected to be something less than in the real world. 
is similar to , in that it can support an or and 
gate with the minimum delay  ( unlike , you get both true and 
for  free  when using  . 

pals are basically large and or 
 ( with your choice of internal between the 
various sections , and perhaps some latches ) , so a minimum sum 
of products also is a way to a logic design into 
a few pals .  . it 's not easy to design with a 
of logic , but some software claim to allow you to 
do so , and will take just about any mess of  ( as a 
with series logic ics ) and produce a description of 
a logic cell to do the same job. 's software 
does this by treating each logic block as a macro , and expanding 
it all out , then  . 

john 

subject re principle of the 
from 
organization industrial research ltd .  . , new  . 
nntp posting host 
lines 3 

in apparently things like are also giving positive 
readings 


from de .  ( dirk junghanns ) 
subject , info wanted 
nntp posting host rz . tu . de . 
reply to de .  ( dirk junghanns ) 
organization 
lines 12 

does anybody have about the 

w 86 c and w 86 c  ( 40pin pckg ) 

they are build in a card for pc .  . 

thanks 



de . 


from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re what to do with old 
organization corporation 
lines 26 

in article  . beal ) writes 
in article  ( jason haines ) writes 

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old 
 . i have a bunch of them for the apple mac 
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to 
sell them but have gotten no interest .  . 

so , if you have an use  ( or want to buy 
some 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing 
about it. 

one of the guys at work takes 20 of them , uses glue to make 
five four wide then constructs a box , with bottom , to use as a 
 . 


or , if you 've got some (sp ) spirit , get a 
clear plastic box , mount the inside , and sell it as a  pet  ! 

i'm sure there are plenty of out there who would go 
for it ! 

aaron 



from  ( jing chin ) 
subject need info on project 
summary general info on building a project that can music 
keywords , d a , a d , music , project 
nntp posting host ee . ca . 
organization university of , canada 
lines 10 

i want to start a project that can music in a stereo  . 
is that any chip set , development and or that 
can mix music ideally , the system should have d a a d 
a  . a rough estimate of the cost is appreciated. 

thanks in advance. 

regards , 

e mail address 

from  ( randall ding ) 
subject re 's 
organization computing services division , university of wisconsin milwaukee 
lines 48 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 7 . 4 . 

in article com .  ( john t. rasper ) writes 
does anyone know the details of the interface  ( 5 wire din ) for the 
remote  ( 2 wire repeater ) for the 
the part numbers are the , , and 
ira  . 

a physical examination of the pre indicates 
that the  ( 5 pin din ) may provide  ( viewed from front ) 


5 1  ( pin ) v @ ma 
4 2  ( pin ) v @ ma 
3  ( pin 3) signal ground 
 ( pin ) signal v , polarity , ma drive 
 ( pin ) signal to drive led  ( drives through 
resistor ) v 

i assume that the  ( mini plugs ) drive the 
led 's directly .  . true 

can anyone fill in the 's .  . thanks. 


here 's the  . when you get your home receiver working , would 
you be willing to share it with the rest of us i always wanted to 
build my own but never have the time to fool around and design it. 

pin 1 signal ground 
pin 2 signal 
pin 3 always hot 6 
pin 4 6 , hot only when is turned on 
pin 5 

the on the back of the are not connected 
to anything inside the except the 5 pin pin 5. there 
is a 150 between the two , with a 1 . from pin 5 to 
ground. 

the signal pin 2 in the is with the built in receiver .  . 
they use a chip called and a to the signal .  . i would 
imagine the logical way would be to this and use 
it as the external receiver .  . 

if you need more info , let me know. 





from  ( kevin karplus ) 
subject re caps 
organization university of california , santa 
lines 38 
reply to  ( kevin karplus ) 
nntp posting host edu . 


i 've used on chip to reduce ground on a small 
chip that had loads on the lines. 
 ( design was in 2 n well , using the design rules . ) . 
here are some thoughts on the 

1 ) they do n't help much with output switching there is 
still a large between the and the 
load  ( on both the signal line and the ground 
return ) , so you still get ground and power line  . 

2 ) they do help a lot with on chip loads , as i had with the high load 
on the lines. 

3) the you are trying to suppress are really high 
, so forget about large areas of thin 
, since the rc time constant is too large .  . 
what i did is to make a , metal , , sandwich , 
but put a lot of holes in the , allowing frequent 
contacts .  . i forget exactly how wide the 
lines were. if i were doing this design again , i 'd probably 
the , and use a solid instead , 
using just , , and  ( and , but that has such a high 
resistance it can be ignored at these  . 

4 ) you are probably better off trying to tune your to run with 
slightly edges and lower  ( especially for 
output signalling ) , than spending chip area on  . 
i had spare space on the die since the was too big for 
a tiny chip , and the next size up was twice as big as i 
needed .  . 

kevin 

kevin 

due to the light at the end of the is 
being turned off. 

from  ( mark zenier ) 
subject re 
article i.d. 
organization , inc. , seattle , 
lines 17 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

mark j. wrote 
hi , i was wondering if anyone would be able to help me on related 
subjects .  . i am currently learning about am and 
circuits .  . 

p.s. any really good books on am theory along with detailed 
electrical would help a lot. 
i have seen a lot of theory books with no circuits and a lot of 
books with no theory , but one without the other does not help. 

a pretty serious book that still seems is 

, and design 
by and  . 


mark 

from  ( dave medin ) 
subject plug in 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 15 

if anyone out there has an series or , i 
have the plug in  ( the , i believe ) for it and have no need 
to keep it. interested e mail me. 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( michael covington ) 
subject was re a question about  . 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 22 

in article writes 

what you can do if you want three without additional is 
to use a  ( or , but the will be  . in fact , 
depending on where you are putting your new  ( outlet(s ) , a may be required . 

you still need to supply a proper ground for a ground fault ! 

enough , you do n't , at least according to the faq that 
is regularly posted on misc . house .  . 

a senses between the live and neutral wire , 
and cuts them both off if a discrepancy is found. no ground connection 
is needed for it to function. 




michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  ( mr m j brown ) 
subject drives update ! 
organization computing services , university of warwick , uk 
lines 26 
distribution world 
nntp posting host warwick . ac . uk . 

many thanks to those who replied to my appeal for info on a drive i have 
which is 3.5 ! ! 

i now have some information on how to this for use with a b 
computer .  . not only do you have to change the speed from 600 to 
 ( tried that ) but also change 8 components in the rec play section to allow 
for the lower data rate  ( 250kbit , not as it was designed for ) and also 
change the recording current to allow for the low data rate rev speed ! 

this should sort it all out .... not bad for 9  ( normally 32 
and  .  .  .  . ) . 

the drive is a series drive ... 



michael brown 





lost interest it 's so bad i 've lost ! 




from  ( jonathan betts ) 
subject where to find cheap 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 32 

sci . netters 

i am setting out to build and market a small electronic device that 
requires an display .  . all of the are working 
fine , i have ordered a ice  ( not vice versa ) since the are so 
cheap and low power , but i am having a devil of a time finding any 
in the 6 8 range that are as low as i need. i 
am looking for in the range of 1 in of about 
1000 10 , 000 .  . 

mainstream like cannot help me without a part 
number , or when they do look around for something in their line 
they find a 15 8  . even 's offering is 5 in 
quantity .  . 

i know like this must exist because i see whole 
for sale for 4 . , meaning the probably buys it 
for 3 . 50 . and the probably gets it for 2 . 50 . or so. this 
2 . 50 . includes assembly labor , , sales , transportation , 
import duties , the case and keyboard , the pc board , the processor 
chip , the cell and the  . the ca n't cost much. 

if anyone could put me in touch with some and or 
that handle such things i would be much  . 

joe 



p.s. i have tried tearing apart several cheap consumer devices that 
have only to find that the are  . has anyone else 
had better luck with this strategy 

from (a . 
subject re 
organization tri university 
lines 24 
distribution world 
nntp posting host ca . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article ,  ( neal patrick howland ) writes .  .  .  . 

from what i understand about all they are is a passive 
device much like the radio in your car. they work as an picking 
up that that the gun sends out. therefore there would 
be no way of a any more than there would be of 
whether some one had a radio in their car. 

from my rather knowledge of radio , most radio use a 
, so that the signal is with a local , giving 
a fixed  ( if ) that is more easily  . the 
work by picking up if re from your 
 . in britain , where one has used to pay for a tv , there 
are were tv the streets , looking for people who had n't 
paid their fee .  . they had a couple of long on the 
roof , and i believe could an operating tv from the if .  . 

i wonder how much of the if is back from the , and 
how much from the rest of the  . it might be worth putting the 
in a proper  . 


andrew , vancouver , canada 
finger for pgp key 

from  ( gerald belton ) 
subject need to find out 
distribution world 
organization , inc. new , la 
reply to  ( gerald belton ) 
lines 24 

al question is there a certain device out there that i can 
al use to find out the number to the line 
al thanks for any response. 
al al 

al there is a number you can call which will return a 
al voice telling you the number of the line. unfortunately , for the 
al life of me i ca n't remember what it is. the telephone 
al use it all the time. we used to play around with this in our 
al since there were multiple phone lines running between 
al  . 

it probably would n't help for you to post the number , since it appears 
to be different in each area. for what it 's worth , in the new 
area the number is  ( easy to remember , what ) 


2 . 1 . ask me anything if i do n't know , i 'll make up something. 


the hole bbs a private board service  ( 504)891 ) 
3 full service 16 . 10 100 , 000 files 
new ! network mail usenet newsgroups 
please route all questions or to 

from  ( mark e. ,  . 8056 ) 
subject sources for 
nntp posting host gov . 
organization computing division 
lines 18 

i am in the midst of a project which requires two and an led 
driven with  . i'm using the , and 
i understand that the version has a counter that can 
essentially be set and forgotten to do the  . the problems is , that variant 
is difficult to come by. i need two or three of the d  ( ceramic window ) 
version for development , and then lots of the p  ( plastic otp ) for later 
production. i 've tried , arrow , and  . they  ( might ) have them , but 
i'm looking for samples at this point , and they 're not too willing to provide 
them. i would buy them , but these have 100 . 00 .  . 

any help is appreciated. 


mark e. , 
bitnet unix is to computing 
internet as an a sketch is to art .  . 
 ( vms ! ) 


from  ( gerald belton ) 
subject food 
distribution world 
organization , inc. new , la 
reply to  ( gerald belton ) 
lines 39 

does anybody out there have one of those food i 've been seeing 
all over late night tv recently i was wondering if they use forced air , 
or both. if there 's involved , anybody know what they run at 
my wife would like one and i'm not inclined to pay 100 . 00 . for a box , a fan 
and a  . seems to me you should be able to a together 
for just a few  . heck , the technology is only what 1 , 000 years old 

you can learn how to build a very easily from the book , the 
's guide to good food , by  . the source 
is a 100 light  . basically , it 's a box with 
holes in the top and bottom  ( lots of them , you want the air 
to  . the light goes in the bottom , and wire cake are 
every 6 starting about 10 above the  . 

or , at a slightly higher cost in , you can do what i do use 
your  .  ( note i do this in an electric some gas may 
not have a low enough  . put food to be dried on or 
in the  . set to degrees  ( the lowest setting on my 
if yours goes down to 120 that 's probably even better . ) . stick a 
or something across the front corner of the and close 
the door on the so that it open about an this allows 
for  . leave the stuff in the for 6 to 8 hours check it 
often , since this it much than the  . if you are 
using sheets instead of , turn the stuff over 
through. 

if you want more info , e mail me since this is n't really the right sub 
for this stuff. 




2 . 1 . i still miss my boss , but my aim is improving .  . 


the hole bbs a private board service  ( 504)891 ) 
3 full service 16 . 10 100 , 000 files 
new ! network mail usenet newsgroups 
please route all questions or to 

from  ( chris best ) 
subject re food 
organization your service 
lines 10 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 

does anybody out there have one of those food i 've been seeing 
all over late night tv recently i was wondering if they use forced air , , 
or both. if there 's involved , anybody know what they run at 
my wife would like one and i'm not inclined to pay 100 . 00 . for a box , a fan 
and a  . seems to me you should be able to a together 
for just a few  . heck , the technology is only what 1 , 000 years old 



yeah , but 1000 years ago , you could n't buy it from a guy with on hair ! 

from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 23 

write a good manual to go with the software .  . the of 
the manual is offset by of 
the for only 15 .  . also , consider offering an 
but attractive for users. for instance , a coffee 
 . you could produce and mail the incentive for a couple of 
dollars , so consider the product at 17 .  . 

you 're lucky if only 20 of the instances of your program in use 
are non users. 

the best approach is to estimate your loss and that into 
your price structure .  . sure it legitimate users , but too bad. 
have to charge off loss to onto paying 
the software industry is the same. 

unless your product is unique , using an 
copy proof will just send your to the  . 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( mark underwood ) 
subject re help how to construct home built for 3rd grade sci report 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university of , dept. of math sciences 
distribution usa 
lines 29 

in article  ( don t. borowski ) 
writes 
dean  ( anneser@pwa b . wrote 
my 9 old son has signed up to do a science report on  . i 
was 
wondering if anyone could provide me with some information as to how 
to 
construct a home built  . in my grade school days , i remember 

 ( snip ! ) 

i have n't been following this , so i'm sorry if somebody already mentioned 
this , but you could a (i think work too , but i'm not 
sure ) , a strip of , and a strip of (i think you can get the 
metal in a hardware or , maybe ) .  . stick the in 
the  ( so they do n't touch ! ) and you 'll get a measurable  ( not 
a lot , but , hey , it 's a ) ) .  . as i recall we had to 
something like ten of these things to get an amount of 
current , because of the internal resistance , but if you just need a 
you might get it to run a tiny fan or something ! ) 


mark s. 
ee student , university of 
lab assistant , boyd hall 
(a tiny little division of uk library microlabs ) 
e mail 



from  ( robert b. neville ) 
subject for sale 
organization apple computer , inc. , , california 
lines 37 
nntp posting host apple . com . 

recently i posted two for sale .  . one has sold , the other is 
still available 
used , good condition 
v dual channel 
o 
o offset 
o alternate  ( 10x non 
waveform ) 
o mode 
o tv separation 
list price 00 . ( .  .  . and . the price 's just 
quoted ! ) ( 
for  ( jdr current price ) 
 ( products international ) 
your price used 00 . 
 .  .  . i . have n't gotten an offer at the asking price , so   applies .  .  .  . 

i also have a  broken  version of the which sold 
2000 dual channel 
o 
o component  ( resistors caps coils ) 
o tv video filter 
o z  ( intensity modulation ) 

 broken  means the produces a nice , bright trace , but the trace does 
not correspond to the signal .  . my guess is it 's but more 
than a simple problem .  .  . but . i honestly have not tried to 
the or otherwise fix it. it 's  as  . 
i paid 60 for it in its current state (i bought it thinking i 'd it , 
using the  good  for side by side comparison .  .  . since . i 've sold the 
 good  , the  bad  one does n't do me much good ) and i 'd like to 
that amount .  . as above , i 'll accept and take the best one. 

i 'd prefer a local  ( bay area , california ) , so  ( a ) i do n't have to 
it and  ( b ) she or he can examine the prior to  . 



from  ( fritz mueller ) 
subject electronic parts in 
organization public access unix , 
lines 18 

hey all 

i just moved to and wondered if there are any 
out there who could point me to places in that sell individual 
electronic components  ( switches , , , caps , 
, etc . ) . radio shack does n't count  ( they have almost no 
selection , and their are outrageous ! ) 

i have particular interest in components  ( amplifier ic 's , power 
, output , and , , 
, etc . ) . 

i have checked out a lot of street and street so far with 
no luck. am i missing places , looking in the wrong place , or do i 
have to resort to mail order 

thanks in advance , 
 . 

from  ( david f. newman ) 
subject style and 
organization division of academic computing , university , boston , ma .  . usa 
lines 8 

hi there , 
can anyone tell me where it is possible to found 
on most style games. many i am working on would 
be greatly if i could implement them. thanx in advance. 

dave 



from  ( wayne hooper ) 
subject re making copy of a video 
keywords video 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 13 

 ( victor laking ) writes 

you are experiencing what is called  . it is the protection 
that they use on the video  . there are two ways around this that i 
know of. first of all , you can try using a different to copy onto .  . 
it is the of the that to the protection so sometimes 
just switching the two around will take care of it. some models 
just do n't react to it. 

does this also affect the of i have had problems with 
a couple of they were virtually  . i 
with the , and hold but it was no good. 


from  ( glenn a sullivan ) 
subject re making copy of a video 
summary here is go video 
organization arizona state university 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( paul ilgenfritz ) writes 

i think the go video dual machines do a direct to copy 
which to the copy. i you can find one of these , it 
would be worth a try. 

go video machines used in mode will copy even the  . 
go video phone number  ( 602)998 )  . 

ask for sales department .  . since the state of arizona does not go on 
daylight savings time , we effectively are in time  . 

allen 
various stuff for go video 

from  ( gordon hlavenka ) 
subject re what to do with old 
organization public access 
lines 14 

 ( jason haines ) writes 
i was wondering if people had any good uses for old 
 .  .  . so , if you have an use  ( or want to buy 
some 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing 
about it. 

about a month ago there was a photo posted on 
alt . pictures . misc . of a 17 . 5 . northern which had been 
caught on a made of  . 



gordon s. 
vote straight party dec .  . 3rd ! 

from  ( john whitmore ) 
subject re wire questions  ( again ) 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 36 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( pascal goguey ) writes 
in article  ( mark d fitzsimmos ) writes 

after a amount of research , review of discussions 
on this group , and mainly time on , i have 
decided that the path of least resistance for my  ( not 
necessarily someone else 's ) electronic designs is wire  . 

i have no idea about what you want to do , but be careful 
wire increases a lot the  . that should n't 
be a problem for slow applications (i . e . a few mhz ) , but as for 
quicker ones  ( around 30 40 mhz ) , i doubt that it can work. 


fortunately , wire is a better than 
most at high computers  ( up to the x , at least ) 
all had  . gets into trouble at 
much higher than any can handle .  . the  increase  
of is not really relevant  ( you have to use 
line techniques , and the is no  . 

1 ) where can i get a decent tool i 'd like to spend less 
than 150 for an ac including bit and sleeve .  . 

hand is the best. there are good ac ones , 
but rather expensive .  . a low cost one does n't work very well. 

hand is a terrible choice  ( imho ) unless you are 
a field person who will do maybe a dozen 
at a time. your hands will  . wire guns 
are available in the 150 range , and so are the little 
stick manual types (  . for a project , of 
a couple hundred , i 'd prefer to borrow a 
ac  .  .  . or a one. 

john 

from  ( shishin yamada ) 
subject re 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 42 

in article writes 
does anyone know what processor the used what i'm looking for is 
e pin for the  .  .  .  . the for it it .  .  .  . does anyone have 
any idea where i could find this or any related information this is very 
 . also , are the that were used games still available 
, or were they please email me with any , as this is very 
important .  .  . thanks a million .  .  .  . 

btw anyone who works has worked for , i could really use your help with i 
on the old , please email me if you are willing to help me .  .  .  .  . 
alot ! ! 

peter 

the used a , just like their entire 8 bit line 
 ( 400 , , 1200 , 1400 , , , computers , as well as the 
game  . the had some extra that were basically 
modified and 's for the  . later model 
might have incorporated many of the into one , as the weight 
of the machines and part count a lot over the years. 

, i think the used , , and up to of for 
their games. i have no idea how much it had to work with , but i 
would hazard a guess of 2 or  . think comes from a lot of 
with the and computers. and with the 
 ( fixing it for video use , and  . 
also i to make a less system that the into 
a that could be loaded up at some prior time (a way to 
 . i 've heard of a setup like this where games could 
be bought  ( cheaply ) on recorded , then you would load them 
into a special , and play them. 

anyways , if you 're interested in looking for equipment , we 've got 
two machines around  ( one a v modified ) , and 
 . willing to sell for reasonable offer and 
handling .  . do n't play it anymore , since going to computers 
 ( interested in that too ) .  . 

hope that helps your question .  .  .  . i might some 's out too , 
since they must be fun to play with  ( as  . 



from 
subject re electronic 
article i.d. 
organization university of kansas academic computing services 
lines 10 

i had the go out in my car (a 1990 lincoln contenintal ) which 
is a digital  . they replaced the whole thing with a 1991  ( thank god it 
was under the ! ) anyway , the was reading the exact 
from the old  . it must have a of some sort in it that is up dated .  . 
seems to me that removing the would it , but it does n't .  . so i 
guess they the chip  ( non memory ) and it in the 
new  . no , they would n't let me have the old to with ( 




from  ( david prutchi ) 
subject re ink 4 trade 
nntp posting host 
organization washington university , st. 
lines 32 

in article (j .  . babb ) writes 
fellow info , 
i have an extra 27  ( real time programming embedded 
storage ) and an extra 32  ( voice control of , among other 
 . no  . no , cut up , or missing pages. 

would like to trade for 26 , or 23 , or 19 in same 
condition  ( labels  . 

i mail mine you mail yours trust kinda ok 
you do n't actually them away , do you 

thanx , 
jeff 


i have also been trying to complete my collection. i have an extra 16 
 ( communications ) and a 12  ( applications in the arts ) , both in 
condition. 

i would like to trade for  ( or buy ) the following 1 , 3 , 22 , 23 , 25 , 26 , 30 , 
and 31. 

thanks david 


david 
washington university 
campus box 
one drive 
st. , 


from  ( gerrit heitsch ) 
subject re what 's a good ic for 
distribution world 
organization project  ( private uucp site ) 
lines 26 

in article , frank writes 

i'm looking for an ic that will convert levels to 
levels .  . something relatively would be nice , too. anyone have 
a suggestion thanks. 

well it looks as if key a chip with the number that does what 
you want. they are selling it for about 3 . 50 .  .  .  . 

are you sure that he needs a two way if he wants only 
i would suggest the , its very cheap 80 . in 
 . this chip needs only  . the 
uses and  . 

btw .  .  .  . the and seem to be expensive in the usa .  .  .  . 
i paid 2 . for a  ( made by harris ) , its absolutely 
compatible with the or the  . 




16 germany 
logical uucp fido  ( 2 
if we will ever be visited by , it will be very hard to explain , why a 
, that is intelligent enough to build atomic weapons can be stupid 
enough to do it.  ( taken from special about space , page 88 91 ) 

from  ( david malecki ) 
subject re building a 
lines 40 
organization university of 

in article  ( john hawkinson ) writes 
my main question is the where can i get do they 
need a lot of power etc. , etc. 

i 've seen them in stores .  . all they are are 
without the , and a  ( special  . i 've 
also seen versions that you into an ordinary 
, probably not what you want. 


i'm not too concerned with whether it 's long wave or short wave 
 ( but hey , if anyone has a cheap source of , i 'll take  . 

one other thing a friend of mine mentioned something about near 
light being to get at than actual light. does anyone 
know what he was referring to 

as far as i know , near  ( as opposed to far uv ) is  ( near 
the  . is safer as far as accidental (i hope ) 
exposure to the eyes. as far as go  ( the reason a 
friend has a lamp ) , some only respond to only one of short or long  . 

hope this helps .  . 

dave .  . 




thanks much. 



john 


who i am david 
who you think i am 



from  ( john , d . ) . 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization little scraps of paper , mostly 
lines 13 

the object of a is to distribute in 
water over large areas of and to therefore 
farm for non by their land  . 

a side effect of this program is that they provide 
a low t for a variety of industrial processes .  . 

now you know. 



john 


from  ( martin kaschke ) 
subject 4 
reply to  ( martin kaschke ) 
organization division , , , md 
lines 15 


i was wondering if anyone out there in net land knew of a simple 
way to make a 4  ( single channel) .  . i need it to accept 
line  ( tape , , etc . ) . and output to the same ! so 
should equal output  . also , since i am driving 
a line , i would need 1 p p output .  . final requirement is that i 
can either 
1. control it 
or 
2. control it easily , or with few 

finally if anyone knows of any filter or , that might 
be useful , please let me know. (i have seen a couple of them from national , 
and  . thanks in advance , 
martin 

from  ( steven m. knapp ) 
subject re 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
lines 16 

in article () writes 
in  ( randy agee ) writes 

so , the questions are 

are any brands than others 

yes some are less detectable by 
 . ) 

look in car and  ( last 6 months should do ) , they had a big 
review of the better , and stealth was a factor .  . 

m. computer engineering student 
president amateur radio club 
iowa state university ames , ia usa center 

from  ( joel kolstad ) 
subject re wanted a to d hardware for a pc 
article i.d. doug . 1993apr6 . 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 22 

in com . brad writes 

if you know much about pc 's  ( ibm comp ) you might try the 
 . though i have n't tried this myself , i 've been told that the 
has built in a d  . this would allow the to be a couple of 
 . if you could find the this might just work for you .  .  .  . 

i believe that the a d found on a are really 
timers that off how long it takes an r c  ( the r being your 
paddle ) to charge up to something like 1 2  . for games this works 
pretty well , but you certainly would n't want to try to take lab 
measurements off something as non as that. 

hmm .  .  .  . i suppose you could it in software , but the real problem 
is that the precision of your measurement is no longer constant  ( higher 
would be more  . 

on the other hand , i could be wrong and perhaps the game card 
for the extra  . 50 . to make a cheap constant current source out of 
an  . but i would n't expect that .  .  .  . 

joel 

from arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
subject re pc parallel i o 
distribution world 
organization bbs , w net , ann arbor , michigan , usa 
reply to arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
lines 24 


r all pc parallel that are with the ibm standard , 
r including the original ibm , are  . 

not all parallel are without  . 

my experience with the standard old parallel in their 
original proves that. they had the direction by 
them r w select line of the to  . to make it ( which 
i did ) i had to it by off the trace and a jump to 
the proper  . i thought that this was just lazy on the part of 
( they were not bull group at that time) .  . 




. 2 . 0 . evaluation copy 
2 . w net , ann . arbor . mi . us . , 1 or 


bbs to usenet gateway four v . 
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! 14 . 
call 1 or 
member of , , serving ann arbor since 1988 

from  ( gary gendel ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone 
organization mentor corp .  . ic group 
lines 32 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host warren . com . 

in article ,  ( scott dorsey ) writes 
in article writes 

! 

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't 
know the number of the line. and i do n't want 
to call up the operator to place a trace on it. 

question is there a certain device out there that i can 
use to find out the number to the line 


call a friend long distance ,  . ask to speak with yourself. when 
the operator asks for you , you wo n't be there , so ask the operator to leave 
your number .  . she 'll read it out in the clear. 
scott 

even easier , my area supports  . this and a recording your number .  . 
phone use it to verify an line. 


vice president current 
corp mentor corporation 
9 woods drive 15 independence 
, nj warren , nj 

phone  ( 908 ) phone  ( 908 ) 
fax  ( 908 ) email 




from  ( bill willis ) 
subject re 
organization engineering services , university 
lines 23 

in article  ( scott dorsey ) writes 

i have a out of a power supply , for which i have no 
manual .  . it 's a motorola part with a date code and the number 

4 

which the motorola folks me is a house number , which they ca n't 
help me with. any suggestions from folks out there i ca n't put it on 
a curve to try to get an equivalent , since it 's completely shot .  . 
scott 
since your is a , it 's probably not a very good one by 
today 's standards. if you have an idea about its and current 
, e.g. @ , you can probably get away with replacing it with 
anything with better  . early had a gate source 
of approximately 20 , and they would usually turn completely on 
at  . otherwise , are not really they 're more or 
less controlled current sources. if the in your is 
used as an open loop , controlled current source , you may have to 
experiment with various gain altering techniques .  . 

bill edu . 
 ( 803 ) 

from () 
subject re 
nntp posting host chaos . cs . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 23 

in  ( randy agee ) writes 

so , the questions are 
what do the actually detect 
would additional generated by 
a , or is the actually being by the 

are any brands than others 

ok , so your a ham .  . well , tune in 10 . or  . these numbers sound 
like some you have herd before right , you guessed it , they are 
common if numbers. every super het receiver has a local  ( oscillator(s ) 
which an if .  . this is what your is  ( the 
local  . 

some of these have two or more local which generate more ways to 
receiver you. if you want to receiver something at say 10 . you must 
generate a local signal of 10 . 10 . your local 
 . this 10 . if is then fed into a normal  . 
the is the  ( your mileage may  . since 
the is a negative feed back device , a positive sets off a ... 
i think you get the picture .  . 


subject re tv ! 
from  ( xiaoping han ) 
distribution usa 
organization university of 
lines 12 

in article  ( prasad ramakrishna ) writes 

... why would the picture explode or even 

it 's not the picture  . more likely the  . ca n't admire .  . 


prasad 





from  ( craig s. williamson ) 
subject re looking for a good book 
article i.d. 627 . 
reply to  ( craig s. williamson ) 
organization e m , 
lines 17 

in article  ( robert canright ) writes 
you might try 
computer aided analysis using by walter , 
at , paperback , 33 , lots of examples .  . dr. 
is a teacher .  . 

is there another book. i have this one and do n't find it in 
learning  . it would make a good reference book but i found it lacking 
for learning  . are there any others 

craig 


you took the bull by the horns 
craig and in something good. 

 ( home ) perfect strangers 

from  ( jerry musselman ) 
subject needed 
organization ames , 
lines 9 

i need to find a that will interface to an and do the following 
, 8 data bits , 2 stop bits , no 
ability to do break detect  ( irq or output pin ) 
on character received 

i'm using a at 16  ( 8051 clone ) , but it wo n't do 
break detect .  . i 've looked at the , , , , etc .  .  .  . 

any help would be ! ! ! 

from  ( arno schaefer ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
nntp posting host 
organization , , france 
lines 38 

in article ,  ( ketil , tih ) writes 
in article ,  ( matt block ) writes 

i guess what i am saying is that your question is difficult , if not 
impossible , to answer. what exactly do you want to know do you need a good 
one for a project you are working on how secure must it be are you trying 
to crack one that someone else has used i can probably make suggestions , 
assuming the activity is strictly legal .  .  ( in general , it is a bad idea , 
legally , to with copy protection. it can also lead to corruption of 
files which you necessarily do not have back of  ( being as they are copy 
protected , ) which can be ) . do you have absolutely no ideas for 
practical applications , and are merely curious 
please clear up those questions , and i 'll try to help as much as i 
can. 

may we interpret this as an offer to as editor for a 
copy protection faq i am quite sure that i am not alone such 
an ! i will to ask some of the questions , if you will 
provide the answers ) 



hey , now will you stop encouraging him copy protection only serves one 
pose to keep the honest from making  ( legal ) copies .  . it will 
definitely not stop any  . if you want to protect you soft , supply a 
good documentation and support .  . this is imho the only way of effectively pro 
software .  . 

best regards , 





, 
email 
tel .  .  ( 33 ) 76 51 ) 
no , you 're not the world is really out to get you 

from  ( john bell ) 
subject re cheap products 
organization nasa research center 
lines 21 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

in article  ( mike donahue ) writes 

as for , they are going with that use balanced , a 
very nice , but i'm afraid its to push their 
price ranges .  . because taking advantage of those balanced 
requires a 120 to balanced  .  .  . 

umm , when i was doing sound for a living , i used to get direct boxes  ( which convert 
1 4 to balanced xlrs ) for about 25 each , or a little more for higher 
quality .  . you 'll need two for a stereo signal , of course , and a little from 
radio t to convert from to 1 4 . total cost should be around 50 .  . you can also buy 
for quite a bit less and wire them yourself. total cost there should be under 30 .  . 
you can get all this stuff from any pro music that sound gear .  . 
the benefit no that you can hear will be generated in the going to the component 
with the balanced , even when you run them in bad places , like next to power lines. 


john bell 
nasa research center 



from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re motorola and 
organization u of 
lines 14 

in article  ( stefan berg ) writes 
... i do n't know why my has an  ( my original 
was label 33 ) , but it seems to work fine on my system .  .  .  . 
p.s. or does it mean experimental chip instead of motorola chip . ) 

the rule for the is that if it says , that means it works 
exactly the way the book  . if it says , that means 
there is at least one known bug .  . often these are small and obscure 
you might never run into them in practice. 

at least motorola admits it , unlike certain other  .  .  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( tom bruhns ) 
subject re looking for spread spectrum 
organization , 
lines 12 

 ( ronald w. , jr . ) . writes 

i am looking for of spread spectrum radio  . i need 
to implement a two way link  ( essentially the of a 
phone is what i want . ) . 

this is n't exactly , but take a look in design magazine , 
april 93 , for the article a for part 15 
control applications .  . page 29 .  . sources of parts are 
mentioned in the same issue is an article that features a 
for the digital european telecommunications standard. 


from  ( chris hand ) 
subject cheap seeking info 
organization de university , , uk .  . 
lines 37 

attention hardware and bargain ! 

i just bought a for 25 uk pounds .  . i have 
a for a similar , but i'm looking for proper data .  . 

if anyone can help with data for this device  ( before i start 
with the on the phone to and through the 
library ) , then i 'll pass on the source. 

type  ( hitachi ) 
resolution x  ( so can do chars on matrix ) 

bought from 

ltd 
27 park 
, uk 

tel .  . 44 23 63 63 
fax .  . 44 23 63 07 
email compuserve , 

i only just bought this ! i do n't even know if it works ! 

price was 25 uk pounds including 5 . ) , which is n't 
if you 're outside the ec .  . 

thanks for any info ! 


chris 


chris hand , internet mail 
dept of computing science , voice 44 
de university , the gateway , fax 44 2 32 . 50 . 
, uk free unix for ibm ! 

from wayne martin 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 60 
distribution world 
nntp posting host po2 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from netnews . sci . 16 apr 93 re what do nuclear 
site 's  .  .  . by r tim 
from r tim 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
date fri , 16 apr 93 21 27 21 pdt 

in article 
( s . walker . man 50 ) wrote 
i really do n't know where to post this question so i that 
this board would be most appropriate. 
i was wondering about those massive concrete that 
are ever present at nuclear sites .  . they look like 
that have been in the middle .  . does anybody know what the 
actual purpose of those things are . i hear that they 're called 
  but what the heck do they cool 

except for their size , the on nuclear power plants 
are identical in construction and operation to 
designed and built in the 's (a hundred years ago ) for 
fired power plants used for and early electric  . 

, the supports a air draft when 
its air is by hot water and or steam thru a network 
of that fill about the lower 1 3 of the  . to assist 
and the draft , water are added that cold water over the 
hot  . the cold water , removing the than 
just air from the draft would and the resulting water is 
rapidly carried away by the draft .  . this produces the frequently 
seen out of these  . 

that slight  ( maybe 2 3 of the way up the tower ) is there because 
it produces a very significant increase in the strength and rate of 
the air draft produced , compared to a straight shape .  . 

the are used to the steam in the steam 
system of the power plant so that it can be back to the 
and used again. the the difference across 
the used in the power plant the more they are and 
by the steam in the before sending it 
back to the you maintain a very wide difference 
 ( sometimes as high as 1000 degrees or more from first stage hot 
to final stage cold  . 

r. tim 

usenet r tim 
technology , n .  . domesticated natural phenomena 

great , however you left off one detail , why do you always 
see them at nuclear plants , but not always at fossil plants .  . at 
nuclear plants it is to run the water closed cycle , whereas 
fossil plants can in some cases get away with dumping the hot 
water .  . as i recall the water is n't as hot  ( thermodynamically ) in many 
fossil plants , and of course there is less danger of 
contamination .  . 

wayne martin 




from  ( ian chan ) 
subject need help on .  .  .  . 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 24 

i need help on 4 components 



i know key or them , but the minimum order is 25 ! 
does anyone know where i can get smaller orders of this , or 
an equivalent replacement 



for this  . 

chip 

key , and do not appear to carry chip does anyone 
know what this does and where i can obtain it 

chip 

this chip s data  ( from or  . where can i obtain 
one of these 

thanks in advance , 


from  ( thomas david kehoe ) 
subject re telephone controlled power bar needed 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 25 


i had a similar idea , for a fax answering machine switch , 
to put both machines on one line. you order 
from your phone company .  . this is 3 month here. 
you get a second  ( unpublished ) phone number .  . when 
someone calls this number , your phone with short 
instead of long  . 

you set up your answering machine on 4 and your fax 
on  . you 'd give out the new as your fax . 
a device would measure the length of  . when it 
a short , it turns off your answering machine .  . 
five later your fax up the call .  . 

this should be and more than the 80 
now available. 

but that 's not what i did. i'm giving out the new 
to my friends and  . this should leave the 
old for , etc. i wo n't pick up the 
phone when i hear the long  . 

why my thoughts are my own , when they are in , but when they are out 
they are another 's .  . martin , hanged for ,  . 
thomas david  ( 408 ) 

from  ( moz chris ) 
subject re building a 
nntp posting host ac . 
organization electrical engineering , university of , new 
lines 23 

 ( john hawkinson ) writes 
my main question is the where can i get do they 
need a lot of power etc. , etc. 


he ones i have seen are all  . maybe you could find a 
small to go in one of those hand held 

one other thing a friend of mine mentioned something about near 
light being to get at than actual light. does anyone 
know what he was referring to 

blue  .  ( by definition ) goes from the blue end of the 
spectrum that people see to the radio spectrum  ( x rays , cosmic rays  . 

possibly you could get light at the fringe of  ( which people 
with false eye can see easily , since it 's your that up 
most of the uv ) , however since most people use to get other things 
to  , and the near blue is less , it would probably not 
work as well , if it worked at all.  ( lecture on basic atomic physics 
fits in here , about  ( quantum leaps ) and stuff. 



from  ( phil torre ) 
subject re suggestions on 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 18 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( billy quinn ) writes 
i built a little project using the radio shack to switch 
 . i got pretty bad   when the thing switched .  . 

is there a good relay relay that i can use for switching 
, so that there will be no of any kind on the lines. 

i missed the first part of this thread are you switching line level or 
speaker level 
if line level , there 's a single chip stereo switch available 
that 4 two channel into 1 two channel output , and also 
has a mute function , all with  . , i think 

if speaker level , never mind. ( 





from i . t .  . ( hacker in training  ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone 
organization state university 
lines 12 

since i have seen various different numbers to to get your number read 
back to you by the phone company , could a list or point me to a 
book where i could get a list of all the different numbers for the u.s. 
failing that , could someone tell me ohio 's 




i do n't speak for 
state , i just give them 
state university huge of money. 


from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
organization corporation 
lines 24 

in article writes 

! 

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't 
know the number of the line. and i do n't want 
to call up the operator to place a trace on it. 

question is there a certain device out there that i can 
use to find out the number to the line 
thanks for any response. 
al 

there is a number you can call which will return a 
voice telling you the number of the line. unfortunately , for the 
life of me i ca n't remember what it is. the telephone 
use it all the time. we used to play around with this in our 
since there were multiple phone lines running between 
 . 

sorry ! 

aaron 


from  ( einar indridason ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
lines 31 
nntp posting host hi . is . 

in  ( ketil , tih ) writes 

may we interpret this as an offer to as editor for a 
copy protection faq i am quite sure that i am not alone such 
an ! i will to ask some of the questions , if you will 
provide the answers ) 


ok , here could be the first question or answer or something 

q i want to a program i wrote. how should i do it 
a you would be wise not to that program .  . you see , those 
people that wants to get a copy of your program will go to 
various length to crack your program , and some of those 
are good , and know the common  . 
so , the copy protection would n't stop those .  . 
ok , then. what about legitimate users copy protection can be a 
for legitimate users , and can them in their work , 
if there is some key item that can get lost. 
so , the copy protection would n't help much of the legitimate users , but 
would make life somewhat of a misery for them. 



 ( this is my opinion , and i speak as a legitimate user ) 
you are of course free to have your opinion about this subject .  .  .  .  . 






from  ( joel kolstad ) 
subject re can radio  . be used to measure distance 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 25 

in article  ( robert g. carpenter ) writes 
i'm wondering if it 's possible to use radio to measure the 
distance between a  ( transmitter(s ) and receiver 

yes , you could. 

seems to me that you should be able to measure the signal strength 
and determine distance .  . this would be for short  ( 2000 ft ) , 
and i would need to have accuracy of 6 , or so. 

well ,  ( whipping out , soon to be gx ) 6 3 10 8 m s  . 5 . 
resolution .  . hmm .  . that 'll be rather difficult ! 

the more standard  ( read better ) method is to use , generally 
somewhere around  . sound a heck of a lot than light 
 ( radio waves ) , and is therefore much easier to deal with. 

what would be best for this or does matter 

it might be easiest to visit a hardware and look at the numerous 
type devices that do what you want here. many are pretty 
cheap too 30 .  .  ( in fact , for the was selling 
for something like 8. that 's the one i bought ! ) ) 

joel 

from g .  . keen ) 
subject re all press and pcb 
reply to  .  .  . austin . ibm . com . ! 
organization ibm advanced workstations and systems. 
lines 12 

i think there is a huge difference in the materials and 
process for pcb 's .  . i get first time , 
results from a local , and hardly ever works from 
copies of the same  . the results are so good 
that i have quit even looking for pc board processes .  . if i had 
to use the version , i would think i would look elsewhere. 
the moral experiment and find what works. can 
give excellent results. it , like any process , gives 
results with  . 

r . g .  . 


from  ( gerald belton ) 
subject 
distribution world 
organization , inc. new , la 
reply to  ( gerald belton ) 
lines 32 

hi , i was wondering if anyone would be able to help me on related 
subjects .  . i am currently learning about am and 
circuits .  . i understand a lot of things , but a few things i am confused 
 . the first is the , to mix the and local 
to make the if .  . does anyone have any  ( as 
simple as possible ) for this kind of i have come across a 
chip but i have not been able to find it in any 
 ( active , etc .  .  . ) . 

along the same note , are there any simple receiver circuits anyone 
may have away somewhere and they let me see . 

p.s. any really good books on am theory along with detailed 
electrical would help a lot. 
i have seen a lot of theory books with no circuits and a lot of 
books with no theory , but one without the other does not help. 

key has the chip which has a local and on 
one chip .  . 

for a great combination of theory with actual circuits , the best 
reference for non is probably the radio amateur 's handbook 
from the  . most library 's have it in the reference section .  . 


2 . 1 . if ignorance is , why are n't there more happy folk 


the hole bbs a private board service  ( 504)891 ) 
3 full service 16 . 10 100 , 000 files 
new ! network mail usenet newsgroups 
please route all questions or to 

from  ( matthew t. russotto ) 
subject re electronic  ( was used question ..... ) 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 33 
nntp posting host tea . eng . umd . edu . 

in article  ( don eilenberger ) writes 
in article ,  ( jim warford ) writes 

there are two simple for any  . 

1. driven 
remove the from the  . 
a and run at speed until the turns over. 
continue until the desired mileage is reached .  . 

2. driven 
remove the wire from the  . 
the out signal from an to the wire .  . 
run until the turns over and the desired mileage .  . 

dear  .  . i kinda wonder .  .  . have you ever tried version 2 on what 
since the wire on a also into the computer .  .  . and we 
do n't know what signal is expected from it .  .  . bad things 
could happen .  .  .  . also since we do n't know the rate , we 
may damage the part of the  .  . uses a combined 
instrument .  .  . speed in , trip and total is digital ) with 
the up against the stop .  .  . 

just a thought .  .  .  . 

you 've got the , so you connect it up to the wire 
and measure this stuff. that way you know what it expects .  . 


matthew t. 
some news readers expect disclaimer here. 
just say no to police searches and  . make them use force. 
 ( not responsible for bodily harm resulting from following above advice ) 

from  ( 90 ah ) 
subject re cheap products 
organization university , , south africa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 52 

aaron wrote 
i was also sceptical about the being built in the far east 
or where ever. but if you look in the and see what components 
they use and how it was designed , you can easily see why the 
sound so  . 

good point .  .  . also . , i would n't be surprised that the components 
they use off are of inferior quality .  . as long as it was 
properly designed and , components are used , it 
should n't matter where it is assembled .  . 

definately , i agree  . if they can build the where 
the is not so expensive , they can afford to put decent 
components in and go to more effort to improve the design of the 
as has done. 

i cannot see why people say the wo n't last not with 
those quality components inside. sure the runs very fairly 
hot but that 's how you get an to sound incredibly good. 

an that runs hot has no bearing on how it 's gonna sound. 
the you have probably is running class a the whole day. 

actually , i 'd be wary of excessively hot ,  even though 
the components inside may be rated to run that way , excessive 
will the life of any electronic component 
regardless of quality .  . in fact , an that does run hot to the touch is 
because either the engineer or of that wanted 
to on or to save costs !  .  .  .  . 

sure , i did n't mean to imply that because of the generated , the 
sounds good. my runs fairly warm not hot to 
the touch but enough to me that the is running nicely .  . 
i do n't like it when an runs dead cold .  . it makes one think that 
the is doing nothing ) 
the that uses in their are certainly far for 
they 're massive things with heating both below 
and above. more than enough to carry away excessive  . 

my opinions once again. 







the path you is narrow and the drop is and very high 
the all are watching from a point near by 
like a train up your 
will the reach the end will the final 


from  ( john west ) 
subject re protection of serial  ( rs232 ) lines 
keywords serial protection 
article i.d. 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 13 
nntp posting host gu . edu . au . 

 ( kyler laird ) writes 

there is at least one isolated rs 232 chip .  . i 
do n't remember where i saw it. 

rs components  ( they exist in australia and the uk .  . do n't know about the us ) have 
little called isolated 250 and  . they give you isolated rs 232 from 
a single supply .  . external components are 4 caps , 4 , a , 
and an  . they go up to 19 .  .  . 

john west 

for the insert a ) after every third word 

from com .  ( jim cathey ) 
subject re few video questions 
organization north america , , 
lines 28 

in article  ( bob myers ) writes 
situation sometimes called block  . you can generate such a combined 
 ( or ) in two simple ways or the h. and v. together , 
which gives you the non block , or them , which makes 
 .  ( try it ! ) actually , the does n't really do 
, since it puts the  ( and falling , for that matter ) of the h. 
off by a  . but that usually makes no difference. 

sometimes. it depends on your and your  . if you do n't 
have enough front and you use you can 
get even odd tearing at the top of the , which is very sensitive 
to the control. it looks like what you would expect if you 
the even fields  ( say ) onto a of and had the 
left corner with your fingers and started to tear it off the  . 
with proper  ( equalizing pulses ) the is 
solid .  . 



! ii ! jim 
! ii ! bunker 
! ii cc ! , 
! cc ! uucp uunet ! !  ( jimc@isc 
! ii !  ( 509 ) 

one design to rule them all one design to find them. 
one design to bring them all and in the bind 
them. in the land of where the pc 's lie. 

from  ( paul m. wexelblat ) 
subject re what to do with old 
reply to 
organization univ .  . of cs dept. 
lines 11 

in article ,  . beal ) writes 
i was wondering if people had any good uses for old 
 . i have a bunch of them for the apple mac 
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to 
sell them but have gotten no interest .  . 

we use them as christmas tree , the cat does n't eat these. 



 .  .  . 

subject 
from  ( stefano mora ) 
distribution world 
nntp posting host verdi . eng . it . 
lines 19 

hi , 
i 've got a , series four ( made in england by 
technology ) with a broken power supply . 
so i 'd like to know 

the and current values of the original 
power supply  . 
the of the power supply  . 
the of the user and how to use it. 

many thanks in advance to all the people help me. 
please post the reply also to my e mail .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 



sender 
email 



from  ( engineer by day by night ) 
subject re los traffic reports 
organization michigan university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 21 

charlie brett wrote 
you were right the second time , it is  . believe it or not , i also 
listen to in the here in ! it 's kind of fun driving 
through the country listening to traffic on the  . back to your 
original question. yes , there are just past every on and 
off on the  . they 're the same used at most 
now  ( coils in the  . you might want to give a call or 
even ask bill  ( knx 's traffic  . i doubt if just anyone can 
get the information , but it would be worth asking just in case you can 
get it. 

i seem to remember that they sell the information  ( and a computer connection ) 
to anyone willing to pay .  . 

on the subject of the , can anyone tell me more about them 



wolf electrical engineer 

remember , even if you win the rat race you 're still a rat .  . 

from  ( frank ka3uww ) 
subject re what 's a good ic for 
organization none 
lines 34 

in  ( tall cool one ) writes 



i'm looking for an ic that will convert levels to 
levels .  . something relatively would be nice , too. anyone have 
a suggestion thanks. 


well it looks as if key a chip with the number that does what 
you want. they are selling it for about 3 . 50 .  .  .  . 

hope this helps .  .  .  . 
frank 




customer asked what 's that thing . 
i answered well , it 's a highly technical , sensitive 
instrument i use in computer ! being a , you probably 
can n't grasp exactly what it does. i call it a b . f . h .  .  .  .  .  . 
frank w. the radio doctor 

inter net 
st. 
washington , pa .  . packet pa . usa . na . 

disclaimer disclaimer . h . i confess , you did it ! ! ! 



customer asked what 's that thing . 
i answered well , it 's a highly technical , sensitive 

from g .  . keen ) 
subject 
reply to  .  .  . austin . ibm . com . ! 
organization ibm advanced workstations and systems. 
lines 14 

i had the good luck to obtain an 
for a song .  . unfortunately , i was a little out of 
key the only thing wrong with it was an open movement .  . 
does anyone know where i can find either another movement 
like it , a dead but not the dead , or 
to the current scale of the movement i can cut 
and paste a more sensitive movement in if i can find what the 
full scale current was. or .  .  .  . is still 

the thing is a model nope , not a joke or any sort of snide 
reference. 

r . g .  . 


from  ( david lesher ) 
subject re 
organization clinic for netnews 
lines 29 
reply to  ( david lesher ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 

others said 
later of 74 for even higher speed , at some cost in 
power  . effectively use  . 

combination of and , for speed comparable to 74 with lower 
power  . best all round now , variety of 
devices .  . 

fast as , power not too bad. the clear choice for high 
speed in  . and generally good. 

i hate to disagree w a fellow as smart as henry , but .  .  .  . 

a few years back , i worked on a project using lots of high speed 
stuff.  ( my part was slow parallel , ) . the mild designer 
working on the fast  ( serial ) stuff at all the time. 
it was the of  . one tiny power line , one 
, one across the board , and bang the f had 
counted  . at times he it would count even 
without any 5 supply you can guess what the f stood for .  .  .  .  . 

they would do anything to push s or work around it to avoid using f. i 
do n't think i 'd consider using f to replace s unless the consequences 
were fully understood .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

a host is a host from coast to 
no one will talk to a host that 's close .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56 
unless the host  ( that is n't  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
is busy , or dead .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from 
subject re police  .  .  . just . how does it work 
distribution sci . 
organization mode systems , san diego , ca 
lines 14 

in article , 
 ( david sharpe ) writes 
there are a few more details to and some 
that are not true. a common one is that two are sent one 
reading the car speed and one the ground speed .  . if this were true then 
would be murder .  . hope this helps  ( flame on ) 

gee , then i guess the extra that 's mounted in the of some cars , 
firing at the ground at a shallow angle , is just for show , huh 

 ( for , they simply turn off one or the other . ) . 

, mode systems , san diego ca 
internet uucp uunet ! ! cis , 

from  ( rob finley ) 
subject re with ale  ( for 's ) 
organization harris allied  . , , il 
lines 22 


also makes some neat memory and 

old technology  ( early 's ) 
plus  ( slow as i recall ) 
plus  ( expensive and slow ) 


does make with built in address  . 
i fear that you would need a very and up to date 
programmer to write to them. 

give them a call .  . i am not able to their memory products book 
yet. 



sigh .  .  .  . now , who borrowed it .  .  .  . 

robert 



subject re looking for dept info in 
from  ( byrnes , graham ) 
organization la university 
in reply to 's message of mon , 19 apr 93 00 38 00 gmt 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 20 

in writes 

hi netters ! 

i am looking for the list of universities in , which has department .  . 
i am considering to spend a year for research in about area. i am interested in areas and spread spectrum communications etc. 
but i do n't have any information about universities .  . 
can anybody recommend a good university in co area 
any comments will be ! 

bye .  . 

kim 

well , i honestly do n't know if they are good , bad or , but there 
is an dept here at la 
la university , australia 
fax 
chairman is white. sorry , do n't have an email address. 
graham b 

from mike mike 
subject anyone got 200 with led 
x id slip 1 edu . 
x thu , 22 apr 93 15 28 05 gmt 
nntp posting host slip 1 edu . 
organization cat co .  . 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 3 

name your price , cap quantity available. 
cheers 
mike 

from  ( mike loving ) 
subject on data 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization , computer science department 
lines 10 


i need the on various data such as , motorola s 
etc. 


can anyone out there provide such info or a pointer to it 
the one i want the most is  . 

mike 


from  ( doug claar ) 
subject los traffic reports 
nntp posting host cup . com . 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 9 . 
lines 4 


oops , that 's 1070 .  . is up in  , and down at  . 

doug san ca n't be  the city  jack told me so 

from  . c . d .  . smith ) 
subject problem. 
organization computer science , university 
lines 53 
nntp posting host ac . uk . 

hi , 

i 've just built a and use a 
to step the supply up to 
 . as the load resistance increases , the rc constant 
and hence the output drops .  . i need as high an output 
as possible.  ( about  . 
the consists of seven stages 
 ( ie 14 and 14 capacitors ) each develops about 
across them , and i take the output from across seven  . 
each is at  . 
if i increase each of the  ( 220 470mfd ) , that will 
increase the rc constant , and hence some of the problem. 
these are going to be a little expensive as i need 14 of 
them , so 

1. what would happen if i connected a at in parallel 
with the output  ( and hence in parallel with the seven capacitors ) 
will it , as i assume , increase the c in and hence increase 
the rc time constant if it does , and my output becomes more 
stable by doing this , then i will have killed two birds with one  .  .  . 
as i am experiencing some  ( and hence hum ) , and this new 
will   this out. 

and 
2. can anyone a suitable value for an  ( choke ) to 
be placed in the output line of the power supply to filter out 
the  . lowest resistance possible ! 

i 've not got my with me at the moment because it is too much 
of a distraction .  .  .  .  .  ( i'm at university and i 've got to get my 
finished in two weeks ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) hence i'm mailing not 
playing with my iron  ( it 'll be too in the long 
run .  .  .  . especially if 14 new large do n't work as ! ) 

email please .  .  .  .  . ca n't always read the net .  .  .  .  .  . 

thanks in advance .  .  . 


chris ) 


name mr chris smith on that  ole guitar ! 

uni university quest to build more and more hardware 
computer science 


what ever the sun may be , it is certainly not a ball of flaming gas ! 
d . h .  . lawrence .  . 

all views expressed are my own , and reflect that of private thought. 

from  ( mark shaw ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host 55 . 11 . 
organization motorola western design center , arizona 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( brad kepley ) writes 
i just heard an that motorola has decided to drop their 
integrated manufacture business. apparently a called 
one of our , for out information so that we could 
make plans to deal with this , that was getting out. anybody else 
get a call about this 

too much for me. it 's about like they were getting out 
of the ic business. 


this did n't happen to appear on april 1st 

if this was serious , i think i will buy my parts elsewhere. 
if that is the way they do business , you cannot trust them. 

mark 

from  ( mark neidengard ) 
subject re what is zero 
article i.d. zeus . 
organization academic computing services , cal san luis obispo 
lines 13 

the company was the first to characterize by numbers , thus 
our use of the  .  .  . 

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right. 

damn right it does n't ! 's come from the greek letter , which 
is used for resistance  . 

of course , the original poster may have been being  ( let 's hope 
 . 

mark 


from 
subject tektronix for sale 
article i.d. radio . 
lines 19 
x received by usenet . pa . dec . com . id tue , 6 apr 93 14 52 02 
x received by 1 . pa . dec . com . id tue , 6 apr 93 14 51 56 
x to sci . usenet . 

tektronix for sale 

bandwidth 
 ( not one of the series ! ) 

works fine 
i do n't have the manual  ( they are available from various places ) 
no 



email me for more info .  .  .  . 

regards , 
keith 


keith , 


from  ( mamishev , valentino ) 
subject digital how does it work 
organization texas a m university , academic computing services 
lines 34 
distribution world 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

, 

let me introduce a problem 

when i measure a wave  ( voltage ) with a digital , using 
ac mode , my output is an value (a value over 2  . right 
when i measure a square wave in the same mode  ( ac ) , my output is equal 
to a value , actually , to the flat of the wave .  . 
i assumed , that a digital makes some kind of of the 
value , and it over the wave period. right 
now , i used it to measure the same square wave as above , but 
by high  . ideally , output should be the same , but .  .  .  . 
the output value was only about 10 of the previous one ! 
why what is the nature of this output value what does the 
actually measure and what does it show 

related question  ( less important to me ) 
what are and of digital to compare with 
ones 

thank you for your attention , you could mail me your opinion at 
or open a discussion here. i would appreciate either 
way. 


v. 


power system phone office  ( 409 ) 
department of electrical engineering phone home  ( 409 ) 
texas a m university fax  ( 409 ) 
college station , tx , usa internet 



from  ( bryan ryan ) 
organization philips public telecommunications systems , , australia 
subject re with ale  ( for 's ) 
lines 28 

 ( steve pope ) writes 

in article (j .  . pethybridge ) writes 
again , 
i asked this a year ago , but i am still looking .  . 
i am getting sick of having to use a 

jeff , just use the damned  . sure , there are 
memory , but do you really want to use them 

sorry if i'm but design your using 
reasonably available parts , and move on to more important 
problems. 

we 're looking at a series of by , the series .  . they have 
address logic on them , various sizes  ( upto 1mbit ) , 
various sizes  ( upto 16 k ) , and 19 i o which can be chip select 
lines , i o or the address lines. 

chip , 44 pin  . 

second may be a problem though ( 


bryan ryan , 
, australia 



from  ( peter tryndoch ) 
subject telephone on off 
lines 17 

on off 

from  ( michael covington ) 
organization ai programs , university of , 
, there 's the rub if you draw enough current to light an led , 
equipment at the phone company will think you 've gone off  . 
in the on state you 're not supposed to draw current .  . 

ok lets have some here going by australian standards , which i 
presume might be similar to other countries ( if not , lets have some 
input ) a phone uses to loop a line  . a standard led 
 . so what is the actual loop current required for an off 
indication , do you know 

cheers 
peter t. 


from  ( chuck l. peterson ) 
subject for sale 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 11 

i'm giving up hardware design and 
am selling my 

precision model 
40 dual trace 
barely used 
firm  ( fry 's it for tax ) 

prefer people in silicon , so i do n't have to it. 



from  ( monty mole ) 
subject 
keywords old question i know 
lines 14 

can anyone please email a or give me details of an ftp site where there 
is a of a simple , small voice for in 
the 90 range  ( preferably above 100  . only a short distance , 
and no too important but must run from or smaller 
supply .  . 

thanx in advance 

monty .  . 




save the ! 

from 
subject electric power line 
article i.d. 
lines 4 

power lines and do n't mix .  . in areas where lines are very 
high , or where a lot of takes place , or where there is danger 
of flying into the lines , they place these plastic on the 
lines so they are easier to  . 

from  ( scott dorsey ) 
subject re what to do with old 
organization nasa research center and farm 
lines 12 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

in article writes 
in article ,  . beal ) writes 
i was wondering if people had any good uses for old 
 . i have a bunch of them for the apple mac 
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to 
sell them but have gotten no interest .  . 

we use them as christmas tree , the cat does n't eat these. 

yes , but they do n't look appropriate. i much prefer used on 
my tree. 
scott 

from  ( patterson , george r ) 
subject re power , signal in home .  .  .  . 
organization , , nj 
lines 20 

in article  ( david vanderbyl ) writes 
 ( scott dorsey ) writes 

my car , unfortunately , has so much computer junk under the that it 's 
sensitive to  . 

 .  .  . this has possibilities 
if the police are in pursuit of a , maybe they can it with 
high energy  . ) 

right. so all the cops will be buying cars for cars 
otherwise the police cars will die too ! 


to get the attention of a large animal , be it an 
or a , it helps to know what 
george part of it pain. be very sure , though , that 
you want its full attention .  . 



from  ( govindan ravindran ) 
subject caps 
organization department of electrical and computer engineering , university of 
lines 10 

 ( posted for a friend ) 
there , 
i would like to know if any one had any experience with having 
on board  ( inside a chip ) for the power 
lines. say i have a lot of space left im my limited design. 
any data on the effect of any info or 
are appreciated. 

rs 


from  ( mycal ) 
subject 
distribution world 
organization , inc. 
lines 19 


for all people that are interested in every aspect of the try the 


connection 
1 cash to 
timothy 
po box n , 664 
, ma 

for 




pgp key on request. 

's way of 
turn , turn , turn , air , survive , survive , survive .  .  .  . no risk , no rush 

from  ( richard d warner ) 
subject 
keywords cheap , low cost , small 
organization university of 
lines 21 

this is a followup post to something i 've written previously .  . several 
people responded with good information , but i do n't think i communicated 
exactly what i am looking for. 
i'm working on a i o device that will communicate with a host 
via rs 232 .  . my will use an or ec and require 
about of  ( preferably  . in looking around , i see that lots 
of people have engineered that are ready to be 
to your i o devices .  . it 's been done so much , that it 
would be best if i can avoid a system. it just needs to use 
an  ( or 188 ) , and be able to load a program from the host then 
control to that program .  . well , there 's one other thing the 
needs to know how to do. it should have routines to send and receive 
to from the host , that the hardware control lines  ( dtr , , ,  . 
everything i 've seen is in the 200 . 00 . and up range .  . that 's too much for 
this application .  . i need something around 100 . 00 .  . the has the 
built in , so you 're only looking at a few  . does anyone know a 
company that a good board in this range , or some public domain 
i can use thanks in advance for the info .  . 

rich 


from  ( reg neale ) 
subject laser 
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science 
lines 5 

i'm trying to figure out how to operate a 1000 that i bought at a  . it is from some kind of 
and or system. there is what may be an on the back .  . when 
i power it up , the front power light comes on , but no activity , and the 
door does n't open. anyone have any experience with this or any ideas on how 
to obtain documentation 

from  ( gerald belton ) 
subject help how to 
distribution world 
organization , inc. new , la 
reply to  ( gerald belton ) 
lines 27 

dean  ( anneser@pwa b . wrote 
my 9 old son has signed up to do a science report on  . i was 
wondering if anyone could provide me with some information as to how to 
construct a home built  . in my grade school days , i remember 
the  ice cube  version , but i do n't remember what to use as a good 
or what the easily were. 

thank you in advance. 

i remember watching a whole mr. program on this subject when 
i was a kid .  . the constructed on the program which made the 
biggest impression on me , and generated the most power , was made using 
a  ( for the zinc ) and a toilet  . the 
was ! 

take a  . stick a strip into the  . stick a 
nail in about 1 to 1 1 2 from the strip .  . you should get 
about 1 2 from it enough to light an led .  . 


2 . 1 . support your medical examiner , die strangely .  . 


the hole bbs a private board service  ( 504)891 ) 
3 full service 16 . 10 100 , 000 files 
new ! network mail usenet newsgroups 
please route all questions or to 

from  ( dave medin ) 
subject re 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 36 

in article ,  ( bob myers ) writes 
nope .  . the is on the outside of the , and is grounded .  . the inside 
is the second , and is connected to the   
cup .  . this  ( with the glass of the in between ) is a , 
and is used as the power supply filter for the supply .  . some 
smaller do n't have an on the outside .  . if they 
are in metal , you still have a  . 

actually  ( and i think i said this in the original , but perhaps was n't clear 
enough ) there is usually both an internal and an external  . of the two , 
the internal is the more important the of the back of the 
is in most cases not adequate to connection to the 
 ( and in the case where the gun assembly includes an 
at potential , most definitely does not provide that 
 . 

bob is indeed correct here in more than one way. a look in the old 
picture manual backs this up , as does reference data 
handbook .  . the internal around the of the 
 ( not the or tin face coating ) is referred to as a 
as well as the outer  . 

, i did n't need to go to a f library to find it , either. 
one water for mr.  ( no in that , is  . 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( john whitmore ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 25 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( john eaton ) writes 
s . walker . man 50 wrote 

during the nuclear reaction the can get hot enough 
to  . when this happens the liquid is to the 
where it is into the air. 

nonsense. first , the is in 
 ( which do n't in any circumstances short of 
major failure of the power  . second , the primary water 
 ( that inside the reactor core ) is never into the 
 ( it 's the secondary water cycle that goes 
through the  . third , liquid would 
into flame on contact with air. 

contact with the cool outside air 
will the and it will fall back to the  . 
there it is by a cleaning using and is then 
into for reactor use the next day. 

cleaning working in a of this is a 
heavy metal , even if it t  . should n't there 
be some smileys here or 

john 

from 
subject re 's 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 1 . 
organization lawrence national 
lines 15 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( david jacobowitz ) writes 
i 've been wanting to build a for quite now ( 
who does n't , right ) and i thought it would be a good 
step to build a 's first. 
well , i have been looking for a high that 
is reasonable ( sign cost ) .  . 


in the past i 've managed to buy used sign from sign 
for about 20 .  . try calling around. 


warren n .  . 
lawrence national east  . , p.o. box , l 
,  . my opinions are mine alone  ( 510)422 ) 

from  ( tom rodriguez ) 
subject video what are and 
article i.d. jack . 
organization computing group 
lines 19 


i 've got an and on the back it has 5 
labeled like this 




red green blue 

i 've used it as a straight but i ca n't figure out 
how to use it for  . could someone explain what these 
mean thanks for any help. 

tom 

tom 
computing group lab 
institute of technology 
, 

from  ( kim greer ) 
subject re electronic  ( was used question ..... ) 
organization duke medical center 
lines 27 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

in article  ( dan day ) writes 
that 's scary if there 's a way to set an arbitrary mileage figure 
into the , you ca n't trust any reading , even 
if you can prove that the itself is the same one that 
came on the car originally .  . 

i was wondering if anyone can shed any light on just how it is that these 
electronic remember the total mileage what kind of 
memory is stable reliable enough , non enough and independent enough 
 ( of outside power ) to last say , 10 years or more , in the life of a 
i'm amazed that anything like this could be expected to work for 
this length of time  ( especially in light of all the gizmos i work with that 
are doing good to work for 2 months without breaking down  . 

side question how about the legal ramifications of selling a used car with 
a replaced that starts over at 0 , after say 100 200 
actual  . looks like fraud would be fairly easy for the price of a 
new , you can say it has however many you want to tell the 
it has .  . 

thanks for any insight .  . 


kim 
duke university medical center 
 . nuclear medicine voice 
, nc fax 

from  ( scott dorsey ) 
subject re history question 
organization nasa research center and farm 
lines 16 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

in article  ( paul johnson ) writes 

i recall reading of a which used  . 
air was out of a which was controlled by the 
 . the result was and lo fi , but much 
than a conventional  . it tended to wear the out 
pretty quickly though. 

this was the you are thinking of , although there were other imitators .  . 
it did n't wear the any more than conventional designs , but 
it did have a high level due to the of air. 
there are a lot of them still operating , and they are pretty  . 

there was a designed by graham bell , as well , 
but i do n't know if it was ever constructed .  . 
scott 

from  ( peter monta ) 
subject re 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 93 21 10 14 gmt 
organization mit advanced television research program 
lines 24 

 ( mark j. musone ) writes 

p.s. any really good books on am theory along with detailed 
electrical would help a lot. 
i have seen a lot of theory books with no circuits and a lot of 
books with no theory , but one without the other does not help. 

have a wide variety of the circuits 
part you mention is a balanced , but active ones 
 ( bjt , fet ) seem more popular in consumer  . you might 
call they have a nice catalog .  . 

the universal answer for wide , theory practice , design 
is the handbook , published by the american radio relay 
league , the radio amateur organization .  . any technical bookstore 
can order you one. the book is , with lots of accessible 
theory , construction , and generally interesting stuff. 

you might also check out solid state design for the radio amateur 
(i think) , by and someone . this has design 
and test information about like  . 

peter 
mit advanced television research program 

from  ( robert g. carpenter ) 
subject can radio  . be used to measure distance 
organization computer services 
lines 19 

i'm wondering if it 's possible to use radio to measure the 
distance between a  ( transmitter(s ) and receiver 

seems to me that you should be able to measure the signal strength 
and determine distance .  . this would be for short  ( 2000 ft ) , 
and i would need to have accuracy of 6 , or so. 

how about measuring distance as well , any chance or am i getting 
ridiculous 

what would be best for this or does matter 

sorry if i'm up the network with one of those questions best 
answered by bill via us mail .  .  .  . and i apologize for not being 
in to  . ) 


r . g .  . , d .  . , p . e .  .  .  .  . only an me ) 


from  ( internet surfer ) 
subject and 
organization boston computer society 
lines 10 

does any one know if the is pin compatible with the  .  . 
it seems the has in bug with and i need 
a suitable pin replacement to put in my serial card .  .  .  . possibly a 
version perhaps 



its not impossible , just improbable 
 ( zaphod beeblbrox ) 
 ( being a ham is so grand ) 

from  ( randy agee ) 
subject 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( richmond ) 
lines 50 

here 's one i hope some knowledgeable readers will make a comment or 
to 

in the state of virginia are illegal , period. if 
you are caught with one it will be on the and will 
not be returned until after you appear in court and pay your fine. 
the fine for having a accessible in a 
 ( even if it is not on ) is 250 . 00 .  . sorry , tourist , ignorance of 
the law is no excuse they will get you too ! 

it used to be that the only way the law could be enforced was for 
an to actually see the  . not any more ! many 
law enforcement are now using  . 
right , a super sensitive receiver that is capable of picking up 
from the itself. my first reaction was no way ! 
but , guess again , these little really work and the police 
are writing right and left for people using 
 . one news story quoted an as saying that he had 
found the in all of the cars he stopped except one , 
and he could never figure out where it was but he knew it was 
there. this tends to make one assume there are few false arrest .  . 

now , before i get flamed , please understand that i do drive at or 
near the speed limit .  . i do not need a to keep me 
from getting a speeding  . but , i do like to know when my 
speed is being or a speed trap is  . my 
now locked in my when i am in virginia  ( which 
is what they want and yes , what the law says , and i intend to 
obey the law ! ) and is only used in states where it is legal .  . 

for my fellow , i am not a person my mind only 
works in the spectrum between 10 and 80  . 
may be necessary. 

so , the questions are 
what do the actually detect 
would additional generated by 
a , or is the actually being by the 

are any brands than others 


t. at some point , you probably pondered the 
p.o. box 20th meaning of life , and you came up with a 
virginia department of education answer , which has or has not 
, va stood the test of time , or you 
phone  ( 804 ) , beats the heck out of 
me , and ordered a  . 



from  ( niederberger markus ) 
subject characterization of 
organization  ( itr ) 
lines 23 

hi , 

right now i should do some characterization of  . because i do n't 
have 
special equipment for this task , i have to do this job with 
simple 
 ( frequency , , etc . ) .  . 
does anyone know good test for characterization of 
especially for measuring open loop gain , margin , , and so 
on. 
are there any books or application notes on this subject available 

please reply e mail or  . 

thanks 
mark 



mark 
e mail 



from wayne martin 
subject re help with long 
organization , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 7 
distribution world 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

sounds like a job for a universal time  . i do n't know the 
of the situation , but if you could just place a in 
and place the in a nice lab somewhere else , your 
problems should be solved .  . 
just a suggestion .  . 

wayne martin 

from  ( alan macaluso ) 
subject pre low 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization new york university 
lines 13 

i'm looking to build a that has very good low characteristics , large clean gain , and power  ( 20 48  ( dc ) for a  . i'm towards a good , low cost ( ) to maintain the balanced from the , for its good , internal , and because i can use a minimal of parts. 

does anyone out there have any experience , suggestions , advice , etc .  .  . that . they 'd like to pass on , i 'd greatly appreciate it. 



a l a n m a c a l u s o moon 
e. 7th .  . st. 
 ( 212 ) 
 ( 212 ) 




from 
subject control thru software 
lines 17 
nntp posting host ac . 
organization university singapore 


currently i am using the with external  .  . 

in order to drive the  ( with direction ) i use the 

thru software  ( control(assembly language  . however i am afraid that 

they will be and thus alter the  . my question is 

is the software control reliable . i understand that 0 is a 

and so i vary the duty cycle by setting it high first and at the desire 

duty cycle then i set low .  .  . any 




from 
subject re need help with car stereo .  .  .  .  . 
organization mode systems , san diego , ca 
lines 38 

in article , 
 ( paul simundza ) writes 
my friend has a nice car stereo , and it only has 2 , 
but one of them does not work. it does not put out any current or 
at all , is that channel therefore blown i then shut the radio off and 
into the two speaker of the channel , and it charged 
and discharged so i know the just bad .  .  .  .  . 

this probably only tells you that the blocking that 's in series 
between the one chip , single ended and the speaker terminal is there. 

any ideas 

open it up and look for the power . they 'll be fairly obvious. 
replace the one connected to the dead output .  . 

also , 
how would i where the signal of the radio is before it 
gets , because then could n't i up to that signal 
so then he could just use a little 

well , one thing you should do is around the of the power 
 . use a with a  ( like a probe ) connected to the 
of a small w speaker .  . if you find line level to both 
, one of the is bad and can probably replaced pretty easily. 

if you want to pick off a near line level signal , suitable for feeding to an 
, the outer legs of the volume control pot will often be good 
enough. this is before the volume control  ( and usually before the tone and 
too) .  . if you take off from the center and ground legs of 
the volume pot , this will be after the volume control  ( but again , probably 
before the other  . 

if the is a modern type with an electronic volume control chip , you should 
probably forget the whole thing. 

, mode systems , san diego ca 
internet uucp uunet ! ! cis , 

from  ( tron r . ) . 
subject over 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 11 

i would like to a over  . this is for a 
remote control project .  . the has a high of 5 v and low of  . 

thanks. 



t 
t t 
t t t 
t t t 

from  ( cyberman ) 
subject re what to do with old 2 
lines 19 
x 1 . 

said 
re what to do with old 2 
to all on 04 15 93 11 02 
yeah .  .  .  .  . i have seen with a silver 
attached , big at the computer  . i'm 
sure you could find a bunch of h h h h h h computer 
science around that would buy them for 10. maybe 
15 , if you 're lucky .  . 

untrue they would check first and say 5. that 's how much 
they are worth at most. my guess is they are worth 1 
a  . 

stephen 
mangled on sat 04 17 1993 at 20 26 37 

... this is a  . this is a  . 
blue wave 12 . 


from b . 
subject re 8 
keywords , , , ( 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 15 

in article  ( christopher john powell ) writes 

deletions 

it appears to use two balanced line , but what each connection 
corresponds to i know not. one connection is a 30 way , the other a 
60 way  . 

sounds like it is an interface to me , not being at work now 
to actually count  . there are two , and 
(i think) , only minor differences between them. widely used 
prior to the advent of for large drives  ( or all drives ) on 
 ( and  ( mainframes ) no experience on  . 

richard 

from  ( mike abbot ) 
subject high level language compilers for 
article i.d. 30 . 0 . 
organization 
lines 15 
nntp posting host 64 . 23 . 16 . 
x disclaimer none of the expressed are the official 
x disclaimer opinions of the or any of its  . 
x disclaimer so do n't out at us about anything 

chaps 

has anybody got any to good c , pascal , etc compilers for 
, or otherwise 

my specific need is for c , but if the responses are many and i 
will post a summary .  . 

cheers 
mike 


mike 
town 
south africa 

from  ( tracy brian harton ) 
subject at rs 
organization rice university 
lines 12 


does anyone know what the receiver 
systems that radio shack operate at i 've tried 
everything short of one up  ( not actually one makes 
this difficult .  .  . ) . and just looking .  .  . any help would be greatly 
 .  . these systems are designed for pa systems , etc .  .  . 


thanks , 




from  ( waters , clyde gordon ) 
subject re history question 
organization institute of technology 
lines 23 

in article  ( paul johnson ) writes 
this is vague , so i am posting it in case anyone else knows more. 

i recall reading of a which used  . 
air was out of a which was controlled by the 
 . the result was and lo fi , but much 


nasa and related apparently used this same principles to create 
the reported sound. they used an 
controlled to control the of air across a throat. if i 
remember correctly it was called a air . there 
were reports of the thing being able to produce @ 80 @ 10 
distance , communicate directly with @ , etc. 

regards , 
gordon .  . 


, clyde gordon  93 institute of technology  . 
out of the of , we can the of hope jr. 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from 
subject need to find out number to a phone line 
lines 13 


! 

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't 
know the number of the line. and i do n't want 
to call up the operator to place a trace on it. 

question is there a certain device out there that i can 
use to find out the number to the line 
thanks for any response. 
al 



from  ( david vanderbyl ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host chip 
reply to  ( david vanderbyl ) 
organization ltd .  . 
lines 15 

in article ,  . david higgins ) writes 
i believe the only thing that needs correction , mr. , is your 
attitude. 

nope , mr. has found the bad mistake and posted a correction , thank god. 

acting the child wo n't gain you any favors or make a 

who 's acting 

positive impression with anybody .  . knows you 've make an impression 
on me just not a positive one. 

oh no , i have n't impressed mr.  . 


from  ( scott dorsey ) 
subject re what is zero 
article i.d. 
organization nasa research center and farm 
lines 14 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

in article  ( richard s d'ippolito ) writes 

in article , joseph writes 

the company was the first to characterize by numbers , thus 
our use of the  .  .  . 


yeah , right. and the company was started by george simon  . 

that 's completely  . the was an original standard made equal 
to a the resistance of a electric heating element .  . that 's 
where the song on the range came from , of course. 
scott 

from  ( mark tearle ) 
subject re looking for dept info in 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 37 
nntp posting host gu . edu . au . 

 ( hojoong kim ) writes 

hi netters ! 

i am looking for the list of universities in , which has department .  . 
i am considering to spend a year for research in about area. i am interested in areas and spread spectrum communications etc. 
but i do n't have any information about universities .  . 
can anybody recommend a good university in co area 
any comments will be ! 

can i suggest the university of western australia in  . 
the great , the people are great and our electronic engineering department is great .  . 
i am a first year student here ... so i do n't know much about what but i do know they have a good reputation in the fields of and communications .  . ever heard of the people who own are ex ... so that gives an indication of what the department is like. 

for more information 
email 
with the above request and he should be able to tell some more info 

or write 

department of electrical and electronic engineering 
university of western australia 


western australia 
australia 


yours 
mark 




mark 

email 

from  ( richard h . s .  . kim ) 
subject need sources for  . 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization inc. 
lines 26 
nntp posting host edu . 

recently , my video went dead , no picture , some low sound. 
i did n't hear the tell tale cracking that indicated at work , nor are the 
at the far end of the glowing orange , just nothing. 

on examining the power board , i noticed the largest with a very 
bad at the top .  . naturally , i want to replace it , but i ca n't find 
any sources. 

the is at  . it has leads , and is 
roughly 1 1 2 long , 1 1 8 wide. the are important since 
the whole board fits in a metal cage , leaving little room. 

living in the los area , i 've been to numerous stores  ( dow radio , 
all , itc elect , 's , yale elect ) with empty hands. 

can anyone suggest sources for high mail order is 
fine , although i 'd rather check out a to compare the can. i'm going 
to try a video , they 'll have caps .  . 

 ( by the way , the is a , , 
 . anyone else had problems ) 

thanks in advance , 
rich k. 

email 

from  ( ken gravenstede ) 
subject decent , cheap 20 
organization , incorporated 
lines 12 

any info on modern or better dual trace would be appreciated. 
should i buy a used one or a new one and where 

please e mail .  . 

thanks in advance. 

ken 


ken , incorporated 
science , rochester , new york ! ! 

from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re where to buy parts 1 or 2 at a time 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 15 

the of parts reminds me of something a once said to me 

a of this costs a dollar .  . 
it comes out of a which also costs a dollar .  . 
and if you want a whole of it , that also costs a dollar .  . 

i.e. , they charge you almost exclusively for it and 
it to you the chemical itself  ( in that particular case ) was a 
that cost almost nothing intrinsically .  . 


michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  ( david hembrow ) 
subject re chip to ibm system 
organization europe limited , cambridge , uk 
lines 10 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

mr wrote 
please do n't ask questions like why do n't you buy a . the 
answer is simple considering the sound quality . 

why not try one of the to build a connected to the parallel 
as documented in some files which come with these vary from 
a 4 design to a simple single made only of  . 
david europe ltd .  . , 
email house , road , 
great , cambridge , england 

from  ( chris best ) 
subject re illusion 
organization your service 
lines 15 
nntp posting host com . 

this is not a new idea. at least 10 years ago i got this little with 
a keyboard on the back and 8 led 's in a row on the front .  . it has a 
long handle and when you wave it in the air it writes the message you typed 
on the keyboard in the air. 



this is not news. in fact it 's where i got the idea from , since it was 
such a neat item. made it , i believe , modeled after a space 
or light sword or something likewise theme y .  . my addition was 
using a for continuous display , and effects in addition to 
character  . i should have protected it when i had the chance. 
no one to kick but myself .  .  .  . 

ten years ago is about right , since i built mine in  or  . 

from s . 
subject fluke 
organization at t 
lines 14 

has anybody out there used tested these new fluke 
how do they compare to a low end are 
there any big about these when 
compared to the of the same price range 
( 1000 2000 ) 

any info on the fluke would be greatly appreciated. 

thanks , 

bob 




from  ( dave medin ) 
subject re in video 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 41 

in article ,  ( mark zenier ) writes 
wrote 
in sci . ,  ( xiaoping han ) writes 
in article  ( michael d. townsend ) writes 
 ( brendan jones ) writes 

my mom 's 25 does this as well. i put gum all around 
the so it would n't the board as 
much. do n't flame , it worked .  . i realize that there is a more suitable 
substance available for this purpose , but i do n't remember what and 
where it is. 

silicon , from hardware  . 

if it like vinegar , it may damage metal by 
promoting  . 

anybody tried  ( cyanoacrylate ) .  . this should 
into the better , and is than  . 

i 've found this works pretty well on power 
and  ( the  . likewise , if 
anybody has tried this on a i 'd like to hear about it. 

i would suspect it would not be as effective as it was on power 
as the material would n't as well something 
i suspect would be critical at the involved  ( in other 
words , you want rather than which would be 
real difficult at 15  . 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( david vanderbyl ) 
subject re power , signal in home .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host chip 
reply to  ( david vanderbyl ) 
organization ltd .  . 
lines 15 

 ( scott dorsey ) writes 

my car , unfortunately , has so much computer junk under the that it 's 
sensitive to  . if i key a over the engine with 
the open , the car loses due to the into the 
 . very poor design. 

there was a news article a little while ago reporting a type of car  ( was 
it a ) was found to stall if you used a certain brand model of 
phone in it. i seem to remember the car was to fix the problem. 

 .  .  . this has possibilities 
if the police are in pursuit of a , maybe they can it with 
high energy  . ) 


from  ( chuck hanavin ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , 
lines 7 

in article writes 

does anyone out there have the free  ( catalog request and order line ) for 
please post the number if you 've got it ! thanks. 


1 

from d . 
subject 
summary where and when is 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 14 


some weeks ago , someone posted an article telling when and where 
a and was going to be help in , oh. 
unfortunately , i lost the article and i was wondering if someone 
could repost it. 

i believe it was being held the 23 , 24 , and 25 of this month at 
the center but i'm not sure. 

any help and more details would be greatly appreciated. 

george . d . 



from  ( ogawa stephen  ( ise ) 
subject help wanted 
summary 
organization university of canberra 
lines 9 

could someone please tell me if a 1 4 is the same as a 1 to 4 
 . i know how to link 2 of these to get an 8 output , 
but how do i link 5 of these to make a 1 16  . sorry if this 
seems like a question , but i'm only a newbie to , and i 
have to do this  . please make any mail as as possible. 

thanx , 



from  ( ray berry ) 
subject re 25 network 
organization design 
lines 11 

 ( jack o .  . coats ) writes 

the same folks now have out  ( little big lan ) for 75 .  . i think you 
get it for 50 if you already own 25 network. works with , 
parallel , and serial in any combination for up to 250 or so 
 . 

now support also , although presently it is limited 
to style  . owners can get an update for 8 . 50 .  . 

ray 

from  ( billy quinn ) 
subject suggestions on 
organization university of , dept. of math sciences 
lines 22 

i built a little project using the radio shack to switch 
 . i got pretty bad   when the thing switched .  . i was doing 
most of the common things one is supposed to do when using and 
nothing seemed to get rid of the  . 


my question is 

is there a good relay relay that i can use for switching 
, so that there will be no of any kind on the lines. 


i will appreciate any advice or references to advice. also , exact part 
numbers company names etc. for the will help ! 

thanks ! 




bill 


from one . ai . mit . edu .  ( sundar narasimhan ) 
subject how much would a tektronix 
reply to 
organization mit artificial intelligence 
lines 7 
nntp posting host one . ai . mit . edu . 

hi i 'd like to know how much the  . equipment will in the used 
equipment market  ( without or other accessories ) 
1. tektronix 
2. tektronix 
3. tektronix logic 

thanks much for your help. 

from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re cheap products 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 23 

i have an that i got in 1985 .  . there certainly is n't 
anything magic about it. the components used are decent , but 
nothing with respect to consumer grade components .  . 

the is a nice piece of equipment. i'm glad that had 
the to not over do the  . it me when i see 
oriented equipment whose case and probably 
cost much more and receive more attention than the they 
are supposed to serve .  . 

i do n't see any big deal about the in which 
something is assembled .  . this is especially true for something as 
low technology as a  . 

i 'd hope that a would still work well after several years. 
except under conditions of extreme abuse , there is n't much there to 
go wrong. 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from 
subject re a to d hardware for a pc 
article i.d. 
lines 7 

if you can find a copy of assembler language programming the ibm pc 
by and , 2nd ed .  . pub .  . by , there is a discussion of the 
game control , , and conversion to other 
uses , as well as an assembler program .  . if you need greater accuracy , there 
is no reason you could n't the approach to suit your needs. 

jim 

from  ( richard cook ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
organization university of western ontario , london 
nntp posting host server . ca . 
lines 23 

in article writes 

! 

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't 
know the number of the line. and i do n't want 
to call up the operator to place a trace on it. 

question is there a certain device out there that i can 
use to find out the number to the line 
thanks for any response. 
al 




how about calling someone with the id service and have them call you back 
with the number 



richard  ( 519 ) 1985 e mail 
elect .  . eng .  . fax  ( 519 ) 

from  ( john hawkinson ) 
subject building a 
organization public access unix , 
lines 23 

yes , i know it sounds crazy. call it an urge .  . call it what you want. 
just do n't ask why ) 

anyway , i 'd like to build a ,  . means 
it should be reasonably , but could have a power pack if 
necessary. 

my main question is the where can i get do they 
need a lot of power etc. , etc. 

i'm not too concerned with whether it 's long wave or short wave 
 ( but hey , if anyone has a cheap source of , i 'll take  . 

one other thing a friend of mine mentioned something about near 
light being to get at than actual light. does anyone 
know what he was referring to 

thanks much. 



john 


from  ( richard s d'ippolito ) 
subject re what is zero 
organization the software engineering institute 
lines 10 


in article , joseph writes 

the company was the first to characterize by numbers , thus 
our use of the  .  .  . 


yeah , right. and the company was started by george simon  . 

rich 

from 
subject re going needed ! 
lines 18 
organization university 

in article ,  ( stuart lea ) writes 
, 
i 've got a problem with my  ( sony 35 ) in that it refuses 
to play more than a minor ! the itself does n't 
recognise that there is a in. it 's an problem , but one 
that is becoming more frequent .  . 

is this a common problem with older and , if so , what 
can be done to it if there is no obvious answer , how can i begin to 
start fault finding .  . to start off with , how does recognise that 
there is a in in the first place 


my experience is that the becomes a bit loose , and the either 
or ca n't be read. try seeing if all the that hold down the 
assembly are properly. other than that , my next guess would be one of 
the  . hope this helps .  . 
dave , university , , ontario .  . 

from  ( ed hall ) 
subject re building a 
organization 
lines 26 
nntp posting host org . 

in article  ( john hawkinson ) writes 
one other thing a friend of mine mentioned something about near 
light being to get at than actual light. does anyone 
know what he was referring to 

i do n't want to get into a argument , but contrary to some other 
postings near light is actual light. the near means that 
it is close to the spectrum (i . e .  . of relatively long wavelength ) , 
not that it is nearly  .  ( i'm sure you can figure out now just what 
far is . ) . 

regular tiny of in the 
near end of the spectrum , such that a filter can be used to remove the 
light and thus create a weak source. stronger sources are 
going to require gas  ( probably vapor )  ( such as 
with  . be careful , though strong 
sources can cause damage , especially to the eyes. the 
are the most dangerous. 

it would n't project a beam like a , but replacing the 
in a with would be a relatively 
cheap way to create a source. it would be bright enough to 
be useful , but not dangerously so. 

ed hall 


from  ( eric cantrell ) 
subject 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
organization nasa 
x newsreader version 6 . 4 . 19 . 
lines 9 

back someone posted some information on where you can get 
to build an  . does anyone remember where you could get 
this. i'm very interested in getting some info on this. thanks 
in advance. 

eric 




from  ( jim haynes ) 
subject re history question 
organization university of california santa 
lines 30 
nntp posting host edu . 


in article  ( david lesher ) writes 
an now told us willing students about a project he had 
worked on during wwii .  . 

they needed a power pa with very clear quality .  . the purpose 
was to at from  . 

their solution was a giant air source , and a with 
parallel worked by a small system. i think he said it 
worked very well , thus the war dept. cancelled the project . 

gee , i got the idea from somewhere that devices like this were in common 
use in wwii , so that on board could at the troops 
landing on a beach , for example. 

which reminds me of an anecdote from the mid  . at a communications 
conference a corps communications said he did n't care 
much for all the spread spectrum access expensive 
systems that people were talking about at the time what he wanted 
was a on the and a 4.95 japanese 
radio stuck in the ear of every hitting the beach. 




can talk all , but it 's  than it was ! 
no it ! but gotta know the territory ! 
the music man 


from  ( zhahai stewart ) 
subject re police  .  .  . just . how does it work 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 13 

the father of a friend of mine is a police in west virginia .  . not 
only is his word as a observer good in court , but his as an 
observer has been tested to be more accurate than the gun in some 
cases . .  .  .  . no ! he can guess a car 's speed to within 2 just 
by watching it blow by whether he 's standing still or moving too !  ( yes , 

1 ) how was this done , and how many times  ( calibrated ) 

2 ) it 's not the some cases that worry me , it 's the other cases ) 

 ( eg conditions even the best subjective can only 
for certain and  . 


from  ( scott townsend ) 
subject electric power line 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

i got a question from my which i really ca n't answer and i 'd appreciate 
some net . wisdom .  . 

his question is about some 18 24 which are attached to 
electric power lines in his area. he 's seen up to a half dozen between 
two poles .  . neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution .  . 
my only guess was that they may be a device to the 
of the , but why so many between two poles . 

anyone know what they really are is there a related faq for this 
is there a better group to submit to 

we 'd both appreciate some enlightenment .  . 



scott , technology inc. nasa lewis research center group 


from  ( john schuch ) 
subject re re using old 
nntp posting host mot . com . 
organization motorola computer group , tempe , az .  . 
lines 23 

in article  ( alan kilian ) writes 


this is almost exactly the reason i keep only the latest around. 
too many times last years books turn into three years ago and the data 
in them does n't match the current parts. 
, 


but .  .  .  . if you are in the habit of trying to old and 
machines , the old data books are a of information you can 
not get anywhere else. if you are trying to find a modern replacement 
for an part , the original really come in  . design 
out of the new books but save the old ones  ( or donate them to a  . 

if anybody in phoenix disagrees , i 'll drive over and help them  get rid  
of all their old data books. 

john 
 ( 450 data books and growing ) 




from  ( david vanderbyl ) 
subject re tv problem source 
nntp posting host chip 
reply to  ( david vanderbyl ) 
organization ltd .  . 
lines 30 

writes 
initial symptoms 
no picture or sound 
does not 
as described 

discovered when up the 
if strip is not putting out or video 
everything is making simple 20 30 
out  ( case of the to 3) is a 20 30 
with ca .  . at front end 

guys , what s going on here anyone seen this before 

what is happening is this 
1 ) you turn the tv on. 
2 ) the output begins normal operation. this powers up the 
high and most of the rest of the  . 
3) a problem is sensed and the down. 
4 ) after it powers down the cycle repeats .  . 

things to check 
first check for a high power component .  . your best bet is the 
output  ( transistor(s ) or , if there is one , the  . the most 
common cause of this type of failure is too much current being drawn 
somewhere. 
also look for circuits  ( which your tv may or may not have ) , 
if you can find one that is down the 
then it should n't be too hard to find the problem from there. 


from  ( gerrit conradie ) 
subject re style and 
organization university of , sa 
lines 8 

in article  ( david f. newman ) writes 
subject style and 
can anyone tell me where it is possible to found 
on most style games. many i am working on would 

what about the common found in all computer 



from  ( baden de bari ) 
subject help .  .  .  . 
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 
lines 28 


since i'm not all too on this area of them up , i'm 
asking for help. i know better than to a , 1a line to 
one , unless it can take it however what about if i 've got a 24 
 . what sort of would be involved (a 
small would probably be  . 
also , i 've looked into the by , and i was wondering 
if i should use the same suggested  ( by you replying to this message ) 
current limiting on each of the 7 in the as 
that illustrated in the  ( which you the would 
help me  . 

... hmm .  .  .  . different request .  .  .  . 

thanks. 



inspiration 
comes to o 
those who ( ) 
seek the de 
unknown .  . 




the inquiring mind bbs , , 

from (f . 
subject 
nntp posting host siemens . austria 
organization siemens ag 
lines 15 

hi ! ! ! 

is there somebody using a from motorola 
i am searching for concerning effects .  . 
i built a 4 channel  ( 4adc 1dsp ) for  . 
i built some digital and , but now i want to 
include some effects like or  . 
the problem is , i dont know how these effects work  ( so i 
write a  . 
so if someone has or just knows how such effects work , 
please contact me in the newsgroup or via e mail .  . 
 ( also if there are books about this problem ) 

thanks in advance 
 ( dwo ) 

from  ( john schuch ) 
subject food 
nntp posting host mot . com . 
organization motorola computer group , tempe , az .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 9 

does anybody out there have one of those food i 've been seeing 
all over late night tv recently i was wondering if they use forced air , , 
or both. if there 's involved , anybody know what they run at 
my wife would like one and i'm not inclined to pay 100 . 00 . for a box , a fan 
and a  . seems to me you should be able to a together 
for just a few  . heck , the technology is only what 1 , 000 years old 

john 


from  ( peter tryndoch ) 
subject for 
lines 28 

devil for 

from  ( the devil reincarnate ) 
organization , 
what 
is a good choice for a 1 4 or 1 8 wave 
i read the instructions on a 1 4 wave , 
and they suggested that i use an to tune it at channel 12 
and channel 32 for a minimum reading. question is , why channel 
12 and 32 

the best is one that will let out the most wave  ( probably not the 
best explanation , but the rest makes sense ) a one wave will itself 
out  ( btw no such beastie ) . the best is a 1 2 wave , followed by 
1 4 , then 1 8 etc. 

as for in , what you actually do is trim the to the correct 
length for the specific you will be on. since the 
varies with the channel you use , then it 's recommended to 
in using the middle channel of those you are going to use. 
anyway in the beginning of 's , all new had to be ed in , 
trim the almost on , so that there 's not 
much point in  . then again you may be a and to do it 
anyway. 

cheers 
peter t. 


from  ( keais j ) 
subject re laser 
article i.d. 
organization computing services 
lines 17 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( reg neale ) writes 
i'm trying to figure out how to operate a 1000 that i bought at a  . it is from some kind of 
and or system. there is what may be an on the back .  . when 
i power it up , the front power light comes on , but no activity , and the 
door does n't open. anyone have any experience with this or any ideas on how 
to obtain documentation 

what you have is one of the from a video game  ( dragon 's , 
space ,  . call support  ( at least 
that 's the number i called them at ) and ask for the interface 
guide .  . it shows how the parallel interface should be wired and the codes 
for the commands  ( play , , reject ,  . the guide is mainly for 
the to a computer , but with a little work , you could build a wired 
 . 


jim 

from  ( bob billson ) 
subject re message on tv 
organization color computer 3 's  game  machine 
lines 13 

 ( rich kennehan ) says 
hi. i was doing research on suggestion for a psychology 
paper , and i read that one hidden messages on the 
tv at 1 of a second .  . is that possible i thought the 

take a look over in alt .  . there is a thread about 
messages on tv. the fact that messages do n't work aside , an image 
ca n't be on a tv fast enough to not be noticed. 

bob , internet 
nail 21 way , , nj uucp ... ! uunet ! ! bob 

friends do n't let friends run dos 

from 
subject re and stealth cars 
nntp posting host cmu . edu . 
reply to 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
distribution usa 
lines 6 

eric h. writes 
... if you are determined 
to go , get an  . they dont have speed limits .  . 

just do n't make a habit of your local airport at 200 
 ( 250 if you 're flying a  . ) 

from  ( mika iisakkila ) 
subject re what to do with old 
in reply to state . edu . 's message of 17 apr 1993 14 05 06 
nntp posting host gamma . fi . 
organization university of technology , finland 
state . edu . 
lines 15 

state . edu .  ( daniel j rubin ) writes 
how hard would it be to somehow interface them to some of the popular 
motorola  . 

not hard , you can do the and access by software , but 
this most of the available on a low end  . 
i 've seen some application note from philips that used one of their 
as a , with up to of 
that was and with software bit  . 

another alternative would be to use one of those nice 
that create appearance and all that , but they may 
be too expensive to make it worthwhile .  . 

memory helps structure software 

from  ( timothy s. pillsbury ) 
subject need and or examples 
originator 
keywords , , 
organization harris 
lines 18 


i recently ftp 'd al 's  ( acs ) and i'm looking for 
the which is mentioned in the users manual  ( but not found  . 
i do n't have any experience constructing a  ( such as for spice ) 
and i need a little help. 

the examples which come with are n't about the translation 
between and  . does anyone have the 
or any other reference which could help me in constructing a from 
a 

(i also al himself but received no response yet. he 's probably 
busy with his next release . ) . 


tim internet 
uunet uunet ! harris . com . ! timothy . 


from  ( tim channon ) 
subject re laser vs 
reply to 
distribution world 
x mailer revision 1 . 20 . 
organization null 
lines 53 

here is a different viewpoint .  . 

the actual of an 
is 1  . the and of the ink 
, however , limit you to at per  . 
on almost any paper , the ink more than 1 anyway. 

the method of and of a 
results in much less spread than ink drop technology. 

in practice there is little difference in quality but more care is needed 
with because etc. can happen. 

it does n't take much investigation to see that the and 
electronic complement of a laser is more complex than 
ink  . recall also that laser 
offer a much higher 10 for a laser versus about 1 
for an ink  . 

a cheap laser does not that sort of and on top of 
that how long does the first take to print are than 
you say and in both cases the computer often has trouble keeping up with the 
 . (i have a 33 and a lot of drivers cannot keep up with the 
printer ) 

a sage said to me do you want one copy or lots of copies , one , 
. 

something else to think about is the cost of over the 
life of the  . a 3000 page is about 
us 75 80 at discount while high capacity ( 1000 page yield ) 
are about us 22 at discount .  . it could be that over the 
life cycle of the that for laser are 
less than ink  . it is getting closer 
between the two  . laser are usually 
for higher duty in pages per month and longer product 
replacement  . 

paper cost is the same and both can use  . long term the 
will need some expensive replacement parts  ( consumables ) and on top of that 
are the costs which favour the lowest cost  . 

understand so in many cases a will work if the 
software has no  . 

there is one wild difference between the two a is a 
page whilst an is a line  . this means that a 
can images whilst an cannot .  . few drivers 
actually use this  . 
 ( there is also the matter of and so on ) 

 . 
e mail or 


from 
subject question .  .  . need . help 
organization lawrence national , 
lines 26 
nntp posting host gov . 


i 've got two lines coming into my apartment .  . two different telephone numbers. 
when i ordered the second line , instead of bringing out another 4 
wire , the just connected up to my and black  . so i 
have one line on red green and the other on black .  . 

today i was the on both lines. i had a across 
the red and green and read back 52  . i then lifted up the receiver on my 
second line . wires ) the dropped to 31 on the first 
line.  ( red green wires ) i repeated this experiment with the second 
 ( line(monitoring black and lifting the off the on the 
red and green line . ) . it also dropped to 31  . 

why is this i thought these were separate lines. 

next i went to the 66 block and the blue and white lines coming in 
from the  . i then all the in my apartment and 
went back to the 66 block and did some resistance measurements .  . both lines read 
open. 

i 'll appreciate any help on this. is this considered normal 

guy 




from  ( daniel j. stern ) 
subject seeking info on wear on 
x posted from 
organization college , , nh 
lines 12 

we are engineering students . we . are looking for documented 
data regarding the wear associated with turning on an off a and 
how it relates to power  . interested in a comparison 
between the wear on a which is left on continuously and one 
which is turned off when not in use. 

please e mail to 

thank you , 

dan stern 


from  ( jeffrey s. curtis ) 
subject re what is zero 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 19 

 ( john thomson ) writes 
out of what hat did you pull this one is a ratio not an ! 
... 
sorry. the for current is the which is the name of a french man 
named who studied electrical current .  . the term is just an 
of it. the company came after the was already in use. 
... 
i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right. 
... 
well you got one thing right ! 

john oh , nevermind .  .  .  . 

jeff 

jeffrey s. in full , they 
the power of 37 at revel in their role as self 
of the  .  .  . 
welcome to wherever you are 

from  ( christian reisel ) 
distribution world 
organization chaos live 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
reply to 
x software 1 . 10 . rev. 3 1993 
version 1.0 
content type text plain us ascii 
content 
lines 

in , john writes 

... 
during the nuclear reaction the can get hot enough 
to  . when this happens the liquid is to the 
where it is into the air. contact with the cool outside air 
will the and it will fall back to the  . 
there it is by a cleaning using and is then 
into for reactor use the next day. 

are a lot than they really need to be. power 
are forced to make them that by some law that requires the 
raw to be held to under 1 . this law is now under attack 
by lawyers arguing that the 1 should be measured at the of the property 
rather than the of the  . this law will save 
power thousands of dollars in concrete costs for new  . 

john 
! ! 


i think you posted your article 15 days too late  ) april 1st is over. 
i do n't like nuclear but i think it 's not fair to tell such 
about them. ok 
let me try to explain what that is used to 
1st .  . even the nuclear is only a simple steam engine. 
it has an but the rest is still 
conventional .  . and if you 've already visited any 
you l have seen the too. 
if you look at any good book about you 'll find 
a chapter about the process which describes how to 
get energy from a difference ! and that is the reason 
for too ! ! ! you only can get energy if you 've an 
 . that means that you have steam on the one 
side and need to cool down the steam  till you get water 
again on the other side if you want to get  . 30 of the 
energy you  ( or better the uranium ) brought into the water to 
let it  . if you only have hot steam on the one and cold 
steam on the other side you 'll loose much more of the energy .  . 
and so they cool down the steam to get at least the 30 of 
energy that will give them. 
the are for the steam ! 
the you 'll see is not the steam of the main core circulation , 
because that steam is ! the circulation is divided in 
at least 2 circuits connected about to prevent 
pollution of the environment ! 

2nd .  . ok , the main core is hot , but even in the 
 ( htr ) they only run at  . this is still 
far away from point which is somewhere 
around 2000  . ! but you 'll have lot 's of problems with 
the 's  . that 's because at this the 
metal is attacked by steam and will fast .  . 
this is only for 's .  . the new he have 
up to 1200  .  . but this is only experimental .  . 

3rd. i think that nuclear waste should be as low as ever 
possible because the you get will accumulate about the 
years. today 1 and next year 0 . 5 . wo n't be 0 . 75 . 
at all. it and even in 80 years you 'll still have 
1 . 5 .  . and i'm not interested in glowing in the night and 
getting children with 2 heads .  . this is my point of view. 


only my 0 . 02 . ! 

christian 

student of electronic sciences 


christian , 2 , w , germany 
voice 49 fax email 49 

pgp 

begin pub . 
s q  ( 296es96pl h ! .  ( sy 6 
 ( mmo k u , m 89 w t ! q 
@ 

end 

from  ( paul johnson ) 
subject re history question 
reply to  ( paul johnson ) 
organization research centre , great , uk 
lines 25 

in article  ( mitch kazel ) writes 
sorry if this is n't the correct news group . . . but . . . 

a of mine is trying to find out when the first public use of 
electronic voice was . . . i.e. a p a system. 

any reference would be appreciated. please reply via e mail .  . 

 ( n9hdq ) 
internet 

this is vague , so i am posting it in case anyone else knows more. 

i recall reading of a which used  . 
air was out of a which was controlled by the 
 . the result was and lo fi , but much 
than a conventional  . it tended to wear the out 
pretty quickly though. 

paul .  . 

paul johnson  ( paj@gec co .  . tel 44 

these ideas and others like them can be had research is not 
for 0 . 02 . each from any  . responsible for my opinions 

from  ( mark bevan ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
reply to  ( mark bevan ) 
organization of the lost  . ! , , canada 
lines 21 

writes 


! 

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't 
know the number of the line. and i do n't want 
to call up the operator to place a trace on it. 

question is there a certain device out there that i can 
use to find out the number to the line 
thanks for any response. 
al 



and it sound tell you the number .  . 


 ( mark bevan ) 
of the lost  . ! , , canada 

from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re motorola and 
organization corporation 
lines 21 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 
in article  ( stefan berg ) writes 
... i do n't know why my has an  ( my original 
was label 33 ) , but it seems to work fine on my system .  .  .  . 
p.s. or does it mean experimental chip instead of motorola chip . ) 

the rule for the is that if it says , that means it works 
exactly the way the book  . if it says , that means 
there is at least one known bug .  . often these are small and obscure 
you might never run into them in practice. 


units are often pre devices .  . those are normally 
for evaluation as and are not guaranteed to 
meet every  . 

at least motorola admits it , unlike certain other  .  .  . 

yep , that 's for sure .  .  . that . 's one thing i like most about motorola .  . 

aaron 

from  ( jim obrien ) 
subject ibm pc switch 
organization research , inc. 
lines 7 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 

i just got an ibm pc with no documents .  . its a true 
ibm , and i was wondering if anyone had the definitions 
of the 2 8 position 

jim 



from  ( michael james hill ) 
subject new applications of 
originator edu . 
reply to  ( michael james hill ) 
organization north state university , project 
lines 8 



i'm looking for brief information on new 
applications of  ( or new in 
applications . ) . if you know of any interesting new 
stuff , i would be in hearing about it. 

thanks , 

from  ( pat niemeyer ) 
subject re 25 network 
organization washington university in saint , usa 
lines 14 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 
originator 

the same folks now have out  ( little big lan ) for 75 .  . i think you 
get it for 50 if you already own 25 network. works with , 
parallel , and serial in any combination for up to 250 or so 
 . 

no flames please , but i picked up this discussion a bit late and i 
am really curious .  .  .  . 

what exactly is the 25 network 
something to hack together n serial 
something with n serial drivers 

thanks , 


from  ( adrian godwin ) 
subject re single chip receiver for 
organization computers ltd , cambridge , uk 
lines 26 

in article  ( john x 2966 ) writes 

my goal is to come up with an design for a receiver back 
end with if on one end and an on the other. i'm 
particularly interested in ways to use a higher if than 10 . 7 . do any 
current work up to , say with internal so a 
normal if filter can be used 


a series of  ( sl1454 etc ) for use in 
tv 150 or in , of video out. 
i think there 's also a related data intended 
for use in , though that is n't used in the most common 
implementation it may not be in volume production. 

the most easily available components probably vary with local 
standards , and i think the european systems vary rather widely from those 
in the us so it may be worth investigating available receiver 
designs to find out what 's in common use. 






i believe this rubbish  .  .  . do n't imagine that anyone else does. 

from  ( frode weierud ) 
subject card reader info 
keywords , card reader , american , 
reply to 
organization european lab for particle physics 
lines 26 


can somebody please help me with information about an 
american corporation card reader that 
i recently bought from a  . 

on the it has the following information 

american corporation 
carson , ca , usa 
card reader 
model 41 , 
p n 

it is with a with a 25 pin on 
the end and has a separate power like the once used with 
 . 




phone 41 22 
, fax 41 22 
23 e mail 
or 



from (j .  . babb ) 
subject re electric power line 
article i.d. 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 16 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article , 
 ( scott townsend ) wrote 

i got a question from my which i really ca n't answer and i 'd appreciate 
some net . wisdom .  . 

his question is about some 18 24 which are attached to 
electric power lines in his area. he 's seen up to a half dozen between 
two poles .  . neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution .  . 
my only guess was that they may be a device to the 
of the , but why so many between two poles . 
i 'll bet there 's a nearby .  . 

jeff 

programmer , 

from  ( john whitmore ) 
subject re a question about  .  . 
keywords 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 34 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( chris richmond ) writes 

in article ,  ( david vanderbyl ) writes 
in article ,  ( russ crisp ) writes 

i'm considering some old in my home , and 
i need a little advice on  . several 
are the old  two  type , without the ground. naturally , 
the wire feeding these is 12 2 , without the ground 
wire .  . i noticed at the that some circuits have the 
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground 
wire was to the same as the neutral  ( white ) wire .  . 

this is contrary to the electrical code and should be fixed. 

well , my house was built just last year , and the box is wired the 
same way. 

there should be a connection of the ground wire to a ground 
in the box .  . there also should be a connection of the neutral 
wire to a ground in the box .  . there should be no other 
place in the building where such a connection occurs (i . e .  . not in 
any of the  . 

the neutral  ( white ) wire is a   for 
the plug , and is not safe to touch , while the ground  ( green ) 
wire is a  ground  and carries no current unless 
some kind of electrical fault has occurred .  . it 's safe 
to touch the ground , but not to touch the 
 ( because there is current in the 
, its box end will not be at the same ground 
potential as its box  . 

john 

from  ( duane p mantick ) 
subject re remote control receiver 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 29 

 ( marc dion ) writes 


for a project of my own , i would like to build a red remote control 
receiver  ( for regular and  . does anybody have any info 
or on how to build such receiver 
in particular , 
a ) which photo should i use  ( which do use ) 
b ) which or should i use 
c ) any suggestions for 

please reply to this group  ( if you wish ) , but as well via e mail  ( my 
link to usenet is not always  . 

i 'd like to see this info as well. as for , i think 
you 're primarily going to find two 880 a bit , and or 
a bit. usually it is about 10 either way. the two most common 
i have seen were 880 and but i have also heard of and  . 
i'm not sure that the 10 one way or another will make a great deal of 
difference. 

another suggestion find a brand of tv that uses an remote , 
and go look at the for it. you can often find some very 
detailed and parts list for not only the receiver but the 
as well , including  .  . and tone 
 . if the system uses that. 




from  ( david lesher ) 
subject re tv ! 
organization clinic for netnews 
lines 11 
distribution usa 
reply to  ( david lesher ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 

others said 
... why would the picture explode or even 

, it was the penguin on top of the set that  .  .  . 



a host is a host from coast to 
no one will talk to a host that 's close .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56 
unless the host  ( that is n't  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
is busy , or dead .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from state . edu .  ( daniel j rubin ) 
subject re style and 
organization the ohio state university dept. of computer and info .  . science 
lines 17 
nntp posting host zion . cis . ohio . state . edu . 

hi there , 
can anyone tell me where it is possible to found 
on most style games. many i am working on would 
be greatly if i could implement them. thanx in advance. 

try parts express in , ohio also. they have a complete line of 
, etc .  .  .  . 

the have a 1 number so call 1 and ask them what the 1 
number for part express in , ohio is. i love the free 1 directory 
assistance .  .  .  . 

dan 

daniel joseph state . edu . 

go ! go ! 

subject re power , signal in home .  .  .  . 
from 
distribution world 
organization robert 
lines 21 

 ( david vanderbyl ) writes 

 ( douglas s. rand ) writes 

can legally run up to  . it is very unlikely , however , 
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. 

not possible either. you 'd need about a for 
just the  . 

it is too possible. as the original poster said it is very unlikely 
but definately possible.  ( can you say ) 


i 've even seen pictures of an where the ham a little 
behind his car with a , and the full legal limit 
while  . i do n't know what his gas mileage was like , though , or 
where he found able to stand the  . 


 ( robert bc ) 

from  ( don t. borowski ) 
subject re help how to construct home built for 3rd grade sci report 
distribution usa 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
lines 20 

dean  ( anneser@pwa b . wrote 
my 9 old son has signed up to do a science report on  . i was 
wondering if anyone could provide me with some information as to how to 
construct a home built  . in my grade school days , i remember seeing 
the  ice cube  version , but i do n't remember what to use as a good 
or what the easily were. 

thank you in advance. 

i remember watching a whole mr. program on this subject when 
i was a kid .  . the constructed on the program which made the 
biggest impression on me , and generated the most power , was made using 
a  ( for the zinc ) and a toilet  . the 
was ! 


, division 
angels are able to because they take themselves so lightly .  . 
g . k .  . 


from state . edu .  ( daniel j rubin ) 
subject re what to do with old 
organization the ohio state university dept. of computer and info .  . science 
lines 18 
nntp posting host cis . ohio . state . edu . 

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old 
 . i have a bunch of them for the apple mac 
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to 
sell them but have gotten no interest .  . 

how hard would it be to somehow interface them to some of the popular 
motorola  . i am a at , but i am 
starting to get into them for some of my  . i have several 
around from and if i could use them as free 
memory in one or two of my that would be great .  . one project that 
comes to mind is a id device that would require quite a bit of 
to several records etc .  .  .  . 

dan 

daniel joseph state . edu . 

go ! go ! 

from  ( mark tearle ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
organization the university of western australia 
lines 14 
nntp posting host gu . edu . au . 

well here in australia you 

to get the number read back to you 
if you live in the country include the area code of the capital city 
eg for 09 

yours 
mark 



mark 

email 

from  ( cole ) 
subject 
organization new mexico state university 
lines 3 
nntp posting host edu . 

i would like to experiment with the family. does anyone out 
there know of any good ftp sites that might have , , 
etc. 

from wayne martin 
subject re 
organization , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 5 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

yes , it is the 23 , 24 and 25 , in but does anyone have how to 
get there after i get to  . thanks 

wayne martin 


from  ( kris gleason ) 
subject re electric power line 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution usa 
lines 23 

 ( scott townsend ) writes 

i got a question from my which i really ca n't answer and i 'd appreciate 
some net . wisdom .  . 

his question is about some 18 24 which are attached to 
electric power lines in his area. he 's seen up to a half dozen between 
two poles .  . neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution .  . 
my only guess was that they may be a device to the 
of the , but why so many between two poles . 

anyone know what they really are is there a related faq for this 
is there a better group to submit to 

we 'd both appreciate some enlightenment .  . 

i think those are to make the lines more to and 
 .  .  . than red  . 

 course i could be wrong. 




from  ( tom bruhns ) 
subject re do systems need ground 
organization , 
lines 25 

 ( soh yung ) writes 

i understand the need for a ground plane in a digital system. however , i 
would like to know if such a ground plane is also necessary in an 
system. 

 ( note this ground plane will not be connected , except at one point , to 
the signal  . 

i keep getting answers over this. does having a ground plane 
in an system help reduce also my system only deals with 
low  ( up to only ! ! ! ) .  . 

well , one reason for getting answers is that it depends on 
what you want the ground plane to do. a continuous is a good 
 . do you have on your board that need 
other things this wo n't do much good for magnetic 
fields , unless you make it continuous around the to be , 
like a cage .  . 

the flip side of the coin if you are working with  ( very ) high , 
you could end up with to the plane that cause problems. 
you are n't likely to this at , but at , it can be a 
real problem  ( one that bit me  . 


from  ( harvey fishman ) 
subject re electronic parts in 
organization public access unix , 
lines 11 

there are also a couple or three places on west between and 
sixth .  . 







you do n't get smart except by asking stupid questions. 


from  ( filip gieszczykiewicz ) 
subject questions 
summary what is a 
distribution na 
organization medical , pittsburgh , pa usa 
lines 33 


 . i 've been seeing the word mentioned 
around but i'm curious , what does it mean 

if my life on it , i 'd say that it 's a that 
uses long to keep the 
on the for some of time them. 
do i get to live 

also , i 've been shopping for a decent , used , old 
since my tek  .  . not . ! ) and my o 1000 
are all single trace and i need more .  .  .  . like 2 or 3 and at 
least  ( maybe 100 .  .  . ) . 

during my shopping at etc. i 've run into the 
problem of old terminology .  . i can imagine what 
a and plug in are but some things like 
the above ,  ( hey , where do i get a 
that fits this i had to with mine for a week 
before i got anything a good trace they all 
come with ! ) ,  ( huh ) , and , oh , 
just like my , many changes were made along the 
way to the , even with identical model 
numbers , have different  ( better ) response than 
others how can i pick the better one does the rule of the 
higher the better apply 

take care. 

i 'll buy a  . best e mail 
all ideas are mine but they can be yours for only 0 . so respond now ! ! ! ! 
i live for my ee major , , programming , , and assorted dreams .  . 
drive has and dos has  . dos is worried ) 

from  ( wayne schellekens ) 
subject wanted for use with 
keywords , 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization research , laboratories 
distribution na 
lines 25 

for an project i want to use 4 of as two 2 
banks of 16 bit data .  . i was wondering if anyone out there knows of a 
which will handle the data .  . it 's ok if the 
does n't handle bank switching that part is easy .  . 

the only i know of are the ones out of the national 
handbook  ( 1988 edition ) eg .  .  . i would 
like to know if another produces one which may be easier to 
implement in my  . 

btw , if anyone is wanting to up to a , 
makes a neat chip the serial 
chip .  . it uses the  ( i2c ) and up to of 
memory. it can use an external to the when the 
power is off. price is 11 . 75 . from  ( quan  . i wish i could use 
this chip but its rate is 1  ( too slow for me .  .  . ) .  . 

thanks in advance , 

wayne 


wayne , internet 
research 25 . can . 
laboratories twisted pair  ( 204)753 ) 

from  ( tom , of old equipment .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . campus ) 
subject re suggestions on 
organization college 
lines 63 

in article ,  ( aaron lung ) writes 
in article  ( billy quinn ) writes 
i built a little project using the radio shack to switch 
 . i got pretty bad   when the thing switched .  . i was doing 
most of the common things one is supposed to do when using and 
nothing seemed to get rid of the  . 


my question is 

is there a good relay relay that i can use for switching 
, so that there will be no of any kind on the lines. 


i will appreciate any advice or references to advice. also , exact part 
numbers company names etc. for the will help ! 

are you switching high level or low level like pre 
out level also , are the you mentioning the big 
that happens when it or are you refering to contact 
how are you driving the gate output switching 
how are the connected to what you are driving 

need more to answer your question ! ! ) 

as a general rule , no relay will switch if you try to 
the with the contacts .  . the you hear is due to the 
and of the path .  . 

the way of is to ground the  . in high 
circuits a t is constructed close to characteristic 
of the  . the  ( connected to the t ) 
the  . 

in low circuits are usually used , and the are 
out or grounded .  . are at the characteristic 
 . 

sometimes if it is necessary to actually switch , a second contact is used 
to momentarily short the output for the duration of the switching time. 

telephone are , because contacts can be to make before 
break and but i have n't seen any of these for years. 

switching is done with , etc. 

a novel i used to build was a primitive  .  .  . it consists 
of a and a , all in a  . when the is 
off the cell is high resistance .  . turn the on and the resistance 
passing the  . once again this device in a t the  . 
the resistance give a remote volume control. use 2 and 
you have a ! 

lots of luck ! 

73 , tom 

tom ,  . college british 
 ( 604)753 ) , fax weapon  . 45 . rifle 
mail to site ,  . 4 , , british , canada , 

i do not  .  .  .  .  . i keep everything !  ( all standard disclaimers apply ) 


from  ( 90 ah ) 
subject re cheap products 
article i.d. 
organization university , , south africa 
lines 44 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

i want to my system and was thinking of buying  . 
i have heard from alot of people , though , that sounds great but 
that the components are made and therefore wo n't last very long .  . 
the time estimates i 've heard are like only 3 or 4 years. is this true 

i own the power  . as far as i'm concerned , there 's no 
which can touch it at the price range .  . 
the build quality is very impressive and is far superior to other 
in the price range .  . the whole is extremely solid 
with massive and very solid  . 
if you open the up , there are only very good quality components 
in and the seems to be designed extremely well. perfect 
for both and two one for each 
channel .  . the binding posts on the back of the are 
virtually the same as those on the model 70 ie .  . very good. 

i was also sceptical about the being built in the far east 
or where ever. but if you look in the and see what components 
they use and how it was designed , you can easily see why the 
sound so  . 
i cannot see why people say the wo n't last not with 
those quality components inside. sure the runs very fairly 
hot but that 's how you get an to sound incredibly good. 

my last point , i recently the something like 
the or something. it was two years old and it still 
like new. 

if you build an , like the 's , they will 
sound and last a long time period. 

just my thoughts , but then i do own one of 's  . 







the path you is narrow and the drop is and very high 
the all are watching from a point near by 
like a train up your 
will the reach the end will the final 


from  ( john t. rasper ) 
subject 's 
organization division 
lines 25 
nntp posting host com . 

does anyone know the details of the interface  ( 5 wire din ) for the 
remote  ( 2 wire repeater ) for the 
the part numbers are the , , and 
ira  . 

a physical examination of the pre indicates 
that the  ( 5 pin din ) may provide  ( viewed from front ) 


5 1  ( pin ) v @ ma 
4 2  ( pin ) v @ ma 
3  ( pin 3) signal ground 
 ( pin ) signal v , polarity , ma drive 
 ( pin ) signal to drive led  ( drives through 
resistor ) v 

i assume that the  ( mini plugs ) drive the 
led 's directly .  . true 

can anyone fill in the 's .  . thanks. 


john 
p.o. box 2197 
 ( 719 ) , co 2197 

from  ( john ott ) 
subject re needed for 
reply to  ( john ott ) 
organization univ .  . of notre dame 
lines 64 

in article ,  ( gary segal ) writes 
i 've recently picked up some display , but i ca n't find 
any information on them. it seems they are no longer made by , and 
i do n't have an old enough data book. ( 

it appears to have a led display capable of showing one 
 . it is in a 14 pin , but 6 , 9 , and 11 are not 
present. 

if you have any information on this part  ( pinout , power , 
functions ,  .  .  . ) . please send me e mail .  . 

thank you , 


motorola inc. 
division 
we are standing here only to gaze at the wind 


pin function 
1 led supply 
2 data b 
3 data a 
4 left point 
5 
6 
7 common 
8 
9 
10 right point 
11 
12 data d 
13 data c 
14 logic supply  ( 5v ) 

, pin 5 , when low , the data in the follow the data on the data 
 . when high , the data in the will not change .  . if the 
display is blanked and then while the is high , 
the previous character will again be  . 

, pin 8 , when high , the display is blanked regardless of the levels of the other 
 . when low , a character is as determined by the data 
in the  . the may be for  . 

data , 2 , 3 , 12 , 13 , data on these are entered into the when the 
is low. the of these are a 1 , 
b 2 , c 4 , d 8 

point , 4 , 10 , these are not connected to the logic chip .  . if a point 
is used , an external or other current limiting 
mechanism must be connected in series with it. 

led supply , pin 1 this connection the user to save on current by using 
a separate led supply , or it may be connected to the logic 
supply  . 

logic supply  ( vcc ) , pin 14 separate connection for the logic chip 

common ground , pin 7 , this is the for all logic and led except for the 
points. 

john 


from  ( robert mah ) 
subject re electronic parts in 
organization public access unix , 
lines 23 

in  ( fritz mueller ) writes 
i just moved to and wondered if there are any 
out there who could point me to places in that sell individual 
electronic components  ( switches , , , caps , 
... 

try and ... let me dig out a ... 

here we are .  .  .  . 

at street , that 's near south street and 
street. phone is 212 and  . 

however , when there , be very exact or there 's a good chance they 'll 
up. otherwise , they 're pretty good , and they deliver too. 

cheers , 
rob 


robert s. voice 212 every day an , 
one step beyond email every moment a challenge 


from  ( stephe lewis foskett ) 
subject how do boxes work 
organization corporation 
lines 19 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 


i'm doing sound for a couple of around here and we need direct 
boxes for the  . these are the little boxes that take a 
line level out of the keyboard and it into low z for the run 
to the  . sadly they cost like 50  ( or more ) each and i'm going 
to need like 5 or 10 of them ! i looked inside one  ( belonging to 
another band ) and it looks like just a  . does anyone have 
any plans for building them perhaps in 's electronic 
for book  ( which i am having a hell of a time 
down .  .  . ) . 

thanks a lot ! 

 . s .  . 

ps post or email. i read this group .  .  .  . 

0 
mein ist , mein ist 

from 
subject re long distance 
organization university of western , london 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( stan burton ) writes 



i would like to be able to detect the position  ( low accuracy ) of an 
source at a distance of about 100  ( more is better ) in 
daylight .  . the source could be a signature i'm 
30 square wave with 50 duty cycle .  . 

i am considering the use of a from inc. to give 
information to a head to point the and thus determine the 
 . for the source i am considering the heck out of an  ( led(s ) , 
possibly an or motorola  . would mean at least 1 
current  . at this current the duty cycle of the led drops to 10 and i 
would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50 required. 

has anyone done something like this 

why do n't you just run one led at 60 and use a flip at the receiving 
end to divide by 2 and give you a good square signal .  . 
just a thought. 


stan  ( dnd agcg ) 
 ( 403 ) , box , medicine hat , , canada , 

red 
 ( 519 ) 
dept. of astronomy , 
university of western ontario 
london , on , canada , 

from  ( gerald belton ) 
subject re a question about 
distribution world 
organization , inc. , the hole bbs 
reply to  ( gerald belton ) 
lines 38 

so .  .  . here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the 
same electrical if i the neutral from the 
neutral over to the ground on new  three  
 . what 's wrong with my reasoning here 

first , go to the local hardware and pick up a copy of 
by h . l .  .  . now if your house is wired with metal 
conduit , you do n't need a ground wire  ( assuming the house 
is wired correctly and the are connected to a cold water 
in your  . the that have a neutral to 
the ground seem wrong. anyone else think so 

back in the 70 's i was a service for a cash company .  . 
the cash used circuits and back then they were 
very susceptible to and line  . the biggest 
problems came from that were not properly grounded .  . 

in almost every place we went to do an , we found 
with the ground connected to the neutral .  . for 9 . of the things you 
can plug into one of these , they work fine. for our cash they 
were a line tended to the memory 
periodically .  . 

with modern using switching power this should be 
less of a problem. even the company i used to work for is no longer 
a dedicated line with a ground for their 
equipment. i imagine if you check most you will find 
that the ground and neutral are connected .  . although not ideal , it 
should be o.k. for most applications .  . 


. 2 . 1 . . my reality check just  . 


the hole bbs a private board service  ( 504)891 ) 
3 full service 16 . 10 100 , 000 files 
new ! network mail usenet newsgroups 
please route all questions or to 

subject pattern wanted 
from  ( tony grimwood ) 
organization university of , new  . 
keywords pattern 
summary  . gen .  . 
lines 15 

i a lot of here , and i 'd like to know where i can get a 
pattern  ( or a for one) that will provide , and 
 . using a whole pc to do this takes up too much space on my , and 
is somewhat less than  . i guess i could sit down and design something , 
but i do n't have the time right now any  ( reasonable ) suggestions would be 
appreciated. 





tony , make no friendship with an 
engineering services keeper , unless you have room to 
university of entertain an  . 
, new of 

from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re telephone on off 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 26 

in article  ( peter tryndoch ) writes 

, there 's the rub if you draw enough current to light an led , 
equipment at the phone company will think you 've gone off  . 
in the on state you 're not supposed to draw current .  . 

ok lets have some here going by australian standards , which i 
presume might be similar to other countries ( if not , lets have some 
input ) a phone uses to loop a line  . a standard led 
 . so what is the actual loop current required for an off 
indication , do you know 

up to 60 on 

over something like 10 ma off 

in between line , and the phone company comes looking 
for  . 




michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from  . c . d .  . smith ) 
subject re  ( epld ) 
organization computer science , university 
lines 27 
nntp posting host ac . uk . 

in sci . writes 

anyone know a reasonable for programming pals i am interested 
in programming a wide range of but would be happy with something 
that could handle a or  . 

i too would be interested in any information on the subject of 
pals etc .  .  .  .  .  . 

better to know what your on about before you start something , i always 
say. often saves you a packet as well ! ! 

thanks in advance .  .  . 

chris ) 


name mr chris smith on that  ole guitar ! 

uni university quest to build more and more hardware 
computer science 


what ever the sun may be , it is certainly not a ball of flaming gas ! 
d . h .  . lawrence .  . 

all views expressed are my own , and reflect that of private thought. 

from edu .  .  ( lige f hensley ) 
subject re what to do with old 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 11 
nntp posting host 26 . rose . edu . 

in article  ( jason 
haines ) writes 

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old 
 . i have a bunch of them for the apple mac 
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to 
sell them but have gotten no interest .  . 

so , if you have an use  ( or want to buy 
some 8 ) ) 
sure i 'll give you 10 for all of them 

from (j .  . babb ) 
subject ink 4 trade 
organization 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

fellow info , 
i have an extra 27  ( real time programming embedded 
storage ) and an extra 32  ( voice control of , among other 
 . no  . no , cut up , or missing pages. 

would like to trade for 26 , or 23 , or 19 in same 
condition  ( labels  . 

i mail mine you mail yours trust kinda ok 
you do n't actually them away , do you 

thanx , 
jeff 


subject re picking up tv with an  . 
from  ( robert ganter ) 
organization 
nntp posting host schroeder . 
lines 11 

great , the first advantage of cheap , i 've ever heard. 

cheers robert  ( hb9nby ) 


robert 
i am a fan 
of my plan 


packet 

from  ( harry langenbacher ) 
subject re power supply 
article i.d. 
organization jpl pasadena ca 
lines 25 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 

in article  ( dale nurden ) writes 
i'm wanting to build a simple for my pc .  . ... the computer long enough to complete 
the current task and save , 5 to 10 should be enough .  .  .  .  . 
i think , though i do n't really need to keep the active (i can try to 
remember what to do ) so maybe i can avoid a ac and just use a 
to directly supply the and  . 

now there 's a good idea ! all you need is 20 for a few , and 
a good  ( wetware ) memory  ( was i using or or  .  .  . ) .  . i thought of the 
same idea myself a few days ago. i 've got a fairly new car that i take 
along in my when i go , and it around useless when i'm home. 
i wish i could get a to use it with , or use it with a heavy 
duty 5 to supply the pc .  . but i guess you 'd need and 
 ( and 12 ) too  ( 2 more ) .  . 

an alternative would be to leave a 40 up to the 
and run a to running all the time , and when the power 
goes out , la ! the keeps on running off the ! and 
then i could take the and my computer on the trips ! ) 



jpl . nasa . gov . 
fax , devices group , 
, m s , oak dr , pasadena ca usa 

from  ( prasad ramakrishna ) 
subject tv ! 
organization virginia tech , blacksburg , va 
lines 19 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cc . vt . edu . 

i had a 13 color tv for about 3 years and one fine day , 
while we were watching something (i doubt if the program was the cause ) , 
we heard a mild  . our went but there was sound , 
so we thought ,  oh we have special effects on the  . but soon 
the sound stopped and started to appear at the back of the tv. 
the we are , we the tv and called customer service 
only to be thrown around by please hold , i will u to blah blah .  .  . 
finally we abandoned the idea of trying to fix the tv and got a new one 
 ( we wanted a bigger one too ! ) .  . 
after all the story , what i wanted to know is is my problem an isolated 
incident or a common one (i recall reading about , but 
not here , in the  . why would the picture explode or even 
i still have the left over tv set , i might dig into it this summer .  . any 
idea where i can get parts for these things  ( probably will cost more than  . 

w my 0 . 02 . 
prasad 



from  ( billy quinn ) 
subject re radio shack of the month club 
organization university of , dept. of math sciences 
lines 18 

 ( don montgomery ) writes 


radio shack has their of the month club. does 
anyone know why 

they say they 'll honor existing cards in customer hands , but no new 
cards will be issued .  . 

i was told that this is an environmental based move. i was also told that 
there will be   else to replace the club. like maybe 
the club ) .  . 

we 'll see .... 


bill 


from  ( bruce g. bostwick ) 
subject re how can 0 . be different from two 0 . in series ! 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 13 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host doc . cc . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( henry spencer ) writes 

this may be a safety issue the is more in certain areas than 
and such. two caps in series means that you do n't have a short if one 
of them  . 

not necessarily true a short in one , if near the series 
drop , will the other one and short it too , more 


the only reason the world has n't 
 ( really bruce bostwick ) into total chaos is that 
from the great state of texas 's law also applies to  . 

from 
subject re a question about  .  . 
organization mode systems , san diego , ca 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( russ crisp ) writes 
i'm considering some old in my home , and 
i need a little advice on  . several 
are the old  two  type , without the ground. naturally , 
the wire feeding these is 12 2 , without the ground 
wire .  . i noticed at the that some circuits have the 
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground 
wire was to the same as the neutral  ( white ) wire .  . 

so .  .  . here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the 
same electrical if i the from the neutral 
over to the ground on new  three   . 
what 's wrong with my reasoning here 

no. no. ! ! ! 

the ground  ( green ) wire is for safety .  . no current is supposed to in it 
under normal conditions .  . this means that there 's normally no drop in 
it either. it is supposed to be safe to touch the ground wire .  .  .  . even if 
you 're grounded in some other way at the same time. 

the neutral  ( white ) wire is , as dave correctly said , the return for 
the hot wire .  . since current in it , there 's a drop .  . if you 
plug a heavy load into a properly wired grounded , you can commonly 
measure a or so of difference between neutral and ground. 

they are supposed to be connected together at the  .  .  . but nowhere , 
repeat nowhere , else.  ( well , almost .  . there are strange exceptions for things 
like sub ) . 

what you can do if you want three without additional is 
to use a  ( or , but the will be  . in fact , 
depending on where you are putting your new  ( outlet(s ) , a may be required . 

there is a faq on electrical , posted regularly to rec . and 
news . answers .  . it goes into great detail on these issues  ( including gfcis ) and 
you should probably read it before asking any more questions. i 'll mail a copy 
to you , a copy here , and will ask the writers to cross post it here in 
the future. 

, mode systems , san diego ca 
internet uucp uunet ! ! cis , 


from  ( andrew payne ) 
subject wanted , small 
organization dec cambridge research lab 
lines 16 


does anyone know if a source for the  ( as used in the 
and my modems ) ideally , something that is 
small quantity , mail order , etc. 

for years , we 've been buying them from a  ( marshall ) by the 
hundreds for  . but orders have dropped to the point where we can 
no longer afford to offer this service .  . and all of the i 've 
checked have some crazy minimum order ( 100 , or  . 

i 'd like to find a source for those still interested in building  . 
any suggestions 


andrew c. 
dec cambridge research lab 

from  ( kenneth michael martin ) 
subject model of a  . 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 5 

has anyone done a model of the 52 pin version of the it does n't 
seem to be too big a job , but if someone else has already done it ... 

many thanks 
ken martin 

from  ( mark valentine ) 
subject help current loop to needed .  . 
summary i need a device that will convert current loop to  . 
keywords 20 , current , loop , , 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
distribution usa 
lines 10 


where can i buy or build a device that will convert 20 ma 
current loop to i know some old 
came with that option , but none of the ones i own have that. anyway , 
i want to connect a computer to this old industrial computer to use 
the computer with communications software as a instead of 
an old  . please e mail me if you have any info that would 
point me in the right direction .  . 



from l .  .   behnke ) 
subject re effect 
organization national lab 
lines 66 
reply to 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( paul johnson ) writes 

i was having a look through a couple of components when i 
came across a range of effect intended for 
components .  . for those who have not heard of this effect , you put a 
current through one of these devices , and it from one side 
to the other. reverse the current and you reverse the effect. i 
think a difference can give you an as well. 

anyway , it me that you could make a nice cool hot box for 
with one of these , a power , a and a 
couple of  . the biggest device can shift with an 
of 80 90 , which ai n't bad  ( although it would my 
car in about half an  . 

so called cool hot boxes have been for several years. i recall 
them in a recent catalog .  . problem with the units is they do 
a y job of keeping food cold warm .  . the devices used just do n't 
seem to have enough to keep up. if you want something hot , you need to 
it up before you put it in the box , and end up hours later with food 
only warm .  . same goes for cold items. 

unfortunately the did n't list anything more than the basic 
as a  . i imagine that you would get a back as the 
across the device increases .  . if so , presumably 
its power as the back increases , until eventually we 
have a state with no current being  ( assuming no 
 . if so , then the final difference between the 
two sides could be set by the supply and nothing more 
 ( although that would be a lousy way to control it) .  . 

what i would like to know is 

1 are the above correct 

2 what is the open thermal resistance of a typical device 
(i just want to be sure that my is not going to get warm 
too fast when i it) 

you  de probably be better off getting a good  ( coleman(tm ) and 
up on blue ice blocks .  . 


3 how does a effect actually work it looks like 
magic ! 

4 why do n't they use these things in domestic 

same as above. not enough in them to keep get things cold hot. 

thanks in advance , 

paul .  . 

paul johnson  ( paj@gec co .  . tel 44 

these ideas and others like them can be had research is not 
for 0 . 02 . each from any  . responsible for my opinions 
mike tech 
lab equipment 
, il .  . computing ! ! ! ! 


my opinions are my own , not of the lab .  . so , if you do n't like them , call 

1 

from 
subject re need info on project 
id r ee . ca . 000 
from com . ! apr 21 09 31 00 1993 
lines 6 


motorola has a good note on a 10 using a  . it 
could be easily to an board , or even a beach 
development system. 



from (j .  . babb ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

i really do n't know where to post this question so i that 
this board would be most appropriate. 

try sci . energy . 

jeff 

programmer , 

from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re tv ! ! ! 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 14 

at 50 , a conventional set of tv on a  ( one aimed 
at each location ) should work well. 

ears inside the house are probably not adequate .  . 

to plug into your house are even worse. 
at , you do n't want a big , you want a 
 . 


michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from (j .  . babb ) 
subject re ink address 
organization 
lines 14 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article , 
 ( phil torre ) wrote 

is still published if so , does anyone have their address 


inc. 
4 park st. 20 
, ct 
 ( 203)875 ) 

jeff 

programmer , 

from  ( sean oliver ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
organization mind link ! british , canada 
lines 28 

joseph writes 

id 
posted 19 apr 1993 17 49 04 gmt 

org .  . polytechnic institute 

well , this is my second try at posting on this subject. here goes .  .  .  . 
in texas  ( corpus at least ) if you pick up the phone and 

the phone company will read the number of the phone you are on 
back to you. i believe the service department uses this to make 
certain they are the correct lines when they open the big 
boxes .  . i do n't know if it will work but you can give it a 
try. good luck. 



where i live , i use  . the number to is for the same result. 




internet address 

! bbs  ( 604)576 ) 



from  ( bob myers ) 
subject re message on tv 
organization , , co , usa 
lines 18 

hi. i was doing research on suggestion for a psychology 
paper , and i read that one hidden messages on the 
tv at 1 of a second .  . is that possible i thought the 
rate the tv was even capable of images was 1 
of a second .  .  ( or 1 of a second for an image of only odd 
or even lines ) 

you are correct the complete image that could be presented on 
tv would be one field , which is 1 60 of a second  . of course , 
the phrase tv is often thrown around in reference to any 
display , so perhaps this was n't using normal tv rates. might 
even be a ( ) display , in which case the lower limit 
on image time is anyone 's guess  ( and is probably  . 


bob co .  . opinions expressed here are not 
systems technology  . those of my employer or any other 
, sentient life form on this planet. 

from  ( heikki paananen ) 
subject re how do boxes work 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 93 15 02 28 
lines 38 
organization university of oulu , dept. of ee , finland 

in article  ( stephe lewis foskett ) writes 

i'm doing sound for a couple of around here and we need direct 
boxes for the  . these are the little boxes that take a 
line level out of the keyboard and it into low z for the run 
to the  . sadly they cost like 50  ( or more ) each and i'm going 
to need like 5 or 10 of them ! i looked inside one  ( belonging to 
another band ) and it looks like just a  . does anyone have 
any plans for building them perhaps in 's electronic 
for book  ( which i am having a hell of a time 
down .  .  . ) . 

an easy way to solve the problem is to use two to form the 
balanced low z output , but this solution does not provide any 
isolation between keyboard  ( or whatever plugged ) and 
 . if no are demanded and some , snap , 
and pop sounds  ( formed by ground loops ) can be tolerated , 
the solution is just what you are looking for !  ( it is 
cheap .  .  . somewhat . 10  . 
not sure , but craig did introduce one box project 
in guitar years ago  .  .  .  .  . 

thanks a lot ! 

hope this helps .  . email , if more details wanted .  .  .  .  . 

0 
mein ist , mein ist 


heikki 
the university of oulu 
department of electrical engineering just a student 
finland 

home is where the heart lies , 
but if the heart lies where is home 
fish 

from  ( bill morrow ) 
subject need source for old radio shack stereo chip 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university of 
lines 13 

last week i asked for help in getting an old working with 
my sun drive .  . it turns out that the channel i was with 
was burned out in the  . the other channel works fine. 

so now i need a new chip .  . my local radio shack no longer 
carries components ! the chip is a 12 pin ( ) with 
and then below that. 

does anyone have a source thanks , 

bill , university of 
e mail voice  ( 403 ) fax  ( 403 ) 
hospital drive , , canada 

from  ( peter tryndoch ) 
subject advice needed 
lines 28 

advice needed 

me from  ( martin emde ) 
me organization 
me 
me i an in the market for a and recently saw an add 
me for a 94 (  . does anyone own one of these or some 
me other brand that they are extremely happy with. how do the 
me small name brands compare with the fluke and brands 
me i am willing to spend 200 for one. 
me 
me any help is greatly appreciated.  ( please email ) 
me 
me martin 

if you are going to use one where it  ( eg , space , 
etc ) then i suggest you go and buy a fluke  ( never seen a beckman ) , however 
for every other use you can buy a  . i have a which is some 
made up name , as i have seen the same with other brand names on it , i 
bought it about 4 ago for 00 .  ( convert that to us and you see 
that it 's a ) . so far it has proved to be accurate , taken 
moderate abuse , and has many features on it  ( cap , , check , 
 . i am very happy with it and would not buy a fluke just for 
the name. hope this helps .  . 

cheers 
peter t. 


from  ( corwin nichols ) 
subject re 8 
lines 13 
id r 000 
from uucp . ! apr 19 08 23 00 1993 


the uses what is known as an   interface  ( storage 
device ) .  . a lot of older used it. sun still does on their server 
models .  . there are several different of , and i think that the 
drive you have is rated at about 24  ( thats  . there 
used to be several that made for the pc  ( interphase in 
texas being one) , but i think that the market pretty much has dried up. 
for this type of drive are readily available for buses 
though. has it that there is a to available , but 
i think that it was designed for devices .  . in other words , 
if you have a pc or mac , that drive is pretty much  . 
cheers , 


from  ( dave medin ) 
subject re where do u look 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 43 

in article , writes 

i might add that last year 's data books  ( or even ones two years out 
of date ) is usually pretty cheap , and has benefits besides you usually t 
want to base a design on a brand new chip .  . there may be may 
be limited the data sheets may be missing critical information that will show 
up in the ap notes in next year 's data books. kinda like buying version 1.0 of 
a major new software sometimes you get lucky , but do n't count on it. 

there are two more reasons to save old and then beyond two 
years parts and better application notes and  . 

when a part is dropped from future planning , such as the 
national series white , camera , etc. , 
it will disappear from current although it still may be produced 
for a short time  ( or be available from stock  . now , if you 
have some old plans calling for such a device , or you have a dead 
on your and it has such a part in it , you 'll know 
the functions so you can and as necessary. 

the old data books contain real good on 
and applications that are not found elsewhere , for 
example. 

in summary , read. read ! read ! ! ! that 's how you 'll know what to 
design in , which parts to use , and how to solve the problem 
that your boss has presented you with. 

it helps to have a memory for details .  .  .  . 

here , here ! ... 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( yu yingbin ) 
subject does someone know what is the news group for  . 
organization univ .  . of la .  . , 
distribution usa 
lines 2 

thanks a lot. 


from  ( stan burton ) 
subject long distance 
content type text plain 1 
nntp posting host stan 
content 
organization defence research 
x 1 . 01 . by michael b. smith mike 
version 1.0 
lines 19 




i would like to be able to detect the position  ( low accuracy ) of an 
source at a distance of about 100  ( more is better ) in 
daylight .  . the source could be a signature i'm 
30 square wave with 50 duty cycle .  . 

i am considering the use of a from inc. to give 
information to a head to point the and thus determine the 
 . for the source i am considering the heck out of an  ( led(s ) , 
possibly an or motorola  . would mean at least 1 
current  . at this current the duty cycle of the led drops to 10 and i 
would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50 required. 

has anyone done something like this 

stan  ( dnd agcg ) 
 ( 403 ) , box , medicine hat , , canada , 

from  ( ted van heuvel ) 
subject motorola and 
originator 
organization 
lines 6 


does anyone out there know of any products using motorola 's  ( neuron(r ) or  . if so , what are they and are they utilizing standard network types  ( snvt ) 


van 


from  ( cary david allen ) 
subject self hardware 
organization state university , computer science , 
lines 70 

me to quote fragments of 
's article 
out of context. 

newsgroups sci . , 
from  ( eric praetzel ) 
date 10 feb 93 15 46 41 gmt 

currently the format is and i know of at least on person at 
a university who was able to get it after a non agreement .  . 
the bit map format is pretty well top secret. i would love to know it 
because then you could make self hardware ) as it is i had to 
reverse eng .  . the tools to dump the bit map to the because it only 
runs on the computer with the hardware key .  . 

self hardware could be very interesting 
computers that could write thier own programs  ( assemblers , compilers ) 
were an from that could n't .  . 

i eagerly await a gate which uses a format and does 
not cost your first born to program .  . till then we will keep on reverse 
engineering whatever we can. as it is one company that i worked at has gone 
under .  . are what they needed to make their product  . they 
could not afford them. in the end you could say that they could not afford 
to not use them but the discovered that too late. 
eric 

my  . 

i ca n't even imagine what i could do with self hardware .  . 
i can imagine self software , 
and even though all my teachers say that 's bad , even worse than , 
check out what the used to say about self code 
 ( he uses orders rather than ) 


on the principles of large scale computing machines 
by and von , 
in 
john von works , vol. v 
here with absolutely no permission from anyone. 
we plan .  .  .  . to have a full size  ( 40 digit ) word hold 
either contain 
1 full size number ( .  .  .  . equivalent to 12 , 
but we will use the first to denote the sign ) 
or two  ( 20 digit ) orders .  . 
.... 
it should be added that this of 
automatic into orders , 
i.e. the machine 's ability to its own orders 
 ( under the control of other ones among its orders ) 
is absolutely necessary for a code. thus , if 
part of the memory is used as a function table , then 
looking up a value of that function for a value of the 
which is obtained in the course of the 
requires that the machine itself should , or 
rather make up , the reference to the memory in the order which 
this looking up , and the machine can only make this 
after it has already calculated the value of the 
in question. 
on the other hand , this ability of the machine to its 
own orders is one of the things which makes coding 
the non trivial operation which we have to view it as .  . 

david , , e and  . engineering  ( finger 
s. e. , , ok , usa , 3 , universe v. 1.2 


david , , e and  . engineering  ( finger 
s. e. , , ok , usa , 3 , universe v. 1.2 

from  ( gerald edgar ) 
subject re help how to construct home built for 3rd grade sci report 
keywords 3rd grade science report 
distribution usa 
organization computer services  ( esp ) , seattle , 
lines 15 
nntp posting host 

in making you could use and in an acid  . 
wire  ( pennies are now mostly if i recall correctly ) 
strip  ( hardware stores here  ( seattle ) sell this to prevent 
on the roof .  . an alternative would be to use a 
 ( zinc coated ) nail 
acid is the active  . 

 ( late century scientist ) used a stack for his 
, paper in acid , , , paper .... 
they were advanced technology for the time. 

edgar 

the opinions expressed in this may not reflect those of my 
employer 

from  ( john eaton ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 30 

s . walker . man 50 wrote 


i really do n't know where to post this question so i that 
this board would be most appropriate. 
i was wondering about those massive concrete that 
are ever present at nuclear sites .  . they look like 
that have been in the middle .  . does anybody know what the 
actual purpose of those things are . i hear that they 're called 
  but what the heck do they cool 
i hope someone can help 

during the nuclear reaction the can get hot enough 
to  . when this happens the liquid is to the 
where it is into the air. contact with the cool outside air 
will the and it will fall back to the  . 
there it is by a cleaning using and is then 
into for reactor use the next day. 

are a lot than they really need to be. power 
are forced to make them that by some law that requires the 
raw to be held to under 1 . this law is now under attack 
by lawyers arguing that the 1 should be measured at the of the property 
rather than the of the  . this law will save 
power thousands of dollars in concrete costs for new  . 

john 
! ! 



subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
from  ( robert ganter ) 
organization 
nntp posting host schroeder . 
lines 34 

in article writes 


i really do n't know where to post this question so i that 
this board would be most appropriate. 
i was wondering about those massive concrete that 
are ever present at nuclear sites .  . they look like 
that have been in the middle .  . does anybody know what the 
actual purpose of those things are . i hear that they 're called 
  but what the heck do they cool 
i hope someone can help 


this is definitely the wrong newsgroup for this , but never mind. 
any machine by  ( motor , steam or , , 
, etc ) work the better , the bigger the difference 
between and output is. because you never get all energy out of 
the medium  ( steam , burning , etc ) , you have to eliminate the rest 
of the energy to keep the high. a thermal electric power plant  ( coal , 
oil or atomic power ) works just the same way. you water  ( steam ) to power 
the and  . because you do n't get the whole energy out of the 
steam  ( efficency is never 100 ) you have to cool down this steam again by 
something else. most power plants use for this purpose  ( some 
type of  .  . ) .  . others use water of a river  ( ecologically not 
 . got it 

cheers robert  ( hb9nby ) 

robert 
i am a fan 
of my plan 


packet 

subject re interference 
from  ( robert ganter ) 
organization 
nntp posting host schroeder . 
lines 56 

in article writes 

as is typical , you will probably have to do somebody else 's job 
for them. although this should n't be needed , you might take a few 
to around the neighborhood with an for 
on your  . after down your system for a while. 

if you are fortunate enough to the find the hole , call the company and 
get the highest link in the of command you can. explain the problem , 
whose job it really is to maintain their equipment , and how much of a nice 
guy you are to have down their problem for them. 

you may have been lucky and made a new contact that could be helpful in the 
future. 

you should always try the  honey  approach before bringing out the 
jack  .  .  .  .  . ) 

this has worked for me in the past with the power company when to 
find loose high lines hardware .  . only once did i have to 
tell them i was the problem down to a specific by 
a whole line of poles with my car. got 'em out there that night. and , they 
did n't have to meet jack ! 

as a disclaimer , their method for finding loose hardware was usually 
the poles with a huge after their high tech 
finding  could n't find the problem. 



bill 
garden 

here in , the situation is exactly the same. the tv 
even tried to stop amateur radio in in the beginning of 
 ( tv(they seem to be too stupid to know anything about international 
or  . even today , they use the possible running 
into problems they ca n't solve anymore. as bill noted , the only way is to look 
for a solution with the before calling for the tv guys or 
the  . the chance to find with some sense for reason is by far 
bigger than with these people  ( especially the first  . as anywhere in an 
people do n't like , if you tell them to work for the money they 
get .  .  .  . 
the problem is , that radio do n't have the power to put their 
rights in all cases. so let 's hope they start soon with and get 
out of our  . 


cheers robert  ( hb9nby ) 

robert 
i am a fan 
of my plan 


packet 

from  ( fred w. culpepper ) 
subject program for 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( norfolk ) 
lines 19 

i am making a search for a program that does a decent job 
of making  . the program needs to be in 
dos , if possible. 

what i want the program to do is to draw by 
elements onto the , and in this the elements 
needed are as as to  ( case with  . 
it also needs to have for adding legends to the 
components as well as their values .  . in other words i want to 
produce quality  . would be to either 24 pin 
and or laser  . 

if you know of such a program that is of reasonable cost , 
please respond .  . 

fred w. 
old dominion university  ( retired ) 



from  ( aaron m. barnes ) 
subject pro for sale was 200 , sell for 150 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 45 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 




article of alt . radio . 
path usenet . cwru . edu . ! cleveland . edu . ! 
from  ( aaron m. barnes ) 
newsgroups alt . radio . 
subject pro for sale was 200 , sell for 150 
date 20 apr 1993 16 01 28 gmt 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 26 
message id 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


hello. 

i have a pro for sale . here . is a small 


60 
fully detailed digital display 
jack 
jack 

search 


30 



it originally cost 200 , but i will sell for 150 .  . 

thank you. 

in ! 
fear the that your guns .  . 
without the 2nd amendment , we cannot 
r freedoms .  . 

in ! 
fear the that your guns .  . 
without the 2nd amendment , we cannot 
r freedoms .  . 

from  ( eric h. taylor ) 
subject holes practical questions , was philosophical question 
summary how do we holes instead of electrons 
keywords holes electrons semi 
nntp posting host org . 
organization 4 l laboratories 
expires sun , 9 may 1993 06 00 00 gmt 
lines 48 

in article  ( jim carr ) writes 
... 
i agree. i come at this from nuclear physics , where one often discusses 
particle hole and certain reactions have the effect of 
applying an operator and creating a hole , and it is a 
subtle question. the longer one works with them , the more real they 
become .  . there are also particles , which raise the same sort 
of question about how real the entity is. the phenomenon is most 
certainly a real one. 

ok , i 've asked this before , and with a new thread on these lines , i 
ask this again 

1 if a large hole current is run thru a , will there be 
i 2 r instead of heating 

2 can anyone design an that 
hole over normal 

3 what materials have the highest ratio of 
hole to  ( please quote actual 
test samples rather than estimates based on theory. also , 
do n't be limited to consider also , 
, , , , 
 ( metal , ceramic ) , ,  . 

notes 

to summarize , this thread has so far stated that the only area 
where holes are not detectable is the  . that is , hole 
particles only exist in the presence of matter. 
previous threads have stated that holes only exist in certain 
semi  . the question that naturally is if 
the hole inside a semi at the point 
where the is joined to a  ( say ,  . 
i do n't want a discussion here about whether 
holes could exist inside metal , rather i ask for 
an experimental discussion on how to and detect such 
if they exist. 
also note that i have cross posted this to sci . 
since this is now becoming an electronic discussion. 

thanx , 
eric .  . 


et a force of nature 


from  ( phil torre ) 
subject ink address 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 2 
distribution na 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 
summary address or phone number for 

is still published if so , does anyone have their address 


from  ( duane p mantick ) 
subject re long distance 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 44 

 ( stan burton ) writes 

i would like to be able to detect the position  ( low accuracy ) of an 
source at a distance of about 100  ( more is better ) in 
daylight .  . the source could be a signature i'm 
30 square wave with 50 duty cycle .  . 

i am considering the use of a from inc. to give 
information to a head to point the and thus determine the 
 . for the source i am considering the heck out of an  ( led(s ) , 
possibly an or motorola  . would mean at least 1 
current  . at this current the duty cycle of the led drops to 10 and i 
would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50 required. 

has anyone done something like this 


, you will be those  . may i suggest getting your 
on the siemens 2 this is designed to take some big 
current if you can get your duty cycle down a bit. it will output 
nearly a  ( 975 mw ) with real short duty cycle times. 

 ( nice thing about the 2 is that it is cheap .  . i got mine for about 
50 a piece , even though i had to buy 100 of them .  .  .  . ) . 

btw , i have seen with up to 6  .  . honest . , 
6  . i do n't have the book here at work so i ca n't recall the company 
name. the 6 ai n't cheap , around but if you want some power , 
, that 's pretty hot. they also have a 4 , a 2 and a 
1 device in their line , and will sell small  . to individuals .  . 
if you are interested , i can find the book at home and get the 
pertinent info .  . 

now , as for the position , you might try in florida .  . 
phone number listed in the 93 is  . they seem like 
nice people. their is passive devices , 
so they might be able to help you out. 

i'm curious about your applications if you do n't mind saying. 
the device sounds like it could be useful in a game , although you 'd 
need to up your signal concept to 8 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 




from  ( robert stephens ) 
subject problem 
nntp posting host psych . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 18 

i have a stereo by 
logic  ( model mt  . the work , 
but the seems to be gone on one 
channel , and very weak on the other. 

i 'll probably need an to trace it 
down  ( no pun intended ) , but if any one with 
experience with this type of equipment could 
point me in a certain direction as to where the 
is most likely to fail , i 'd sure appreciate it. 



robert c. stephens 

human factors research lab 
university of minnesota 


from  ( gordon hlavenka ) 
subject re making copy of a video 
keywords video 
organization public access 
lines 19 

there are devices you can buy and or make. look in radio popular 
for the devices .  . if all else fails , you can build one 
using the design from the dec .  . '87 issue of radio  . 

my very favorite ad for such a device is on the back of the latest 
catalog .  . quoting from memory 

big type 
dual copies any even those that are copy protected ! 

 ( and the ad in very small print this device is not intended 
for making illegal copies of material . ) . 

) 



gordon s. 
vote straight party dec .  . 3rd ! 

from  ( charlie brett ) 
subject re los traffic reports 
nntp posting host com . 
organization site 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 5 . 
lines 21 

while driving through the middle of nowhere , i picked up , am 1070 , 
a clear channel station based in los  . they had an ad 
claiming that they were able to get traffic information from 
all of the thousands of traffic that has placed 
under the  . does sell this info does have 
an exclusive what 's the deal 

doug former l . a .  . 

you were right the second time , it is  . believe it or not , i also 
listen to in the here in ! it 's kind of fun driving 
through the country listening to traffic on the  . back to your 
original question. yes , there are just past every on and 
off on the  . they 're the same used at most 
now  ( coils in the  . you might want to give a call or 
even ask bill  ( knx 's traffic  . i doubt if just anyone can 
get the information , but it would be worth asking just in case you can 
get it. 

charlie brett  ( former la commuter )  . , co 


from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re advice needed 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 19 

i 've had my fluke here at work for just over 10 years now. 
it is a wonderful  . several colleagues here have some of the 
newer fluke , though i still would just as soon on to my 
 . the a is the to the 
of the 1950 1960s .  . there was is ( ) an that had 
extended response. 

i 've got a little pen made by that i keep 
in my at home. i 've had that for or seven years now 
and only replaced the a couple of it is more than 
adequate for day to day use. i think their stuff 
for a number of  . some of  stuff looks 
rather similar to 's .  . 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( bruce g. bostwick ) 
subject re with legend .  . 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 21 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host doc . cc . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( larry d. pyeatt ) writes 
i had a catalog with , but i what 
happened to it , and it was so long ago that i forget the 
name of the company .  . anyway , you could make your own 
legend and slip it behind the  . really nice and 
reasonably  . can anyone tell me where to get some 
more of these 

for some reason the name to mind saw something 
like that in a catalog , along with options for printed 
and a neat little backing that would make 
the whole a nice of green  .  .  . 

mighty if you 're trying to key a door combination in the dark 
and do n't want to turn on the ! ! light  .  .  . 



the only reason the world has n't 
 ( really bruce bostwick ) into total chaos is that 
from the great state of texas 's law also applies to  . 

from  ( david vanderbyl ) 
subject re police  .  .  . just . how does it work 
nntp posting host chip 
reply to  ( david vanderbyl ) 
organization ltd .  . 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( dave medin ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael deaddio ) writes 

the  beam  is split in two , with one beam aimed at the target car  ( sort of ) and 
the other at the ground. the of each are for the final 
number 

actually , this is true on the more expensive ones , but the ones 
just read the  . 

i 've never seen a reading model .  . are you sure who makes 
them consider the difficulty of reading the on various makes 
of cars in use .  .  .  . i 've seen single beam moving mode and split beam 
moving mode .  . 

obviously the police reads the  . 
i cannot believe the picking in this group. 
there 's 2 , there is not , is too , etc .  .  .  .  . 


dave 's 10 line sig deleted 


from  ( thomas david kehoe ) 
subject re how starters work really 
keywords 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 35 

so when you turn on the power , this causes the to work like a , 

imprecise .  . this description 

1. the role of the , 
2. the heating effects in the  . 

the strip down immediately after the contacts 

i 've been thinking of sending into mad magazine an idea for a 
parody , of those books entitled how things work that 
buy their sons , which explain how , , 
, etc. work. 

the parody would be how things really work. under 
food , on the left page you 'd see the description from 
how things work equipment 
the food to precisely the right , 
then the can in an oxygen free environment , etc. 

on the right page you 'd see how things really work 
brain dead workers sending disgusting food to the 
equipment , parts of 
animals people do n't eat , of sugar and  . 

under you 'd see  ( on the left ) computer 
working out so that x number of people 
waiting for y will get to z in the shortest 
time. on the right , you 'd see 
behind a one way in the lobby choosing which people 
appear to be in the biggest and making them wait longest .  . 

why my thoughts are my own , when they are in , but when they are out 
they are another 's .  . martin , hanged for ,  . 
thomas david  ( 408 ) 

from  ( cyberman ) 
subject re what to do with old 2 
lines 33 
x 1 . 

jason said 
what to do with old 
to all on 04 15 93 04 38 

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old 
 . i have a bunch of them for the apple mac 
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to 
sell them but have gotten no interest .  . 

how about them all together  ( ie everyones ) and 
selling them as a lot the other thing is to give to a 
 . 

so , if you have an use  ( or want to buy 
some 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing 
about it. 

if they are free and you can send them real cheap ! i would 
be in them. hehehe are these 2 chip or 8 chip 
devices what speed 

i have seen devices but they have been 
very  ( plus i am still a little worried about having data 
on  . 

why do you use a ) 

stephen 
mangled on fri 04 16 1993 at 19 29 

...  .  .  . we do n't need no ! 
blue wave 12 . 


from  ( dave medin ) 
subject re 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 55 

in article ,  ( david jacobowitz ) writes 
can someone out there explain exactly what the   
feature found on does 

lots good explanation deleted 

lots more deleted 
is it just me , or does anybody else out there not like digital 
 . my school has some that are digital with 
all the and , including soft , which i think are a 
touch .  . ( that is , software  . ) you do n't forget that you 
are dealing with a computer .  . those even with all their 
, still make the looking  . features , but 
output .  . and those are the best i have ever seen. i 've 
seen a lot of and they look terrible .  . 

i think the with digital is that you have to know so much 
more about them and how they work on a by basis , and 
some of the functions are typically presented , in my opinion , 
in a counter intuitive fashion  ( hp has made some in their 
series ,  . automatic are fine for simple , 
, but can give you some crazy results on more 
complex events where you need to understand how the is 
actually measuring the event. for example , is the 
in equivalent time or in real time mode  ( equivalent time 
being a mode where samples are built up by adding a delay to 
the event each sweep ) what was the 's actual 
rate at the time how is the data being after capture but 
before display , etc. one common misconception is the speed of the  . 

is the you 're using really a 100 or is it a 20 
rate ( 5 single shot significance ) whose front 
end including s h can support 100  ( important for 
equivalent time sampling ) the 100 in this case really 
only helps you when your is , or on a single 
, when you get lucky and hit a event during a time. 

so , there are a lot more in understanding how to get 
useful information from a digital  . i prefer an for 
general use and the digital for events where i need for 
later analysis or comparison , when the event is within the capability 
of the  . now , for the price of true 100 digital to 
fall .  .  .  . 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( kyler laird ) 
subject re telephone on off ok 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 6 

these circuits abound in most electronic project books. if you 're more 
inclined to buy something , try radio shack .  . i think they still have a 
device that is designed to an answering machine when an 
extension line is lifted .  . it has led also. 



from 
subject re long distance 
organization university of wisconsin academic computing center 
distribution na 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( duane p mantick ) writes .  .  .  . 

btw , i have seen with up to 6  .  . honest . , 
6  . i do n't have the book here at work so i ca n't recall the company 
name. the 6 ai n't cheap , around but if you want some power , 
, that 's pretty hot. they also have a 4 , a 2 and a 
1 device in their line , and will sell small  . to individuals .  . 
if you are interested , i can find the book at home and get the 
pertinent info .  . 


you are probably referring to the products of 

corp .  . 
750 road 
park ca 


the make some amazing 's .  . the really high devices are of 
3 , 6 , or 9 , led 's on a to 66  . the 9 chip model puts out 6 . 5 . in 
response to a 5 , 10 us. at a  . 5 . duty cycle .  . i think these are 
designed as for vision systems. 

i would also be interested in the application here. i work with a dance and 
technology program , and want to build something to track on a 30 foot 
wide stage from 50 feet away. 

from  ( john daniels ) 
subject help ! apple ii by computer 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 25 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i recently bought an complete by 
computer inc. it consists of a box with 8 apple compatible , 
, interface card and to it to the computer 
to be expanded .  . there was also included a small card with empty on top 
and on the bottom that looks like it would plug into the 
somewhere after a chip .  . there 's an empty also on the interface 
card and a short 16 pin like the ones used with language cards. 

this came with no and i have n't a clue as how to 
this thing up. if anyone has and or users of any sort for this i 
could really use copies of them or at least some help. 

i need to know 

o how to orient the between the card and the  . 
o how to the short from the to the card 
and if the small card is used. 
o the purposes of the various on the card  ( it has more 
of those than my card ! ) 


thanks john 



from 
subject electrical faq  ( was a question about  .  . 
reply to 
keywords 120 240 ac power 
expires 15 may 93 21 35 16 pdt 
distribution world 
organization mode systems , san diego , ca 
lines 

since electrical questions do turn up from time to time on 
sci .  ( and the answers are n't always apparent , even to those 
in electronics ) , i am the following faq and posting a copy here. 
i 've asked the writers to cross post to sci . in the future. 




x news news.answers 
newsgroups misc . house . , rec . , news.answers , misc . answers . , rec . answers . 
subject electrical faq 
message id 
from  ( chris lewis ) 
date 4 apr 93 05 21 49 gmt 
reply to  ( wiring faq commentary reception ) 
followup to poster 
expires 2 may 93 05 21 31 gmt 
organization communications inc. , ottawa , canada 
summary a series of questions and answers about house 
supersedes 
lines 

archive name electrical 
last modified sun feb 21 16 56 10 1993 

frequently asked questions on electrical 


chris lewis 

comments to  ( automatic if you reply to this article ) 


this faq is as a digest .  . most news readers can 
from one question to the next by g. 

answers to many other related to houses can be obtained from 
the misc . house . archive send an empty piece of mail to 
house com . for information. 

changes to previous issue with in left  . watch 
particularly for new in the questions list for new or substantively 
changed answers. 

note that this is now a faq cross posted to news.answers 
and should appear in the faq list of lists .  . 

subject questions answered in this faq 

introduction disclaimers 
what is the where can i get a copy 
what is the where can i get a copy 
can i do my own extra 
what do i need in the way of tools 
what is listing 
what is approval 
are there any , easier to read books on 
how and what why should i get my 
my house does n't meet some of these rules and  . 
a word on 110 115 117 120 240 
what does an electrical service look like 
what is a 
versus grounded versus neutral . 
what does a or do what are the differences 
ca n't i use 
what size wire should i use 
where do these numbers come from 
what does 14 2 mean 
what is a . how are they used 
what is a 
where should be used 
where should n't i use a 
what is the difference between a and a 
what 's the purpose of the ground on an , then 
why is one than the other 
what kind of do i need in a kitchen 
where must and be in 
what is what is when should i use each 
should i use plastic or metal boxes 
box 
can i a replacement 
what does it mean when the when a starts 
what is 3 power should i use it can i get it in my house 
is it better to run at 110 or 
what is this nonsense about on circuits 
how do i convert two to three 
are you sure about and 
should the test work 
how should i wire my 


i'm buying a house ! what should i do 
what is this stuff old style 
where do i buy stuff 


subject introduction disclaimers 

although we 've done a fair bit of , we are not 
, and we cannot be responsible for what you do. if 
you 're at all about what is correct or safe , do n't 
do it . contact someone qualified a , 
or your local electrical  . is no joke 
mistakes can result in shocks , , or  . 

furthermore , our discussion is based on the u.s. national 
electrical code  ( nec ) and the canadian electrical code  . 
to the best of our abilities , we have confirmed every detail 
with the electrical code , but we do n't quote sections 
simply to keep this thing  . if you think we 're wrong , 
we you to correct us , but please quote references ! 

the and the do not , in and of themselves , have the 
force of law. many adopt it en  . others , 
however , do not. check your with your local building 
department  ( and inspection offices in 
canada ) to find out what applies in your area. also , 
your local electrical utility may also have special requirements 
for electrical service  . bear in mind , too , that 
we say here applies primarily to ordinary single family 
 . family , homes , 
establishments , etc. , are sometimes governed by different 
rules. 

also note that , contrary to popular belief in the u.s.  ( and in 
some parts of canada ) , canada is not a wholly owned 
of the u.s. consequently , the does not apply in canada .  . 
lots of things are the same , including , line 
, and the laws of physics .  . but there are a number 
of crucial differences in the  . where we can , we 've 
noted them , the relevant passages with   or 
 . 

remember that the and are minimal standards. it is often 
smart to go beyond their minimal requirements .  . 

subject what is the where can i get a copy 

the is a model electrical code and published by the 
national fire protection association , an industry group. 
it 's revised every three years. the 1993 version has been released .  . 
you can buy a copy at a decent bookstore , or by calling them directly 
at  . the code exists in several versions. there 's the 
full text , which is fairly  . there 's an 
edition , which has only the sections likely to apply to most houses .  . 
and there 's the handbook , which contains the 
commentary   on the code , as well as the full text. that 's the 
recommended version. unfortunately , there 's no handbook for 
the edition .  . and the full handbook is expensive 
us 65 plus and handling .  . 

subject what is the where can i get a copy 

the canadian standards association is an organization made up 
of various government , power , 
, electrical and other organizations .  . 
the standard 1 . which is updated every two 
or three years. each , with some , 
this standard and a specific code book. 
since each its own slightly modified 
standard , it would be somewhat confusing to obtain the 
standard itself. in this faq , really means the 
appropriate standard. in particular , this faq is 
derived from the ontario electrical safety code , 20th 
edition  . which is in turn based on 1 . 1990  ( 16th 
 . while differences exist between the , an 
attempt has been made to avoid specific to ontario detail. 

the appropriate code can be obtained from electrical 
inspection offices of your power authority .  . in 
ontario , it 's ontario  . the ontario book is n't 
overly fat .  . it 's about c 25 , and includes  . i 
hear that these standards are somewhat easier to read than the 
equivalent  . 

do n't bother asking in quebec is throughout 
the  . 

subject can i do my own extra 

in most places , are allowed to do their own  . 
in some , they 're not. check with your local electrical 
 . most places wo n't you to do on other 's 
homes for money without a license .  . nor are you to do 
in buildings .  . multiple  ( eg duplexes ) 
are usually considered semi or . however , 
many will you to work on semi 
if you 're by a if you can 
find one willing to  . 

if you do your own , an important point 

do it neat and well ! what you really want to aim for is a better 
job than an will do. after all , it 's your own home , 
and it 's you or your family that might get killed if you make 
a mistake. an has time , has the 
and knows the of the trade to do a fast , safe job. 
in this faq we 've given a few that 
are in excess of code , because we feel that it 's reasonable , 
and will impress the  . 

the will know that you 're an amateur .  . you have to 
his trust .  . the best way of doing this is to spend your 
time doing as neat a job as possible. do n't cut  . 
 . otherwise , the may get extremely 
and fault you on the slightest  . 

do n't try to hide anything from the  . 

use the proper tools .  . ie do n't use a bread knife to strip 
, or twist with your fingers .  . the 
wo n't like it , and the results wo n't be that safe .  . and it 
takes longer .  . and you 're more likely to stick a of 
wire through your hand that way. 

do n't handle house wire when it 's very cold  ( eg below 
or  . house wire , particularly older types 
become very  . 

subject what do i need in the way of tools 

first , there 's the obvious a hammer , a , a few 
, both straight and head. if you 're 
lucky enough to live in canada  ( or find a source of approved 
devices ) you need robertson ( square ) 
( 1 and 2 ) instead of  . 

for a few holes , a 3 4 or 1 bit and 1 4 or 
3 8 electric will do. if you 're doing a lot , or 
are working with , we recommend a 1 2 
 ( right angle are wonderful .  . can be rented ) and 
3 4 or 1 point bits. these bits pull 
you through , so they 're much and less , even 
in 90 year old  . 

bits are useful for , if you 
your electrical boxes using  ( drywall 
work  . 

for wire , use a real wire , not a knife or 
ordinary wire  . do n't buy the 3 k , 
and bottle types .  . you should expect to pay 
15 to 20 for a good type pair .  . it will have 
holes , and wo n't or the wire it should 
be easy to strip wire with it. one model has a small hole in the 
for forming exact wire loops for  . there 
are types  ( autostrip cut ) , but they generally are n't 
necessary , and pros usually do n't use them. 

a pair of side are useful for ends 
in places. do n't use these for wire .  . 

you will need for for wire nuts .  . 

you should have a pair of nose for 
inside boxes and loops , but it 's better to form wire 
loops with a loop former hole on your wire more 
accurate. 

if you 're using non , get a for 
removing the  . or , do what some pros do , they the 
end of the , the ground wire with a pair of , 
and simply the back using the ground wire as a 
, and cut the off. you should n't try to strip 
the with a knife point , because it 's too easy to 
the on the  . apparently 
utility with  ( hooked blades ) 
can be used to strip , but there is still the possibility 
that you 'll the  . 

for any substantial amount of work with , it 's well 
worth your while to in a ( us  . 
hack are tricky to use without cutting into the wire 
or the  . 

three are a quick check for properly wired 
 . about 6. tell you more , but are a lot more 
expensive , and probably not worth it for most people. a simple 
, which can detect potential through an 
wire not any devices , is extremely helpful they cost 
about us 10 at radio shack .  . 

you should have a to check that the are 
dead before doing work on them. version are cheap ( 2 3) 
and work well. if you get more serious , a type is 
good for circuits without a  .  ( though i 've been known 
to lock the on , and hit until the stops ) 

for running through existing walls , you need fish tape. 
often , two are needed , though sometimes , a or 
a length of thin will suffice .  . fish can be  . 

electrical tape. lots of it ) seriously , a good and 
job will need very little tape. the is useful for 
in work. another use is to 
around the body of and to cover the 
i do n't do this , but prefer it  ( to 
prevent when the knife with a live 
that has no cover  . 

subject what is listing 

the stands for . it used to be 
an industry organization , but now it is independent 
and non profit .  . it electrical components and equipment 
for potential  . when something is listed , that means 
that the has tested the device , and it their requirements 
for safety ie fire or hazard .  . it does n't necessarily 
mean that the device actually does what it 's supposed to , just 
that it probably wo n't kill you. 

the does not have power of law in the u.s. you are 
to buy and non listed devices .  . however , 
policies sometimes have in them that will 
limit their in case of a claim made in response to 
the failure of a non listed device. furthermore , in 
many situations the will require that a component 
used for a specific purpose is listed for that purpose. 
indirectly , this means that certain parts of your 
must be listed before an will approve it and or 
issued .  . 

subject what is approval 

every electrical device or component must be by the 
canadian standards association before it can be sold in 
canada .  . in this is that all must be done 
with approved materials .  . they perform similar to 
the (a bit more stringent ) , except that approval is 
required by law. 

again , like the , if a fire was caused by non approved 
equipment , your company may not have to pay the 
claim .  . 

in canada , there is a branch organization of the , called 
 ( ul of  . does not have power of law , and seems to 
be more a group between the and 
 . 

subject are there any , easier to read books on 

usa the following three books were suggested by our readers 


by jeff , 
books , 
ca for 18 . 25 .  . isbn 0 19 9. 

practical electrical 
, farm and industrial , based on the national 
electrical code 70 
p. and w. 
hill book co .  . 


h. p. and w. c. 
park publishing co .  . 

try to make sure that the book is based on the latest 
revision .  . which is currently 1990. 

canada p.s. knight authors and a book called 
electrical code . there appears to be a version 
published specific to each , and is very into the 
appropriate code. it on , 
and is for canadian  . it is better to get 
this book than the unless you do a lot of  ( or answer 
questions on the net ) .  . 

it is updated each time the codes are. this book is 
available at all and hardware stores for less than c 10. 

subject how and what why should i get my 

most require that you obtain a and 
of any that is done. amongst other more 
mundane reasons  ( like not 
liking to have to pay claims ) , a and 
provides some that you , your family , your 
or subsequent owners of your home do n't get killed or lose 
their homes one night due to a job. 

most have the power to order you to your 
home , or order you to tear out any done without a 
 . california , for instance , is particularly nasty about 
this. 

if fire starts in your home , and un is at 
fault , will often refuse to pay the damage 
claims .  . 

in general , the process goes like this 
you apply to your local office or building 
department for a  . you should have a sketch or 
detailed drawing of what you plan on doing. this is 
a good time to ask questions on any things you 're not 
sure of. if you 're doing major work , they may impose 
special conditions on you , require 
calculations and ask other questions. at this point 
they will tell you which you will need. 
if you 're a main , you will need to 
have the and service 
before your power utility will provide a connection .  . 
this is sometimes done by the local power authority 
rather than the usual  . 
after the boxes and , but before 
the walls go up , you will need a 
rough in inspection .  . 
after the walls are up , and the is complete , 
you will need a final inspection . 

subject my house does n't meet some of these rules and  . 
do i have to 

in general , there is no requirement to older , 
though there are some exceptions  ( ie in some 
cases) .  . however , any new work must be done according to the 
latest electrical code. also , if you do   work , you 
may be required to certain existing portions or all 
of your system. check with your local electrical  . 

subject a word on 110 115 117 120 240 

one thing where things might get a bit confusing is the 
different numbers people about for the of 
a  . one person might talk about , another 
or another  . these are all , in fact , exactly the same 
thing .  .  .  . in north america the utility are required 
to supply a split 240 ( 5 ) feed to your house. 
this works out as two 5 legs. , since there 
are drops in the house , it 's not 
unreasonable to find has dropped to or has dropped 
to by the time the power a  . especially 
at the end of an extension or long run. for a number 
of reasons , some historical , some simple personal , 
different people choose call them by slightly different numbers. 
this faq has chosen to be consistent with calling them and 
, except when actually saying what the measured will 
be. confusing a bit. just ignore it. 

one thing that might make this a little more understandable 
is that the on equipment show the lower  ( ie 
instead of 120v ) value. what this implies is that the device 
is designed to operate properly when the drops that 
low. 

is not the same as  . is the between 
phases of a 3 y that is from neutral to any 
hot. is the between phases of a 3 y 
that 's from hot to neutral .  . 

in keeping with versus , intended 
to run on three are often as  .  .  . 

subject what does an electrical service look like 

there are logically four involved with the 
main with power. three of them will come from the utility 
, and a fourth  ( bare ) wire comes from elsewhere. 

the bare wire is connected to one or more long metal 
into the ground , or to a wire buried in the foundation , or sometimes 
to the water supply  ( has to be metal , continuous to where 
the main water entering the house. watch out for 
action breaks  ( often between and iron  . 
this is the . it is there to make sure that 
the third on your is connected to ground. this wire 
normally carries no current .  . 

one of the other will be white  ( or black with white or 
, or sometimes simply  . it is the neutral wire .  . 
it is connected to the centre  ( cec center in the 
nec ) of the distribution the power. it 
is connected to the in only one place  ( often 
inside the  . the neutral and ground should not be connected 
anywhere else. otherwise , and or dangerous things may happen. 

furthermore , there should only be one system in 
a home. some codes require more than one  . 
these will be connected together , or connected to the neutral 
at a common point still one system. adding additional 
connected to other portions of the house 
is and contrary to code. 

if you add a , the ground and neutral are usually 
brought as separate from the main , and are 
not connected together in the  ( ie still only one 
neutral ground  . however , in some situations 
 ( certain categories of separate buildings ) you actually do 
have to provide a second consult your 
 . 

the other two will usually be black , and are the hot 
 . they are attached to the distribution as 
well. 

the two black are degrees out of with each 
other. this means if you connect something to both hot , 
the will be  . if you connect something to the 
white and either of the two blacks you will get  . 

some seem to only have three coming into them. 
this is either because the neutral and ground are connected 
together at a different point  ( eg the or pole ) and one 
wire is doing dual duty as both neutral and ground , or in some 
rare , the service has only one hot wire  ( 110v only 
 . 

subject what is a 

inside the , are made to the  . 
these are then used to supply power to 
portions of the home. there are three different combinations 
1 ) one hot , one neutral , and ground  . 
2 ) two , no neutral , and ground  . 
3) two , neutral , and ground neutral , 
and or two circuits with a common neutral .  . 

(1) is used for most circuits and 
within your house.  ( 3 ) is usually used for 
power to major such as , and they 
often have need for both and , or for bringing several 
circuits from the box to a distribution point. (2) is 
usually for special circuits , electric , or 
air  . 

note in the us , the frequently a similar 
to (2) be used for and namely , that there 
are two hot , and a wire that does dual duty as neutral 
and ground , and is connected to the frame as well as providing 
the neutral for purposes three instead 
of four ( only for connected to the main  . 
when connected to most sub , 4 and 
are  . in our not so humble opinion this is crazy , but 
the claims that this practice was re evaluated for the 1992 , 
and found to be safe .  . check your local codes , or as to 
local practice there are restrictions on when this is 
permissible .  . 

(1) is usually wired with three wire black for hot , 
white for neutral , and bare for  . 

(2) and  ( 3 ) have one hot wire red , the other black , a 
bare wire for , and in  ( 3 ) a white wire for neutral .  . 

you will sometimes see (2) wired with just a black , white and ground 
wire .  . since the white is hot in this case , both the and 
requires that the white wire be at the ends 
to indicate that it is a live wire .  . usually done with , nail 
or sometimes electrical tape. 

each is attached to the main coming into the 
through a or  . 

there are , in a few , circuits that look like (1) , (2) 
or  ( 3 ) except that they have two bare ground  . some places 
require this for hot and the like  ( one ground is frame ground , 
the other to the  . this may or may not be an 
alternative to protection. 

subject versus grounded versus neutral . 

according to the terminology in the and , the 
is for the safety ground , i.e. , the green 
or bare wire .  . the word neutral is for the white when 
you have a with more than one hot wire .  . since the white 
wire is connected to neutral and the inside the 
, the proper term is grounded . however , the 
potential confusion between grounded and 
can lead to lethal mistakes you should 
never use the bare wire as a grounded or white wire 
as the , even though they are connected 
together in the  . 

but not in are fed neutral and ground 
from the main  . usually .  . 

in the trade , and in common usage , the word neutral is used 
for grounded . this faq uses neutral simply to 
avoid potential confusion. we recommend that you use neutral 
too. thus the white wire is always  ( except in some light 
switch applications ) neutral .  . not ground. 

subject what does a or do what are the differences 

and are designed to interrupt the power 
to a when the current safe levels .  . for 
example , if your out , a or should 
trip , protecting the in the walls from  . as 
such , and are primarily intended to protect the 
or approval supposedly indicates that the 
equipment itself wo n't cause a fire .  . 

contain a narrow strip of metal which is designed to 
 ( safely ) when the current the rated value , thereby 
the power to the  . trip relatively 
fast .  . which can sometimes be a problem with which have 
large current  . for circuits , you can use 
a time delay  ( one brand is ) which will avoid 
tripping on  . a looks like a 
spring loaded  . a can only trip once , then it must be 
replaced .  . 

are fairly complicated devices .  . they 
usually consist of one spring loaded contact which is 
into position against another contact .  . when the current 
through the device the rated value , a strip 
up and bends .  . by it trips the , and the 
spring the contacts apart. behave 
similarly to that is , they tend to take longer to 
trip at moderate than ordinary  . with high 
, they trip quickly .  . can be a finite 
number of times each time they trip , or are thrown 
when the is in use , some takes place , which 
the contacts .  . thus , should not be used in 
place of unless they are listed for the 
purpose. 

neither nor limit the current per  . a dead 
short on a can cause hundreds or sometimes even 
thousands of to for a short period of time , which 
can often cause severe damage. 

subject ca n't i use 

statistics show that have a higher 
risk of causing a fire than  . this is usually 
due to the being loosely in , or the contacts 
and heating up over time , or the wrong size 
being , or the replace the with a 
trick. 

since are more , and have better 
connection mechanisms , the risk of fire is less. 

are prone to explode under extremely high  . when 
a , the cloud becomes a conducting 
path .  . result from complete of the electrical , 
melted service , through in the electrical 
distribution and having your house burn down. 
do n't do this. 

many , particularly in canada , no longer 
in new  . the does new 
in some rare circumstances  ( requiring the special 
to key the to specific size fuses ) 

some devices , notably certain large air , require 
protection in addition to the at the  . the 
is there to protect the from  . check the 
on the  . this is usually only on large 
 . the instructions will tell you 
if you need one. 

subject what size wire should i use 

for a 20 , use 12 wire .  . for a 15 , 
you can use 14 wire  ( in most  . for a long run , 
though , you should use the next larger size wire , to avoid 
drops .  . 12 is only slightly more expensive than 
14 , though it 's and harder to work with. 

here 's a quick table for normal situations .  . go up a size for 
more than 100 foot runs , when the is in conduit , or 
with other in a place where they ca n't 
easily 


14 15 
12 20 
10 30 
8 40 
6 65 

we do n't list bigger sizes because it starts getting very dependent 
on the application and precise wire type .  . 

subject where do these numbers come from 

there are two , drop and  . 
the smaller the wire is , the higher the resistance is. when 
the resistance is higher , the wire up more , and there is 
more drop in the  . the former is why you need 
higher and or bigger for use in 
conduit the latter is why you should use larger wire for long 
runs .  . 

neither effect is very significant over very short  . 
there are some very specific exceptions , where use of smaller 
wire is allowed .  . the obvious one is the line on most 
 . do n't try this unless you 're certain that your use fits 
one of those exceptions you can never go wrong by using larger 
wire .  . 

subject what does 14 2 mean 

this is used to describe the size and quantity of 
in a  . the first number the  . the second 
the number of current carrying in the wire but 
remember there 's usually an extra ground wire .  . 14 2 means 
14 , two current carrying , plus bare ground. 

2 wire usually has a black , white and bare ground wire .  . sometimes 
the white is red instead for circuits without neutral .  . in 
the latter case , the is usually red too. 

3 wire usually has a black , red , white and bare ground wire .  . 
usually carrying with neutral .  . 

subject what is a how are they 
used 

a wire is a plastic that 's used 
to connect together. or 
are trade names. you 'll usually use a lot of them in  . 

in essence , you strip the end of the about an , twist them 
together , then twist the on. 

though some that you do n't need to twist the 
wire , do it anyways it 's more mechanically and 
secure .  . 

there are many different sizes of wire  . you should check 
that the wire you 're using is the correct size for the 
quantity and sizes of wire you 're connecting together. 

do n't just the together with a pair of or 
your fingers .  . use a pair of nose ( ) , 
and carefully twist the tightly and  . sometimes 
it 's a good idea to trim the resulting end to make sure it 
goes in the properly. 

some people the open end of the with electrical 
tape. this is probably not a good idea the may 
tear it off during an inspection .  . it 's usually done because 
a bit of bare wire is exposed outside the wire instead 
of it , the connection should be redone .  . 

subject what is a 

a is a fault  . it measures 
the current current through the hot wire and the 
neutral wire .  . if they differ by more than a few , the 
is that current is to ground via some other 
path .  . this may be because of a short to the of 
an , or to the ground lead , or through a person. any 
of these situations is , so the trips , breaking 
the  . 

do not protect against all kinds of electric shocks .  . if , 
for example , you simultaneously the hot and neutral 
leads of a , and no part of you was grounded , a 
would n't help. all of the current that passed from the hot 
lead into you would return via the neutral lead , keeping the 
happy. 

the two pairs of on a are not  . 
one is labeled load the other , line. the power feed 
must be connected to the line side , or the will not be 
protected .  . the load side can be used to protect all devices 
from it. thus , a whole string of can be 
covered by a single  . 

subject where should be used 

the for , or single 
, in , within 6  of the , , 
or , , near a pool , or 
just about anywhere else where you 're likely to water 
or  . there are exceptions for inaccessible , 
those dedicated to fixed space   , 
typically and , and for and 
 . 

the does not as many  . in particular , there 
is no requirement to protect kitchen , or most or 
 . must be protected if you 
have a , if they 're near the door to 
outside .  . and most must have  . 

even if you are not required to have protection , you may 
want to consider it anyway. unless you need a 
 ( see below) , the cost is low. in the u.s. , 
can cost as little as us 8.  ( costs are a bit higher in 
canada c 12 . ) . your own risk factors .  . does your 
finished ever get wet do you have small children 
do you use your to power outdoor tools does 
water or melted ever inside your 

subject where should n't i use a 

are generally not used on circuits that  ( a ) do n't pose a 
safety risk , and  ( b ) are used to power equipment that must run 
for long periods of time. , , 
and are good examples .  . the rationale is that 
are sometimes prone to trips .  . some people claim that 
the inductive delay in can cause a 
current , tripping the  . note , though , that most 
trips are real if you 're getting a lot of trips for no 
apparent reason , you 'd be well advised to check your 
before that the is broken or useless. 

subject what is the difference between a and a 

for most situations , you can use either a as the 
first device on the , or you can a with 
a built in  . the former is generally preferred , since 
are quite expensive .  . for example , an ordinary 
costs us 5 the model costs us 35 .  . there is one 
major exception if you need to protect a wire branch 
   ( two or more circuits a common neutral wire ) , 
such as a canadian style kitchen , you 'll need a 
 . unfortunately , these are expensive 
the cost can range into the hundreds of dollars , depending on 
what brand of box you have. but if you must protect such 
a  ( say , for a pool heater ) , you have no choice. 

one more are  . you may want to use 
an box when them. on second thought , use 
large  ( actually deep ) boxes everywhere. you 'll thank yourself for it. 

, if you 're a to ensure that one 
specific is protected  ( such as a bathroom ) , you do n't 
really have to go to all of the trouble to find the first 
in the , you could simply find the first 
in the bathroom , and not anything of it. but 
protecting the whole is preferred .  . 

when you a , it 's a good idea to use the little 
ground fault protected stickers that come with it and mark 
the of the  . you can figure out which 
are , simply by tripping the with the 
test and see which are dead. 

subject what 's the purpose of the ground on an , then 

apart from their use in , which we wo n't comment on , 
and for certain  ( they wo n't turn on without 
a good ground connection ) , they 're intended to guard against 
failures within the device. generally , the case of 
the is connected to the ground lead .  . if there 's an 
failure that the hot lead to the case , the 
ground lead the away safely  ( and possibly 
trips the in the process) .  . if the case is not 
grounded and such a short occurs , the case is live and if 
you touch it while you 're grounded , you 'll get  . of 
course , if the is protected , it will be a very 
tiny which is why you can use to replace 
 ( both and  . 

there are some that should never be grounded .  . in 
particular , that applies to and anything else with 
exposed  . consider if you touch the heating 
in a , and you 're not grounded , nothing will 
happen. if you 're slightly grounded , you 'll get a small 
the resistance will be too high. but if the case were 
grounded , and you were holding it , you 'd be the perfect path to 
ground .  .  .  . 

subject why is one than the other 

nowadays , many two devices have one than the 
other. this is so that the device could rely  ( not guaranteed ! ) 
on one specific wire being neutral , and the other hot. 
this is particularly in light , where the 
the shell should neutral  ( safety ) , or other devices which want to 
have an approximate ground reference  ( ie some  . 

most 2 extension have wide too. 

this requires that you wire your and the right 
way around. you want the wide to be neutral , and the 
narrow one hot. most have a metal for the 
hot , and for the neutral .  . 
if not , you can usually figure out which is which by which 
the to. 

subject what kind of do i need in a kitchen 

the requires at least two 20 
circuits   for  . the requires split 
 . must be such that no point is more 
than 24  ( nec )  ( 900 cec ) from an  . every counter 
than 12  ( nec ) or  ( cec ) must have at least one  . 
the these are on may not feed any except 
in the kitchen , , or room. furthermore , these circuits 
are in addition to any required for , , , 
, etc. non dedicated within 6  of a must be 
protected by a  ( nec  . 

split are fed with a  . the tab 
is broken on the hot side of the , and one hot goes to 
the , and the other hot goes to the lower  . 
the neutral to both through one  . when 
carrying through to another , the neutral must be 
, such that removing the , or having the neutral 
connection fall off does n't cause the neutral to 
from  . 

subject where must and be in 

there must be at least one in each bathroom , to 
the , in addition to any that may be incorporated in 
the light  . all such must be protected .  . 

subject what is what is when should i use each 

is a brand name for a type of plastic wire .  . 
sometimes called non  . the formal name is  . 
this is suitable for use in , protected areas  ( ie inside 
walls , on the sides of etc . ) . , that are not subject 
to damage or excessive  . most newer homes are 
wired almost exclusively with wire .  . there are several 
different categories of  . 

technically known as or ac has a 
or over the and is 
fairly to damage. 

is ac with an additional external 
 . 

protection for in where or ac 
is run through , or similar members , the outer 
surface of the must be kept at least 1 . 25 .  ( cec nec ) 
from the edges of the members , or the should be protected 
from injury .  . this latter protection can take the form of 
metal plates  ( such as spare box ends ) or conduit .  . 

note practise in canada suggests that 
, or conduit can be used as the protection , 
but this is technically illegal .  . 

additional protection  ( these are rules in the 
canadian codes they are reasonable answers to the vague 
references to exposed to damage in both the 
and cec ) 

should be protected against damage 
where it passes through or on the surface of walls 
in exposed under 5 feet from the  . 
ie use ac instead , conduit , guards etc. 
where is , as in , to 
or water , the wire should be protected .  . canadian 
practise is usually to a or 
box on the , and use a short length of ac 
or in conduit to jump to the  . 
to a piece of is also sometimes used. 
where is run in close to heating 
or , should be by 
means of a 1 air space , or suitable 
material (a of  . 
shall be supported within 1  of every box 
or fitting , and at of no more than 1 .  . 
holes in or are considered supports . 
some slack in the should be provided to 
each box .  . while is technically in violation , 
it is where proper support is impractical 
2 should never be on  . 
knight also insists on only one per , referring 
to the clause , but this seems more 
in the  .  .  . 
should never be buried in , or 
similar finish .  . 
should be protected where it runs behind  . 
may not be run on the of 
or the lower edges of where the is more 
than  ( 39 ) .  . 

whenever is at a box with a , small 
plastic must be inserted in the end of the to 
prevent the forcing the ends of the through 
the  . 

is sometimes a good idea in a work unless covered by 
solid  . 

in places where damage is more likely  ( like on the back of 
a ) , you may be required to use conduit , a 
 ( or ) approved metal  . you use various types of 
to join the or provide for the 
wire .  . 

service frequently use a plastic conduit .  . 

in places  ( eg buried to outdoor lighting ) you will 
need special wire  ( eg ,  . looks like 
very heavy duty  . you will usually need short lengths of 
conduit where the wire enters the ground. see 
section .  . 

wire  ( such as , etc . ) . should not be 
exposed to direct sunlight unless explicitly approved for that 
purpose. 

many electrical codes do not the of wire through 
, including cold air return constructed 
by metal  . the reason for this 
is that if there 's a fire , the will spread 
from burning very rapidly through the building .  . 
teflon wire is in in many areas .  . 

canada appears to use similar wire to the us , 
except that canadian wire usually include the 
in  . eg versus ac . 
in the us , b is 90 degrees  . 

note local codes vary .  . this is one of the items that changes 
most often. eg chicago codes require conduit everywhere . 
there are very different requirements for homes .  . 
check your local codes , especially if you 're doing anything 
that 's the slightest out of the ordinary .  . 

wire selection table  ( incomplete the real are enormous , 
wire types or applications omitted ) 

condition type 

exposed plastic 
ac 


exposed plastic 



exposed wet plastic 



exposed to plastic 
etc. 


direct earth plastic 
service 




not for service 

subject should i use plastic or metal boxes 

the use of plastic boxes with non 
only .  . the reasoning is simple with , the box 
itself provides ground  . u.s. plastic 
boxes do n't use metal  . 

the is slightly different. the never 
as a  . however , you must still 
provide ground for  . the also 
requires of any metal on plastic boxes .  . 

the advantage of plastic boxes is minor even for 
non you can avoid making one ground 
connection and they sometimes cost a little less. on the other 
hand , plastic boxes are more vulnerable to  . for 
exposed or , metal boxes are probably better. 

subject box 

a box is a box used only for connecting together. 

boxes must be in such a way that they 're accessible 
later. ie not buried under  . excessive use of 
boxes is often a sign of , and may 
get nasty .  . 

subject can i a replacement light 

in general , one can replace freely , subject to a few 
 . first , of course , one should check the 
of the  . if your heart is set on half 
a dozen , you may need to run a new wire 
back to the box .  . but there are some more subtle 
as well. for example , older house 
does n't have high  . the excess 
generated by a mounted can and will cause the 
to and crack , with obvious bad results. 
some newer are specifically for high 
wire only .  .  ( you may find , in fact , that your 
already has this problem , in which case 
replacing any devices is a real ) . 

other concerns include providing a suitable ground for some 
, and making sure that the box and 
its are strong enough to support the weight of a heavy 
or fan .  . you may need to a new box 
specifically listed for this purpose. a across the 
makes a good support .  . metal brackets are also available 
that can be into thru the box hole and 
mounted between the  . 

there are special rules for light such as 
pot or  . when these are in 
, they can present a very substantial fire hazard .  . 
the provides for the of pot in 
, provided that the is in a  ( usually 
8 made by making a pair of 12 high , and covering 
with plywood ) that does n't have any  .  ( yes , that 's 8 feet 
long) 

rules are somewhat less  . they require at least 3 
between the and any sort of thermal  . 
the rules also say that one should not free air movement , 
which means that a style   might be worthwhile .  . 
presumably , that 's up to the local  . the does n't 
actually the per , this seems to be an 
requirement to make absolutely certain that the ca n't get 
accidentally buried in  . ie if you have blown 
in later. 

there are now that contain integral thermal and 
fairly large cases that can be buried directly in  . they are 
usually limited to 75 , and are unfortunately , somewhat 
more expensive than the older types .  . before you use them , you should 
ensure that they have explicit or approval for such uses .  . 
follow the instructions carefully the prescribed 
for the can vary .  . 

there does not yet appear to be a that is approved 
for use in  . the appears the only legal approach. 

subject what does it mean when the when a starts 

this usually means that the neutral wire in the is 
loose .  . depending on the load , one hot wire may end up 
being more than , and the other less than , with 
respect to ground. this is a very situation it can 
destroy your electronic equipment , possibly start , and in 
some situations you  ( ie some us 
require the frame connected to  . 

if this happens , contact your electrical authority immediately 
and have them come and check out the problem. 

note a brief ( 1 second ) is sometimes normal with 
and on the same with neutral  . a 
loose main neutral will usually show increased 
far longer than one second .  . in case of doubt , get help. 

subject what is 3 power should i use it can i get it in my house 

three power has three hot , 120 degrees out of 
with each other. these are usually used for large 
because it is more efficient , provides a bit more starting , 
and because the are simpler and hence  . 

you 're most likely to a 3 that shows 
110 between any hot and ground , and 208 between 
any two  . the latter shows the difference between a normal 
common neutral , which is 240 between the 
two  . there are 3 circuits with different  . 

bringing in a 3 feed to your house is usually 
expensive , or impossible. if the equipment you 
want to run has a standard mount , it is much to 
buy a new or for it. in some cases it is 
possible to run 3 equipment on ordinary power if you have 
a start , or use a larger as a 
 ( auto  . these are tricky , but are a good solution if 
the is non standard size , or too expensive or too big to 
replace .  . the press book small   has an 
article on how to do this if you must. 

note that you lose any possible electrical by using 
such a  . the laws of thermodynamics that. 

subject is it better to run at 110 or 

theoretically , it does n't make any difference. however , there 
is a difference is the amount of power lost in the supply 
 . all things being equal , a will lose 4 times 
less power in the house than a  . this also 
means that the loss will be less , and the 
will get to speed quicker .  . and in some circumstances , the 
smaller power loss will lead to longer life. 

this is usually irrelevant unless the supply are more 
than 50 feet long .  . 

subject what is this nonsense about on circuits 

it is a universal physical law that 1 is equal to 
 . given heating loss , power factor and other , 
it is usually best to consider 1 is going to need 1000 1200 
 . a can only deliver to a , 
so it cannot possibly be more than approximately 2  . given rational 
factors , 1 . is more like it. 

some equipment  ( sears in particular , most 
in general ) a that is far 
in excess of what is possible. they are giving you a stall 
or similar. that means the power is measured when 
the is just about to stop turning because of the load .  . 
what they do n't mention is that if you kept it in that 
condition for more than a few seconds your 
will trip , otherwise the will it 's drawing far 
more current than it can continuously .  . 

when comparing , compare the continuous  . this 
should be on the  . if you ca n't find that figure , 
check the , which is always present. 

subject how do i convert two to three 

older homes frequently have two instead 
of the more modern three. these have no safety 
ground , and the usually has no ground wire .  . neither 
the or new 2 anymore. 

there are several different approaches to this 
1 ) if the is done through conduit or , and the 
conduit is continuous back to the , you can connect 
the third of a new to the 
box .  . mainly on this practise .  . 
2 ) if there is a cold water going nearby , and 
it 's continuous to the main house ground point , you can 
run a to it from the third  . 
3) run a ground back to the main  . 
4 ) easiest a  . the ground 
should not be connected to anything , but the 
protection itself will serve instead. the 
will also protect  ( possibly also two 
 . if you do this to protect , 
the grounds must not be connected together. since it 
would n't be connected to a real ground , a fault 
could the cases of 3 devices connected 
to other  . be sure , though , that there are n't 
ground plug , such as via the 
on  . 

the you to replace a two with a three 
if you fill the u ground with a non conducting  . 
like compound .  . this is not in the  . 

subject are you sure about and 
should the test work 

we 're sure about what the and say. remember , though , 
that your local codes may vary .  . as for the test there 's 
a connecting the load side of the hot wire to the line 
side of the neutral wire when you press the test  . current 
through this shows up as an , and trips the  . 
this is a simple , passive , and reliable test , and does n't require 
a real ground to work. if your does not trip when you press 
the test , it is very probably or  . again 
if the test does n't work , something 's broken , and 
dangerous. the problem should be immediately .  . 

the instructions that come with some that the ground 
wire must be connected .  . we do not know why they say this. the 
causes may be as mundane as an old , or with the 
of or listing perhaps the device was never 
tested without the ground wire being connected .  . on the other hand , 
or approval should only have been granted if the device 
properly in all listed applications , including 
replacement .  .  ( one of us called their are 
labeled for on grounded circuits only .  . the 
was surprised to see that he agreed that the does not require 
it , and promised to investigate . ) . 

subject how should i wire my 

as with any other kind of , you need enough power for all 
devices that will be on simultaneously .  . the code 
that you should stay under 80 of the nominal capacity of the 
 . for typical home use , this means one for 
the major power tools , and possibly one for a or 
 . use at least 12 wire many power tools have 
big , with a big start up  . if you can , use 20 
 ( nec ) , though requires standard 
which means you 'd have to all your equipment. 
should either be on a of their own and not shared 
with circuits in the rest of the house or be on at least two 
separate circuits .  . the idea is that you want to avoid a 
situation where a is still at several thousand 
, while you 're in the dark for the off switch .  . 

do lots of  . it 's easier to them in the 
beginning , when you do n't have to cut into an existing  . 
it 's useful if at least two circuits are accessible at each 
point , so you can run a or a at the same 
time as the tool you really want. but use metal boxes and 
plates , and maybe even metal you may have 
objects flying around at high if something goes a bit 
wrong. 

note that some have a no 
rule in or other areas that are used 
for working .  . what this means is that all must be 
run along members .  . ie to  . 

other possible circuits include circuits , 
circuits for some large tools , and air circuits .  . 
do n't circuits , and do n't use extension if you 
can help it , unless they 're rated for high  . (a 
extension is not as safe as a straight length of wire of 
the same  . also , the wo n't as much 
, and is the critical issue . ) . 

if your is at some remove from your main , 
you should probably a , and derive your 
from it. if you have young children , you may want to 
this with a cut off switch , and possibly a lock .  . 
if you want to individual to   
particular circuits , make sure you get ones rated high enough. 
for example , ordinary light are not safely able to 
handle the start up generated by a table saw. buy 
rated   instead. 

finally , note that most home are in or 
hence the requirements for apply. and 
even if you   that you 'd never use one of your 
to run a , the next owner of your house might 
have a different idea. 

note fine magazine often carries articles on 
 . april 1992 is one place to start. 

subject 

you will need to prepare a to , use 
special wire , protect the wire with conduit or special plastic 
and possibly  ( do n't use , it 
and acts as a catalyst in the 
of  . the from in house to wire is 
generally via conduit .  . all outdoor boxes must be specifically 
listed for the purpose , and contain the appropriate , 
, etc. if the of the box is subject to 
in water , a more serious style of water proof box is needed .  . and 
of course , do n't forget the  . 

the required depths and other details vary from jurisdiction to 
jurisdiction , so we suggest you consult your about 
your specific situation. 

a hint buy a roll of bright that says buried power 
line and bury it a few above where the wire has been placed .  . 

subject 

during the 's ,  ( instead of copper ) became 
quite popular and was used. since that time , 
has been in a number of house , 
and most no longer it in new  . 
we recommend , even if you 're allowed to , that do not use it for new 
 . 

but do n't panic if your house has  . 
, when properly , can be just as safe as  . 
is , however , very of improper 
 . we will cover a bit of the theory behind potential 
problems , and what you can do to make your safe .  . 

the main problem with is a phenomenon known as 
cold . when up , it  . when 
it down , it contracts .  . unlike , when goes 
through a number of warm cool it loses a bit of each 
time. to make the problem worse , , or 
when in contact with certain types of metal , so the resistance 
of the connection goes up. which causes it to up and 
still more. eventually the wire may start getting very hot , 
the or it 's attached to , and possibly even 
cause a fire .  . 

since people usually when they move 
into a house built during the 70 's , we will cover basic points of 
safe  . we suggest that , if you 're considering 
a home with , or have discovered it later , that you 
a or to check over the 
for the following things 

1 )  ( eg and switches ) directly attached to 
should be rated for it. the device will 
be with al or co . the latter supersedes 
the former , but both are safe .  . these are somewhat 
more expensive than the ordinary ones. 

2 ) should be properly connected  ( at least 3 4 way around 
the in a  . should be 
 . while repeated of the can make the 
problem worse , during the inspection it would pay off to 
up each connection .  . 

note that is still often used for the 
main service  . it should be  . 

3) push in are an extreme hazard with wire .  . 
any using push in should be redone with 
the proper immediately .  . 

4 ) there should be no signs of darkened , 
melted , or  . any such damage should 
be  . 

5 ) between and wire need to be 
 . current canadian codes require that the 
wire used must be for connecting 
to  . the requires that the wire be 
connected together using special devices , with an 
anti  . the tools and materials for the latter 
are quite expensive not practical to do it yourself unless 
you can the tool. 

6 ) any non rated can be connected to 
by means of a short . see  ( 5 ) above. 

7 ) shows reasonable neat , properly 
 ( not nicked ) wire etc. 

if , when considering a home , an inspection of the 
shows no problems or only one or two , we believe that you can consider 
the safe .  . if there are signs of problems in many places , 
we suggest you look elsewhere. if the wrong are used , 
you can replace them with the proper type , or use having 
this professionally done can range from 3 to 10 per switch .  . 
you can do this yourself too. 

subject i'm buying a house ! what should i do 

 . but .  .  .  . it 's generally a good idea to 
an to look through the house for hidden  . 
not just for , but and as well. if an 
inspection of the shows no problems or only one or two minor 
ones , we believe that you can consider the safe  ( after any 
minor problems are  . if there are signs of problems in many 
places , we suggest you look elsewhere. 

here 's some hints on what to look for 

obvious non code can include 

zip , either or nailed to walls 
hot on the identified  ( neutral ) without 
proper  . 
 ( except when of 
a gfci ) 
hanging in mid air  ( other than proper and tube ) 
switched 
about like 

certain that are actually to code  ( or were at one 
time) sometimes reveal that may have hidden 

that seem to control nothing  ( abandoned , perhaps 
not properly wiring ) 
a switch that off a group of that are 
controlled by other  .  ( except when 
it 's really convenient ) 
and in bizarre 
great numbers of boxes without or 
boxes with great numbers of going into them 
that passes through a closet instead of a or 



subject what is this stuff old style 

in the years since invented , several different 
have come and gone. when you buy an older home you 
may some of this stuff. this section describes the old 
methods , and some of their  . 

the oldest system you 're likely to is called 
and  ( k  . it is made up of individual with 
a cloth  . the are run along side 
members  ( eg or studs ) using stand  . 
wire is run through members using  . 
were made by the wire together , , and 
with tape. since the hot and neutral were run , 
the tends to be rather confusing. a neutral often runs 
down the centre of each room , with off to each  . 
the hot wire tended to run from one to the next .  . in some 
cases k t is n't , so the neutral is often the same 
as the hot  . 

you 'll see k t in homes built as late as the 40 's .  . 

comments on k t 

the people k t were pretty about 
, so the tends to be pretty good. 
the wire , and tend to stand up 
very well. most k t i 've seen , for example , is in 
quite good condition. 
no  . is usually difficult to  . 
boxes are small .  . replacement  ( particularly with 
gfci ) can be difficult. no on boxes either , 
so changes need special attention to box entry .  . 
sometimes the neutral is n't balanced very well between 
hot circuits , so it is sometimes possible to 
the neutral without the on 
any  . 
building code does not in walls 
that contain k t. 
connection to existing k t from new circuits can be 
tricky .  . consult your  . 
modern practise requires more 
to be than k t systems did. 

since k t tends to be in pretty decent condition it generally is n't 
necessary to replace it simply because it 's k t. what you should 
watch out for is that have with it and 
be about  . in many cases it 's perfectly 
reasonable to leave existing k t alone , and add new on 
new circuits using modern techniques .  . 

after k t , they invented  . the first type 
you will see is roughly a cloth and  . it looks 
much like the of the last or two .  . this stuff was 
used in the 40 's and 50 's .  . again , no  . 
it was much like modern  . its major 
is that this type of  . we 've seen whole 
systems where the would and fall off at 
a touch .  . of the same has similar problems. 

this stuff is very , and becomes rather if 
the become bare .  . this should be left as 
much as possible whenever an opportunity , replace it. 
a simple or switch replacement can turn into a several 
hour long frustrating fight with electrical or 
 . 

after this , the more modern was invented .  . 
it 's almost a impregnated cloth .  . often a bit  . 
this stuff stands up reasonably well and does n't present a hazard 
and is reasonably easy to work with. it does not need to be 
replaced it should be considered as safe as the modern stuff 
wire .  . just do n't abuse it too much. 

subject where do i buy stuff 

try to find a proper electrical supply near you. their 
will often be better than hardware stores or 
, have better quality materials , have variety 
including the odd stuff , and have people behind the counter that 
know what you 're talking about. friendly knowledgeable 
sales people. they 'll give you much valuable information. 

chris lewis phone canada 
3 . 0 . info 
list 

from  ( babak sehari ) 
subject how to the copy protected .  . 
originator 
organization iowa state university of science and technology , ames , iowa .  . 
lines 10 



i was wondering , what copy protection techniques are , and how 
effective are they has anyone have any experience in this area 

with highest regards , 
 . 




from  ( paul m. wexelblat ) 
subject re a question about  .  .  ( the truth) 
keywords 
reply to 
organization univ .  . of cs dept. 
lines 6 

i suggest that misc . consumer . house . is a better forum for this , several 
, a huge faq that all the issues raised here. 



 .  .  . 

from  ( dale ulan ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
nntp posting host ee . ca . 
organization university of , canada 
lines 21 

writes 


! 

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't 
know the number of the line. and i do n't want 
to call up the operator to place a trace on it. 

question is there a certain device out there that i can 
use to find out the number to the line 
thanks for any response. 
al 

there usually is a way , however , often , telephone like to 
keep all of their internal numbers private .  . depends on your exchange .  . 
any modern electronic switching equipment usually have voice 
lines that the number you called from. the line service guys use this 
to make sure they connect up the right pairs of lines. 



from  ( victor laking ) 
subject re 
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 
lines 30 

 ( louis leclerc ) writes 


in article you write 
va , ct , and i think canada where i 've heard they actually 
use  . 

nope , not in british  . are legal here in , i 've even 
got one. 

in and ontario they 're illegal , and devices are sometimes 
used. i 've heard the police in ontario prefer a much more direct method of 
 . just the gun , watch for people on the 
, and search the car. 


david 




they are illegal here in as well though i do n't know what 
methods are used to detect them. 

it has always amazed me with the way the laws work. it is not illegal to 
sell them here in , only to have them within a  .  ( last i 
heard , they do n't have to be to be illegal . ) . 


the inquiring mind bbs , , 

from  ( ken hillen ) 
subject data 
article i.d. sail . 
distribution usa 
organization tektronix inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 10 

i need a off the shelf method of small of data up to 
feet. the data is low speed and can be as needed .  . low power 
on the end would be a plus .  . an product would 
be  . 

if you have any to products or i 'd appreciate hearing from 
you. 

thanks , 
ken 

from  ( rosli khairon ) 
subject looking for address of tech .  . 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 14 
distribution na 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

i am new to this newsgroup so i if this is not the appropriate 
forum to ask this question. i am looking for the address of 
 . it is rather important. so if you can help me in this regard , 
please do. thank you. 











subject re looking for a good book 
from  ( juhan poldvere ) 
organization university , department of chemistry 
nntp posting host ee . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 lines 17 
lines 17 

in neil b. 
wrote 

i am an electrical engineering student and its a must that i get familiar 
with  . i have been using it and getting used to it but it would 
be great to have a good reference manual that explains everything in an 
organized and concise .  . i current have a guide to 
analysis using . i feel it has the information is just randomly placed 
in the book and its not easy to look up small things when you just 
need a good reference book. i would appreciate any info .  . thanks 

there is a manual at ic . berkeley . edu . in pub ps . 
directory  ( about ,  . 

, 
university , dept. of chemistry fax 372  ( 34 ) 
2 st. , ee , , , via voice 372  ( 34 ) 

from  ( alan mimms ) 
subject re needed  ( really break detect ) 
organization apple computer , inc. 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( jerry 
musselman ) wrote 

i need to find a that will interface to an and do the following 
, 8 data bits , 2 stop bits , no 
ability to do break detect  ( irq or output pin ) 
on character received 

i'm using a at 16  ( 8051 clone ) , but it wo n't do 
break detect .  . i 've looked at the , , , , etc .  .  .  . 

any help would be ! ! ! 

actually a break is done by watching for a character containing 
all zero bits with the error resulting from its  . this 
means that the line stayed in the zero bit state even past the stop bit 
time , which basically indicates a break .  . there is no special way to 
detect break that i have found other than this there 's no magic signal 
generated by , etc. 

, ... ! apple ! alan ) my opinions are generally 
software group pretty worthless , but 
apple computer they are my own .  .  .  . 
art without engineering is  . engineering without art is 
 . 
k. in computing across america 

from  ( tom glinos ) 
subject to and at 
organization department of computer science , university of 
distribution na 
lines 11 

the subject line says it all. i'm working on a project 
that will use a car  . i need to pull off and possibly 
at  . 

i have several ideas , but i 'd prefer to benefit from all you 
people ) 


conquest is easy , control is not tom @ u of statistics 
star 
forgot this simple history lesson 

from edu .  .  ( lige f hensley ) 
subject re public domain software 
organization computer science department at rose 
lines 14 
nntp posting host 26 . rose . edu . 
keywords 

in article writes 
does anyone know of an ftp site where i might find public 
domain software for the motorola 
i am looking for a basic or a  c  
 . thanks in advance. 
ed 
yep , at 
oak . edu . 
they have a couple different things in 
pub 
and get the file 
00 index . txt . 
for a list of what they have. 


from  ( chris best ) 
subject re need help with car stereo .  .  .  .  . 
organization your service 
lines 16 
nntp posting host com . 

just a shot here , but never know 

i once bought a  ( real ) cheap power for my car 
at one of those room sales , and it great .  . for a 
while , that is. then one channel quit entirely .  . i opened it up , and the 
chip for the bad channel had simply melted some of its 
attaching it to the pcb .  . i them back and it worked fine. 
i just had to keep the volume a bit lower than i did before. probably 
lousy  . 

you said a nice which i'm sure is a few orders of higher 
in quality than the p . o . s .  . i had. but the point is look inside before 
you it , since you find something you can  . 
maybe even the same thing i found. 

good luck ! 

from  ( al dykes ) 
subject help how to reduce the of a fan 
organization unix in 
distribution na 
lines 16 


i need to reduce the speed of a fan by about 30 50 . i recall 
reading somewhere that the right in series will do it. 

if this is n't a case of brain , can someone suggest the cap value 

the it 's a real fan  . the label says 115 v ,  . 2 .  . 

al 








from  ( tom bruhns ) 
subject re trace size for a 15 supply 
organization , 
lines 34 

 ( andy collins ) writes 

how thick do i need to make a pcb trace for 15 of current and 
does anybody have any other thoughts on the process  ( what kind of pcb 
to use , materials , of , any advice accepted ) 

in four replies , i 've seen no hard numbers , so here goes for traces 
on the outside  ( not inner layers ) , expect , in 1 , at 15 , 
the following versus  . this is from  
reference data for , seventh edition , 5 30 , which claims 
in turn to be from  .  .  . 

rise 
degrees c 

 . 100 
 . 15 . 75 
 . 17 . 60 
 . 20 . 45 
 . 24 . 30 
 . 33 . 20 

at 10 , the rise for the  . is only about 30 degrees .  . 
power goes as square of the current , plus the resistance goes 
up as goes up .  .  .  . certainly  . 20 . ( 5mm ) traces should be 
ample for what you want to do. and 2 almost cuts the 
required in half .  . (i 'd do 2 at about 0.08 myself , 
i think .  .  . given . that the rated current is 10 and the 15 is 
a or fault condition . ) . 

 ( there 's another question will the drop be low enough 
but you should be able to figure this one out with wire or 
just the of  . keep traces short and use separate 
sensing traces where appropriate , as mentioned by another poster . ) . 

from  ( lawrence hsu ) 
subject 
organization mit technology laboratories 
lines 12 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

does anyone know what causes the ever growing black border around the 
edges of my computer the growth has been gradual so i do n't 
know how long it 's taken to get this bad. i have a 19 dec ( ) 
color , maybe five years old , and the black border is about 1.1 
on the left and right sides , about 1 . 75 . on the bottom and 
negligible at the top of the screen. the only are 
, , switch , and power switch .  . 

is there anything to be done , or are the 's days 

larry 


from  ( david josephson ) 
subject re pre low 
nntp posting host 
organization network 
lines 26 

in  ( alan macaluso ) writes 

i'm looking to build a that has very good low characteristics , large clean gain , and power  ( 20 48  ( dc ) for a  . i'm towards a good , low cost ( ) to maintain the balanced from the , for its good , internal , and because i can use a minimal of parts. 

does anyone out there have any experience , suggestions , advice , etc .  .  . that . they 'd like to pass on , i 'd greatly appreciate it. 



a l a n m a c a l u s o moon 
e. 7th .  . st. 
 ( 212 ) 
 ( 212 ) 




without doing anything really tricky , the best i 've seen is the 
brown  . their shows a good application of this 
chip as a power pre .  . 




engineering , san jose california 
tel 408 fax 408 
email ftp info from net . pub 

from arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
subject a d board speed 
distribution world 
organization bbs , w net , ann arbor , michigan , usa 
reply to arbor . mi . us .  ( robert desonia ) 
lines 39 


c hi 
c i have a computer to use with an a d board 
c for data on an at  .  . i'm . having problems. 
c the at runs at 12 . 5 . correct so there should 
c be no speed conflict .  . but i read somewhere that the 
c new 66 runs on a 33 is that for 
c the local or the at also if so then i have a problem. 
c 
c when i run on non mode the speed goes to 8 and the 
c a d does n't work. please mail your views ! thanks. 
c 
c 
c 

the standard at  ( isa ) runs at , not 12 . 5 . , but some 
non buses do have higher , but be careful , since 
some do n't work with than standard rates. for instance , my 
has at , and my card when i do 
ad data with a speed than  . 

the fact that non mode speed a d does n't work is  . you may 
have a with a hardware  . 

33 on the 66 does refer to the local bus. the at 
operates , and is linked to the local via a  
interface  , which is one function that your  . 




. 2 . 0 . evaluation copy 
2 . w net , ann . arbor . mi . us . , 1 or 


bbs to usenet gateway four v . 
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! 14 . 
call 1 or 
member of , , serving ann arbor since 1988 

subject re can be used to 
from  ( robert ganter ) 
organization 
nntp posting host schroeder . 
lines 63 

in article writes 
in article , 
 ( robert g. carpenter ) writes 

it seems reasonable to me that a receiver setup 
could 
do the job. for example , say you want to map an lot , it 'd be 
convenient 
to place mw around the lot 's periphery  ( either 2 or 3) and 
then 
carry a hand held and walk to a point on the lot , press a 
and 
the of the 's is as digital data .  . 

what 's the chance of this working any systems like this already exist 
what kind of accuracy could you expect what would something like this 
cost to is there a better alternative than 

of course you could this system , but there is already a system 
called 
 . it gives three dimensional anywhere on 
earth. 
many use this system with a receiver to 
get 
within  . basic with resolution of a few 
 ( on 
a good day ) are available from many sources. 





r 


electrical engineer 
utah state university 

that 's the wonderful thing about they can take you to 
more places than a can. 



thought it means system. there are two precision levels , one 
for army applications  ( killing has to be very accurate today ) and one for civil 
ones. the civil precision is about 20 to  ( correct me , if i'm wrong) , 
though , it may be for mapping buildings .  . but there is a way with 
an additional reference point (e . g .  . one fixed system in a house ) to get the 
same high precision as the military version , but it gets pretty complicated 
then. if you use a system  ( actually this means some type of radar ) , 
you need quite a lot of number to get accurate data out of 
your original  . so the system seems to be the better  ( and running ) 
idea for your  ( application(there have been discussions in this newsgroup , do n't 
know of an address  . 

cheers robert  ( hb9nby ) 

robert 
i am a fan 
of my plan 


packet 

from  ( michael ardai ) 
subject re source for pc board 
organization , inc. boston ma 
lines 18 

in article mike mike writes 
in article , writes 
who the special used to pc 
i am looking for sizes smaller than 60 , 65 or 70 would be good. 

best deal i ever saw on was at cambridge 
mass .  . quite close to mit , 70 @ 5 . 00 . for a box of 50 .  . are 
in the boston book. 

actually , i think they are all 57 .  . their phone number is 
and i will probably have some over at the mit this sunday .  . 
mike 



michael l. boston 



from  ( bill morrow ) 
subject into plug 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university of 
lines 16 

we have a sun drive which i would like to play 's in. 
i have an old 10 which works fine when connected to a 
junk style am radio .  . this ties the common path of the 
connection to ground. 

however , it does n't work with my , or the drive , 
it produces of loud low tone. obviously does n't ground 
the output common .  . does anyone have on the drive 's 
output will an help what are others using to 
play there 's in the sun drive so that more than one can listen 

thanks for the help. 

bill , university of 
e mail voice  ( 403 ) fax  ( 403 ) 
hospital drive , , canada 

from young  ( dick young ) 
subject h. , davis 
nntp posting host 36 . 
organization motorola , inc.  ( cellular infrastructure ) 
distribution usa 
lines 11 

i tried to e mail you , but the message  . 

motorola has a university support program through which (i 've been told ) folks 
at schools can get of parts. if you 'd like to try this 
route , e mail me for the address phone  .  .  . i . do n't wish to post it for all the 
world to see. 

dick young 
motorola , inc. 
 ( who does n't have a thing to do with my opinions they 're my own fault . ) . 


from  ( david lesher ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization clinic for netnews 
lines 19 
reply to  ( david lesher ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 

others said 
actually , fossil plants run than the usual 
water reactor nuclear plants .  .  ( there 's a in the industry 
that nuclear power uses 1900 steam  . so it 's 
more important in nuclear plants to get the cold end of the system 
as cold as possible. hence big  . 

when the utility gave up on that , oh plant  ( zimmer ) and 
they were going to convert it to a fired scheme , the 
were already in place , and they were the low type .  . so the 
plan was a second set of high , and feed the 
low ones with the output of the new ones. 

never saw anything more on this. did they ever really build it 

a host is a host from coast to 
no one will talk to a host that 's close .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56 
unless the host  ( that is n't  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
is busy , or dead .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( ian mcpherson ) 
subject re chip for code 39 
organization university , st. ontario 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 26 

wrote 
distribution usa 
reply to 

while i'm on the net bugging everyone , is there such a thing as a chip 
or to code 39 i ask for a couple of reasons 
mainly i want a reasonably scheme to write information 
on cards and code 39 appears to be about right.  ( if the  right  
way to do it is something else , and it 's reasonably easy , can someone let 
me know ) 

i might not get a chance to reply too quickly to this or my earlier post , 
but i 'll get to them within a couple days , i think  .  .  . 

thanx everyone ! 

has a series of , 2000 , 
and and they support extended 
and codes .  . the 2000 and pieces add and code 128 .  . 

these support 's and readers .  . 

an a wand run about 150 . 

 . 


from  ( mont pierce ) 
subject re 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 20 

in article  ( brian day ) writes 
 ( cole ) writes 

i would like to experiment with the family. does anyone out 
there know of any good ftp sites that might have , , 
etc. 

try gov . pub 

great .  . this site is a complete of the bbs directory .  . 

thanks brian , 

pierce 


ham call internet 
80 40 20 15 10 2 ibm 
modes , , 


from 
subject tv ! ! ! 
lines 18 
nntp posting host 
organization university , al 
lines 18 

, 

i just my support of the regime and i would like to at 
least pick up the 3 and nbc .  . ) i do not have tons of 
money nor even a few pounds so what i am looking for is the best solution 
for for under 100 dollars .  . i have seen that you plug 
into your that supposedly make your entire house an 
 . i have to admit , even with my limited knowledge of 
and , this seems dubious in its claims for excellent 
at best. i 'll try anything , though , if it works. i am in 
a non area , approximately 50 from the 
which are pretty large  ( montgomery pop .  . 200 , 000 ) and , 
pop .  . 100 , 000 . any of products , brand names , and 
company info  ( catalog numbers , addresses etc . ) . thank you in 
advance. 

paul voice 


from 
subject power , was re a question about 
lines 
nntp posting host 
organization adelphi university , garden city ny 

there has been quite a bit of discussion about house and 
practices here. a few points need to be clarified 

the equipment , green , green with a stripe , bare , or 
the metal or of some methods , is used as a safety ground , to 
carry fault back to the , and to limit the 
on the metal case of equipment or other metal objects .  . it 
should never  ( except for a few exceptions to be discussed later ) carry the 
normal operating current of a connected load .  . some equipment has in 
the power supply which may cause some slight current through the 
 . 

much communications or equipment is sensitive to or slight 
on the , and may require special of the 
to provide reliable operation ( orange are often used for 
this , with wired back to the box , and in 
many cases back to the service .  . anyone such a system should read 
both the section on in the national electric code and on 
quiet isolated ground systems. the code requires the 
 ( green wires ) to run with the current carrying 
back to the box , and , if required , back all the way to the service 
, where it is to the service ground  ( water or rod ) many 
of these systems are or , where they do not provide 
a safe ground or a quiet ground or either. 

the grounded of a , often called the neutral , which is 
referred to in the code as the identified and is supposed to be 
white or natural grey .  . this is supposed to be connected to ground in 
most electrical systems at a single point , generally at the service 
 . this connection is through the main  .  ( in many 
service , the main is actually a which 
the neutral to the case of the panel ) 

the grounded  ( neutral ) is generally a current carrying  . in 
the case of a 120 it is one of the two the 
from the to the load device. 

since the grounded  ( neutral ) is only connected to the 
 ( bare or green ) at the service , if the load is any distance 
from the service and any significant current , there will be a small but 
measurable between the grounded and at the load , 
under normal operating conditions .  . if you should  ( incorrectly ) connect the 
grounded  ( neutral ) to the at the load , some of 
the neutral current will instead through the  . since 
there will now be current through the , it will also 
no longer be quite at ground potential at the load end. if the load equipment 
has a metal case , which is connected to the through the u 
ground plug , the metal case is now also no longer quite at ground potential. 
the difference  ( under normal , non short conditions ) may be only a few 
of a , but it could also be a or two .  . this normally does not 
present a hazard .  . 

however , if you let the metal case of the grounded equipment come into contact 
with an independently grounded object such as a water or gas , a , 
a metal air or such , part of the neutral current will try to 
through this ground path .  . if the contact is not solid , you 
will get a significant (a low , but possibly moderate current arc ) 
under the wrong conditions , this could start a fire .  . it is possible in 
some cases that the ground current could also through a wire of 
size , causing it to  . 

with the incorrect non single point of the neutral , if there is a 
short from hot to neutral , the high short current which may 
will cause a much higher on the , which 
increases the possibility for or fire .  . 

also if you incorrectly multiply connect the neutral and ground , the on 
the ground system is seen as computer or equipment , often 
causing  . i have spent some hours down such in 
technical facilities where they were severe into equipment. 

the neutral is usually to the ground at the distribution as 
well as at the service of each  . this is done primarily for 
protection , so that have a short path back 
to ground , and also to that the drawn by to grounded 
objects like draw enough current to trip or blow 
quickly .  . the bad side of this is that not all the neutral current from the 
goes through the neutral wire back to the  . some of it 
through the  ( water , etc . ) . this may cause 
in the and possibly in things like oil , 
and it may also cause measurable ac magnetic fields due to the large loop 
between the hot in the service and the neutral current in the 
water and ground. there are those who feel these fields may be  . 
 ( do n't flame me on this , i'm just telling you where the field comes from , not 
it 's health effect , as far as i'm concerned , the jury is still out on this . ) . 

note that the is only at the main , not at any 
sub distribution  . this is one reason why it is illegal to run service 
with the used as a neutral to a sub , you must have 
a for the neutral .  . the can be used in this 
application only as the  . if the neutral is to the 
in the sub , say by forgetting to remove the 
, all the of the loads on that will be above 
ground , with the possible problems listed above. 

the code makes exceptions for ranges and , as well as from one 
building to another. in the cases of the range and , the neutral may be 
used as the equipment ground under certain conditions , instead of a 
wire .  . every time the code is revised , these exceptions come up for review .  . 
these exceptions were , in fact the first required safety grounds , in the days 
before u ground and such. the do n't want to 
have to redesign their ranges and , and the do n't want to 
have to run four wire  ( with four fairly heavy , expensive wires ) in place 
of three wire to the  . no question it would be safer with 
to the , but the neutral current is low for most 
 ( since most current is in the except at some low , the 
are large , and there are few reported cases of injury or damage. 
so far , the exceptions have survived .  . in the case of between buildings , 
it 's primarily for protection. 

people doing should be aware what is and what is n't a legal 
 . obviously , the bare wire in  with ground  is. anywhere 
there is a green wire , such as in a , that is a good 
 . the of in in metal boxes 
is a legal  ( in the  .  ( bx has an run under 
the to lower the resistance of the  . you can just cut this 
off at the ends , you do n't have to bond it to anything , it does 
its job by every turn of the ) . conduit or  ( thinwall 
tubing ) is generally a legal , but may require a 
where it enters a box or , particularly for larger  . 

 ( looks like big , but you pull your own in the empty 
after you run it) is not a legal , as it does n't have 
the to bond it , and the has too much resistance and 
 . you have to run a green inside the 
 . 

is also not a legal , as the on the boxes 
often prevents good contact , and the feed to the extension is often 
from a box in the that may not be well connected to the first 
box .  . i have personally discovered cases where the entire run of and 
the cases of everything into all the on the run were hot with 
120  ( why do i get a every time i touch my computer and the 
here in the office ) because there was no ground wire in the and one 
of the had to the of the box .  . you must run a 
ground wire back in the from the at least to the first box in 
the original  ( conduit , , etc . ) . where you can bond the wire to the 
box with a , clip , or whatever. 

on another issue , while you should ground the green wire on 
when ever there is a place to ground them , it is legal in the to use them 
without a ground if no ground is available. it is better to have the 
protection of the ground fault than no protection if you do n't 
it. the does n't depend on the ground to trip .  . it is 
desirable to connect the ground if available , because if the ground is 
connected , the will trip as soon as a faulty device is in , 
whereas without the ground , it will not trip until someone or something 
provides a ground path .  . for those questioning the legal use of 
's , read in the , 7  ( d ) exception.  ( this is the 1990 code , my  93 
code is in the city , but i know the rule has n't changed. it might be 
though . ) . 

we have only the surface concerning , there is much more 
to this subject , but most of you have fallen by now. 

john 


john h. , p . e .  . internet 
technical director , phone days  ( 212)456 ) 
adelphi university  ( 516)877 ) 
garden city , new york fax  ( 212)456 ) 


from  ( dave pierson ) 
subject re for 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 31 
nntp posting host 

in article , 
 ( peter tryndoch ) writes .  .  .  . 
devil for 

from  ( the devil reincarnate ) 
organization , 
what 
is a good choice for a 1 4 or 1 8 wave 
i read the instructions on a 1 4 wave , 
and they suggested that i use an to tune it at channel 12 
and channel 32 for a minimum reading. question is , why channel 
12 and 32 

the best is one that will let out the most wave  ( probably not the 
best explanation , but the rest makes sense ) a one wave will itself 
out  ( btw no such  . 
yes there is. not common for  . the pattern is different  ( sort of 
a , with four main  . 

the best is a 1 2 wave , followed by 1 4 , then 1 8 etc. 
use of anything under 1 4 wave for is very  .  ( the 
usual uses a to fool itself into looking like a 
wave .  . 
i the handbook , or a good basic book. 

thanks 
dave the facts , as accurately as i can , 
digital equipment corporation the opinions , my own. 
40 old i am the 
, mass usa 
he has read everything , and , to his credit , written nothing. a j 

from  ( richard soennichsen ) 
subject re electronic  ( was used question ..... ) 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 1 

the is by a reed switch assembly in the  . i would think that this signal would be easy to reproduce .  . 

from  ( john haddy ) 
subject re no can find 
organization university 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 

in article ,  ( patrick niemeyer ) writes 
 ( keith ledig ) writes 

was told by other people that it just takes a long time. i heard 
that the is very hard to get these days and is being 
replaced by the series .  . the sales person is trying to push 
the  . can someone please tell me what is going on with these 
 . i ca n't seem to get a straight answer. 

i too had trouble finding 's when i looked for them a while back .  . 
i 'd be interesting in hearing if anyone knows about their now .  .  .  . 

thanks , 



the is an version of the  . raw parts have set 
images , and as such are useless to the  . parts have 
, allowing for electrical and  . 

some motorola parts  ( such as the hc705k1 ) have , making them user 
, but come with options of either or  . the 
more expensive allow multiple use , the plastic 
varieties are one time , since there is no way of 
the to light. 





department 
( ) ( ( ( school of 
university 
, australia 

email , 61 2 , fax 61 2 



from  ( randall rhea ) 
subject re power , signal in home .  .  .  . 
organization software , inc. 
lines 39 

 ( greg stovall ) writes 
anyway , over the , i was on the  ( in between chores ) , 
and noticed that i picked up what like ham radio traffic 
over my stereo and television , even though both were off. also , all the 
touch sensitive in my house start going , through 
their four states. 

i presume that some ham operator with an illegal past 
my house (i live on a busy thoroughfare ) would this be a correct 
what kind of power must he be putting out to cause the effects 
the affected equipment is about 100 feet from the road .  .  .  . 

can legally run up to  . it is very unlikely , however , 
that a ham would be running that kind of power from a car. ham 
for cars put out around 100  . it is possible that a 100 
radio would cause interference to consumer electronic 100 feet 
away. most , , and have very poor  . 
if you experience the problem frequently , it may be 
caused by a ham , , or other radio operator in a base station 
nearby .  . the interference may have been caused by a radio 
used for other purposes , such as police , fire , 
etc. if you heard over your stereo , i think you are 
correct in assuming that the source is an  . 

if you have frequent trouble , you may want to try the 
available at radio shack .  . the interference is probably 
being picked up by your speaker , and those can 
be on the very easily  ( without cutting them) .  . 
good instructions are included with the  . 
if that does not solve the problem , you may want to search your 
neighborhood for a radio operator .  . look for on the roof 
or car. talk to him her about your problem. there are things 
a radio operator can do to reduce interference .  . 




software , inc. 
project , mis sales systems uunet ! pyramid ! ! 

from arbor . mi . us .  ( andrew payne ) 
subject wanted , small 
distribution world 
organization bbs , w net , ann arbor , michigan , usa 
reply to arbor . mi . us .  ( andrew payne ) 
keywords rec 
summary reposted by keith 
lines 29 

from  ( andrew payne ) 
message id 
organization dec cambridge research lab 
date tue , 20 apr 1993 00 44 18 gmt 


does anyone know if a source for the  ( as used in the 
and my modems ) ideally , something that is 
small quantity , mail order , etc. 

for years , we 've been buying them from a  ( marshall ) by the 
hundreds for  . but orders have dropped to the point where we can 
no longer afford to offer this service .  . and all of the i 've 
checked have some crazy minimum order ( 100 , or  . 

i 'd like to find a source for those still interested in building  . 
any suggestions 


andrew c. 
dec cambridge research lab 

. 


bbs to usenet gateway four v . 
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! 14 . 
call 1 or 
member of , , serving ann arbor since 1988 

from  ( scott dorsey ) 
subject re message on tv 
organization nasa research center and farm 
lines 19 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

in article  ( bob myers ) writes 
hi. i was doing research on suggestion for a psychology 
paper , and i read that one hidden messages on the 
tv at 1 of a second .  . is that possible i thought the 
rate the tv was even capable of images was 1 
of a second .  .  ( or 1 of a second for an image of only odd 
or even lines ) 

you are correct the complete image that could be presented on 
tv would be one field , which is 1 60 of a second  . of course , 
the phrase tv is often thrown around in reference to any 
display , so perhaps this was n't using normal tv rates. might 
even be a ( ) display , in which case the lower limit 
on image time is anyone 's guess  ( and is probably  . 

actually , a lot of this work used to be done with a that had a 
mounted in front , and a driving it. the is really 
just a slide with a very fast  . low tech , but it does the job. 
scott 

from  ( caglan m. aras ) 
subject range interference help ! 
organization etc organization 
lines 26 

we have a setup with with 13 and  . we 
would like to fire these three at a time with about 5 between 
 . the three that are being fired do not fire in the same 
direction .  . 

to further explain the situation , assume we are firing a , b , c 
5 apart each other. we should normally see an on a that 
corresponds to the distance .  . however , a the line 
of b ! the is actually through the of a 
we can see a very signal on the , exactly at the 
time the line of b is  . 

we feel that there is some ground that is causing this interference .  . 
we came to this conclusion since we are using a separate power supply 
for b and c. 

has anyone else had any problems with these particular units and 
this type of experience your suggestions for will be greatly 
appreciated. 



m. 
ece department 
north state university 
, nc 

from  ( tom , of old equipment .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . campus ) 
subject correction re relay followup 
organization college 
lines 12 

have attacked my keyboard and the correction to my followup on 
got up. 
resistance , should read , 

73 , tom 

tom ,  . college british 
 ( 604)753 ) , fax weapon  . 45 . rifle 
mail to site ,  . 4 , , british , canada , 

i do not  .  .  .  .  . i keep everything !  ( all standard disclaimers apply ) 


from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re ic 
organization corporation 
lines 

in article  ( seema varma ) writes 
hi , 
i am looking for some help in choosing a 
for a high speed silicon  ( 100mhz ) currently being 
 . this is a research project and i have to test 
the chip at speed on a pcb .  . i expect to have roughly 100 
circuits and will do , low speed and high speed 
using 3 different set for the test chip .  . 

i know for sure that a will not work 
 ( the long lead lines have too high an  . 
getting a made is too expensive , so 
i am trying to choose between a and a 
chip  . the would be hard 
to test since it has to be on to the test 
setup and i would spend loads of time 
as i kept changing the test chip .  . the chip 
also have long lead lines and may 
not work at high  . 

does anyone out there have experience knowledge 
of this field i would greatly appreciate help ! any ideas 
names of manufacturing 
would help. 

p.s. the fancy seem like a bit 
of  ( overkill ) 




you did n't mention whether or not cost is an issue. where 
exactly are you running the digital side 
we run and all over our ic test equipment 
all day long in the domain , and we use 's along 
with 's , and pitch 's to name 
a few. i do n't see a problem in as long 
as you to sound engineering practices .  . 

a good source of information is motorola 's system design 
handbook .  . the latest ed .  . is dated 2 88 .  . that is considered 
to be one of the bibles in high speed design. 

the very fact that you need to build a test means 
you 're most likely going to need a  . it in itself 
has far more per pin than the you are 
, not to mention any  . i 
do n't see the big concern over the because it 
probably is n't going to make that much difference 

if you 're trying to get to run at , have fun .  .  .  . 
was never designed to run in a environment. 
( 

aaron 

p.s. my opinions have nothing to do with my company .  .  . the . 
standard disclaimer applies .  . 

from  ( william k. mcfadden ) 
subject re interference 
keywords television 
article i.d. 
organization tektronix tv products 
lines 15 

in article  ( jim jaworski ) writes 
what happens when  ( digital compression ) is introduced next 
year and instead of just receiving lines on 2 or 3 
we 'll be receiving on , let 's see 3 10 30 eventually. 

since the digital include error correction and 
, the remains about the same down to a very low 
to ratio , below which it very quickly .  . hence , 
tv is supposed to be less susceptible to interference 
than tv. 


bill tektronix , inc. p.o. box beaverton , or 
, ... ! tektronix ! tv . tv . tek . com . ! bill phone (503) 627 
how can i prove i am not crazy to people who are 

from  ( mark underwood ) 
subject re police  .  .  . just . how does it work 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization university of , dept. of math sciences 
lines 32 

in article com .  ( chris best ) 
writes 

the manual also got into the effect , wherein the 
always gets the benefit of the doubt  . depending on 
relative of the gun and target car , the reading 
will always be the same as or lower than the actual speed of the car. 
never higher. 

and always remember that the cop does n't even need to you. 
his  ( her ) word as a observer is enough. 

the father of a friend of mine is a police in west virginia .  . not 
only is his word as a observer good in court , but his as an 
observer has been tested to be more accurate than the gun in some 
cases . .  .  .  . no ! he can guess a car 's speed to within 2 just 
by watching it blow by whether he 's standing still or moving too !  ( yes , 
i realize that guns are more accurate than this , but . .  . ) .  . 
his ability is not that among people who watch moving things for a 
living , i have heard . .  .  .  . 

so what good is a except to give you a split second warning 
that the guy who just cut you off to pass the guy ahead and to your left 
is about to panic stop from 85 on a crowded 

mark s. 
ee student , university of 
lab assistant , boyd hall 
(a tiny little division of uk library microlabs ) 
e mail 



from  ( wout serdijn ) 
subject re how can 0 . be different from two 0 . in series ! 
nntp posting host et . 
organization university of technology , dept. of electrical engineering 
lines 43 

in  ( michael golan ) writes 

i was looking at the for , and i 
was amazed to find a difference between the us and canadian model 
on the  ( capacitor(s ) that off the output to the speakers 

to speaker  ( identical both models 
from 
 ( idnetical both models ) 
10 




0 . canadian model only ! 
us model 0 . 
and world wide 
model only .  . model only ! 
0 . 



the board itself is also identical , with room for all three caps .  . the 
us can versions is clearly indicated in both places. 

how does that make sense 0 . 2 is 0 . , essentially 0 . for caps 
 ( there are just standard caps , no special w type  . 

please explain this 
michael 


the only explanation i can think of is that two in series 
can handle twice the output  . sometimes two 's in 
 ( you know , positive sides facing eachother ) are used to obtain a large 
that can handle positive and negative as well. 

so there probably is no design philosophical reason , but a cost 
one. 

best 73 's 



organization penn state university 
from 
subject 
lines 12 

does anyone know what processor the used what i'm looking for is 
e pin for the  .  .  .  . the for it it .  .  .  . does anyone have 
any idea where i could find this or any related information this is very 
 . also , are the that were used games still available 
, or were they please email me with any , as this is very 
important .  .  . thanks a million .  .  .  . 

btw anyone who works has worked for , i could really use your help with i 
on the old , please email me if you are willing to help me .  .  .  .  . 
alot ! ! 

peter 

from  ( ken thompson ) 
subject re problem 
organization corporation , ks 
lines 21 

 ( martin d'anjou ) writes 
b 
) host  .  .  . 


bonjour ) , 
) j ai il y a 3 ans et me de meme de  . 

) que  ( le a de a 10 000 il me  . break down que long a programmer  ( 1ms par 8 c a verifier ) et que de de la  . , en code plus car plus que en  . 

) c ce que ma me de me ! 

bonne ) chance , 

oh yeah easy for him to say ! ... 


ken 
corp .  . products division development 
n .  . road ks  ( 316)636 ) 


from 
subject re outdoor 
organization university of pa 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( bradlee beer ) writes 
i'm interested in buying or building an for the 
 ( 88  . the commonly sold ones are a 
in an s shape and one with a pair of crossed  . i do n't see 
either of these designs as exhibiting any gain , and they probably are n't 
 . 


i'm by the  . does anyone have detailed information 
on how to design one for the  ( with 75 impedence ) is one 
available are there other designs that have gain 

i already own a 10 element  . it works great , but requires frequent 
for those distant  . 

brad beer , gate drive , , oh 

brad , 
for an , gain is with  . the only way 
to get gain ( 1 ) out of an is to design in  . the 
gain of an is defined as the signal increase  ( for a preferred 
direction ) over the signal obtained by an  . 

bob 
univ of pa 

from  ( neil b. gandler ) 
subject radio free information card 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 8 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 


how does the radio free information cards work. 
do they just send you some general information about the that 
in their magazine or does it also give you sign you up for a 
catalog .  . 


neil 

from  ( randy j. pointkoski ) 
subject needed 24 4 
organization amateur radio 
lines 17 


i am looking for a source for a 4 sequence  . 

24 ac , 8 

output sequence to 4  ( knob to vary frequency )  ( max 2 
per leg ) 
switch to put all on full time 

please email any assistance you can provide .  . 

email 


) j p . eng . 
o 
( ( ) ) ( ) ) ( ) 

from  ( don montgomery ) 
subject radio shack of the month club 
organization  ( srsd mid ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 2 . 
lines 10 


radio shack has their of the month club. does 
anyone know why 

they say they 'll honor existing cards in customer hands , but no new 
cards will be issued .  . 





from  ( rainer malzbender ) 
subject re no can find 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 10 

in article  ( patrick niemeyer ) writes 
i too had trouble finding 's when i looked for them a while back .  . 
i 'd be interesting in hearing if anyone knows about their now .  .  .  . 

the catalog has at least one variant of the  . 


m. 
, boulder 
 ( 303)492 ) 

from  ( david prutchi ) 
subject re long distance 
nntp posting host 
organization washington university , st. 
lines 88 

in article  ( stan burton ) writes 



i would like to be able to detect the position  ( low accuracy ) of an 
source at a distance of about 100  ( more is better ) in 
daylight .  . the source could be a signature i'm 
30 square wave with 50 duty cycle .  . 

i am considering the use of a from inc. to give 
information to a head to point the and thus determine the 
 . for the source i am considering the heck out of an  ( led(s ) , 
possibly an or motorola  . would mean at least 1 
current  . at this current the duty cycle of the led drops to 10 and i 
would need to cycle five of them in turn to get the 50 required. 

has anyone done something like this 

stan  ( dnd agcg ) 
 ( 403 ) , box , medicine hat , , canada , 

a method which will directly  ( almost ) provide you with the information that 
you require is that which is commonly used for coordinate measurements of 
human body  . the system by , , and the 
system ) .  . these use and 
, and , to determine the position of a 
of light  ( using a camera lens ) over its surface .  . in , 
the is a large with four  ( one on each of the 
four sides of the square crystal ) and a single  ( the back of 
the  . a of light will produce which are proportional 
to the position of the on the 's face. let 's try some ascii 
in 2 d  ( so the has two to detect position ) 



1 


1 


light output 


1 2 




2 


2 

if the of light from the led is the only source of light , then the position 
of the is given by this regardless of the level of 
 ( the is used to relative to total received  . when 
this is used in the presence of other sources of light , then the way of 
to it is to for a few the background signal , light the led 
for an equal time and that signal  . the difference between 
the two is the position of the led .  . 

and 2 d , and 
they also sell the required signal  . the ready made 
systems by and others are not cheap ... 

, l . e .  . , and k . e .  . , an instrument for remote 
on line movement , , 1 , 94 ,  . 

, h . j .  . , and e . b .  . , electronic  ( selspot ) measure 
in two and three dimensional space a preliminary report , bull .  . pros 
research , 46 52 ,  . 

most probably this can provide you with a much more accurate 
measurement than you need , but i think that its beats 
a with a system until you reach zero difference. 

david 




david 
washington university 
campus box 
one drive 
st. , 


from  ( victor laking ) 
subject re info on 3d 
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 
lines 43 

 ( bob myers ) writes 

i am looking for any info i can get on the 3d  . 
i know that it is a but that is about all. 
i plan on buying one second hand in a while depending on its  . 

does anyone know the , whether it is , 
non , or both , video , etc 
i have seen a reference to it being  . 28 . pitch with x resolution 
and that it supports from one source and that it does n't support 
from another source.  ( neither source seemed to have much reliable 
info so i do n't want to take a guess . ) . 

i'm at home right now , and so am away from my files the following 
is off the top of my head , subject to revision , worth what pay for it 
sort of info .  . if you do n't hear from anyone who has in hand , 
e mail me and i 'll look it up. 

if i'm remembering correctly , the 3d is a 14 0 . 28 . pitch that 
covers at least 5 . , 60 vertical ) to x 
60  ( which is going to be about 48  . it may go somewhat 
higher than that on the , but you wo n't be happy with anything 
beyond x on a 14 0 . 28 . you probably wo n't be too 
with the x on this , but it will up and display it. 
(i prefer at least a 16 0 . 28 . for this resolution . ) . since is , 
it 'll do that too. the range probably goes lower than 31 . 5 . , but 
i do n't know if it goes all the way down to straight rate tv  ( which need 
about 15 . 75 .  . as far as video  ( if i'm reading 
the question right it wo n't take anything but  . in other 
words , it has no way to or y c video  . you would need 
some sort of board to to this conversion like the sorts of things that 
let you display on a display .  . 

, now , i 'll see this response of mine , and it 'll me to 
look this stuff up and it.  ( or force me to post a hasty ! ) 

ok , i was under the impression that it accepted digital input. 

i still do n't know for sure if it accepts both and 
non as i have gotten info .  . 


the inquiring mind bbs , , 

from 
subject re what is zero 
nntp posting host semi . harris . com . 
organization 
lines 57 

in article 
 ( john thomson ) writes 

joseph wrote 

thus , a  ( deci , l. , tenth of bell ) is a part of the 
original bell .  . for example , bell is a  . 

out of what hat did you pull this one is a ratio not an ! 

and the measure of current , , is actually named after both the company 
and the company .  . both by 
realizing that the of and 
were affected by the amount of current running through the  . 

sorry. the for current is the which is the name of a french man 
named who studied electrical current .  . the term is just an 
of it. the company came after the was already in use. 

the company was the first to characterize by numbers , 
thus our use of the  .  .  . 

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right. 


graham bell , actually , is where bell came from .  .  .  . 
well you got one thing right ! 


actually , i think j. knows the score and is just being 
silly. however , is in fact 1 of a  . he is 
right on that one , but i do n't know if it was accidental or not. 

strictly defined , a is the ratio of the log of two power levels , 
and a is 1 of a so you have for every , 
hence  ( log(p2 p1 ) and  ( 10xlog(p2  . 

the , , , , , , , henry , etc. are 
all named for in the field .  . it 's a traditional and fine 
way to honor who discover new knowledge in a new field .  . 
was one of the most important of the early , 
but had been left out in having a term or named after him 
until recently ,  ( 1960 's , prior to that what is now a was a ) . 
all the other units were defined many decades earlier. 














from  ( luke koops ) 
subject speaker design software 
organization computer science dept. , univ .  . of western ontario , london , canada 
summary searching for speaker software 
keywords speaker , design , software 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 13 

hi. i'm looking for software to aid a friend of mine with speakers .  . 
does this type of software exist if anyone can point me a or 
product with this description , that would be ideal .  . 

 .  .  . steve . van der  ( using a friend 's account ) 

s .  . excuse the of the message i'm having difficulty 
sentences together today , for some reason . ) . 



luke 


from  ( kenneth sidhu ) 
subject  . 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
reply to  ( kenneth sidhu ) 
organization university of electrical engineering 
lines 22 
nntp posting host ee . ca . 





what 's the latest and greatest way to dim 

march  93 has part one of an article about 
, but it seems to lead into 
control as the best method for controlling  . 
i 've always control for the , 
and non range .  . i had 
heard that you can the ac line on a cycle by 
cycle basis to get better results. to cut the 's 
power to 50 you would 20 of ac , then 
nothing for another 20  . i wonder if anyone has 
tried this or knows what the pro stuff is using .  . any 
advice is ! 

ken 


email 

from  ( bruce adler ) 
subject re ibm pc switch 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 26 

in article writes 
i just got an ibm pc with no documents .  . its a true 
ibm , and i was wondering if anyone had the definitions 
of the 2 8 position 

, number of 5 . 25 . drives 
0 , 0 1 drive 
0 , 1 2 drives 
1 , 0 3 drives 
1 , 1 4 drives 

, type of display 
0 , 0 
0 , 1 color  ( mono mode ) 
1 , 0 color  ( mono mode ) 
1 , 1 

, amount of memory on system board 

0 , 0 
0 , 1 
1 , 0 
1 , 1 

co processor 
loop on post 

from  ( larry d. pyeatt ) 
subject with legend .  . 
nntp posting host 2 . 1 . 
organization 
lines 16 

i had a catalog with , but i what 
happened to it , and it was so long ago that i forget the 
name of the company .  . anyway , you could make your own 
legend and slip it behind the  . really nice and 
reasonably  . can anyone tell me where to get some 
more of these i 've tried several places , but 
none of them seem to have which allow you to use 
your own legend .  . 

any suggestion would be appreciated. 


larry d. the views expressed here are not 
internet those of my employer or of anyone 
voice  ( 713 ) that i know of with the possible 
exception of myself. 

from 
subject re help with long 
organization university of kansas academic computing services 
lines 33 

thanks for the as they were all good ideas and i am looking at using a 
couple of the ideas. i recieved in the mail today the sheets on the  . 
version of 's counter chip .  . it is stable down to 50 c 
and very little power. they show an application for a long time 
delay  ( up to several years depending on the rc time  . in this 
application , they have two of them together. the and 
of both are together and the of the second chip is 
 . in this , the output is high when the system is  . 
when , the output goes low and that way for a total of 65 , x 
the cycle of the first chip .  . the total cycle of the two can 
be programmed from to 256 x r x c to 65 , x r x c in 256 steps by 
any combination of the counter to the output .  . the beauty of it 
is , the chip would only have to have a cap and a 
for 39 . 1 . seconds per cycle .  . so i can get a of 
2 , , 6 . seconds between 1 . x 65 , or about 29 days ! ) 
of course , that 's much more than i need  ( 14  . but the counter allows for 
256 steps that can be for the output for the   . 
after the first 14 days and it trips , it would its self for the next 14 
day cycle and so forth .  . 

power is still a problem though. a few ideas that you suggested was to bury the 
in a hole in the  ( as an insulator ) and put the 
up on a above the fall with a on it to 
keep a charge on a pack .  . i like that idea ) this thing has to 
work for at least weeks for three samples and the gas are 12 
to the out onto the  . anyway , i ordered the 's to see 
what i can do with them. should be interesting  ( as long as i'm not the one that 
has to go up the in the middle of my 
off ) 

thanks again everyone .  .  .  . 



from  ( john haddy ) 
subject re what to do with old 
organization university 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 

in article ,  ( jason haines ) writes 

i was wondering if people had any good uses for old 
 . i have a bunch of them for the apple mac 
and i know lots of other people do to. i have tried to 
sell them but have gotten no interest .  . 

so , if you have an use  ( or want to buy 
some 8 ) ) , i would be very interested in hearing 
about it. 

the most practical use i 've seen for them is as key ) 



organization queen 's university at 
from 
subject re card for computer 
distribution world 
lines 54 

in article gov . , you say 

i would like to the output of a  ( range 10 v 
to 10 v ) and do digital signal in a computer , say a 
ii or a pc .  . i would like a good 16 bit with good and a 
high conversion speed , at least 50 , 200  . other concerns 

(2) must i use an external to my computer to avoid digital 
into my sensitive 

might be a good idea .  .  .  . the resolution you requested is about 0 . 
in order to get what you 've paid for , level better be lower than 
that. it is kind of hard to do it in a box like you can expect 
inside a pc .  . 

before you pay for a pc card , test it out by a low 
wave (i think there is a wave on a  . digital 
domain there are possibly other low sources ) run the 
through a and take at the on 
the spectrum .  . that 's should give you a good indication of the design. 
 ( that 's what i am doing to test a data system i have designed 
i got the idea from data ) . 

if you can live with 14 bit resolution , i would recommend looking at 
the from  . it is a high speed  ( 308khz ) complete 
a d with interface .  . the range is and it 
uses a serial interface  ( which can easily be isolated 
from the computer to a major source ) the design 
guide i got from them shows a level. they claim a 
( 85 ) .  . looks pretty good for the 12 @ 1000 pieces 

a evaluation is available. might want to give these nice folks a 
call .  . 1 or fax  ( 408)737 ) and  ( 408 ) 
for application assistance .  . 

this assumes that you can build your own and write your own software .  . 
 ( hey you can get the as a free just by calling the 1 ) 

i would appreciate discussion of your personal experience with a mac or pc 
based system. 

i would recommend you to find out the resolution that can be gotten out 
of your system by looking at the level , otherwise you might be 
throwing out your money. 

charles 


k. c. 
 . eng .  .  . student 

i have no connection with except i do in general recommend 
that give samples to students to others. i feel they 
that for being nice to me. 

from  ( martin johnson ) 
subject hi from 
keywords 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 13 

i need a small hi supply to 
deliver 6 at 250  . this implies a cap .  . i have built 
a very satisfactorily operating version from a , but do not like 
the idea of using a 6 single source part. it seems that the ubiquitous 
camera is what i want , but i get mine apart without 
breaking it. i would appreciate receiving the description or 
a source of one. i have already looked in several circuits 
to no avail. thanx 


martin johnson 
mind your business , on first us coin 


from 
subject re a question about  . 
distribution world 
organization mode systems , san diego , ca 
lines 35 

in article ,  ( gary gendel ) writes 
in article , writes 
what you can do if you want three without additional is 
to use a  ( or , but the will be  . in fact , 
depending on where you are putting your new  ( outlet(s ) , a may be required . 

you still need to supply a proper ground for a ground fault ! 

not according to the nor the , as explained in the electrical 
faq , which i posted here  . note the material under the headings 

subject how do i convert two to three 

and 

subject are you sure about and 
should the test work 

of course , as they said local codes may vary . 

so is still a part of this job , however , the ground may be connected to 
a local earth ground , rather than back at the box .  . 

i'm not sure about this. if the ground on the are 
connected to anything , they should be connected to a wire that runs back to the 
main , where it is to the neutral and to the house ground 
 . a connection to a local earth ground would not necessarily meet one of 
the goals of the ground wire , which is that if a short develops from hot 
to the ground wire , enough current would to trip the  . 

hmmm .  . how are those orange isolated ground  ( often used in 
computer rooms ) wired 

, mode systems , san diego ca 
internet uucp uunet ! ! cis , 

from  ( cobus theunissen ) 
subject wide time delay 
organization university , , south africa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 6 

hi there , 

i am looking for a wide time delay  ( not delay ) 
from 200 to 2  . 

please reply via email to 

from  ( tim channon ) 
subject re can i use a for digital signal 
reply to 
distribution world 
x mailer revision 1 . 20 . 
organization null 
lines 19 

as the subject says can i use a for digital i do n't see 
why it could n't handle digital , but i could be wrong. anyone have 
any advice thanks. 

yes. 

i use and others for this purpose so rest assured it 
works fine. in one case i route bit serial digital using these and it 
is difficult to see any signal at all which surprised me given 
some pretty fast edges .  . is 'd at something like @ into 
50  . the more complex types are generally a little and more 
 . 

plain series are not so good at handling logic .  . 

remember that the output load is seen by the device. 

 . 
e mail or 


from  ( tomi h engdahl ) 
subject re telephone on off ok 
organization university of technology , finland 
lines 17 


nntp posting host lk 11 . fi . 
in reply to 's message of 7 apr 1993 05 26 18 gmt 

in article  ( peter t . ) . writes 

since an on line is 48 , and off it usually drops below  . 
how about an led in series with a say around  . 
on led on 
off led off. 
would this work if anyone tries tried it , please let me know. 

not recommended .  . your would take too much current , when 
telephone is on  . telephone company does not like it. 



! s law 
! if it force it. if it breaks , 
! it needed replacing anyway. 
this text is provided as is without any express or implied 

from  ( ken thompson ) 
subject re interference 
keywords television 
organization corporation , ks 
lines 14 

 ( victor laking ) writes 

do ) you know what 17 to 19 use and what is usually 
allocated ) to those for outside of 

17 is air  . 
18 is amateur 
19 is business and public service 


ken 
corp .  . products division development 
n .  . road ks  ( 316)636 ) 


from  ( baden de bari ) 
subject a d board 
organization system bbs , canada 
lines 21 


on an a d board i 've got , i'm using the a d lines. it measures 
the properly , ie with a power supply it 's and with 
, it 's  . problem is when i 've got the , and i wish 
to lower it via a  . the of the board is so great 
that i can it with holding the 5 wire in one hand , and touch 
the and it will the full  . a 
only by  . so this is not too  . 

what could the problems be and what else could i use 
to lower the  ( btw i 've got it grounded correctly ) 



inspiration 
comes to o 
those who ( ) 
seek the de 
unknown .  . 



from  ( cyberman ) 
subject 
lines 28 
x 1 . 

device .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . @ ic  .  .  .  .  . 50 
 ( v(br)ceo )  .  . 70  .  .  .  .  .  . 2.5 
 ( v(br)cbo )  .  . 120  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15 
ic  ( ma )  .  .  . polarity .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 04 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60 material .  .  .  .  .  .  . metal 
 .  .  .  .  .  . 1 price  ( 100 ) .  .  . 

device .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . @ ic  .  .  .  .  . 60 
 ( v(br)ceo )  .  . 65  .  .  .  .  .  . 1 . 5 . 
 ( v(br)cbo )  .  . 80  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10 
ic  ( ma )  .  .  . polarity .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 04 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60 material .  .  .  .  .  .  . metal 
 .  .  .  .  .  . 1 . 5 . price  ( 100 ) .  .  . 
@  .  .  .  .  . 10 

anyone know of a source for these parts  ( other than straight from 
motorolla ) i need 4 's and 2 i 've tried standard 
and they said we are out ! 

stephen 
mangled on fri 04 16 1993 at 13 50 28 

... if there 's one thing i ca n't stand , it 's intolerance .  . 

blue wave 12 . 


from arbor . mi . us .  ( andrew payne ) 
subject wanted , small 
distribution world 
organization bbs , w net , ann arbor , michigan , usa 
reply to arbor . mi . us .  ( andrew payne ) 
keywords rec 
lines 29 

from  ( andrew payne ) 
message id 
organization dec cambridge research lab 
date tue , 20 apr 1993 00 44 18 gmt 


does anyone know if a source for the  ( as used in the 
and my modems ) ideally , something that is 
small quantity , mail order , etc. 

for years , we 've been buying them from a  ( marshall ) by the 
hundreds for  . but orders have dropped to the point where we can 
no longer afford to offer this service .  . and all of the i 've 
checked have some crazy minimum order ( 100 , or  . 

i 'd like to find a source for those still interested in building  . 
any suggestions 


andrew c. 
dec cambridge research lab 

. 


bbs to usenet gateway four v . 
free usenet mail and 200 newsgroups ! 14 . 
call 1 or 
member of , , serving ann arbor since 1988 

from  ( john thomson ) 
subject re telephone on off ok 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 37 

tony wrote 
in article writes 

 ( michael covington ) writes 

in article  ( peter 

just a thought of mine here 
since an on line is 48 , and off it usually drops below 1 
how about an led in series with a say around  . 
on led on 
off led off. 
would this work if anyone tries tried it , please let me know. 

, there 's the rub if you draw enough current to light an led , the 
equipment at the phone company will think you 've gone off  . 
in the on state you 're not supposed to draw current .  . 

which means you should just use your digital  . you can use an 
old but the phone company equipment can detect that and might think 
there 's something wrong with the  . 


look guys , what 's the problem here if you want a light that goes on when 
the  phone is off , all you need it to run it in series with the 
line , as i mentioned in my previous post. if you want a light that goes on 
when the  phone is on , all you need is a  . 

if you 're going to do the series thing  ( which is the easiest ) , just 
make sure that the led can take the current (i ca n't recall it off hand , but 
it 's something like or more ) 

 . 

greg 
bell northern inc. , ottawa canada 
my opinions not bnr 's 

from l .  .   behnke ) 
subject re electric power line 
article i.d. 
reply to 
distribution usa 
organization national lab 
lines 27 
nntp posting host gov . 

in article ,  ( scott townsend ) writes 
i got a question from my which i really ca n't answer and i 'd appreciate 
some net . wisdom .  . 

his question is about some 18 24 which are attached to 
electric power lines in his area. he 's seen up to a half dozen between 
two poles .  . neither of us have any experience with electric power distribution .  . 
my only guess was that they may be a device to the 
of the , but why so many between two poles . 

anyone know what they really are is there a related faq for this 
is there a better group to submit to 

we 'd both appreciate some enlightenment .  . 


the are used to reduce the of of the wire during 
periods of high  . i 've seen what looks like filled with 
concrete used for the same purpose. 
mike tech 
lab equipment 
, il .  . computing ! ! ! ! 


my opinions are my own , not of the lab .  . so , if you do n't like them , call 

1 

from  ( john whitmore ) 
subject re suggestions on 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 20 
nntp posting host carson . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( billy quinn ) writes 
i built a little project using the radio shack to switch 
 . i got pretty bad   when the thing switched .  . 

is there a good relay relay that i can use for switching 
, so that there will be no of any kind on the lines. 

with alone , you will always get a when 
you abruptly turn on or off any channel .  . if you do n't want to hear 
the , use some other device (a output 
is the usual sort of thing ) to mute the signal , then switch , 
then remove the power from the in the  . 

it used to be standard practice to 
in switching , because the time delay (a few 
of a second ) kept any in the digital side  ( which 
drives the lamp ) from the  . and , the devices 
are than  . 

john 

from  ( alan cooney ) 
subject re los traffic reports 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 48 

i live in the san francisco bay area , and word has it that 
something similar is on its way here. since we apparently 
do n't have the base you folks have , they 're 
at strategic points along the  ( initial 
are going to be in the santa area i'm told ) , with the 
video being into a command center they 're building 
somewhere in the east bay .  . i'm not sure if frame or 
cheap labor will be used to interpret the data , but large 
status will show the various 
using different to represent the various average 
for each stretch of  . an will sit in front 
of the status   , and will relay continuous verbal traffic 
status to those who want to receive it. they 're apparently also 
looking into a low am to be dedicated to 
providing continuous from this system. 

in the mean time , they 'll set up large display 
along the test stretch to provide with data 
on traffic conditions up ahead. my understanding is that the 
system is as a program , and information from it 
will be available free of charge .  . perhaps the la system is 
similarly free or provided at an obviously rate  ( read 
cheap ) .  . 

we also have the traffic reports that are on the 
channel of television 2 and 36 .  . these are verbal 
reports , qualified with a tone to tell in 
like the  talk  that the information coming next is 
applicable to a given area. in la , they 're probably using some 
other tv , but the concept is the same. try setting your 
stereo tv or to receive the channel , and go station 
jumping to find out which one is broadcasting this information. 
i believe this program is also , making the in 
cheap to  ( and without having to monthly 
to use it) .  . since the makers of these in 
do n't have to pay for the  ( this may not be completely 
true ) , they likely have no investment in keeping the system 
up and running when the cal stuff the  . you 
may have a little tv receiver in your car , nothing 
more , when this happens. perhaps a word to the wise .  .  .  . ) 

i think we 'd all be interested in a summary post if you get more 
info on how the la system is networked and paid for. 

cheers , 




from  ( george carter ) 
subject re does someone know what is the news group for  . 
reply to 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 11 
x newsreader 1 . 07 .  ( waffle 1 . 

in  ( yu yingbin ) writes 
thanks a lot. 

general . 

and 

announce . 


are the most frequently used groups. 

from  ( luis g. perez ) 
subject re beam games next week in  . 
organization s 
lines 10 


does anybody know if there is a mailing list or newsgroup for 
power systems and related areas 

thanks , 


luis g. 



from (c . m .  . hicks ) 
subject re how do boxes work 
organization eng . 
lines 36 
nntp posting host eng . ac . uk . 

 ( stephe lewis foskett ) writes 


i'm doing sound for a couple of around here and we need direct 
boxes for the  . these are the little boxes that take a 
line level out of the keyboard and it into low z for the run 
to the  . sadly they cost like 50  ( or more ) each and i'm going 

this is indeed one function , but more sophisticated ones do level control 
and ground lift  ( separating the keyboard and earths )  . 

to need like 5 or 10 of them ! i looked inside one  ( belonging to 
another band ) and it looks like just a  . does anyone have 

simple ones are just that a  . a decent quality 
former will cost most of that 50 .  . they are wired thus .  .  .  . 


hot hot 
) ( 
from ) ( balanced out to 
keyboard ) ( 
cold 



the ground lift switch the line from the  . the 
ratio depends on the precise application , but around 10 1 
turns ratio may be a good place to start. 




paradise is a world 
 ( also reported to taste hot and sweaty ) 


from  ( andy stevens ) 
subject re caps 
organization university 
x posted from edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( govindan ravindran ) writes 
i would like to know if any one had any experience with having 
on board  ( inside a chip ) for the power 
lines. say i have a lot of space left im my limited design. 
any data on the effect of any info or 
are appreciated. 

dec did this on their new chip .  . i'm sure you could call them up 
and ask them how they did it  . 

actually , there are some details in their article in journal of 
solid state circuits .  . i think it was sometime around nov. 1992 .  . 

andy s. 

from  ( bill mayhew ) 
subject re tv problem source 
organization ohio universities college of medicine 
lines 19 

if the set is direct line , try checking the likely to be 
there down from the 
supply .  . several sets i 've looked at use a  . the 
have a tendency to short out , making the safety circuits 
shut down the supply section .  . 

try putting the set on a or and lower 
the ac to the set to about 90  . if the set 
operates , then you know you 've got a  . 

there are other areas for problems , but i 've seen the one 
above several times. also , if the set uses one , the 
may be shot that 's fairly common .  . 



bill computer services department 
, oh usa phone 216 
1 . 

from  ( charles thompson ) 
subject how does mode work 
organization capital area central texas unix society , austin , tx 
lines 15 



i understand that the new boxes now have an option 
known as ready . apparently land based 
correction information to your 
receiver  ( with option  . 

how does this system work what is used for 
the land based 

thanks in advance , 

charlie 
. 


from  ( pat niemeyer ) 
subject re 
organization washington university in saint , usa 
lines 11 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 
originator 

are any brands than others 

yes some are less detectable by 
 . ) 

i have a  . 
i just looked at the manual yesterday .  .  .  . and it does indeed claim to be 
by 's .  . 




from  ( dave martindale ) 
subject re a question about  . 
organization corporation , mississauga canada 
lines 24 

writes 

hmmm .  . how are those orange isolated ground  ( often used in 
computer rooms ) wired 

they require two separate grounds .  . one ground goes to the ground pin 
of the , and the other ground wire is connected to the 's 
 ( and thus grounds the box and and metal 
, if any) .  . 

the box ground goes to the normal distribution ground. 
the ground pin wire is generally connected to an 
in the distribution which is , in turn , connected to 
the building main ground by its own wire .  . 

so the two separate ground systems are connected together at the 
building 's service  . but one is also connected to every 
grounded piece of electrical equipment in the whole building , 
while the isolated ground is shared only by the equipment 
into isolated ground of that  . if someone happens 
to accidentally short one of a to ground , 
the main building ground is likely to have a lot of on it 
until the trips or the , while the isolated 
ground will remain relatively free. 

from  ( chris malcolm ) 
subject serial link 
organization university 
lines 8 

the diary has a 3 wire serial interface with 
setting like , for which one get a magic but expensive to 
connect to a pc .  . does anyone know the of this interface , e.g. , it 
needs and from to match lines 

chris 44  ( 0)31 ) 
department of artificial intelligence , university 
5 hill , , , uk 

from mark 
subject switch mode power supply 
organization software 
lines 17 
reply to ! 
nntp posting host gilgamesh . com . 

is there a typical component or set of components 
that are at fault when a switch mode power supply 
goes south 

the supply is for a drive .  . any general hints 
would be ! 

thanks ! 
mark 
at fault when a switch mode power supply 
goes south 

the supply is for a drive .  . any general hints 
would be ! 

thanks ! 
mark (j 

from  ( tom bruhns ) 
subject re a question about  .  . 
organization , 
lines 21 

 ( russ crisp ) writes 

so .  .  . here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the 
same electrical if i a from the neutral 
over to the ground on new  three   . 
what 's wrong with my reasoning here 

may i suggest you not do this the ground is 
supposed to be a ground , and though what you suggest 
looks good on paper , it 's dangerous to rely on the same wire for 
power and protection. it 'd never meet code , and if you now own 
the property and later sell it , you may end up with 
you do n't want , and if you do n't now own it , well .  .  .  . 

there 's a faq that i think addresses this. i believe 
an alternative is use of a , but i'm really not sure what 
current code allows in this area. the senses alternate 
 ( unwanted ) current , and does n't rely on a specific 
ground wire , at least not beyond the in the 
protected  . are available  ( but  . 


from  . palmer ) 
subject re wanted a to d hardware for a pc 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization center for , , nc 
lines 34 

in article  ( joel kolstad ) writes 
in com . brad writes 

if you know much about pc 's  ( ibm comp ) you might try the 
 . though i have n't tried this myself , i 've been told that the 

i believe that the a d found on a are really 
timers that off how long it takes an r c  ( the r being your 
paddle ) to charge up to something like 1 2  . for games this works 
pretty well , but you certainly would n't want to try to take lab 
measurements off something as non as that. 

the best info i have seen so far is the article 
measuring physical properties through the pc 's by 
michael in the may 1985 issue of pc tech journal .  . it talks 
about how to read all kinds of things  ( voltage , current , resistance ) in 
basic , and even includes code for a simple display .  . 

it 's possible to read the directly if you do n't want to 
use basic .  . the detailed information for this is in the pc technical 
reference under options and  . you have to provide some 
resolution functions , but that 's a subject which has 
appeared many times in articles from dr. 's , ink , 
etc. look for the public domain on  . 

good luck , 



room 212 
p.o. box 
, nc 
 ( 919 ) 
 ( 919 ) fax 

from hannover . de .  ( andreas heinbokel ) 
subject looking for ad pc board 
reply to hannover . de . 
organization hannover , 
lines 41 

this is for a friend of mine. please send answers directly to him (e mail 
see below ) ! 


digital pc board 

and ! 

i am looking for a a d pc board with a rate above 250 an a 
resolution of 8 bit. the rate can be by an mode where 
the time equivalent 2 , 4 or 8 times higher rate than 
the a d uses in non mode .  . 

the board must content an a d similar to devices ad or 
ad or if available a on. 

if you a pc board  ( 16 bit , isa ) with this or better , please 
send me an email 

hannover . de . 

or a to 49 


thanks in advance for your help ! 

sincerely 

matthias 
, university of hannover , germany 







hannover . de . 

... all wisdom is print on t shirts 


from 
subject re what is zero 
organization , red de i d 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( john thomson ) writes 
joseph wrote 

and the measure of current , , is actually named after both the company 
and the company .  . both by 
realizing that the of and 
were affected by the amount of current running through the  . 

sorry. the for current is the which is the name of a french man 
named who studied electrical current .  . the term is just an 
of it. the company came after the was already in use. 

the company was the first to characterize by numbers , thus 
our use of the  .  .  . 

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right. 
are you  ( two ) 
is the entire internet flaming you  ( two ) 
! , now i remember that company was the first introducing the pink 
, only for working ) 

true e mail 



from  ( john ) 
subject re tv ! 
organization the university of british 
lines 4 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host ca . 

just as a not of possible interest on this subject  .  .  . 
it is my understanding that were a major cause of 
domestic accidents in the soviet union in past years ! 


from  ( conrad winchester ) 
subject re motorola and 
keywords motorola , , , , 33 50 , problems  ( fpu exception ) 
nntp posting host sp . 
organization imperial college of science , technology , and medicine , london , england 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( stich , christian e . ) . writes 
i just a motorola in an board  ( 25 
with capability to the  . previously 
a was and everything was working perfectly .  . now the 
systems a  ( indicating a exception ) when it check for 
the presence type of  . when i an the system works 
fine , but with the even at 25 it does not work. the designer 
of the board mentioned that putting a on data  ( 470 ohm ) 
might help , but that did n't change anything. does anybody have some 
suggestions what i could do does this look like a communications 
problem or is the particular chip dead  ( it is a pull , not new ) 
moreover , the place i bought it from is sending me an  . i thought 
that the were labeled not  ( for not  . 
are there any 

thanks 
christian 



have you changed the that for the  . if you 
have n't then it wo n't work. 




from  ( chris best ) 
subject re police  .  .  . just . how does it work 
organization your service 
lines 7 
nntp posting host com . 

i 've seen several references to split or separate beam , which i 
claimed did n't exist. gotta eat some crow here i was n't aware of them. 
all i really knew was that it can be done with one beam .  . 

i believe the rest of what i said is accurate , though. 

 .  .  . crow .  .  .  .  .  ( oops wrong group ) 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re need tone 
organization u of 
lines 14 

in article  ( tom bruhns ) writes 
does anybody out there have a that will a tone 

use a tone chip .  .  .  . 

my impression it 's not an area i 've played with much is that the 
much beloved is basically  . if you want to detect a 
tone , set a switched filter chip to that , feed your 
to it , and see if anything comes out the other end. the was 
what you used when good clean were hard to do nowadays 
they 're easy , and the results are better. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( carter ames ) 
subject lead acid concrete 
organization temple university 
lines 15 
nntp posting host temple . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 


i was just wondering one thing , actually two .  . ( i hope that this is the 
proper place to post this subject) 

why does a lead acid and become dead  ( totally unuseable ) 
when on a concrete 
i decided to bring the in from the and the 
from the this year , to preserve them and i just 
went to use them and noticed that not only do they not work , but 
they act like the two are  . i asked a friend 
and he said that you should never do that ,  cause it ruins them , 
but he could n't tell me why. 

thanks 


from  ( baker john p. ) 
subject how does mode work 
summary of system 
keywords , , , radio 
organization jhu applied physics 
lines 46 


i understand that the new boxes now have an option 
known as ready . apparently land based 
correction information to your 
receiver  ( with option  . 

how does this system work what is used for 
the land based 

thanks in advance , 

charlie 
. 

here 's a rough sketch of how the system works. a reference station 
with a very exactly known position the errors in the 
 . these errors are due to several factors 
including , sa  ( selective availability ) time 
, etc. the reference contains complex 
equipment to back out the errors in its position  ( since it knows 
where it is  . it then these corrections on a 
which is available to any number of relatively local 
 . if the are nearby ( 300km ) and are using 
the same as the reference , the errors should be very 
similar for the reference and the receiver  . thus , the 
receiver may apply the corrections calculated by the reference 
 . 

the us coast guard is currently  ( as far as i know) a series 
of for  . these will 
use existing radio  . i believe the is to be approximately 
 . there are many other private offering 
on different  . for example ,  ( 310 ) 7076 ) 
correction and receiver units using an system 
which has all across the us. 

the correction codes are usually using the format .  . 
espouse 1 to 5 errors. 



john p. baker my opinions are my own. i do n't know 
johns hopkins university anyone else who wants them , anyway. 
applied physics 
laurel , md 


from  ( joseph chiu ) 
subject re what is zero 
article i.d. gap . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 33 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( babak sehari ) writes 

similarly , people usually use for  . another common mistake is 
  instead of   as you did in your article. see the   is for 
  company , the mother of at t and should be  . 

thus , a  ( deci , l. , tenth of bell ) is a part of the 
original bell .  . for example , bell is a  . 

and the measure of current , , is actually named after both the company 
and the company .  . both by 
realizing that the of and 
were affected by the amount of current running through the  . 

the company was the first to characterize by numbers , thus 
our use of the  .  .  . 


graham bell , actually , is where bell came from .  .  .  . 



actually , refers 

with highest regards , 
 . 



joseph 2 you gotta get this thing ! 
caltech 
pasadena , ca 2 the operating system of tomorrow , today. 
1 

subject access  ( was bus ) 
from 
organization industrial research ltd .  . , new  . 
nntp posting host 
lines 37 

from 6 apr 1993 06 48 34 . 
to 
cc 
re i and long serial  ( also 

return path 
received from sun . com . by  ( mx with tue , 06 apr 
1993 06 48 29 1300 
received from corp . sun . com . corp . sun . by sun . com . 1 . 4 . id 
mon , 5 apr 93 11 48 08 pdt 
received from corp . sun . com . by corp . sun . com . 1 .  ( corpmail1 
inbound ) id mon , 5 apr 93 11 48 07 pdt 
received by corp . sun . com . 1 . 4 . id mon , 5 apr 93 
11 47 28 pdt 
date mon , 5 apr 93 11 47 28 pdt 
from  ( andrew macrae ) 
message id 
to 
subject re i and long serial  ( also 
cc 
content length 

in article you write 
required to get onto the access the nice thing about the 
is that most i o requires one 8 ... 16 pin chip , ie its cheap 
and easy .  . anyone can design a , trouble is most buses require a 
host of interface and often on board intelligence .  . 

bruce , 
for the latest information on access . call the access . 
industry group at  ( 408 )  . also , sun will be the next 
meeting of the group on april , here in view. for some reason 
i am not able to post to any newsgroups today , so please feel free to pass 
this information on yourself as you see fit. 

andrew 


from  ( mark zenier ) 
subject re can i use a for digital 
organization , inc. , seattle , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 13 

cool one wrote 
as the subject says can i use a for digital i do n't see 
why it could n't handle digital , but i could be wrong. anyone have 
any advice thanks. 

the have a non on resistance  ( up to when 
by 5 volts ) and a current and a 
across switch .  . not a good bet for  . should work for 
, but slow things down a bit. there are versions that 
have better  . but lower  . 

mark 


from  ( dan zenchelsky ) 
subject 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization 
lines 9 
nntp posting host ai . mit . edu . 

hi , 

i am looking for a pc card which does european 
 . does anyone in the us sell such a card i once 
saw an article about a card with the same in a 
european magazine , but i was n't able to track it down. 

thanx in advance , 
dan 

from  ( jason blakey ) 
subject site for 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
lines 6 

does anyone out there know of any ftp sites which deal with 
, plans , etc any response appreciated. ) 


 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
jason 

from  ( tony wayne ) 
subject pink 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( charlottesville ) 
lines 4 

what is pink and how is it used in sound experiments 
tony 



from de .  ( uli allgeier ) 
subject re question how do i go from a pcb 
organization center .  ( rus ) , u of , 
lines 38 
nntp posting host uni . de . 

hi ! 
in article  ( tall cool one ) writes 

after i have produced a with logic , how do i import it into 
pcb to create a pcb pattern the only way i 've gotten it to work is 
to output a , and then import this into pcb .  . is there 
another way of doing this i did n't see any information in the instructions 
provided , but i might have missed something. any suggestions would be 
greatly appreciated. thanks ! 

sorry , it 's german , but i hope you understand it. 


der (  . in die board 
(  . 

logic 
in out 
reports 
net list 
select pcb 
net list output file name 


pcb 
in out 
ascii in 
ascii file name 

errors file name 
, 

und mit move 
 . 





from  ( dan gould ) 
subject telephone controlled power bar needed 
nntp posting host com . 
organization on canada 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 9 . 
lines 16 

i would appreciate some help in a telephone controlled power bar 
for my pc .  . the would power up the pc when the telephone and 
keep it up as long as the telephone connection is present. 

i also need to be able to power up this same pc through the use of an external 
 . i can supply power or a contact to do this. 

i will summarize and post the results of this here. 

thank you. 




dan 


from  ( david bull ) 
subject o s documentation wanted 
organization school of , university , australia .  . 
lines 19 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
originator 


we 've just been a large machine for use in our 
lab .  . this device is complete with a based 
, running the operating system. 

unfortunately , we do n't have any documentation on  . 

can anybody out there in help 

please reply via email i do n't regularly up with 
the news. 

thanks , 

david bull 





from  ( john p. mains ) 
subject electrical properties of 
organization louisiana tech university 
lines 13 
distribution usa 
reply to 
nntp posting host engr . latech . edu . 


, 

i am looking for carbon  . or an highly material that changes its , or some 
other electrical property when  . 

if you could email me any info you may have on material names or that make the stuff 
it would be highly  . 

thanx 

engineering 
louisiana tech university 

from  ( declan hughes ) 
subject manual for  ( logical devices 8 ) wanted 
nntp posting host jupiter . edu . 
organization polytechnic institute , ny 
distribution usa 
lines 7 


i have an made by logical devices and the 
model name is 8 , but i have lost the manual .  . does anyone 
have a spare manual that they would like to sell 




from  ( tom , of old equipment .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . campus ) 
subject correction of last followup re 
organization college 
lines 73 

in article ,  ( tom , of old equipment .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . campus ) writes 
in article ,  ( aaron lung ) writes 
in article  ( billy quinn ) writes 
i built a little project using the radio shack to switch 
 . i got pretty bad   when the thing switched .  . i was doing 
most of the common things one is supposed to do when using and 
nothing seemed to get rid of the  . 


my question is 

is there a good relay relay that i can use for switching 
, so that there will be no of any kind on the lines. 


i will appreciate any advice or references to advice. also , exact part 
numbers company names etc. for the will help ! 

are you switching high level or low level like pre 
out level also , are the you mentioning the big 
that happens when it or are you refering to contact 
how are you driving the gate output switching 
how are the connected to what you are driving 

need more to answer your question ! ! ) 

as a general rule , no relay will switch if you try to 
the with the contacts .  . the you hear is due to the 
and of the path .  . 

the way of is to ground the  . in high 
circuits a t is constructed close to characteristic 
of the  . the  ( connected to the t ) 
the  . 

in low circuits are usually used , and the are 
out or grounded .  . are at the characteristic 
 . 

sometimes if it is necessary to actually switch , a second contact is used 
to momentarily short the output for the duration of the switching time. 

telephone are , because contacts can be to make before 
break and but i have n't seen any of these for years. 

switching is done with , etc. 

a novel i used to build was a primitive  .  .  . it consists 
of a and a , all in a  . when the is 
off the cell is high resistance .  . turn the on and the resistance 
passing the  . once again this device in a t the  . 
the resistance give a remote volume control. use 2 and 
you have a ! 

lots of luck ! 

73 , tom 

tom ,  . college british 
 ( 604)753 ) , fax weapon  . 45 . rifle 
mail to site ,  . 4 , , british , canada , 

i do not  .  .  .  .  . i keep everything !  ( all standard disclaimers apply ) 


73 , tom 

tom ,  . college british 
 ( 604)753 ) , fax weapon  . 45 . rifle 
mail to site ,  . 4 , , british , canada , 

i do not  .  .  .  .  . i keep everything !  ( all standard disclaimers apply ) 


from ( s . walker . man 50 ) 
subject what do nuclear site 's do 
organization university of technology , 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
summary . anyone know how they work 
keywords nuclear 
organisation university of technology , , australia 



i really do n't know where to post this question so i that 
this board would be most appropriate. 
i was wondering about those massive concrete that 
are ever present at nuclear sites .  . they look like 
that have been in the middle .  . does anybody know what the 
actual purpose of those things are . i hear that they 're called 
  but what the heck do they cool 
i hope someone can help 



from 
subject re picking up tv with an  . 
lines 37 
nntp posting host ctstateu . edu . 
organization yale university , department of computer science , new haven , ct 

in article ,  ( tony stewart ) writes 
 ( john senior ) writes 

recently , i discovered that it was possible to receive 
tv through the on the top of my tv. 
the this is moved to the  ( which i am not 
connected to) which runs under the of the house the better 
the signal .  . now , i was wondering how can i improve the signal 
is it possible to improve the signal  ( some 

or if you will are being at free space 
from that may be to certain 
and the standing at 1 4 wave will 
 . also your (a loose monopole ) is also 
and will be more efficient at 1 2  . 

your best bet for this research is to use a to get the 
gain you need.  ( std tv roof type ) the should be parallel 
to the  . a pre does n't help in my 
experience in most cases. 


the inquiring mind bbs , , 

wow , what a concept ! does anybody want to speculate on how this 
non connection would fit into the theft of services laws 
it seems to me that unless this case is specifically written into 
the legislation that the company would not have a to 
stand upon in court. 

does anybody out there have any specific legal knowledge on this 

jim 
or  ( temp , rf ) 
there is an art , the guide says , or rather a to flying .  . the 
lies in learning how to yourself at the ground and miss .  . 


from  ( dave medin ) 
subject plug in 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 18 

i have an plug in for an series or 
that i'm never going to use  ( no any  . if you 're interested 
in it , please let me know. price probably real cheap .  . 

this notice may have appeared once before. i posted , and it never showed 
up on our local server .  .  .  . 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( victor laking ) 
subject re making copy of a video 
keywords video 
organization the inquiring mind bbs 1 
lines 35 

 ( wayne hooper ) writes 

 ( victor laking ) writes 

you are experiencing what is called  . it is the protection 
that they use on the video  . there are two ways around this that i 
know of. first of all , you can try using a different to copy onto .  . 
it is the of the that to the protection so sometimes 
just switching the two around will take care of it. some models 
just do n't react to it. 

does this also affect the of i have had problems with 
a couple of they were virtually  . i 
with the , and hold but it was no good. 



it sounds like your tv is one of the ones that also to the video 
protection.  ( poor you ! ) 

the from radio removes the protection so you 
sould n't have any more problems. however , if you use the method of 
copying it from one to another where the second does n't react to 
the protection , you will end up with a , including the 
protection. 

one thought comes to mind about your problem .  .  .  . when playing the 
for , are you feeding the signal from the source through an 
extra device before going to the tv if you feed it through a second 
first , that is your problem. as to other devices such as , i 
do n't know if they would react or not. just to be safe , you might want 
to make sure that you have nothing between the and tv. 


the inquiring mind bbs , , 

from  ( mike vanmeeteren ) 
subject re electronic  ( was used question ..... ) 
organization university of minnesota , 
lines 28 
nntp posting host d . edu . 

in article ee . edu . ee . edu .  ( bijan mobasseri ) writes 
there are two simple for any  . 

1. driven 
remove the from the  . 
a and run at speed until the turns over. 
continue until the desired mileage is reached .  . 

admittedly an question for how long should the be running 



a long time , like on the order of days. i had the pleasure of 
doing that once  ( playing with the cable ) and with my b d heavy duty at 
full speed  ( 600 rpm ) all the ever got up to was 30  . now if you go 
a high speed and it at say , you could get 200 out of 
it.  ( if you does n't burn out . ) . anyways , to roll a 
would take 22 days or so. much easier just to take the 
apart. 

thought i 'd share .  . btw , all this info was obtained legally ) 



( ) ) ) o ) computer lesson one there is no any key , alternate 
) ) are shift , ctrl , caps lock , alt 
( ( ( and sometimes tab . 
at lab 

from (j .  . babb ) 
subject re getting rid of 
organization 
lines 42 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article , 
 ( ed byrnes ) wrote 

my display has a bad case of the  . i have a good ground. i 
live in an old house and i have replaced much of the  . i have two 
on the computer , the into the computer .  . when 
are on , the display , when run 
in the house , the display , when are on in the 
kitchen the display  . i could bring a separate line from the 
box , and use it only for the computer , would this do it 
does n't only travel the 110 line though. should i the back of 
the ground a or 
your expertise is appreciated. thanks very much ! ed 


 .  .  . a problem very near and dear to my heart .  . in our case , other 
cause this problem the of other to be 
specific .  . have also seen a backed up to a exhibit this 
problem. this sounds like your problem since , , etc 
several of feet away seem to me to be too far to cause it , but the 
running to them must pass nearby your  . on other side 
of maybe 
we started panasonic ct video (3 
 ( lines(vid aud ) s on one) 400 .  . this stopped the interference 
effect on the computer next to it. 
now on to your problem. you need what is known as  ( very 
common , in fact almost mandatory on type 
o  . 
i talked to a ee  . he said get a coffee can , cut both ends off , mount 
around of interfering  . 
be careful to avoid all high  . especially the high 
lead usually red. if you kill yourself , t 
blame me ! ! ! use plastic or other non conducting stand and such to 
mount can. 
now , i would assume that what is good for keeping fields in is also 
good at keeping them out , so this 'll work by on 
being with as well. if not , start those other 
sources. 

jeff 

programmer , 

from  ( tod edward kurt ) 
subject data  ( 10248b ) for logic  ( 1615a ) ! 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 11 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 
keywords logic 

anyone out there in have a spare data or two from an old 
logic if you do , i 'd like to buy it off 
of you. the 's part number is  . 

as a side note , anyone know of any good or other organization 
that would carry logic 

thanks a , 




from  ( joel kolstad ) 
subject re laser vs 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 29 

in article  ( hou lin ) writes 
well , i'm not too sure if this would be the right place to post this , but 
anyway , here goes i was just that some of the current 
up to resolution while a lot of lower end laser 
only offer  . however , the laser still seems to be 
than the  .  .  . how is this or am i missing 
something about the resolution thing 

often a little bit , whereas  ( given half way decent 
, like 's stuff ) do n't .  . both produce very good output , 
but you do n't have to look too closely at the two to tell that 
output is definitely superior .  . 

on the other hand , which have n't been properly and use 
the the owner could find often produce awful output , much 
worse than a  . ) 

one other thing .  .  .  . there are , and then there are  . 
there are a few out there that produce rather output 
 ( such as 's little bubblejet ) , whereas most produce really good 
looking output  ( such as 's  . ibm and both produce some of 
the really good style  . 

joel 

p.s. if you 're in the market for a , i can 
highly recommend the , although i 've heard the 
are good too (i needed support ,  . with the 
, you even get an card ! 

from  ( mark de rooi ) 
subject a help needed 
originator 
nntp posting host et . 
reply to  ( mark de rooi ) 
organization university of technology , dept. of electrical engineering 
lines 18 

i want to convert a with between 1 
and 10 , to a 10 with the same , by 
means of a  . the secondary current will be  . 6 . a  ( 600  . 

what kind of should i use  ( ferrite ) 
can i buy one if so , i need a and 
if i cannot buy one , how do i go about one myself 
what core do i use , how big must it be in order not to , 
what wire , how many turns , etc. 

i know little about , so i hope some kind 
soul here will help me out. 
to relevant will also be highly appreciated. 

thanks , 

mark de 


subject public domain software 
from  ( ed murashie ) 
organization dsg development eng inc. 
nntp posting host 217 . 87 . 
lines 11 

does anyone know of an ftp site where i might find public 
domain software for the motorola 
i am looking for a basic or a  c  
 . thanks in advance. 
ed 


ed us mail inc. 
phone  ( 714 ) system group 
fax  ( 714 ) 200 s. w 
internet , ca 

from  ( hojoong kim ) 
subject looking for dept info in 
organization korea advanced institute of science and technology 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 13 

hi netters ! 

i am looking for the list of universities in , which has department .  . 
i am considering to spend a year for research in about area. i am interested in areas and spread spectrum communications etc. 
but i do n't have any information about universities .  . 
can anybody recommend a good university in co area 
any comments will be ! 

bye .  . 

kim 


from  ( peter tryndoch ) 
subject what s exactly in a 
lines 32 

's exactly in a 

from  ( martin mccormick ) 
organization state university , , ok 
what sort of is the little glass found inside the 

it sort of reminds me of a  . starters appear open when m 
with an so the little is either a or has a 
in series with it. 

i have seen these things all my life , but never read a really good 
description of what is happening inside that little can. 

do you know what a strip is 
just in case it is two of different together , which 
when to one side  ( check out the in your 
christmas tree  . 

so when you turn on the power , this causes the to work like a , 
heating up and out , thus providing a loop to power the in 
the main  . when the , insufficient current runs through the 
to keep the up and the strip out 
 ( o  . 

btw , i too thought that they were nothing more than a small , so one 
day when the in my sisters digital  ( flip the metal type ) 
broke  ( flimsy leads ) , i replaced it with one from a  . well 
up made a bit of a mess of the ! 

cheers 
peter t. 


from  ( joe bore ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
in reply to 's message of 18 apr 93 15 04 10 gmt 
organization brothers 
lines 33 



try finding a friend that has id , then give him a call .  .  .  . 




in article writes 

path com . ! ! ! uunet ! haven . umd . edu . ! darwin . net . ! net . ! howland . reston . ans . net . ! near . net . ! edu . ! edu . ! ! 
from 
newsgroups sci . 
date 18 apr 93 15 04 10 gmt 
lines 13 


! 

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't 
know the number of the line. and i do n't want 
to call up the operator to place a trace on it. 

question is there a certain device out there that i can 
use to find out the number to the line 
thanks for any response. 
al 




joe bore life is short .  .  . code . hard 
... ! uunet ! com . ! 
 ( 212)464 ) ,  ( 212)396 ) 

from  ( ketil , tih ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
organization t i h t i s i p 
posting front end conference v 05 . 15 . 1 . 20 .  ( running under windows ) 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( matt block ) writes 

i guess what i am saying is that your question is difficult , if not 
impossible , to answer. what exactly do you want to know do you need a good 
one for a project you are working on how secure must it be are you trying 
to crack one that someone else has used i can probably make suggestions , 
assuming the activity is strictly legal .  .  ( in general , it is a bad idea , 
legally , to with copy protection. it can also lead to corruption of 
files which you necessarily do not have back of  ( being as they are copy 
protected , ) which can be ) . do you have absolutely no ideas for 
practical applications , and are merely curious 
please clear up those questions , and i 'll try to help as much as i 
can. 

may we interpret this as an offer to as editor for a 
copy protection faq i am quite sure that i am not alone such 
an ! i will to ask some of the questions , if you will 
provide the answers ) 



from  ( griff miller x7114 ) 
subject re 
organization western  . of western l inc. , houston , tx 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( ronald cs ) writes 

the that is mentioned in one of the 
articles , is not or based .  . it runs on a at and 
the design they are using is very  ( simple if you were referring to the 
 . 

hmm i do n't think you and i are thinking of the same thing. i was the 
original poster , btw. the that i'm talking about almost 
certainly uses a , according to the in the ad .  . it 
only costs list , so i really doubt if it has a 28 inside. 

it 's called the 28 , or 28 .  . 
there 's an external model , and an internal model .  . 

btw , does anyone know if a exists 

miller use this for email. 

my opinions are mine , not western 's .  . 

dear friend , do not imitate what is evil but what is good. 
anyone who does what is good is from god. anyone who does 
evil has not seen god. 3 john 9 

from  ( greg andrews ) 
subject re 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 25 

 ( neal patrick howland ) writes 

from what i understand about all they are is a passive 
device much like the radio in your car. they work as an picking 
up that that the gun sends out. therefore there would 
be no way of a any more than there would be of 
whether some one had a radio in their car. 


unfortunately , you 're wrong on both  . the most common method of 
a receiver is to have a local  . the 
local 's can be out of the receiver via 
the unless the is designed and constructed with great 
care. 

for a reference on , get the paperback book . 
the author discovered how to detect radio from their local 
back in the while he worked for british 
intelligence .  . 

greg 

greg andrews 
cats have 18 half lives. 


from  ( scott dorsey ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
organization nasa research center and farm 
lines 16 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 

in article writes 

! 

situation i have a phone jack mounted on a wall. i do n't 
know the number of the line. and i do n't want 
to call up the operator to place a trace on it. 

question is there a certain device out there that i can 
use to find out the number to the line 


call a friend long distance ,  . ask to speak with yourself. when 
the operator asks for you , you wo n't be there , so ask the operator to leave 
your number .  . she 'll read it out in the clear. 
scott 

from  ( michael covington ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host ai . edu . 
organization ai programs , university of , 
lines 9 

there is or was a next to florida 's , and you 
could watch the cars hit the breaks as they came in sight of it every 
morning .  .  .  . 


michael a. , associate research scientist 
artificial intelligence programs 
the university of phone 
, u . s . a .  . amateur radio 

from 
subject video ideas 
organization free university of berlin , germany 
lines 7 

have anyone some idea about how to build a cheap , low 
resolution  ( or high ) video  .  .  . 

 ( example a and an slide projector ) 
. 



from  ( joel kolstad ) 
subject re advice needed 
article i.d. doug . 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
lines 14 

in article  ( peter tryndoch ) writes 

if you are going to use one where it  ( eg , space , 
etc ) then i suggest you go and buy a fluke  ( never seen a beckman ) , however 
for every other use you can buy a  . 

my died a few days ago , thanks do about a 4 or 5 foot drop onto a 
lab table .  . ! @ ! @ ! @ @ probably not of anything , but i 've 
already filled out the for a fluke 87 .  . ) 

oh yeah , and sometimes our measurements here do count. not often , but often 
enough that i want at least one good ! 

joel 

from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re suggestions on 
organization corporation 
lines 23 

in article  ( billy quinn ) writes 
i built a little project using the radio shack to switch 
 . i got pretty bad   when the thing switched .  . i was doing 
most of the common things one is supposed to do when using and 
nothing seemed to get rid of the  . 


my question is 

is there a good relay relay that i can use for switching 
, so that there will be no of any kind on the lines. 


i will appreciate any advice or references to advice. also , exact part 
numbers company names etc. for the will help ! 

are you switching high level or low level like pre 
out level also , are the you mentioning the big 
that happens when it or are you refering to contact 
how are you driving the gate output switching 
how are the connected to what you are driving 

need more to answer your question ! ! ) 

from  ( david vanderbyl ) 
subject re a question about  .  . 
keywords 
nntp posting host chip 
reply to  ( david vanderbyl ) 
organization ltd .  . 
lines 16 

 ( aart olsen ) writes 

i noticed at the that some circuits have the 
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground 
wire was to the same as the neutral  ( white ) wire .  . 

this is contrary to the electrical code and should be fixed. 

sorry , but this is exactly according to the  . 

no need to be sorry , i blew it on this one. at the main box 
where there is a thick wire ground to the earth , both neutral 
and ground are to this bus. in any other box  ( or an 
box , etc . ) . the ground and neutral must not be connected together. 



from  ( mark hald ) 
subject re 
organization university , boston , ma .  . , usa 
distribution usa 
lines 13 

i a  ( red roof inn ) last week in  ( blue , which 
is at the northern of the  .  . i chose it for a few 
reasons. 
1. all in and near were solid .  . 
2. this is only costing 28 night. 
3. it was one of about 4 left on the night i  . 
4. probably has more to to at night than  . i intend 
to hit the at ! 

if anyone has other suggestions for , please let me know of 
other hot  . thanks ! 

mark 

from  ( roger a williams ) 
subject re cheap products 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 27 

 ( mike donahue ) writes 


i do not know much about products , but i do know for a fact 
that does not make its own high end home and that 80 
of it comes directly out of  .  .  . 

like most high volume , has most of its pc 
assembled off  ( in their case , mostly in the far east) .  . final 
assembly and are done in east  . 

the products are , and have always been , designed entirely in the us 
by their own and by like walter  . 
also tends to prefer american and european components over their 
japanese far east  . 

off assembly is one reason that is able to make products 
that perform as well as those from people like research and van 
 ( and better than and forte' ) , but at a much lower cost .  . 

of course , if your diet consists mostly of , you might 
prefer components from or  .  .  . 

roger most great are made 
by accident the larger the 
engineer funding , the longer it takes to 
, mass .  . have that accident. 

from  ( bill vance ) 
subject re help how to construct home built for 3rd grade sci report 
distribution usa 
organization ) . to be organized .  . but that 's not important right now .  .  .  .  .  . 
lines 32 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

dean  ( anneser@pwa b . wrote 
my 9 old son has signed up to do a science report on  . i was 
wondering if anyone could provide me with some information as to how to 
construct a home built  . in my grade school days , i remember seeing 
the  ice cube  version , but i do n't remember what to use as a good 
or what the easily were. 

thank you in advance. 

dean w. 
computer system m.s. 05 
 ( 203)565 )  ( desk )  ( fax ) 400 main st.  .  . ( ) v ( ) 
uucp uunet ! b ! east , ct live to ride 
internet 
one test result is worth one thousand expert opinions von 

dean w. 
computer system m.s. 05 
 ( 203)565 )  ( desk )  ( fax ) 400 main st.  .  . ( ) v ( ) 
uucp uunet ! b ! east , ct live to ride 



the simplest one is easy .  . take a or other type fruit , and 
stick a pair of metal into it for the contacts .  . the two must 
be of like and  . then connect a to 
the contacts and read the  . 

 ( bill vance ) , , 
! ! bill 

you listen when i , i listen when  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ) 

from  ( mark w kubovich ) 
subject common mode and small 
keywords common mode 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 20 

i have never worked with really small before and have a few 
questions about low level  . i have noticed that the 
that i am using  ( analogic 2020 ) has some relatively large 
common mode on it. i am using this to  null  out another 
and am the difference ( 200uv ) several hundred 
times. the has about 1 3 p of common mode and this tends to 
make my measurements hard to repeat .  .  ( the is not quite in with 
line , and on a spectrum , the main component is about  . 

how can i get rid of the when i look at the spectrum using an 
 ( audio range analyzer ) , the goes away the minute i switch to 
 isolation  on the input. i am the has a on the 
since it will read accurately down to  . 

also , if i use a  ( ia ) to solve the problem , 
how important is it to use one of these  drivers   ( an connected 
to the in sort of a loop to remove trouble caused 
by different capacitances ) if anyone can suggest a good ic ia for 
use with with content from to about , i would 
appreciate it. 

from  ( soh yung ) 
subject re protection of serial  ( rs232 ) lines 
organization national university of singapore 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 39 

martin john wrote 
i 've started to look at some devices doing serial data 
over fairly decent in fairly , and have 
seen a variety of for protecting the  ( and 
the rest of the circuit ) from on the serial lines. i'm 
left wondering what is the best way of doing this how necessary is 
it 
stuff deleted 
what is the wisdom on this out there 

, 

martin .  . 


from what i know , protection is necessary , esp. if you plan to route 
the into an unknown environment  ( out of your  . things 
like accidental between the signal lines and power , or 
even strikes are very likely and i do n't think you like to see 
the sight of your computer going up in ! even cards are 
protected .  . i 've looked at the one in my pc and the is 
protected by a gas ! 

but if you plan to use the serial for internal (i . e .  . in 
controlled environments ) , it should be reasonably safe not to have 
them. 

suggestion look in the rs data book. they have several 
that have protection. among them include the 
, and and  . the are suppose to be 
isolated ones but still need to work  ( do n't 
ask me why. i 've never used them before. 

another alternative is an  . two are listed in the 
rs  . if you need additional info (i . e .  . stock ) . , just e mail 
me. 

, 


from  ( jerome kaidor ) 
subject re electronic  ( was used 
reply to 
organization communications , santa ca 
lines 31 
nntp posting host com . 


just a few comments about the of up a bunch of 
on your electronic with an  .  .  .  . 

i would n't expect to be able to do this. not because the at are 
putting in anti fraud logic , but just because an automobile is a , hostile 
environment for , and i would expect the software to be conservative .  . 

if i were to design a based program , 
it would have the following features ( just off the top of my head ) 

( is this a real , or just a ) 
the rate of change of speed cannot be too high 
this is a car , not an  . 
top speed limit anything above is ridiculous must be 
electrical or contact 

as for getting in and the if this is the board out of 
a , i seem to remember a single big chip with in the 
middle of the card .  . good luck getting at the counter ) .  . 

i would n't expect a high to damage the remember , it 's 
probably so it ca n't move too fast , and is probably protected .  . after all , 
a car is an extremely hostile place for there used to be an 
note in the national that went into this 
in good detail. 

jerry ( ! , ) 


jerry 

from  ( randy agee ) 
subject 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( richmond ) 
lines 27 

several years back one of the , in 
to virginia 's law against , passed out 
thousands of fake at stops near 
the virginia state lines. at that time there were no 
! i am not sure of the impact but i would 
imagine that enforcement of the law by a 
became difficult if not impossible ! 

as i said earlier , efforts to out or eliminate the va law 
against has been in  . in fact , effective 
jan .  . 1 , 1993 , the fine for of a 
to the of a in va is now 250 . 00 .  . 

i have noted an interesting with my dr 100 2 
ham  .  .  .  . it will make a cheap 
! i am not sure of the range , but it is obvious by the 
that it can be at least 50 feet at 50 ! ) 


t. at some point , you probably pondered the 
p.o. box 20th meaning of life , and you came up with a 
virginia department of education answer , which has or has not 
, va stood the test of time , or you 
phone  ( 804 ) , beats the heck out of 
me , and ordered a  . 



from  ( joseph krzeszewski ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 4 
nntp posting host edu . 

in texas  ( well , anyway ) if you pick up the phone and 
the phone company will read back the number to you. 
try it. it might work. 


from fr .  ( andrei yakovlev ) 
subject references to switched filter wanted .  . 
organization university of , france .  . 
lines 9 


hi all ! 

i would like to know what are the popular of the type , their capabilities 
( of et . c . ) . and ) 

great thanks , 

andrew .  . 

from  ( scott bailey ) 
subject re 's 
summary 's and other 
keywords 's , , book 
organization university of island college of engineering 
lines 30 

hi all , 
i 've been following this thread about 's for a few weeks and i 
happened to come across one of the best project books that i 've seen in a 
while. the book 's by gordon over 55 
excellent low cost including 's , , 
, a van de , robots , an , and several laser 
 . the instructions come with complete part lists , warnings and 
 . for those of you who are interested in building any of the above 
listed , you should seriously consider getting this book. the 
paperback version is only 19 . too. 

for those who want more information 
title 's ! 55 space age 
gordon 
pub tab books 
1990 
isbn 0 7 
0 x  ( paperback ) 
price 19 .  ( paperback ) 

scott 


scott a. include disclaimer . h . 
operator 
computer engineering i'm just a knight who the moon .  .  .  . 
university of island have n't caught it yet , but i have n't let that 
keep me from still trying each day and night 
( ) 


from  ( zapper ) 
subject re , 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 35 

could some kind soul post me the power current of 
and , their types and  . 
they are used in the portion of a tv set .  . 





ic 
pc  ( t 25c ) 





at q point 5 , ic 1a 100 





ic 
pc  ( t 25c ) 





at q point , ic 1a 100 

that 's all i can get from my data book , hope that helps .  . 





from  ( john thomson ) 
subject re what is zero 
nntp posting host 
organization bell northern research , ottawa , canada 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 47 

joseph wrote 
 ( babak sehari ) writes 

similarly , people usually use for  . another common mistake is 
  instead of   as you did in your article. see the   is for 
  company , the mother of at t and should be  . 

thus , a  ( deci , l. , tenth of bell ) is a part of the 
original bell .  . for example , bell is a  . 

out of what hat did you pull this one is a ratio not an ! 

and the measure of current , , is actually named after both the company 
and the company .  . both by 
realizing that the of and 
were affected by the amount of current running through the  . 

sorry. the for current is the which is the name of a french man 
named who studied electrical current .  . the term is just an 
of it. the company came after the was already in use. 

the company was the first to characterize by numbers , thus 
our use of the  .  .  . 

i do n't know about this one , but it does n't sound right. 


graham bell , actually , is where bell came from .  .  .  . 
well you got one thing right ! 



actually , refers 

with highest regards , 
 . 



joseph 2 you gotta get this thing ! 
caltech 
pasadena , ca 2 the operating system of tomorrow , today. 
1 

greg 
bell northern research inc. , ottawa canada 
my opinions not bnr 's 

from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re public domain circuits in applications 
organization u of 
lines 16 

in article  ( michael covington ) writes 
... law says you can build anything 
you want to , for your own personal use .  .  .  . 

i'm not up on the details of us law , but i think this is incorrect .  . 
there is a reasonable use for . there is none for 
. the from are quite narrow r d work 
is exempt but personal use is not. that is , it 's okay to experiment with 
a patented idea , but not to put it to practical use (e . g .  . to improve your 
stereo ) , even if it 's only your own private practical use. 

of course , it is unlikely that personal use will ever be detected 
or that you will ever be over it. 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( marxhausen paul ) 
subject how to kill ac inductive load 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

is there a fast  n way to kill the line that occurs when 
an inductive load is turned on sometime other than at zero of 
the ac cycle a in somehow , etc 

i 've got a that is running a bunch of and 
in a big instrument , and almost everything is being switched with 
zero solid state , so that stuff quiet , ac wise .  . 
but there 's one steam that gets turned on by a relay 
in the water fill system , and it 's not under control 
of my , and it does sometimes generate a that 
one of my  . my software times out and tries again , but 
i 'd love to just in a magic killing fix that would avoid having 
to do some major redesign .  . a would help but might not 
be sufficient .  . ideas 


paul ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . . . . . . university of nebraska lincoln . . .  .  .  . . .  .  .  . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . happens . 

from  ( anthony s. pelliccio ) 
subject re 's 
organization 's italian kitchen and in operating network 
x newsreader v1 . 02 . 
lines 27 

r . writes 

can anybody recommend a good , application oriented 's reference 
to circuits 

i am pretty good on theory know what different types of mean , 
but do n't have a lot of practical experience. a book detailing working 
circuits of different types  ( modulation , power , , what is legal , 
what is not , et cetera ) , would be very helpful .  . 

thanks. 

well , you might try the a . r . r . l .  . 's license study  . for example , my 
advanced class study guide has lots and lots of good and 
theory in it. i would imagine the other books are good too. 

tony 


anthony s. , yes , you read it right , the 
system @ garlic . com . man who went from no code 
 ( thhhppptt ! ) to extra in 
flame sysadmin exactly one year ! 

this is a calm  . sig . ! 



from joseph n 
subject re electric power line 
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 5 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 


do you know if there is an airport nearby they may just be 
to tell of small that there are power lines nearby .  . 

joe 

from  ( dale ulan ) 
subject part 
nntp posting host ee . ca . 
reply to  ( dale ulan ) 
organization university of electrical engineering 
distribution na 
lines 8 


i know what the is all about , but i'm trying to figure 
out what the is .  .  .  . specifically , what does the 
stand for 





from  ( gerrit heitsch ) 
subject re and 
distribution world 
organization project  ( private uucp site ) 
lines 31 

in article , internet writes 

does any one know if the is pin compatible with the  .  . 

no , the is able to operate in a 2 system , the can only 
take 1 without problems. 

if you see a made by or , take it , its a  . 

it seems the has in bug with and i need 
a suitable pin replacement to put in my serial card .  .  .  . possibly a 
version perhaps 

i know no fixed version of the  . there are different possibilities 
to work around this bug .  . the easiest is to tie to and 
use or as  . it should be easy to fix the software , 
is bit 6 and ist bit 5 of the status  ( read 
with low and  . 

using the line can lead into big trouble .  . the 
stops if goes high. this means , that you may 
get only a half  .  .  . 




16 germany 
logical uucp fido  ( 2 
if we will ever be visited by , it will be very hard to explain , why a 
, that is intelligent enough to build atomic weapons can be stupid 
enough to do it.  ( taken from special about space , page 88 91 ) 

from  ( brian buhrow ) 
subject need help finding switch and for 
keywords switch , help , computer 
organization national of the blind of california 
lines 14 


net. i have a with the phoenix , an on board 
, and two on board serial  . unfortunately , i do n't 
have a manual for this and i would like to be able to the 
in order to use the i have. 
the board says it is made in korea and it uses the  . if 
anyone can give me a clue as to how to go about the board so as 
not to use the , or how to go about finding out how to do it , 
their help would be greatly appreciated. 
thank you in advance for your assistance .  . 
please mail with your responses as my news feed is rather 
 . 
thank you very much ! 
brian 

from  ( chris best ) 
subject re power supply 
organization your service 
lines 17 
nntp posting host com . 

i'm no expert at 's , but you said something that made it sound like 
you did n't realize something. on a typical  ( well , on ours , anyway ) , 
there is no from ac to  . all the protected equipment is 
always running from the  ( via an inverter ) , with the usual 
condition of also having them on charge .  . if the power fails , big deal 
the computers never see it  ( until the start to , but 
there 's something like 60 car in that , so it 
takes a  . 

if you were gonna run the on straight instead of an , 
why not do it all the time then there 'd be no to 
things up , and no having to sense the failure fast .  . just keep the 
on charge when the power is on , and it 'll be there in zero time when 
you need it. 

just some ideas. ca n't what 'll work or not , but hope at least 
some of this helped. 

from  ( anders hammarquist ) 
subject re need to find out number to a phone line 
organization university of technology 
lines 11 

in article  ( sean oliver ) writes 
joseph writes 
the phone company will read the number of the phone you are on 

where i live , i use  . the number to is for the same result. 


in ny city , the number to is  .  .  . it seems to be different in different 
areas .  . 



from  ( kelly gray ) 
subject re needed for 
organization college technology dept. 
lines 29 

according to my , the for the display are as 
follows 

pin 1 led supply 
pin 2 data b 
pin 3 data a 
pin 4 left point 
pin 5 
pin 6 
pin 7 common ground 
pin 8 
pin 9 
pin 10 right point 
pin 11 
pin 12 data d 
pin 13 data c 
pin 14 logic supply , 

the logic supply is @ 60  . the led supply is also , but 
it need not be particularly well  . the led drivers on the chip 
use a constant current source , so led is not affected by the 
supply  . 




o o kelly gray 
 ( preferred ) 


from  ( john d. zitterkopf ) 
subject info  . ic possible models 
keywords , 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university 
lines 40 

hi , 

being a electronic engineering student with only electronic ii under 
my belt , i find myself to build a moderate  . so , 
i 'll out a couple of question for the vast knowledge of the  net  ! 

please explain how are calculated in circuits .  . no , 
not p i e , just how it relates to one of the following 

ai current gain 
gain 
ap power gain 
or whatever. 

i already have a wonderful cheap i.e 20 for a , but 
i would like to cross improve the  . the problem is that the parts 
list has and as  . they look like 11 pin 
with a  . this was published in a 1991 
so it may be non existant now. anyway , i tried looking up a replacement in 
the latest key cat and found it not listed  . the closes i could 
figure was a 9 pin as  . anyone got any ideas 

i thought , hey i can a using 
models .  . yea , great ! it worked .  . but , i guess the was n't made for high 
power  . as a result , i got a gain of v. worse than 
i started with  .  .  . does anyone have a file with cheap yet 
good gain how about some models for some of the listed in this 
e mail any ascii chip info you guys can send me 

i'm open to suggestions ideas comments help ! 
please e mail since i have little time to search the news .  .  .  . 
and i 'll post if there 's and interest ! 
john 



ibm ee do it best 8 ) 
john d. 
( ( rules ! 
( 

from  ( bob myers ) 
subject re questions 
organization , , co , usa 
lines 31 

if my life on it , i 'd say that it 's a that 
uses long to keep the 
on the for some of time them. 
do i get to live 

we 'll let you live , but just this once .  .  .  .  . 

there 's more to a real than just a long 
 . actually , the t usually anything special at all 
what makes a work is a placed just behind the , 
which becomes charged as the beam writes the trace .  . 
with the trace now written to the , a separate low level flood 
gun keeps the image by those areas of 
which are next to the written areas on the screen. there are 
some problems with this the resolution is limited compared to a non 
, and the trace tends to with time. 

of course , this is pretty much technology , done in by the current 
digital which use and keep everything in a 
frame memory anyways .  . 

i 'll buy a  . best e mail 


ah , yes from the same people who brought you that amazing new reading 
program that 's sweeping eastern europe on ! ) 


bob co .  . opinions expressed here are not 
systems technology  . those of my employer or any other 
, sentient life form on this planet. 

from he . ac . uk .  ( nwz96h ) 
subject help .  .  .  . 
lines 12 

, 

has anyone used the requirements i am 
a british final year real time degree student , and as a project i am covering 
this  . i would be very to anyone who could give me their 
views on this method. please mail me if you feel you can help , and i will send 
you my questions. 

thanks in advance , 

david 


from  ( stich , christian e . ) . 
subject motorola and 
organization university of houston 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host uh . edu . 
keywords motorola , , , , 33 50 , problems  ( fpu exception ) 
news software vax vms 1.41 

i just a motorola in an board  ( 25 
with capability to the  . previously 
a was and everything was working perfectly .  . now the 
systems a  ( indicating a exception ) when it check for 
the presence type of  . when i an the system works 
fine , but with the even at 25 it does not work. the designer 
of the board mentioned that putting a on data  ( 470 ohm ) 
might help , but that did n't change anything. does anybody have some 
suggestions what i could do does this look like a communications 
problem or is the particular chip dead  ( it is a pull , not new ) 
moreover , the place i bought it from is sending me an  . i thought 
that the were labeled not  ( for not  . 
are there any 

thanks 
christian 


from  ( wayne smith ) 
subject re 
organization the john p. research institute , london , ontario 
distribution na 
nntp posting host heart . ca . 
lines 21 

in article  ( scott babb ) writes 

the federal communications act of made it legal for you to 
operate a radio receiver of any kind , on any  ( including 
x , k , and bands ) in the united states. the electronic 
communications act of  ( 1989 ) restricted the of 
by making it illegal to receive the land telephone service , 
including (i believe )  . 

illegal to receive land telephone service do n't you have to have a 
to even have land telephone service what about 
to telephone service 

no was placed 
on receiving  ( or , , ) . enforcement 
of the virginia law is in violation of the of  . 

n't there some kind of rule  ( regulation , law , whatever ) in some 
that the use of police 
in and that transmissions are included in the police 
so they get covered by the same 

from  ( daniel burstein ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization public access unix , 
lines 27 

lots of pretty good stuff about how the huge near most nuclear 
power plants are there to cool the used steam back into near 
water deleted 

water .  . as i recall the water is n't as hot  ( thermodynamically ) in many 
fossil plants , and of course there is less danger of 
contamination .  . 

actually , fossil plants run than the usual 
water reactor nuclear plants .  .  ( there 's a in the industry 
that nuclear power uses 1900 steam  . so it 's 
more important in nuclear plants to get the cold end of the system 
as cold as possible. hence big  . 

as a point of info , some of the early nuclear power plants in this 
country used the pile as a first stage to get the water hot , and 
then had a second stage fossil step to get the water  ( actually 
steam ) very hot. 

i remember seeing this at con 's point 1 power plant , 
which is about 30 north of , and built more or less  . 




 ( all the usual disclaimers apply , whatever they may be ) 


from  ( tim deagan ) 
subject  ( epld ) 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization 
lines 13 

anyone know a reasonable for programming pals i am interested 
in programming a wide range of but would be happy with something 
that could handle a or  . 

thanks in advance , 
tim 



rev. tim official obnoxious poster 
no one but me is responsible for anything i write , believe in or preach 
it is difficult to free fools from chains they  . 


from  ( paul malenfant ) 
subject questions 
reply to  ( paul malenfant ) 
organization data general corporation , , ma 
lines 26 


i am some simple circuits that run on to my 
board which runs at 5  . the is a  . 
on the led side , i put the signal i want through a 
to the base of a  . on the side , i tie my 
line to the which has a pull up 
of  . 

it functions ok , but seems very slow .  . i can detect 
that occur at about , but not much  . is n't the 
rise fall time of this device , something like i should 
be able to detect my target of , but i ca n't get  . 
this is done using wire and the going to the 
and to the test pin are about 8 long , but i'm not 
doing anything high speed .  . 

in the art of , it mentions the base of the 
to ground through a to improve the 
speed .  . is that what i need to do how do i the 
value 




paul 
@ com .  ( 508 6460 ) 

from  ( joel kolstad ) 
subject re 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
keywords , , 
lines 40 

in article  . c. bowman ) writes 



i just bought a new for the office , and i notice that 
it proudly proclaims 8 times on the box .  . now while i think 
i understand what is  ( the rate of discrete samples 
the highest component of interest by some factor ) , 
i do n't understand this 8 times business .  .  .  . it seems to me that when 
i bought my first  ( was it really 10 years ago ! ) , the 
said 4 times ... could someone please tell me whether i'm getting 
if i'm not , then what good does it do for the to take 
samples at a higher rate if i really wanted better fidelity , would n't 
i have to have the same higher rate of during the recording 
process furthermore , am i wrong in interpreting the rate 
 ( from the 's point of view ) as being the same thing as the data 
rate for the bit coming off the medium does this mean 
that the data rate  ( related to the speed of the disk ) has 
changed since 

note i just tried to figure this stuff out about a month ago myself , from 
various people on the net , so i could be wrong. 

the data is only ever read once  ( barring and such , of course) , 
and eventually gets turned into 44 . 1 . , 16 bit , two channel data .  . 
takes two discrete data points , and n 1 points 
between them for n times  . when i asked , people said that the 
interpolation was not simply interpolation , but more 
complicated .  . 

anyway , then , the purpose of is to move the effective 
rate up to n times 44 . 1 . , in order to use higher 
 . for the same quality filter , higher 
lets you build , whereas for the same price filter , higher 
lets you build better  . so , assuming the quality of 
all other components in a remained the same , should 
allow a to produce slightly better sound due to anti 
filtering .  . 

joel 

from  ( joel kolstad ) 
subject radio shack voice recognition 
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering 
distribution usa 
lines 10 

hi there , 

i have a friend who 'd like to get a hold of a bunch of those simple voice 
recognition that radio shack used to sell  ( and no longer  . if 
anybody knows of a source for these , please e mail me. i 'll forward the 
responses to him. 

thanks ! 

joel 

from  ( dave medin ) 
subject re 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( david vanderbyl ) writes 
 ( dave medin ) writes 
the , in fact , does have an intentional built in for 
its function just as ic 's have built in , etc. 

gee , mr. , are we going to let this go without a correction 

two things 

1. read your own posts. i was with bob .  . no correction 
needed .  . 

2. do n't quote stuff out of context. 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( john schuch ) 
subject re radio free information card 
nntp posting host mot . com . 
organization motorola computer group , tempe , az .  . 
lines 73 

in article  ( neil b. gandler ) writes 

how does the radio free information cards work. 
do they just send you some general information about the that 
in their magazine or does it also give you sign you up for a 
catalog .  . 

that depends entirely upon the whose number you  . 
radio all of the cards , then each 
gets a computer of the names and addresses of all of the readers 
who their number .  . some also provide the data on 
self , and the really big provide the 
data on computer  . 

the decides what to do with the data they get .  . you will 
notice that the radio information card  ( commonly called 
a card in the industry ) includes lines for a company name 
and a business phone number .  . my guess would be that the big , national 
make a distinction between and as 
best they can. for example , if you include motorola as your company 
and include a business phone  ( and a mail stop ) , will probably 
send you a copy of their hard bound catalog and have a sales engineer 
call you about a week later. if you leave it , odds are they 
will send you a slick and direct you to a local 
 . medium and small are more likely to send you 
e whole catalog .  . and then some , like or , have 
nothing to mail out accept the catalog .  . 

a couple of other interesting points about cards free , industry 
like and such also log your card to their computer .  . they 
use the information at least three ways. they note that you really do read 
the magazine and are more likely to continue your or push 
you , through repeated , to re subscribe .  . they also 
how many people requested which data for their  . 
this way can tell a that 23 of readers 
requesting data were interested in  . and finally , some 
lists of readers who request certain information. for 
example , can a list of everyone who requested information 
about test equipment other than 's , in the past 6 months. 

the other point , in the data the , many 
include how many items you on the card .  . if they want , the 
can attempt to out the literature from 
the serious potential  . 

can you say qualified sales leads i thought you could. 

what 's the best way for a to deal with cards 

never circle more than 8 number on the card .  . if you want more 
than 8 items , use the second card and mail it a couple of 
weeks later. 

if you are really , really serious and you really , really want 
the information , call the and ask ! this will also 
cut about 15 days off the the response time. virtually 
everyone takes a voice on the phone more seriously than data 
on a computer  . 

to help you keep getting a trade magazine that you 're 
not really qualified for , send in a card at least every 
other month and circle two or three numbers. 

include a business name and phone number , even if it 's your house. 
almost never call .  . 

john 
of the arizona high tech times 
the arizona electrical journal 
the arizona news 
 ( all of which have cards ) 



from  ( tony wayne ) 
subject speaker help needed 
organization virginia 's public education network  ( charlottesville ) 
lines 7 

i want to connect a very small home made speaker 
up to the jack on my for an experiment .  . 
the resistance of the speaker is 1  . any ideas how i can 
do this safely i think i need some kind of an 
or something. 
tony 


from  ( aaron lung ) 
subject re tv ! 
organization corporation 
distribution usa 
lines 39 

in article  ( prasad ramakrishna ) writes 
i had a 13 color tv for about 3 years and one fine day , 
while we were watching something (i doubt if the program was the cause ) , 
we heard a mild  . our went but there was sound , 
so we thought ,  oh we have special effects on the  . but soon 
the sound stopped and started to appear at the back of the tv. 
the we are , we the tv and called customer service 
only to be thrown around by please hold , i will u to blah blah .  .  . 
finally we abandoned the idea of trying to fix the tv and got a new one 
 ( we wanted a bigger one too ! ) .  . 
after all the story , what i wanted to know is is my problem an isolated 
incident or a common one (i recall reading about , but 
not here , in the  . why would the picture explode or even 
i still have the left over tv set , i might dig into it this summer .  . any 
idea where i can get parts for these things  ( probably will cost more than  . 


, , ,  .  .  . i . laugh because i have the same damn tv , and it 
did the same thing ! actually it is a , but it 's essentially the 
same tv and just a different face and name. 

1. fortunately , tv do n't explode .  . i 'd think the tv want 
to make this possibility remote as possible. if at all , they 'll 
and the glass that out would be the result of the 
glass off the back of the due to the  . in any 
case , do n't kick it around ! ) 

2 i fixed the tv after getting a hold of some  . it turned 
out to be a blown feeding the  . i guess 
the original was a bit too small to the it 
created , burning itself out. i checked to make sure the was n't 
or anything first ! oh , , i had a lying 
around that had just the right value for what i needed .  . i ca n't see it 
being more than 50 ! . 

well , to say , the tv still works today. so go get a set of 
and have some fun .  .  . just . do n't get shocked around 
the  . 


from  ( mark e. kilpela ) 
subject re a question about  .  . 
nntp posting host tech . edu . 
organization michigan university 
lines 32 

in article , 
 ( russ crisp ) wrote 


i'm considering some old in my home , and 
i need a little advice on  . several 
are the old  two  type , without the ground. naturally , 
the wire feeding these is 12 2 , without the ground 
wire .  . i noticed at the that some circuits have the 
12 2 with ground , and that on these circuits , the ground 
wire was to the same as the neutral  ( white ) wire .  . 

so .  .  . here 's my question. it seems to me that i 'd have the 
same electrical if i the neutral d d d d d d d d d d from the neutral 
over to the ground on new  three   . 
what 's wrong with my reasoning here 

first , it will not pass a national electrical code inspection .  . 
secondly , the neutral wire is current carrying and the ground wire 
should n't be , or only during a fault condition. 

the reason the neutral and ground are together in the is the 
on the power has a grounded center secondary , with the 
grounded center the neutral .  . this gives to  ( neutral(ground ) from 
each side of the and across the  . so in effect 
the neutral and ground should be at the same potential. 


mark e. email 
michigan university 
school of technology 


from  ( engineer by day by night ) 
subject re a question about  . 
organization michigan university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 13 

dave wrote 
they require two separate grounds .  . one ground goes to the ground pin 
of the , and the other ground wire is connected to the 's 
 ( and thus grounds the box and and metal 
, if any) .  . 

i thought the ground was connected to the metal frame on the  . 



wolf electrical engineer 

remember , even if you win the rat race you 're still a rat .  . 

from  ( jason blakey ) 
subject ftp sites anyone 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization math , cs , university , , , canada 
lines 7 

netters ) does anyone out there know any ftp sites for , 
plans , etc of an electrical nature 

jason 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
jason 

from  ( steve icnc ) 
subject re what do nuclear site 's do 
organization 
lines 26 
distribution world 
nntp posting host france . sun . com . 
keywords nuclear 

in article , ( s . walker . man 50 ) writes 


i really do n't know where to post this question so i that 
this board would be most appropriate. 
i was wondering about those massive concrete that 
are ever present at nuclear sites .  . they look like 
that have been in the middle .  . does anybody know what the 
actual purpose of those things are . i hear that they 're called 
  but what the heck do they cool 

water .  . nuclear do n't generate directly from the 
reactor , they use the reactor to generate  . the is then used to 
water just as in a conventional oil or station , and the 
steam drives the  . 

the are used to cool the steam and it into water 
to continue the cycle 

steve 


steve 
sun 
, france 
email 

from  ( mike harpe ) 
subject wanted for the mac 
organization university of 
lines 12 

the title says it all. contact me via email if you would can help me out .  .  .  . 

mike 
university of 

p.s. i know it is  . i want someone who would like to sell 
an old copy. 

michael , programmer information technology ,  . 
university of 
 ( 502)588 ) ,  . 
he 's not a man , he 's a eating machine ! the 

from  ( mark zenier ) 
subject re illusion 
organization , inc. , seattle , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 22 

chris best wrote 
this is not a new idea. at least 10 years ago i got this little with 
a keyboard on the back and 8 led 's in a row on the front .  . it has a 
long handle and when you wave it in the air it writes the message you typed 
on the keyboard in the air. 

this is not news. in fact it 's where i got the idea from , since it was 
such a neat item. made it , i believe , modeled after a space 
or light sword or something likewise theme y .  . my addition was 
using a for continuous display , and effects in addition to 
character  . i should have protected it when i had the chance. 
no one to kick but myself .  .  .  . 

ten years ago is about right , since i built mine in  or  . 

it 's even older than that. i remember seeing a description of 
a operation selling them at some of the early computer 
in san francisco about 5 years before that. 


mark 


from  ( henry spencer ) 
subject re how can 0 . be different from two 0 . in series ! 
organization u of 
lines 13 

in article  ( michael golan ) writes 
the board itself is also identical , with room for all three caps .  . the 
us can versions is clearly indicated in both places. 

how does that make sense 0 . 2 is 0 . , essentially 0 . for caps 
 ( there are just standard caps , no special w type  . 

this may be a safety issue the is more in certain areas than 
and such. two caps in series means that you do n't have a short if one 
of them  . 

all work is one man 's work. henry @ u of 
! henry 

from  ( dave medin ) 
subject re police  .  .  . just . how does it work 
reply to 
organization corporation , al 
lines 35 

in article ,  ( michael deaddio ) writes 

question 2 

if i am right about the  ( doppler(if i it different every time , 
maybe one will be right ) effect , how does the get an accurate reading 
when the car containing it is moving it would seem to me ( for all 
worth ) that it would need to be with the of the car 
containing it i am fairly sure this is n't the case , so the deal 

essentially , this is actually how it is done. the gun is into 
the of the car. 

no , it is independent of the  . the gun processes two 
returns the speed of the car relative to the and the speed 
of the target , taking the difference between the two .  . some guns with 
a moving mode actually have a split beam with one beam aimed 
at the  . 

car and had a good article on traffic , but it was back in 
1985 .  . i used its contents and references to defend myself against a bogus 
measured  . it detailed moving mode , which is easier to 
defend against because of the increased amount of  . 



dave phone  ( 205 )  ( w ) 
 ( 205 ) 837  ( h ) 
corp .  . 
m s internet 
, al uucp  .  .  . uunet . ! ! ! ! 

everywhere you look  ( at least around my office ) 

the opinions expressed here are mine  ( or those of my machine ) 

from  ( phil crawley ) 
subject read only if going to in chicago 
keywords , 
lines 20 
nntp posting host ee . ca . 
organization university , montreal , canada .  . 


this is message is only of interest to those going to 
international symposium on circuits and systems that is being 
held in chicago this may .  . 

i checking to see if there is any people out there who would be 
interested in getting together for a game of during 
the off hours of the conference .  . if so could you e mail me at 



i 'll bring a ball .  . if you know someone who is going to the 
conference and you know that they are 
please pass on this message to them. also if someone in 
chicago is going to the conference please let me know if 
there is any field near the where we can play .  . 

thanks. bye .  . 

philip 

from  ( babak sehari ) 
subject re how to the copy protected .  . 
originator cc . edu . 
organization iowa state university of science and technology , ames , iowa .  . 
lines 55 

in  ( matt block ) writes 

in article  ( babak sehari ) writes 


i was wondering , what copy protection techniques are , and how 
effective are they has anyone have any experience in this area 

with highest regards , 
 . 

uh oh .  .  .  . 
umm , there are a number of copy protection  . some involve 
the physical media , and some involve , c. 
all of the ones that have existed over the course of computing have 
been successful for a time. i recall , however , near monthly of new 
ways to crack the copy protection scheme of the latest  . the fact 
is , none of them are completely secure , or anywhere near it. some are more or 
less difficult to crack , and some have already been  . 
i guess what i am saying is that your question is difficult , if not 
impossible , to answer. what exactly do you want to know do you need a good 
one for a project you are working on how secure must it be are you trying 
to crack one that someone else has used i can probably make suggestions , 
assuming the activity is strictly legal .  .  ( in general , it is a bad idea , 
legally , to with copy protection. it can also lead to corruption of 
files which you necessarily do not have back of  ( being as they are copy 
protected , ) which can be ) . do you have absolutely no ideas for 
practical applications , and are merely curious 
please clear up those questions , and i 'll try to help as much as i 
can. 

, the uh oh .  .  .  . at the top is of the dread 
anyone who has watched their friends equipment be off 
when they are asked how to hack .  . the area you are is wrought with 
, many of which include breaking the law , or at least addressing it 
 ( from one side or the other . ) . 

matt 

i have written a program and i want to market it. i would like certain degree 
of protection , since my main are individuals and not the 
 . i know laser hole burning method , and hardware key method , 
however , my software is going to cost only 15 . 00 . , so i can not afford that. 
also , at this low price i can not afford people make too many copy of my 
software .  . well , i guess say 20 copying is ok by me. 

however , i do not want someone to get a copy of and copy my software .  . 
off course , i never meant to forbid the true from copying , since they 
can a better program anyway. 

with highest regards , 
 . 




from  ( ed byrnes ) 
subject getting rid of 
organization university , rochester mi .  . 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

my display has a bad case of the  . i have a good ground. i 
live in an old house and i have replaced much of the  . i have two 
on the computer , the into the computer .  . when 
are on , the display , when run 
in the house , the display , when are on in the 
kitchen the display  . i could bring a separate line from the 
box , and use it only for the computer , would this do it 
does n't only travel the 110 line though. should i the back of 
the ground a or 
your expertise is appreciated. thanks very much ! ed 


ed fax 
university rochester , mi north america 


from  . c . d .  . smith ) 
subject re why is telephone 3000 
organization computer science , university 
lines 47 
nntp posting host ac . uk . 


telephone systems have the capability of a of to  . 
the reason they do not implement this is it is not 
to every telephone system. in addition , the most mix of 
electrical , and a 
 . 

close , but no  ( to paraphrase  .  .  . 
the reason is used is that voice used to 
when on a line. therefore , at the 
bottom , and at the top of this were filtered to minimise 
interference with the next  . 

nowadays , digital have made this less relevant , but the phone 
still see no reason to improve quality  ( especially for free ! ) .  . 
therefore , digital of a still have a guaranteed 
bandwidth of only  ( so they can carry the equivalent of one 
line ) at the rate of a standard or digital  . 

it 's all historical .  .  .  . 


here in the uk , the bandwidth apparently only apply to 
local lines .  .  . ie those used by the average domestic  . private 
lines which are run from the local exchange to the are 
usually capable of a higher bandwidth if the exchange is digital .  . 

do n't quote me on that .  .  .  .  .  . but i think i remember a engineer 
saying something to that effect when i was doing some work 
a few years ago. 

! 


chris ) 


name mr chris smith on that  ole guitar ! 

uni university quest to build more and more hardware 
computer science 


what ever the sun may be , it is certainly not a ball of flaming gas ! 
d . h .  . lawrence .  . 

all views expressed are my own , and reflect that of private thought. 

from  ( peter hendricks ) 
subject re wanted a to d hardware for a pc 
to 
nntp posting host 
organization , , germany 
lines 23 

in com . brad writes 

if you know much about pc 's  ( ibm comp ) you might try the 
 . though i have n't tried this myself , i 've been told that the 
has built in a d  . this would allow the to be a couple of 
 . if you could find the this might just work for you .  .  .  . 

i guess , connecting 1 3  ( 1x ) , 1 6  ( 1y ) , 9 11  ( 2x ) , and 9 13  . 

or get an 8 bit  ( merely a couple of and 
resistors ) and an to compare its output to the you want to 
measure , connect them to a  ( if you have one) , and do 
the rest by software  ( stepwise  . the addresses for your 
are probably  ( lpt1 ) ,  . this should work 
well enough for your purposes. 

hope this helps 


, , , d st. 1 , 

e mail 


from  ( paul johnson ) 
subject effect 
reply to  ( paul johnson ) 
organization research centre , great , 
lines 45 


i was having a look through a couple of components when i 
came across a range of effect intended for 
components .  . for those who have not heard of this effect , you put a 
current through one of these devices , and it from one side 
to the other. reverse the current and you reverse the effect. i 
think a difference can give you an as well. 

anyway , it me that you could make a nice cool hot box for 
with one of these , a power , a and a 
couple of  . the biggest device can shift with an 
of 80 90 , which ai n't bad  ( although it would my 
car in about half an  . 

unfortunately the did n't list anything more than the basic 
as a  . i imagine that you would get a back as the 
across the device increases .  . if so , presumably 
its power as the back increases , until eventually we 
have a state with no current being  ( assuming no 
 . if so , then the final difference between the 
two sides could be set by the supply and nothing more 
 ( although that would be a lousy way to control it) .  . 

what i would like to know is 

1 are the above correct 

2 what is the open thermal resistance of a typical device 
(i just want to be sure that my is not going to get warm 
too fast when i it) 

3 how does a effect actually work it looks like 
magic ! 

4 why do n't they use these things in domestic 


thanks in advance , 

paul .  . 

paul johnson  ( paj@gec co .  . tel 44 

these ideas and others like them can be had research is not 
for 0 . 02 . each from any  . responsible for my opinions 

from  ( marxhausen paul ) 
subject re wrong with my 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 8 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

i 've also found that the electronic starters on these instant on 
kick out interference that 
my phone. (i can hear it in my guitar , too .  .  . ) . 

paul ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . . . . . . university of nebraska lincoln . . .  .  .  . . .  .  .  . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . happens . 

from  ( dale farmer ) 
subject re building a 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 31 
nntp posting host access . net . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

john wrote 
yes , i know it sounds crazy. call it an urge .  . call it what you want. 
just do n't ask why ) 

anyway , i 'd like to build a ,  . means 
it should be reasonably , but could have a power pack if 
necessary. 

my main question is the where can i get do they 
need a lot of power etc. , etc. 

i'm not too concerned with whether it 's long wave or short wave 
 ( but hey , if anyone has a cheap source of , i 'll take  . 

check out a medical supply catalog , the thing you are looking for 
is called a woods  ( so you can check for woods sign , certain 
conditions  ( sp ) under light ) they come in 
like types and larger ac types .  . it is also used in eye 
, a is introduced to the surface of the eye , 
then is on it , shows up and very clearly 
that would otherwise be very difficult to detect .  .  ( for the the 
is called , and in normal light appears , and leaves 
a mild burning to the eye for 10 15 , until the 
it all out. 

have fun. 






from mike mike 
subject re with ale  ( for 's ) 
x wed , 21 apr 93 03 04 18 gmt 
nntp posting host slip 1 88 . edu . 
organization cat co .  . 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 15 

in article j. , 
writes 
i asked this a year ago , but i am still looking .  . 
i am getting sick of having to use a or a 2. 
check out 's new in the april edition of 
an 8 with built in and setup .  . 
you it directly to your  51 , power it up , the the 
serial on the  51 , you load in your code via , this gets 
onto the , then you and run i'm sure also does 
something like this too , i suppose it would down to relative 
, and the part up completely. i wonder 
if anyone has ever managed to design a single pcb with an 
, , , and no links 
cheers 
mike .  . 
