from  ( randolph langley ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
distribution na 
organization research institute 
lines 8 
in reply to 's message of 16 apr 93 15 19 06 gmt 


gee , i guess they should also have such a for house , 
car , safety deposit , ... ( 






from  ( bear giles ) 
subject re amendment and 
organization systems labs , , boulder , co usa 
lines 29 

in article  ( germano caronni ) writes 

just a question. 
as a of a public bbs service are n't you bound by law to 
access to the data of the users on the bbs , if police comes 
with i guessed this would be a basic condition 
for such systems. (i did run a bbs some time ago , but that was in switzerland ) 

that sounds like an old  . 

joe and i went to the apartment of prime suspect .  . nobody answered the 
door , but his landlord gave us permission to search the apartment .  . 

perhaps that worked in california in the 60 's , but as i understand the 
law do not have authority to grant permission to search space 
by a third party , provided the is not in default , etc. 
 ( i'm not even sure if they can provide the master key , when shown a search 
warrant , since the subject of the search is supposed to be  . 

at this point the question becomes did the user the space 
her file if she did , it should fall under the same 
body of case law that applies to , , etc.  ( as 
to whether any court would recognize this fact .  .  .  . ) . if she did not (i . e .  . , 
no exchanged ) , i do n't know how it would be treated there 
does n't seem to be a non equivalent .  . 


bear 


from  ( bruce schneier ) 
subject  93 conference 
organization public access unix 
distribution usa 
lines 4 

if there is anyone the conference in arlington , va next 
week , i would appreciate them getting in touch with me. 

bruce 

from  ( carl m kadie ) 
subject initial analysis of clinton and security proposal 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 

an article from org . news . , 5 . 06 . 

april 16 , 1993 

initial analysis of clinton and security 
proposal 

the clinton today made a major announcement 
on cryptography policy which will effect the and security of 
millions of americans .  . the first part of the plan is to begin a 
comprehensive inquiry into major communications issues 
such as which have effectively denied most people 
easy access to as well as law enforcement issues 
posed by new technology. 

however , is very concerned that the has 
already reached a conclusion on one critical part of the inquiry , before 
any public comment or discussion has been allowed .  . apparently , the 
is going to use its to get all telephone 
equipment to adopt a voice standard developed 
by the national security agency .  . the so called clipper chip is an 
80 bit , split key scheme which will be built into 
by a military  . two separate 
would users  , and be required to turn them over 
law enforcement upon of a valid warrant .  . the 
scheme used is to be classified , but they will be 
available to any for into their 
communications products. 

this proposal raises a number of serious concerns . 

first , the appears to be adopting a solution 
before conducting an inquiry .  . the developed clipper chip may 
not be the most secure product .  . other or may 
have better  . furthermore , we should not rely on the 
government as the sole source for clipper or any other  . rather , 
independent chip should be able to produce 
based on open standards. 

second , an can not be trusted unless it can be tested .  . 
yet the to keep the chip 
classified .  . believes that any standard ought to be public 
and open. the public will only have in the security of a 
standard that is open to independent , expert scrutiny .  . 

third , while the use of the split key , dual 
system may prove to be a reasonable between and 
law enforcement needs , the details of this scheme must be 
publicly before it is  . what will give people in the 
safety of their does of to a third party 
individual 's amendment rights in subsequent criminal 


in sum , the has shown great to the 
importance of these issues by planning a comprehensive inquiry into 
digital and security .  . however , the clipper chip solution 
ought to be considered as part of the inquiry , not be before 
the discussion even begins .  . 

details of the proposal 



the 80 bit key will be divided between two , each of 
whom hold 40 bits of each key .  . upon of a valid 
warrant , the two would have to turn the key parts 
over to law enforcement  . most likely the general 
will be asked to identify appropriate  . some in the 
have suggested one non law enforcement federal 
agency , perhaps the federal reserve , and one non 
organization .  . but , there is no agreement on the identity of the 
yet. 

key would be done by the of the 
communications device. a key is to the device , not to the person 
using it. 

classified and the possibility of back doors 

the claims that there are no back door means by 
which the government or others could break the code without 
from the and that the president will 
be told there are no back doors to this classified  . in order 
to prove this , sources are interested in for 
an all star team to come in , under a security 
arrangement , and examine the for trap doors. the results 
of the investigation would then be made public. 

government as market 

in order to get a market moving , and to show that the government 
believes in the security of this system , the feds will be the first big 
for this product .  . users will include the fbi , secret service , 
al , and maybe even the president .  . 

from more information contact 

jerry , director 
daniel j. , counsel 






i do not represent any organization this is just me. 


from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
lines 14 

actually , many of us have noted this. we have noted that the program 
started at least 4 years ago , that the contracts with technology 
and were let at least 14 months ago , that of the 
is well , and so forth .  . 

nobody i know has claimed clinton the program .  . but he chose 
to go ahead with it. 

perhaps the realised that no one would even falling for 
the dual while under the bush and had to 
wait for a govt to con into promoting this because people might 
just believe they were honest .  .  ( did n't work , did it ) ) 

g 

from  . detweiler ) 
subject on the internet faq (3 of 3) 
supersedes net 
organization 
lines 
expires 21 may 1993 04 00 06 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary notes on the use , history , and value of anonymous usenet 
posting and email services 
x last updated 1993 03 04 

archive name net 
last modified 1993 3 3 
version 2 . 1 . 


notes on on the internet 


compiled by l. . 


8.1 what are some known anonymous and posting sites 
8 . 2 . what are the associated with 
8 . 3 . how do i  anonymous postings 
8 . 4 . what is the history behind anonymous posting 
8 . 5 . what is the value of 
8 . 6 . should anonymous posting to all groups be allowed 
8 . 7 . what should system operators do with anonymous postings 
8 . 8 . what is going on with anon . fi . by j. 





8.1 what are some known anonymous and posting sites 

currently the most stable of anonymous and posting sites 
is anon . fi . operated by for several months , who 
has system and owns the equipment. 
including mail , usenet posting , and return addresses 
 ( no  . send mail to for information. 

has contributed an manual for the 
on the ftp site soda . berkeley . edu . 32 . 
pub 's . instructions .  . see also z .  ( unix 
to aid use ) and  ( msdos files to 
aid  . 



mail .  . request information from above address. 



experimental anonymous run karl 
, with to the server .  . request 
information from that address. 



experimental with to server and return 
addresses .  . request information from above address. 





experimental  . include  . 

cs . edu . 

experimental allowing one level of  . run by 
hall .  . request information from above address. 



experimental with to server .  .  site 
address for information. 

notes 


tend to be because they are often 
running without site administrator knowledge. issues 
are wholly  . 

so far , all is based on public key cryptography and pgp 
software  ( see the question on  . 

aspects  ( message text , address , replies ) 
vary between sites .  . 

multiple , , and address are 
mostly , , or at this time. 


8 . 2 . what are the associated with 


users 


use only if you have to. uses the 
and usefulness of the capability for others. 
do not use to , harass , or threaten others. 
do not hide behind to established conventions on 
usenet , such as posting pictures to regular newsgroups .  . 
if posting large files , be to bandwidth  . 
remember , simply sending the posting to the service increases 
network traffic .  . 
avoid posting to the regular of usenet this 
is the mostly likely place to readers .  . the  
is preferred .  . 
give as much information as possible in the posting (i . e .  . 
references , etc . ) . remember that content is the only means for 
readers to judge the truth of the message , and that any 
inaccuracies will tend to discredit the entire message and even 
future ones under the same handle .  . 
be careful not to include information that will reveal your 
identity or someone to deduce it. test the system by 
sending mail to yourself. 
be aware of the policies of the anonymous site and respect them. 
be prepared to your if you abuse the privilege .  . 
be and of other 's objections to  . 
and run   should be used with utmost  . 
use services that provide anonymous return addresses instead. 
be courteous to the system operator , who may have large 
of time , be personally his account , or 
his hardware , all for your convenience .  . 

operators 


document thoroughly acceptable and unacceptable uses in an 
introductory file that is sent to new users. have a and 
consistent policy and stick to it. state clearly what and 
is  . describe your background , interest , and 
security measures .  . will the general approach be or 

formulate a plan for ethical situations and 
intense moral and  . what if a user 
is someone through your service what if a user 
posts messages through your service remember , your 
users trust you to protect them. 
in the site introductory note , give clear examples of situations 
where you will take action and what these actions will be (e . g .  . 
warn the user , limit to email or posting only , 
the account ,  out  the user , contact local administrator , etc . ) . 
describe exactly the of the software and hardware .  . 
address the bandwidth of your site. report 
and thoroughly all that have occurred .  . work closely with 
users to and fix  . address all noted below under 
 ( ``(in)stability ) of  . 
document the of the site how long has it been running 
what have occured why are you running it what is 
your commitment to it 
include a disclaimer in outgoing mail and messages. include an 
address for , ideally to every outgoing item. 
consult a lawyer about your  . 
be committed to the long term of the site. be prepared 
to deal with and mail  addressed to you. if you 
do not own the hardware the system runs on or are not the system 
, consult those who do and are. 
be of providing to various groups. if 
possible , group readers .  . 
keep a and of style in outgoing message 
format that can be effectively by kill files. ensure 
the key text  is somewhere in every  . 
take to ensure the security of the server from 
physical and network based attacks and  . 

readers 


do not complain , attack , or discredit a poster for the sole reason 
that he is posting , make blanket that 
equate with and , or 
anonymous traffic in general for mostly neutral reasons (e . g .  . its 
volume is heavy or  . 
react to the anonymous information  . abusive posters 
will be encouraged further if they get 
responses. sometimes the most effective response is silence .  . 
operators if very severe abuses occur , such as , 
harassment , , etc. 
do not complain about postings being inappropriate because they 
offend you personally. 
use kill files to anonymous postings if you object to the 
idea of itself. 
avoid the to proclaim that all anonymous postings 
should be from particular groups because no  or 
 need exists. 

references 


see e.g. ftp . org . pub academic 

this article is an from an issue of on individual 
and the use of handles .  . it accepts the need of a system 
operator to know the name of a user but suggests that the use of 
a handle is analogous to a request to the name in a 
letter to the editor .  . the article concludes with a set of 
for the right to be anonymous .  . 


8 . 3 . how do i  anonymous postings 

james thomas green 

try putting this in your kill file 

anon h j 
anonymous h j 

this will search the of the messages and kill any that 
contain  or  in them. not perfect and wo n't 
kill followups .  . 

note that anonymous server operators have the capability to 
anonymous postings under which the above method will not work so 
far this practice is not widespread , but it may become more common 
as a to widespread anonymous filtering .  . 


8 . 4 . what is the history behind anonymous posting 

originally anonymous posting services were introduced for 
individual , particularly newsgroups , where is 
almost the preferred method of , such as talk . abortion . 
and alt . sex .  . one of the first was one by dave 
started in 1988 for alt . sex .  . another early one was 
ma . us . run by  ( gilgut enterprises ) 
but was due to lack of funds .  . the system provided 
anonymous return addresses .  . rain . com .  ( john opalko ) took up 
the functions of this server , including the anonymous 
file. the group has been through 
like there 's no tomorrow . '' . 

by the disappearance of  and interested in 
researching the idea , karl 
karl developed his own system 
from in hours. by this time the idea of the 
server to new , more  groups was starting to emerge , 
and he the possibility partly at the specific request by 
multiple users for in other groups. intended 
advantage of my system was specifically to allow multiple group 
support , with a single anon across all. this was 
arguably the single biggest of previous anon systems . '' . 
k. posted a message on rec . asking users whether an 
anonymous service would be welcome there , and judged a consensus 
against it. 

k. introduced what he calls a   to 
 or  abusive users in response to , and 
used this in three cases. nevertheless , after a few months of 
intense traffic he was eventually by the abuses of his 
server .  . as restricted as it was , my system was to 
abuses to the point where it was ordered by the 
facilities here. such abuses started right after it was 
created . '' . 

in 1992 , set up the most 
anonymous site to date. anon . fi . is based on 
and c code written by k. and supports 
mail , posting , and return addresses .  . he initially wanted to 
the service to users but expanded it to 
in response to  lots  of international requests .  . 

j. policy of allowing anonymous posting to every usenet 
newsgroup has been met with strong and serious ideological 
opposition (e . g .  . by news in news . admin .  . 
because of the relative and recent emergence of the medium , 
abuses by anonymous posters tend to have higher than 
  abuses .  . his total commitment to preservation of 
is also  . 

for example , in a highly and case in feb 
1993 , an anonymous user posted a supposed of 
dialogue during the disaster via 
anon . fi . to sci .  . despite that the had been 
posted in the same place up to a year earlier  ( then 
non anonymously ) and actually originated not with the poster but a 
new york news , subsequent responses largely of 
at the poster 's use of , 
through many newsgroups .  . 

the original poster , using the same anonymous handle , later 
that the story likely to have been , '' 
suggesting the plausible possibility that the original intent was 
not to but reactions on the authenticity of 
the story  ( albeit crudely ) , free of personal risk from perceived 
association with the item. the generated 
for the original article by late entering readers .  . the anonymous 
user later posted deliberately offensive comments at his 
 . 

despite and , and even the vocal 
opposition and verbal abuse of k. and news 
operators , j. has largely avoided use of the 
  and the   mechanisms that limit the 
of the service .  . as of march 1993 the anon . fi . site is 
best described as  it has over 13 , 000 users 
in its initial three months of operation , 3000 messages a 
day , and approximately 5 of all usenet postings are 
through the site. the popularity is probably largely due 
to the capability for  which has allowed users to 
find creative uses in areas not previously  . 

has been subject to extraordinary pressure to 
his server in feb 1993 .  . at one point k. 
threatened publicly to organize a sort of vigilante group of 
news operators to send out commands on all messages 
from the site. j. has also alluded to 
threats of the server .  . the server has several 
times , at least once due to a saturation  through it 
by an anonymous user .  . mr. reports spending up to 5 
hours per day answering email requests alone associated with the 
service 's  . in response to the serious threats he 
group access temporarily for one week and 
encouraged his users to defend the service publicly .  . 

based on fast moving dialogue and creative suggestions by 
, '' j. has identified many security 
weaknesses and valuable new features for the service , and is 
currently in the process of code development and  . he is 
planning on the ibm compatible machine to a soon 
to handle the load and is considering a new 
system with very sophisticated , including multiple 
email , control , public key , 
etc. 

a very sophisticated anonymous posting system was set up in dec .  . 
1992 by d. that used cryptography 
in both  ( to from ) the server for the highest degree of 
seen so far. however , it was running on a public 
access account , and he had to shut it down after only several 
weeks , upon receiving requests and conditions apparently ultimately 
from representatives .  . d. has released the 
software to the public domain .  . 

recently the idea of a newsgroup devoted to  on 
government abuses has received wide and attention , and 
group formation is currently  . in the basic scenario the 
group would allow people to post using , 
and even establish based on their 
digital  . the traffic may eventually reach reporters in 
the mainstream news media. has to 
attack multiple aspects of this project , including 
easy to read documentation on posting , , and 
 . 

see also sections on on anonymous posting   below and 
is going on with anon . fi . '' in this document .  . 

 ( thanks to 
karl , david 
and for 
contributions here . ) . 



8 . 5 . what is the value of 



i think anonymous posts do help in focusing our attention on the 
content of one 's message. sure lot of anonymous posts are abusive 
or but in most cases these are by users who find the 
anon novel. once the wears off they are stopping 
their  .  .  . 

 ( wes morgan ) 

i do n't mind seeing the hatred prejudice racism 
those things are part of our nature. however , the notion of 
providing 's for these ideas me. if 
they have such strong feelings , why ca n't they put their  ( name(s ) 
on their postings ... quite frankly , i 
with people who refuse to use their names. 

 ( david clunie ) 

many seem to question the value of  . but who are they to 
say what risks another individual should take there is no 
question that in this rather conservative society that we live 
in , holding certain views , making certain statements , adopting a 
certain lifestyle , are likely to result in public , 
, loss of status , employment , or even legal action. given 
the of the legal from where the many 
contributors to usenet post , who knows what is legal and what is 
not ! some say that anonymous posters are and should 
stand up and be counted .  . perhaps that is one point of view but 
what right do these have to exercise such censorship 

from  ( doug sewell ) 

why is it censorship to not expect someone to speak for 
themselves , without the of  . this is at best a 
argument. 

you tell me why what you have to say requires  . and you 
tell me why the wishes of a majority of non anonymous users of a 
newsgroup should be when they do n't want anonymous 
posts. 

anonymous users have less rights than any others. they are not 
legitimate usenet participants .  . i would not honor , , 
control messages , or votes from one. 

 ( brad templeton ) 

i can think of no caused by anon posting sites that 
does n't already exist , other than the fact that they do make more 
naive net users who do n't know how to post the old 
way more prone to do it. 

from  ( tom mandel ) 

i cannot speak for others but i regard anonymous postings in a 
serious discussion as pretty much worthless .  . ... views that hide 
behind the of anon are hardly worth the trouble of reading. 

 ( hank pankey ) 

since i began posting  ( to show support for general 
principles of personal privacy ) i have been subject to far more 
abuse and attack than i ever received before. people seem to 
find it easier to flame and insult someone whose name they do n't 
know. perhaps it 's easier to pretend that there is no person 
behind the email address who the sting of abusive comments .  . 

does some methods of controlling other posters  
actions .  . people who seek such control will naturally oppose it. 

from 

instead of making this a free er medium by allowing posters to 
protect themselves with , simply require that all 
posters be prepared to discuss their sources of information and 
take the for  . this seems to be the 
way things are currently done 

 ( kate gregory ) 

in misc . kids . there are three threads going on started by anonymous 
posters .  . one was about changing jobs so as to work less hours , 
job and so on , from a woman who did n't want anyone at her 
current place of work to know she was thinking of looking for 
work elsewhere. the next was from a woman who is thinking of 
having a baby sometime soon and does n't want , friends , 
family etc etc to know all about it , but who wants advice. the 
third is about sex after actually this was started 
by people posting in the usual way but then it was pointed out 
that the anonymous posting service might let more people 
participate .  . 

misc . kids . does n't seem to be suffering any harm from the presence 
of anonymous posters in fact it seems to have been helped by it. 

 ( dan hoey ) 

while there has never been any real security against anonymous or 
postings on usenet , the process has until now been 
sufficiently , error prone , and to limit 
its use by persons who have not learned the culture of the net. 

on the other hand , a recent use of the anonymous posting service 
on sci . math . seemed seemed to be a student asking help on a 
homework problem. it has now been attributed to a teacher , 
asking for an explanation of a dubious answer in his teaching 
guide .  . he says his news posting is broken , so he is using the 
anonymous service as a mail to news gateway .  . 

karl 

some argue that the opinions of the people who hide behind a 
of are worthless , and that people should own up to 
their thoughts. i agree with the latter point in an ideal 
world we would all be sitting around engaging in 
, freely our opinions in an effort to 
learn .  . but in an ideal world nobody will threaten you for your 
thoughts , or you. 

but we live in a world where the people who do n't agree with you 
may try to harm you. let 's face it , some people are n't going to 
agree with your opinion no matter how logically you try to 
present it , or how reasoned out it may be. this is sad since it 
does restrict people from their opinions. 

 ( richard e. depew ) 

the consensus seems to be that a general anonymous posting service 
such as that at anon . fi . seems sufficiently of the 
trust and of the net that this particular experiment 
should be ended .  . perhaps the next time the question comes up we 
can say we tried it we learned it does more harm than good 
and we stopped it. 

from de .  ( alexander eichener ) 

anonymous posting has not created major problems aside from 
people  ( like you ) who would rather ban 
anonymous posting because real men can 
stand up for what they said or comparable arguments as 
others have brought up. 

 ( dave hayes ) 

what a example of human nature. i have three questions for 
you folks .  . 

do people really say different things to each other based upon 
whether their identity is or is n't known 

are people really so affected by what other people say that the 
is labeled abuse 

most importantly , on a forum that itself on the freedom of 
that it enjoys , is there really such a thing as 
freedom of 

from  ( terry mcgonigal ) 

sigh ... just how many anon services are needed will 
everybody start running one soon what 's the purpose who 
stands to benefit when there are n anon services , then 2 n , then 
n 2 , out there. where has this sudden with anon 
services come from 

for better or  ( imho ) worse , it looks like we er gonna get stuck 
with these things , and as much as i do n't like the idea  ( of 
services like this becoming the norm ) i do n't really think 
there 's much to be done since it 's obvious that anyone who wants 
to can set one up with a bit of work. 

karl  ( karl kleinpaste ) 

weak reasoning .  . 
with freedom comes responsibility .  . 

 ( dave hayes ) 

responsibility is n't real if it is enforced .  . true 
comes with no coercion .  . 


8 . 6 . should anonymous posting to all groups be allowed 

 ( wes morgan ) 

i will be the first to admit that i hold some 
opinions indeed , i'm sure that none of us are completely 
orthodox in our opinions. however , i 've received hundreds of 
anonymous email messages over the last few years than 20 
of them were reasonable posts made with good motives .  . it 's 
getting more and more difficult to remember why we need 
at all the are  ( once again ) things up for those 
who truly need the service  ( or those who would put it to good 
 . 

i'm not suggesting that we should ban anonymous as i 've 
said , there are several situations in which is a good 
thing  . 

however , the notion that 's should be 
automatically extended to every usenet discussion is ridiculous 
it the door to further abuse .  . 

 ( tim pierce ) 

of course , how does one determine whether a group requests the 
service a flat majority of posters voting in favor a positive 
margin of 100 votes or what no one speaks for a newsgroup .  . 

i'm not convinced by the arguments that an anonymous posting 
service for all newsgroups is inherently a bad idea , simply 
because it 's a from the status quo .  . since the status 
quo previously anonymous posting to no newsgroups , 
any anonymous posting service would reject the status quo .  . 

 ( richard m. hartman ) writes 

it is to suggest that a newsgroup is best able to decide 
whether it wants to allow anonymous postings instead of having 
them forced upon them by an service administrator 

 ( brian w. ogilvie ) 

the service provides a mechanism for mail to the 
original poster .  . since most usenet readers do n't know john smith 
from doe except by their opinions and their address , the 
effect of having an anonymous posting to which mail replies can 
be directed is minimal , except for those who personally know the 
poster and ... the lack of could be serious. any 
mechanism like this is liable to abuse , but the benefits as well 
as the costs must be weighed .  . limiting the service to alt groups , 
or specific groups , would not help those who want advice on 
sensitive issues in more   newsgroups .  . 

from  ( tarl neustaedter ) 

an additional point is that some of us find in technical 
matters to be profoundly offensive in different 
has different meanings .  . if i get a phone call from someone who 
wo n't identify himself , i up. if i get u.s. mail with no 
return address , it goes into the garbage  . if someone 
me in the street while wearing a , i back away 
carefully , and expecting violence .  . in a technical discussion , 
means that the individual is n't willing to associate 
himself with the matter being discussed , which his 
and makes listening to them a waste of time. 

leads to fun psych experiments the literature is filled 
with all the various things that people will do that 
they wo n't otherwise. including one notorious study involving 
torture that would not have passed today 's ethical standards. fun 
stuff , in any case. 

fine. leave us out of it. 

from  ( joe buck ) 

you obviously have never an article to a 
journal , where you will receive anonymous through a server 
 ( the editor ) that much like the one in finland (e . g .  . you 
may reply and the editor will maintain the  . ... your 
comparison of someone who wants to express him herself on a 
technical issue with a person who approaches you on a 
dark street with a is just emotionally 
nonsense such posters pose no physical threat to you. 

(j .  . kamens ) 

it seems obvious to me that the default should be not to allow 
anonymous postings in a newsgroup .  . the usenet has always 
operated on the principle that the status quo should be kept 
unless there 's a large number of people who want to change it. 

if someone really needs to post a message anonymous in a newsgroup 
in which this usually is n't done , they can usually find someone 
on the net to do this for them. they do n't need an 
service to do it , and the service is by its nature 
incapable of making the judgment call necessary to decide whether 
a particular posting really needs to be anonymous .  . 

from  ( tim pierce ) 

for any newsgroup you name , i bet i can envision a scenario 
involving a need for secrecy .  . if an accurate content based 
filter of each anonymous posting could be to out 
those that do n't require secrecy , wonderful .  . but it ca n't be 
done. 

from  ( lasse e petersen ) 

if a newsgroup wants to be and free , then it 
should call for  . this should happen on a per newsgroup 
basis , and not as a general usenet ban on anonymous postings .  . of 
course one principle of might be to keep out all 
anonymous postings , and could be achieved automatically .  . it would 
still be . personally i would prefer 
being based on actual content. 

david a. 

if a group does n't want to receive certain posts it should 
become moderated there are clearly defined mechanisms on 
non alt groups for this to take place. an 
excluding posts from certain  . anonymous ) sites or individuals 
could easily be established .  . if anyone wants to take such a 
approach then they are welcome to do so and good luck 
to them. i doubt if i will be reading their group ! 

from  ( dave ratcliffe ) 

what possible need would someone have for posting to a 
sci .  . group 

sure most adults are willing to post under their own names. why 
would they want to hide behind an anonymous posting service 
of what they have to say or just trying to people 
without fear of being identified 

anonymous posting have their place in certain groups. if i or 
anyone else needs to tell you what those groups are then you 've 
been on another planet for too long .  . 

from karl 

it 's bloody fascinating that  ( all ) the of 
universal anon posting access ca n't seem to find any middle 
ground at all. why is there such a perception of 
absolutism where does this instant come 
from , i want anon access and i want it now who are the 
control here 

from 

remember , this is a newsgroup for posters writing about scientific 
issues. anonymous discussion of scientific issues leads to bad 
science. 

from  ( jon noring ) 

though many have personal philosophical arguments against 
anonymous posters , their arguments have not been compelling 
enough to convince me that omni newsgroup anonymous posting 
should be or severely restricted .  . though i cannot prove 
it , it seems to me that those who do not like anonymous posting 
 ( in principle ) do so for reasons that are personal  ( read , 
psychological discomfort ) rather than for reasons related to 
maintaining the of usenet .  . 

remember , it is impossible to be able to all the 
conceivable and legitimate motives for anonymous posting to 
newsgroups one normally would not to be sensitive . ... in 
general , i fear even letting newsgroup readers vote on either 
allowing or not allowing anonymous posting , since a they 
cannot know all the motives of legitimate posters , and i do 
not believe that any system should ever be instituted that would 
the posting of legitimate and posts. 

 ( lyle j. mackey ) writes 

i personally do n't believe that postings are 
appropriate in a serious discussion area. if there is a 
legitimate reason for the posters  identity , perhaps , 
but simply because they 're not so sure if they want their name 
attached does n't qualify as legitimate in my book.  ( oh , and if 
you can come up with a legitimate purpose for anonymous postings , 
please , enlighten me . ) . 

 ( stuart p. derby ) 

three of our  ( the u.s. 's ) founding fathers , madison , , and 
, seemed to think anonymous posting was ok. the 
papers were originally printed in new york newspapers with 
authorship attributed to . i wonder if you would find 
their purpose legitimate 



8 . 7 . what should system operators do with anonymous postings 

from  ( ed mcguire ) 

i would like to know how to junk all articles posted by the 
anonymous service currently being discussed .  . ideally i would 
actually tell my feed site not to feed me articles posted by the 
anonymous service .  . assuming the c news release , what 
is a simple way to this or where should i look to 
learn how to do it myself 

from  ( david clunie ) 

that 's a bit is n't it have your users 
decided that they would like you to do this or have you decided 
for them 

from  ( ed mcguire ) 

good question. nobody has decided .  . i have no definite plan to do 
this , just wanted the technical data .  . 

 ( karl 

 .  .  . were . i to be in the position of offering such a service again , 
my promises of protection of would be limited .  . not on 
the basis of personal opinion of what gets posted , but on the 
basis of postings which the operation of the 
usenet .  . the most obvious and direct recourse would be to  
the abusive individual .  . less possibilities exist the 
software supports a fire by which individuals can 
be prevented from posting. 

 ( john hascall ) 

since when is usenet a democracy if someone wants to run an 
anonymous service , that 's their business. if you want to put 
that host in your killfile , that 's your business. if a 
wants to blanket drop all postings from that site , that 's between 
them and the other people at that site. if everyone a 
service , the service effectively does n't exist. 

from  ( jonathan i. kamens ) 

nntp that allow posting from anyone are not a service to 
the net. they do the net a  . 

terminal have the same problems as open nntp 
they allow people who want to do illegal immoral things 
on the internet to do so without accountability .  . 

there are , by now , public access sites all over this country , if 
not all over the world , that allow very access to the 
usenet and the internet .  . there is no reason for nntp to 
allow anyone to post messages through them , and there is no 
reason for terminal to allow anyone to connect to them 
and then make through them. perhaps when it 
was harder to get to the internet or the usenet , open 
could be justified , but not now. 

 ( jurgen botz ) 

i think that what ... these points show clearly is that an 
anonymous posting service has a great deal of responsibility , 
both towards its and towards the net as a whole .  . such a 
service should  ( imho ) have a set of well defined rules and a 
contract that its should sign , under the terms of which 
they are assured  . 

from 

is the problem that some are used to punishing posters who are 
upsetting in some vague way by complaining to the  ( usually 
acquiescent ) sysadmin or organizations that the poster belongs 
to that surely is the most approach to 
problems , but my experience on the net shows that the same users 
who anonymous postings are the first to write 
detailed to the poster 's when his or her 
tranquility is by some or post 
or another. 

anonymous postings prevent just this kind of  . 

from  ( eric schilling ) 

the main point i would like to make here is that while we can go 
through and the news sw to reject anon posts to technical 
newsgroups or some such thing , i think the attempt will prove 
futile .  . each attempt to news can result in a changed 
approach by anon service to the change .  . i think 
this would be pointless .  . 

from  ( johan helsingius ) 

i have tried to stay out of this discussion , and see where the 
discussion leads .  . but now i feel like i have to speak up. 
... i have repeatedly made clear ... that i do block users if 
they continue their abuse after having been warned .  . in many cases 
the users have taken of the warning and stopped , and in some 
cases even in public. and when the warning has not had 
the desired effect , i have a number of users. i have also 
access to groups where the has taken a vote to 
ban anonymous postings , although i feel changing the newsgroup 
status to moderated is the only permanent solution for newsgroups 
that want to discussion. 

 ( richard e. depew ) 

does this ... mean that you are to issue a request 
for discussion to ban anonymous postings or to moderate each of 
the newsgroups that your server can reach i do n't think 
so , but this the trouble that your server is causing ! 

please listen to the consensus of the news administrators in this 
group any newsgroup should be before letting your 
server post messages to that group. 

from de .  ( alexander eichener ) 

there is no pompous consensus of the news administrators 
here maybe you would like to invent one. there is a 
number of people who are concerned about the possible  ( and , to a 
minor extent , about the actual abuse of the server as it is 
 . these concerns are respectable is dealing 
with them. ... there are some  ( few ) who rage with before 
their mouth and condemn the service altogether. and a number who 
defend it , pointing out , like , that even a group 
like misc . kids .  . can benefit from postings .  . 

from  ( johan helsingius ) 

i have answered a lot of personal mail related to server abuse , 
and as a result of that , a number of abusive users. i 
have also the service from several newsgroups where the 
users have taken a vote on the issue. i have not made any 
comments on news . admin . policy . , partly because the 
implemented feature  ( as a emergency measure 
against a security hole ) has kept me really busy answering user 
the last two weeks , and partly because i feel it is not 
for me to justify the service , but for the users. the problem 
with news . admin . policy . is that the is rather , 
people a strong interest in 
control. 

from  ( richard m. hartman ) 

this seems to be a rather bigoted attitude. i would consider that 
this group is for anyone who wishes to discuss how the net should 
be controlled .  . saying that we only have an interest in 
control is a clear indication of bias .  . you are 
perfectly welcome to join in the discussions here to promote your 
views on control. 



this whole debate is a lot of sound and nothing 
because , even if you all decide to ban anonymous posting , 
it is not  . the only people who could 
enforce are those that control the international 
links .  . 

policy changes should be made by , not by attempting 
to  .  .  .  . you . need to persuade those who run the services 
to act like this through friendly , not by trying to 
them over the head with a stick  ( especially a stick you 
do n't even  . 

 ( steve pope ) 

i am finding this bias against boring. our friend 
posting through has a point. the old guard would like to 
keep their network the way it always has been .  .  .  . and this new 
thing , these , cuts into their  . so they 
and bitch about it , and every time there 's the slightest 
abuse  ( such as somebody 's  . sig . being too long) , they try to 
that into an argument against  . 

i 'll go on record as saying three cheers for the admins at anon 
like , , and  .  .  . and for all the access 
service who are willing to preserve their 
 . 

and a on those who try to defeat and restrict  . 

 ( al billings ) 

i would n't help people get rid of anon postings as a group. if you 
do n't like what someone says , then you put that anon address in 
your kill file , not all of them. of course , if and when i get an 
anon site going , i'm just going to assign fake names like 
instead of to avoid most of the hassles .  . 
you 'll never know it is anonymous will you 

from  ( anne bennett ) 

i must admit to some at this argument. i see the 
value of anonymous postings under some circumstances , yet believe 
strongly that these should be identified as such , so that people 
who do not wish to read material from people who wo n't identify 
themselves , do n't have to. 

i fail to see what good you would be , and indeed 
that you will cause many people and 
, by hiding the of postings from your 
anonymous site. would you care to justify where the hell you get 
the gall to try to prevent people from effectively filtering 
their news as they see fit 

from  ( david clunie ) 

i thought i was out of reach here in australia too. unfortunately 
one of the us sites involved in the us feed to the 
australian academic network through whom my site is 
connected , not about anything in particular , just the concept of 
anonymous mail having no features and a 
narrow bandwidth link  ( with which i ca n't argue ) and that was 
that ... stop the service or face  . 

i consider the of my service to have been rather 
unfortunate , and i wish the finnish luck ! it is a pity 
that there are very few if any similar services provided with in 
the us. i guess that 's the benefit of having a constitution that 
one freedom of speech and a legal and political system 
that to subvert it in the name of the public good. 



8 . 8 . what is going on with anon . fi . run by j. 


from karl 

funny , how beating the rest of the usenet over the head with a 
stick is ok if it 's anon . fi . and universal anon access. but 
somehow people on the other side of the same equation  ( not even 
arguing to shut it off entirely , but rather just to have some 
control applied to the abuses that themselves ) are n't 
allowed to do that. 

i have written to several times in the last couple of 
weeks. he used to reply to me quite readily .  . after all , i was 
the source of the software as originally to him he 
used to be about replying to me. funny , now 
he 's being an bastard who does n't answer mail at all , 
even when it consists of really very civil  . 

from  ( johan helsingius ) 

in your mail you told me you sent me one or more messages on feb .  . 
 . feb 7th and the server was down , and the flood of mail 
that resulted from the server coming up again my own mail 
host. the problem was by an abusive user sending 
thousands of messages to another user , filling up that users 
 . the messages ended up in my , 
my local as well. 

i can only suppose that your message got lost in that , as 
i have tried to answer as much as possible of the anon related 
messages i get , from mis messages to 
about the service .  . on the average i spend 4 5 hours per day 
answering anon related messages. 

from karl 

why is it that everybody else has to put up with the 
and of the misuse of anon . fi . whose 
definitions of polite and sense apply , and why why is 
universal anon access considered to be within the realm of this 
fuzzy concept of in the first place 

i think has long since crossed the line into being a rude 
bastard , and i told him so in private mail a little while ago. 

at this point , i deeply regret a having created an anonymous 
system supporting 1 newsgroup and b having given the code to 
 . i did n't it , but i thought that some concept of 
and good sense might follow it to new 
homes .  . interesting that 's ideas of and good 
sense seem to have nearly no with mine. i could 
even with universal anon access if would be willing 
to engage in abuse control , but somehow that seems to be outside 
the range of reality .  .  .  . 

from  ( johan helsingius ) 

there is no way for me to convey how sad and upset your message 
made me. i do , to some extent , understand your feelings , but it 
still really bad. running the server requires getting used 
to a lot of flames , but mindlessly abusive hate mail is so much 
easier to deal with than something like this , as i do respect and 
value your views and opinions to a high degree. no , i'm not 
asking for sympathy , i just wanted you to know that i am really 
giving your views quite a lot of weight. 

when i asked for the software , i was actually only going to 
provide the service to users. but a lot of people 
requested that i keep the service open to the international 
community. i now realize that i ought to have you at 
that point to ask how you feel about me using your stuff in such 
a context. again , i really want to  . and i will replace 
the remaining few pieces of code still from your 
system. unfortunately there is no way to remove the ideas and 
structure i got from you. 

again , i am really sorry that the results of your work ended up 
being used in a way that you do n't approve of. and i will be 
giving a lot of hard thought to the possibility of down 
the server  . 

from karl 

i think i'm feeling especially rude and  . if it 's good 
for , it 's good for me. after all , he did n't ask the 
greater usenet whether universal anon access was a good idea he 
just did it. ... yes , i'm a seriously rude pain in the ass now , 
and i think i 'll the usenet death penalty , slightly modified , 
not for strategic whole site attack , but tactical assault , just 
an 0 9 destruction .  . only outside alt. , too , 
let 's say. 

to parrot this line .  .  . people . have been doing things like the 
 ( that is , others  postings ) for years , no one could 
ever stop them , and it 's only and good sense that has 
prevented them up to now. 

in fact , i have 8 people who have expressed privately the desire 
and ability to the  . 

... 

ps no , in fact there are not 8 ready to the 
 . it would be amusing to know how many people hard 
when they read that , though. i do n't see it as any different 
from 's  . 

now that i 've some by the above ps .  .  .  . there 
are 2 ready to the  . they 've asked for my 
code. i have n't sent it yet. only one site would be necessary 
to bring anon . fi . to a  . anyone can 
implement the on their own , if they care to. and 
good sense prevents them from doing so. i wonder how long before 
one form of brings on another form. 

from  ( johan helsingius ) 

it would be trivially easy to bring anon . fi . to a 
 . in fact it has happened a couple of times already. but as 
we are talking threats here , let me make one as well. a very 
simple one. if somebody uses something like the or 
brings down anon . fi . by some other means , it 
will stay down. but i will let the users know why. and name the 
person who did it. ok as somebody said on this thread you have 
to take personal responsibility for your actions , right 

from ( v salgaonkar ) 

i am very and of this service , of 
fi .  . some important questions about my personal 
life career job were due to kind help of other people 
who had been thru similar situations .  . in return , i have also 
replied to anon postings where i thought i could make a positive 
 . 

in general , anon service is a great , in my opinion , although like 
any tool some people will not use it  . i suggest that 
it should be kept alive .  . wasting bandwidth is less important than 
saving lives , i think. 

from  ( elisa j. collins ) 

i have been informed that the anonymous posting service to many 
newsgroups has been turned off as a result of discussions in this 
newsgroup over people it. 

i had been posting to a misc newsgroup about an 
intimate topic for which i felt i required  . i have 
received help from the people in that newsgroup , and 
i have never used to behave in an abusive , , or 
fashion anyone. 

please , folks , believe me , i need this service .  . please 
consider my point of view and to turn 
the service back on .  .  .  . 

thank you. 



see also 


part 1  ( first file ) 


1.1 what is  on the internet 
1.2 why is identity  ( un)important ) on the internet 
1 . 3 . how does my email address  ( not ) identify me and my background 
1.4 how can i find out more about somebody from their email address 
1 . 5 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 
1 . 6 . what is the future of on the internet 

2 . 1 . what is  on the internet 
2.2 why is  ( un)important ) on the internet 
2 . 3 . how  ( in)secure ) are internet 
2 . 4 . how  ( in)secure ) is my account 
2.5 how  ( in)secure ) are my files and 
2 . 6 . how  ( in)secure ) is x 
2 . 7 . how  ( in)secure ) is my email 
2 . 8 . how am i  ( not ) liable for my email and postings 
2 . 9 . how do i provide more less information to others on my identity 
2 . 10 . who is my sysadmin what does s he know about me 
2 . 11 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 
2 . 12 . what is the future of on the internet 

3 . 1 . what is  on the internet 
3 . 2 . why is   ( un)important ) on the internet 
3 . 3 . how can be protected on the internet 
3 . 4 . what is mail  
3.5 what is posting  
3 . 6 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 
3 . 7 . what is the future of on the internet 

part 2  ( previous file ) 


4 . 1 . what unix programs are related to 
4 . 2 . how can i learn about or use cryptography 
4 . 3 . what is the mailing list 
4 . 4 . what are some related newsgroups faqs 
4 . 5 . what is internet enhanced mail  ( pem ) 
4.6 what are other request for comments  ( rfcs ) related to 
4.7 how can i run an anonymous 
4.8 what are references on in email 
4 . 9 . what are some email , usenet , and internet use policies 
4 . 10 . what is the mit   anonymous message tv program 

5 . 1 . what is cash   
5 . 2 . what is a   or   
5 . 3 . what is a   
5 . 4 . what is  and anonymous pools 
5 . 5 . what is through  
5 . 6 . what are  
5.7 what standards are needed to guard electronic 

6 . 1 . what is the electronic foundation  ( eff ) 
6 . 2 . who are computer for social responsibility  ( cpsr ) 
6.3 what was sun devil  and the steve game case 
6 . 4 . what is integrated services digital network  ( isdn ) 
6 . 5 . what is the national research and education network  ( nren ) 
6 . 6 . what is the fbi 's proposed digital act 
6 . 7 . what other u.s. legislation is related to on 
6 . 8 . what are references on rights in 
6.9 what is the computers and academic freedom  ( caf ) archive 

7.1 what is the background behind the internet 
7 . 2 . how is internet  like the english language 
7 . 3 . most wanted list 
7 . 4 . change history 




this is part 3 of the faq , obtained via anonymous 
ftp to pub usenet news.answers net or 
newsgroups news.answers , sci . answers . , alt . answers . every 21 days. 
written by l. . 
all rights  . 



from  ( allen ethridge ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 19 

walker wrote 
 ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 
deletions 

how can you reconcile the self purpose of 
providing law enforcement with access to data without making 
the clipper system the only available in the u . s .  .  .  . 

the second and fourth do come to mind. 


i think i heard legal . , org . talk . ) that the courts 
have pretty much eliminated the fourth amendment already. 


words got me the wound 
and will get me well , 
my opinions are my own if you believe it. 
jim 

from  ( ray berry ) 
subject clipper business as usual 
article i.d. ole . 
organization design 
lines 17 


all the legitimate fuss about this proposal , how much 
of a change is it 's last product in this area  ( a ) was over 
1000 , as i suspect  clipper  will be  ( b ) came to the customer 
with the key automatically with government authorities .  . thus , 
aside from attempting to further and the fed 's , 
clipper seems to be more of the same , rather than a new direction .  . 
yes , technology will eventually drive the cost down and thereby promote 
more widespread use but at present , the man on the street is not going 
to a 1000 telephone , especially when the guy on the other 
end probably does n't have one anyway. am i missing something 
the real question is what the gov will do in a year or two when air 
voice on a phone line is as close as your pc .  . that 
has got to a scenario for them , even if the extent of usage 
never the   stature of pgp .  . 

ray 

from  ( marcus j ranum ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization trusted information systems , inc. 
lines 21 
distribution na 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( brad templeton ) writes 
and this means that the fbi will want to track the customer lists of 
better , because the only reason a person would want 
one is to the police .  . 

then they 'll probably also want to start the customer 
lists of people and similar , which can 
be with the use of some code and a , to act as a pretty 
decent digital telephone .  . it 's expensive , though , and kind 
of  . i do n't know any drug , but i'm sure they 'd favor 
something over something secure as long as the user interface 
is nice. 

when you 've got prince of saying stupid things over 
, it 's not hard to imagine that drug , child 
, , lisp , and other threats to the 
civilized world might business over 
 . 


 . 

from  ( mike bell ) 
subject clipper proposal key length 
organization systems corp .  . 
lines 32 

writes 





april 16 , 1993 

initial analysis of clinton and security proposal 

details of the proposal 



the 80 bit key will be divided between two , each of whom 
hold 40 bits of each key .  . the of the communications device 
would be required to all with the two independent 
 . a key is to the device , however , not the person using it. 

so if we subvert one of the two , we only have a 40 bit 
space to search through .  .  .  . 

2 40 does n't sound that big is digital subject to a known 
attack 

in which case half the key seems to be all that is needed , and the two 
arrangement is pointless .  . 

of course , the unknown might turn in speech into 
pseudo random sequences , or there might be some magic involved , or .  .  .  . 

mike 

from  ( dwight tuinstra ) 
subject political point of attack clipper 
reply to 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 37 
nntp posting host signal . ece . edu . 

my earlier argument that clipper will encourage state and local cops 
to commit criminal acts is largely , now that we 've learned that 
the fbi will perform the actual  . it will encourage the fbi to 
commit  ( even more ) criminal acts , but that 's not the point here. 

but this gives another avenue of attack on the clipper proposal .  . when 
the requests are made , they should ask for details 
on the and equipment that is proposed  ( or 
even already budgeted ) for the fbi to service requests for now 
and the future. 

from these , estimate the number of clipper requests the fbi 
is expecting .  . publish this figure .  . compare it on a per basis 
with the amount of now known or suspected .  . 

also estimate how expensive it would be for the fbi to more 
clipper , and how rapidly they could be built and 
... ie , get the plus or for the near future. 

might be a for j. q .  . public to know these things. 

and despite all the technical details btw , thanks to those who 've been 
providing them ! , we still do n't know 

1 ) how the requests will be and  ( though 
it is n't too hard to guess a good  . 

2 ) how the results will be securely  ( fed ex the ) 

3) how will be re established when an investigation is complete. 


best 


... news at 


from  . detweiler ) 
subject on the internet faq  ( 1 of 3) 
supersedes net 
organization 
lines 
expires 21 may 1993 04 00 06 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary email and account , anonymous mailing and posting , 
, and other and rights issues associated with use 
of the internet and in general. 
x last updated 1993 03 04 

archive name net 
last modified 1993 3 3 
version 2 . 1 . 


identity , , and on the internet 


 ( c ) 1993 l.  . not for use except by permission 
from author , otherwise may be freely copied .  . not to be altered .  . 
please credit if quoted .  . 

summary 


information on email and account , anonymous mailing and 
posting , , and other and rights issues associated 
with use of the internet and in general. 

 ( search for . for exact section .  . search for ' '  ( underline ) for 
next section . ) . 

part 1 
 ( this file ) 

identity 

1.1 what is  on the internet 
1.2 why is identity  ( un)important ) on the internet 
1 . 3 . how does my email address  ( not ) identify me and my background 
1.4 how can i find out more about somebody from their email address 
1 . 5 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 
1 . 6 . what is the future of on the internet 



2 . 1 . what is  on the internet 
2.2 why is  ( un)important ) on the internet 
2 . 3 . how  ( in)secure ) are internet 
2 . 4 . how  ( in)secure ) is my account 
2.5 how  ( in)secure ) are my files and 
2 . 6 . how  ( in)secure ) is x 
2 . 7 . how  ( in)secure ) is my email 
2 . 8 . how am i  ( not ) liable for my email and postings 
2 . 9 . how do i provide more less information to others on my identity 
2 . 10 . who is my sysadmin what does s he know about me 
2 . 11 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 
2 . 12 . what is the future of on the internet 



3 . 1 . what is  on the internet 
3 . 2 . why is   ( un)important ) on the internet 
3 . 3 . how can be protected on the internet 
3 . 4 . what is mail  
3.5 what is posting  
3 . 6 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 
3 . 7 . what is the future of on the internet 


part 2 
 ( next file ) 

resources 


4 . 1 . what unix programs are related to 
4 . 2 . how can i learn about or use cryptography 
4 . 3 . what is the mailing list 
4 . 4 . what are some related newsgroups faqs 
4 . 5 . what is internet enhanced mail  ( pem ) 
4.6 what are other request for comments  ( rfcs ) related to 
4.7 how can i run an anonymous 
4.8 what are references on in email 
4 . 9 . what are some email , usenet , and internet use policies 
4 . 10 . what is the mit   anonymous message tv program 




5 . 1 . what is cash   
5 . 2 . what is a   or   
5 . 3 . what is a   
5 . 4 . what is  and anonymous pools 
5 . 5 . what is through  
5 . 6 . what are  
5.7 what standards are needed to guard electronic 

issues 


6 . 1 . what is the electronic foundation  ( eff ) 
6 . 2 . who are computer for social responsibility  ( cpsr ) 
6.3 what was sun devil  and the steve game case 
6 . 4 . what is integrated services digital network  ( isdn ) 
6 . 5 . what is the national research and education network  ( nren ) 
6 . 6 . what is the fbi 's proposed digital act 
6 . 7 . what other u.s. legislation is related to on 
6 . 8 . what are references on rights in 
6.9 what is the computers and academic freedom  ( caf ) archive 




7.1 what is the background behind the internet 
7 . 2 . how is internet  like the english language 
7 . 3 . most wanted list 
7 . 4 . change history 


part 3 
 ( last file ) 




8.1 what are some known anonymous and posting sites 
8 . 2 . what are the associated with 
8 . 3 . how do i  anonymous postings 
8 . 4 . what is the history behind anonymous posting 
8 . 5 . what is the value of 
8 . 6 . should anonymous posting to all groups be allowed 
8 . 7 . what should system operators do with anonymous postings 
8 . 8 . what is going on with anon . fi . by j. 





identity 



1.1 what is  on the internet 

generally , today people 's  on the internet is primarily 
determined by their email address in the sense that this is their 
most  face  in the electronic realm .  . this is your 
name qualified by the complete address domain information , 
for example people see 
this address when receiving mail or reading usenet posts from you 
and in other situations where programs record usage .  . some 
forms of addresses  ( such as bitnet ) still  . 

in email messages , additional information on the path that a message 
takes is to the message received by the  . this 
information identifies the of hosts involved in the 
and is a very accurate trace of its origination .  . this 
type of identify and forward is also used in the usenet 
to a lesser extent .  . these fields requires 
corrupted mailing software at sites involved in the and 
is very  . not so is the at the 
origination point , so that all initial sites in the list are faked 
at the time the message is created. these messages can be 
difficult or impossible when the initial faked fields are names of 
real machines and represent real  . 


1.2 why is identity  ( un)important ) on the internet 

the concept of identity is closely with , 
, and security , which in turn are all critical aspects of 
computer  . for example , the convenience of 
by email would be impossible without conventions for 
 . but there are many potential abuses of identity 
possible that can have very severe consequences , with massive 
computer at the forefront of the issue , which can 
either or solve these problems. 

that an identity is correct is called  , 
and one classic example of the problems associated with it is 
h . g . well . 's of the worlds   radio that 
of the population into thinking that an alien invasion was 
in progress. of this order are not on usenet and 
makes them more  . people and their 
can be by  . 

however , the of identity on the internet is for some one of 
its most attractive features .  . identity is just as useful as it is 
harmful .  . a professor might carefully explain a topic until he 
finds he is talking to an  . a person of a particular 
occupation may be able to converse with others who might normally 
him. some are , but , on the other hand , many 
are useful ! a scientist might argue he can better 
the findings of a paper as a if he knows more 
about the authors .  . likewise , he may be more likely to reject it 
based on unfair or irrelevant  . on the other side of the 
connection , the author may find of useful in 
exerting pressure for acceptance .  . 

identity is especially crucial in establishing and 
  ( not necessarily financial ) and  and  . 
many functions in society demand reliable and accurate techniques 
for  . heavy will be placed on digital 
as become electronic .  . 
many government functions and services are based on , 
and law enforcement frequently hinges on it. hence , employees of 
many government organizations push stronger 
structures .  . but when does invade 

the growth of the internet is provoking social forces of massive 
 . decisions made now on issues of identity will affect 
many future users , especially as the network becomes 
, universal , widespread , and entrenched and the positive or 
adverse of these actions , intended and , will 
literally be  . 


1 . 3 . how does my email address  ( not ) identify me and my background 

your email address may contain information that influences people 's 
perceptions of your background .  . the address may  you as 
from a department at a particular university , an at a 
company , or a government  . it may contain your last name , 
, or codes independent of both. in 
the us some are based on parts of social security numbers. others 
are in the form   where the number is in the 
order that new users are added to the system. 

standard internet addresses also can contain information on your 
broad geographical or nationhood .  . however , none of this 
information is guaranteed to be correct or be there at all. the 
fields in the domain of the are based on 
rather arbitrary organization , such as  ( mostly invisible ) network 
 . the only point to make is that early fields 
in the address are more specific  ( such as specific computer names 
or local networks ) and the later ones the most general  ( such as 
 . typically the first field is the name of the 
computer receiving mail .  . 

information from the email address alone is sometimes an 
inspired art or an inconsistent and futile exercise .  .  ( for more 
information , see the faqs on email addresses and known 
geographical below . ) . however , unix exist 
to aid in the quest  ( see the question on this) .  . 

common 


 . us . united states 
 . uk . united kingdom 
 . ca . canada 
 . fi . finland 
 . au . australia 

 . edu . university or college 
 . com . organization 
 . org .  other  (e . g .  . organization ) 
 . gov . government 
 . military site 


1.4 how can i find out more about somebody with a given email address 

one simple way is to send email to that address , asking .  . another 
way is to send mail to the at that address (i . e .  . 
postmaster@address ) , although the 's job is more to help 
find user id 's of particular people given their real name and solve 
mail problems. the sysadmin (i . e .  . `root@address' ) may also 
be able to supply information. users with related email address 
may have information. however , all of these methods rely on the 
time and patience of others so use them  . 

one of the most basic tools for determining identity over the 
internet is the unix utility  . the basic is 

finger 

this utility uses protocols to the computer 
named in the address for information on the user named .  . the 
response is generated completely by the receiving computer and may 
be in any format .  . possible responses are as follows 

a message host  meaning some aspect of the address is 
incorrect , two lines with no information and ' ' .  . 

a message  in real life ' in which case the receiving computer 
could not find any kind of a match on the  . the finger 
utility may return this response in other situations .  . 

a listing of information associated with multiple users. some 
computers will search only for matching user , others will 
attempt to find the you as a of all 
actual full names of users kept in a local  . 

at some sites  finger  can be used to get a list of all users on the 
system with a in general this is often 
considered weak security , however , because  know valid 
user id 's to   . 

more information on the fields returned by  is given below. 
more information on  and people 's email addresses 
is given in the email faq  ( such as the  . just 
as you can use these means to find out about others , they can use 
them to find out about you. you can  yourself to find out 
what is publicly reported by your unix system about you. be 
careful when  data virtually anyone with 
internet access can this information. in one 
amazing case , the new york times writer j. the 
identity of r. , author of the internet worm , through 
the use of an anonymous and  . see the book 
by k. and j.  . 


1 . 5 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 

generally , identity is an and almost concept 
on the internet for a variety of reasons. one is the inherent 
of  where people emerge and 
frequently , and are not readily noted in the  . 
most people remember faces and , the primary means of casual 
in the  real  . the arbitary and 
sequences of letters and most email addresses are 
not particularly or memorable and far from a unique 
of an individual , who may use multiple accounts on 
multiple machines anywhere in the world. 

currently internet users do not really have any great 
that the messages in email and usenet are from who they appear to 
be. a person 's mailing address is far from an of an 
individual .  . 

anyone with access to the account , e.g. they know the , 
either legitimately or otherwise , can send mail with that address 
in the from line. 

email addresses for an individual tend to change frequently as 
they switch jobs or make inside their organizations .  . 

as part of current mailing standards , the from 
line in mail messages is a fairly trivial operation for many 
 . 

the status and path information to messages by 
hosts is generally  . in general , while 
possible , are fairly rare on most newsgroups and in 
email. besides these cases there are many basic 
problems with today 's internet protocols affecting 
on the internet 

internet mail standards , described in , are still evolving 
rapidly and not entirely orderly .  . for example , standards for 
mail address  or  tend to vary slightly between 
sites and frequently mean the difference between finding 
addresses and mail .  . 

domain names and computer names are frequently changed at sites , 
and there are in the propagation of this data .  . 

addresses cannot be when certain critical computers 
crash , such as the receiving computer or other computers involved 
in resolving names into addresses called  . 

a whole of problems is associated with  if 
they are not updated they will not find name addresses , and even 
the operation of what constitutes  has different 
interpretations at different sites .  . 

the current internet mailing and addressing protocols are slightly 
in that they were created when the network was 
somewhat obscure and not widespread , with only a of the 
traffic it now sees .  . today a large of internet traffic 
is email , millions of messages. 


1 . 6 . what is the future of on the internet 

some new and standards are introducing images 
and voice messages into mail and these will improve the sense of 
community that comes from the of  . 
however , they are not currently widespread , require large 
of data , software , and make some 
in  . 

promising new techniques may make  digital  
and  digital  common  ( see below) .  . also , the trend 
in usenet standards is greater of posted 
information. on the other hand , advances in 
 ( such as remailers ) are  . see below. 






2 . 1 . what is  on the internet 

generally , while  has multiple in society and 
perhaps even more on the internet , in most take it to 
mean that you have exclusive use and access to your account and the 
data on and and directed to it  ( such as email ) , and you do 
not arbitrary restrictions or searches .  . in other words , 
others may obtain data associated with your account , but not 
without your permission .  . these ideas are probably both fairly 
limiting and liberal in their in what most internet users 
consider their private domains .  . some users do n't expect or want 
any , some expect and demand it. 


2.2 why is  ( un)important ) on the internet 

this is a somewhat and inflammatory topic , 
opinions. on the internet , some take for 
granted and are surprised to find it or  . 
most governments have rules that protect  ( such as the 
illegal search and clause of the u.s. constitution , 
by others ) but have many that are to it  ( such as laws 
prohibiting secret communications or allowing  . these 
rules generally carry over to the internet with few specific rules 
governing it. however , the legal repercussions of the 
internet are still largely unknown and (i . e .  . no strong 
legal and court cases) .  . the fact that internet traffic 
frequently passes past international , and is not 
managed , and strongly 
its  . 


2 . 3 . how  ( in)secure ) are internet 

 people at any site in the of sites with 
access to hardware and network media that data over the 
internet could or archive it. however , the 
volume and general   inherent to this data makes 
these highly improbable , even by government 
with supposedly vast funding and resources .  . 

exist to  magnetic fields given off by 
electrical without  . less , any machine 
with a network connection is a potential station for traffic 
, but this scenario requires knowledge and access to 
very low level hardware  ( the network card ) to pursue , if even 
possible. 

a company network general inc. is one of many that 
and sophisticated network tools that can 
 filter  and read by arbitrary for 
purposes , but the cost of this type of device is 
for casual use. 

known instances of the above types of security at a major 
scale  ( such as at network hubs ) are very rare .  . the greatest risks 
tend to emerge  . note that all these approaches are almost 
completely with the use of cryptography .  . 


2 . 4 . how  ( in)secure ) is my account 

by default , not very .  . there are a multitude of factors that may 
or compromise aspects of your on the internet .  . 
first , your account must be secure from other users. the universal 
system is to use a , but if it is  (i . e .  . easy to 
guess) this security is  . somewhat 
surprisingly and to some , certain users of the 
system , particularly the administrator , generally have unlimited 
access regardless of , and may grant that access to 
others. this means that they may read any file in your account 
without  . 

furthermore , not universally known , most unix systems keep fairly 
extensive accounting records of when and where you in , what 
commands you execute , and when they are executed  ( in fact , 
information is usually  . most features of this  or 
accounting  information are enabled by default after the 
initial and the system administrator may it 
to or it to or  . 
this information is frequently for 
purposes and may otherwise be ignored .  . this data 
attempts and other  suspicious  activities on 
the system. a traditional part of the unix system that user 
commands is easily by the user with the use of 
links  ( described in  man  . 

unix vary widely particularly in features 
and new sophisticated mechanisms are introduced by 
regularly. typically system the basic unix 
with public domain programs and developed 
tools for , and use them only to  
activity as it (e . g .  . remote to the   file , incorrect 
attempts , remote connection attempts , etc . ) .  . 

generally , you should expect little on your account for 
various reasons 

, every you type could be by 
someone else. 

system administrators make extensive that are completely 
invisible to users which may record the states of an account over 
many weeks. 

files can , under many operating systems , be  . 

most services keep of use for or 
otherwise for example ftp sites usually log the commands and 
record the domain of users , including anonymous 
ones. 

some software these problems. see the section on 
 . 

of administrators are fellow users , a much 
more commonly harmful threat .  . there are multiple ways to help 
ensure that your account will not be by others , and 
can often be to failures in these 

choose a secure  . change it periodically .  . 
make sure to always .  . 
do not leave a machine for long .  . 
make sure no one watches you when you type your  . 
avoid references in email. 
be conservative in the use of the  . file. 
use like  to protect a station , but be 
 . 

be wary of situations where you think you should supply your 
 . there are only several basic situations where unix 
you for a when you are in to a system or 
changing your  . situations can arise in which for 
are by other users , especially in cases where you 
are talking to them  ( such as internet relay  . also , be aware 
that are one method to obtain 
 . 


 ( thanks to jim for contributions 
here . ) . 


2.5 how  ( in)secure ) are my files and 

the most important are related to file 
rights , and many can be to their misunderstood nature 
or  . be aware of the rights associated with 
your files and in unix .  . if the   ( `execute' ) right on 
your parent directory is off for users , groups , and other , these 
users cannot gain information on anything in your  . 
anything less may allow others to read , change , or even delete 
files in your home directory .  . the rights on a directory 
the rights associated with files in that directory .  . for a 
directory ,  x  means that access to the files  ( or subdirectories ) 
in the directory is possible if you know their names. to list 
the contents of the directory , however , requires the  r  right. 

by default most accounts are only to the owner , but the 
initial varies between sites based on administrator 
preference .  . the default file mode the initial rights 
associated with created files , and can be set in the shell 
with  . the details of rights tend to vary 
between versions of unix .  . consult man pages on  and  . 

examples 


ls 
15 jan 31 21 22 users 

here is a listing of the rights associated with a user 's home 
directory , denoted by ` ' .  . the at the left identify what 
rights are available. the first identifies the entry as a 
directory , and the next three mean that read , write , and 
execute rights , respectively , are for that user .  . for 
, the  right means that contents  ( file and 
names ) within that directory can be listed .  . the 
subsequent indicate that no other users have any rights to 
anything in the directory tree at that point. they 
ca n't even  any lower files or the 
is completely invisible to them. 

ls l 
r r 1 jan 29 23 13 
u , g , o 
ls l 
1 jan 29 23 13 

here the modes on the file  were changed to take away rights 
from  and  . 

note that l file ' requires both the  r  right to get the list 
of files and , and the  x  right to access the files 
and in order to get their size , etc. for example , 
suppose the directory  has rights dr r r , the following 
is possible 

ls 

these commands would fail independent of file rights 

ls l 
ls l file 
cat file 


if the directory  has rights d x x x , the following are 
possible if it is known that  contains an  r  
file named  

ls l file 
cat file 


the following commands fail 

ls 
ls l 


 ( thanks to de . for contributions here . ) . 


2 . 6 . how  ( in)secure ) is x 

x is the primary software developed by the mit athena 
project which is funded by u.s. government grants to develop 
applications to the power of in 
, particularly the human computer interface .  . 
the software a server interface to a computer via 
 . in this case the  is the application 
requesting or utilizing resources  ( such as or a 
mouse ) and the  is the machine that provides them. in many 
situations the is an application program running on the same 
machine as the server .  . 

the great utility of x comes from its complete 
of the and server so that may be  to a 
server at a remote from the  . unfortunately this 
power also many deep , intricate , and complicated 
security  . the primary security and issue 
associated with x is that much more sensitive data may be 
sent over a network , and over regions , than in the case where 
the human is near the host computer .  . currently there is 
no of data such as and in x 
 . 

due to either intentional design decisions or unintentional design 
flaws , early versions of the x system are extremely 
 . anyone with an account on the server machine can 
that display or read it based on access to the 
device unix 0 . 0 . by any regular user .  . there are no 
from this type of access in these versions. the problem 
because the security is completely based on machine addresses 
rather than users , such that any user at a  machine is 
himself trusted .  . quoting from x documentation  ( man xsecurity ) 

any on a host in the host access control list is allowed 
access to the x server .  . this system can work reasonably well in 
an environment where everyone trusts everyone , or when only a 
single person can log into a given machine .  .  . this . system does not 
work well when multiple people can log in to a single machine and 
trust does not exist. 

with the access control list , the  command may prevent some 
naive attempts (i . e .  . those other than the direct access unix 0 . 0 . 
evasion ) the as typed on the host machine is 
name '' where name is the domain name or internet address of an 
machine .  . by default running to 
the host are  . public domain programs to a display 
momentarily  ( such as  flip  or the image , or 
cause to   down to the bottom ) have been on 
the internet among for several years and played as 
on or users. much more serious security 
are conceivable from similar mechanisms this 
inherent weaknesses .  .  ( the minimal , easily  
security mode of  has been referred to as 
hanging open , security terrible .  . 

new versions of the x system  ( x11r5 and higher ) by default 
make server access as secure as the file system using a  . 
file and  magic  . remote machines must have a code in the 
 . file in the home directory that the code 
allowed by the server .  . many older programs and even new 
code does not support or is incompatible with 
 . the basic magic mechanism is vulnerable to 
techniques described earlier because no of 
occurs in  . also includes other 
sophisticated mechanisms .  . try  to find 
out what is supported at your site. even though improved security 
mechanisms have been available in x since 1990 , local 
sites often update this software because 
is extremely complex .  . 


 ( thanks to , 
jim , and bill marshall 
for contributions here . ) . 


2 . 7 . how  ( in)secure ) is my email 

by default , not very .  . the characters that you are reading are 
almost certainly in ascii , the american standard code for 
information that and 
characters onto codes and vice  . virtually every 
computer system uses this code , and if not , has ways of converting 
to and from it. when you write a mail message , by default it is 
being sent in ascii , and since the standard is virtually 
universal , there is no intrinsic  . despite worth 
of knowledge , 
are only recently being established that afford high priority to 
as a primary in computer and network design. some 
potential pitfalls in are as follows 

the most serious threats are instances of or 
system operators reading private mail in the files  at a 
local site (i . e .  . at the source or of the message ) , 
such as a university .  . 

system administrators may also release files to law enforcement 
, but conventions and protocols for warrants involving 
computer searches have still not been strongly established and 
tested legally .  . 

note that messages go to at a given site in 
their  . this means that if you address mail with an 
incorrect address it has a good chance of being seen by a human 
other than the  . 

typically new user accounts are always set up such that the local 
mail directory is private , but this is not guaranteed and can be 
 . 

finally , be aware that some mailing lists  ( email addresses of 
everyone on a list) are actually publicly via mail 
software mechanisms .  . this  can be  . 

most potential in email can be thoroughly 
avoided with the use of strong end to end cryptography , which has 
its own set of  ( for example , administrators 
may still be a threat if the site is shared or 
 . see the sections on   and 
policies . '' . 


2 . 8 . how am i  ( not ) liable for my email and postings 

as punishment or whatever , your system administrator can 
certain  such as , usenet posting or reading 
certain groups , file , remote communications , or 
generally any subset of capabilities available from your account. 
this all is completely at the of the local administrator 
and under the followed at a particular site , which in 
many cases are and crisis oriented .  . currently there are 
virtually no widespread , uniform or for 
use to any internet services , and local administrators 
are free to make arbitrary decisions on access. 

today measures are regularly applied in various situations .  . 
in the typical scenario  ( complaint(s ) reach a system 
regarding abuses by a user , usually but not necessarily by 
to the user in email , regarding that person 's 
email or postings .  .  posters to usenet are 
usually first given from their system administrators as 
by others on the  .  ( the debate on 
many newsgroups whether this is also used as a questionable means 
of attacking or  or 
unpopular opinions . ) . 

system administrators at remote sites regularly to 
  severe cases of abuse .  . in general , however , by tradition 
usenet readers are tolerant of views and uses of 
the system , but a of slang helps describe 
their alternatives when this patience is the options 
by the individual user are to simply advance to the next 
message  ( referred to as the  key'' ) , or to  
posters  ( according to the hacker 's dictionary , the sound a 
jerk makes at the end of a fall to the bottom of a kill  . 

in cases where actions are applied , generally system 
administrators are least likely to restrict email. usenet postings 
are much more commonly restricted , either to individual users or 
entire groups  ( such as a university  . restrictions are most 
commonly associated with the following  

or threatening notes , terrorism  
illegal uses , e.g. or propagation of material 
hominem  attacks , i.e. insulting the reputation of the 
poster instead of the content of the message 
intentional or extreme and 
inappropriate postings , esp. files in regular groups 
bombing  mail boxes with numerous or massive 
files 

major problems originate from lack of distinctions in private and 
official email or postings .  . most users have internet access via 
accounts at or universities and their activities on the 
internet can be construed as representative of their parent 
organizations .  . many people put disclaimers in their  in 
an attempt their identity and activities from parent 
organizations as a  . a recent political case 
involves the of electronic mail written by white house 
members of the bush  . following are some 


yourself with your company or university policy. 
if possible , avoid use of your company email address for private 
 . 
use a disclaimer .  . 
keep a low  ( avoid  or simply do n't  . 
avoid posting information that could be construed to be 
or  . 

the following references are available from ftp . com . 
 ( see also the section on use policies'' ) 

pub academic 1991 . 
pub academic 1992 . 

computer material that was challenged in in 1991 
and 1992 including usenet  . 

pub academic cases 

this is an on line collection of information about specific 
computers and academic freedom cases. file is a detailed 
description of the items in the directory .  . 

pub academic faq netnews . 

notes on university for usenet .  . 


2 . 9 . how do i provide more less information to others on my identity 

the public information of your identity and account is mostly 
available though the unix utility  described above. 

you have control over most of this information with the utility 
 , the vary between sites  ( on some systems use 
 . 

you can provide unlimited information in the  . plan . file which is 
copied directly to the during the  . 

a that works at some sites allows you to find out who is 
 finger you and even to vary the  . plan . file sent to them. 

your signature is determined by the environment signature 

usenet are in the  . signature . file 
in your home directory .  . 

providing less information on your identity is more difficult 
and involved. one approach is to ask your system to 
change or delete information about you  ( such as your full name) .  . 
you may be able to obtain access on a public account or one from 
someone unrelated to you personally. you may be able to remotely 
 ( via or otherwise ) to computers that you are not 
physically near .  . these are for hiding or your 
activities but nothing is  . consult man pages on 
the   command and the default file mode .  . generally , files on 
a shared system have good within the user pool but very 
little protection is possible from corrupt system administrators .  . 

to your identity in email or on usenet you can use different 
accounts. more are new posting  and 
services that are very recently being established .  . see 
below. 


2 . 10 . who is my sysadmin what does s he know about me 

the requirements and for getting a system 
job  ( and thereby access to all information on a system ) vary widely 
between sites and are sometimes , especially at 
universities .  . many unix systems at universities are largely 
managed by with a background in computing and often 
 . in general , and industrial sites are more 
strict on and background , and government sites are 
extremely strict .  . 

the system  ( root user ) can what commands you 
used and at what times. s he may have a record  ( backups ) of files 
on your account over a few weeks. s he can when you send 
email or post usenet messages , and read either. s he 
may have access to records indicating what hosts you are using , 
both and elsewhere. administrators sometimes 
programs to track  or  activity , 
which can be misused .  . 


2 . 11 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 

for the numerous reasons listed above , should not be an 
expectation with current use of the internet .  . furthermore , large 
parts of the internet are funded by the u.s.  ( national science 
foundation ) which places certain restrictions on its use  ( such as 
prohibiting  . some high level in this and 
other government may be opposed to techniques to 
 ( such as and anonymous  . 

historically the major threats to on the internet have been 
local .  . perhaps the most common example of this are the widespread 
occurrences of university administrators refusing to carry some 
portion of usenet newsgroups as  . the 
 in the usenet system , which has virtually 
no restrictions on propagation and new group creation , is 
frequently targeted  ( although this material may appear  . 

from the point of view traffic is generally completely 
on the internet and only the most offenders 
are  . for example , of 
material  ( such as newspaper or magazine articles ) are posted to 
usenet with regularity without major consequences  ( some email 
may  . more to some is that currently 
significant portions of usenet traffic , and less so internet 
traffic , is comprised of explicit images almost 
entirely from material  ( newsgroups such as 
regularly have the highest  . 


2 . 12 . what is the future of on the internet 

some argue that the internet currently has an adequate or 
appropriate level of  . others will argue that as a 
for future it has 
 . the internet is growing to become a completely , 
international for data , and this traffic will 
inevitably data such as voice messages , mail , and 
many other items of extremely personal nature. computer items that 
many people consider completely private  ( such as their local hard 
drives ) will literally be from network  . 
also , sensitive industrial and business information is 
over currently and this volume may with 
the internet .  . 

most would agree that , for these basic but sensitive uses of the 
internet , no significant mechanisms are currently in place to 
ensure much  . new standards are calling for uniform 
introduction of enhanced mail   ( pem ) which uses 
to ensure , so that protection is 
automatic , and may improve  . 

the same technology that can be extremely destructive to 
 ( such as with surveilance ) can be 
effective in protecting it (e . g .  . with  . some government 
are opposed to unlimited in general , and believe 
that it should be in cases of criminal conduct 
(e . g .  . court  . however , powerful new 
to protect on computers are becoming 
popular , provoking some to say that cat is out 
of the   and the ca n't be put back in the  . in 
less terms , they believe that the spread of strong 
cryptography is already will be socially and technically 
 . 

to date , no system that both secure 
and government has been proposed  ( the two 
goals are largely  . for   of 
secret  ( by d. on sci . , for example) have been met 
with hot controversy at best and and at worst , 
mainly because of concerns for the right to and objections 
of inherent  . electronic issues , and 
particularly the proper roles of and the internet , will 
become highly and explosive over the next few 
years. 






3 . 1 . what is  on the internet 

simply stated , is the absence of identity , the 
ultimate in  . however , there are several variations on 
this simple theme. a person may wish to be 
identified by a certain or  and establish a 
reputation under it in some area , providing pseudo  . 
a person may wish to be completely for a single 
one way message (a sort of and  . or , a person may 
wish to be openly anonymous but carry on a conversation with 
others  ( with either known or anonymous identities ) via an 
return  . a user may wish to appear as a 
user  but actually be  . sometimes a user 
wishes to hide who he is sending mail to  ( in addition to the 
message  . the anonymous item itself may be directed at 
individuals or groups. a user may wish to access some 
service and hide all signs of the association .  . 

all of these uses are on the internet but are currently 
tricky to carry out in practice , because of all the 
mechanisms inherent to operating systems and network protocols .  . 
of the and other government may be opposed 
to any of these uses because of the potential for abuse .  . 
nevertheless , the inherent of large will 
always a certain element of  . 


3 . 2 . why is   ( un)important ) on the internet 

is another powerful tool that can be beneficial or 
depending on its use. arguably absence of 
is important as the presence of it. it may be the 
case that many strong benefits from electronic will be 
discovered that were and , because true 
has been historically very difficult to establish .  . 

one can use to make personal statements to a 
that would a relationship if stated openly  ( such as 
employer  . one can use it to pass information 
and any threat of direct  . for example , 
 reporting on government abuses  ( economic , social , 
or political ) can bring issues to light without fear of or 
 . sensitive , personal , damaging information 
is often posted to some usenet groups , a situation where 
allows to be carried on completely 
independent of the of the participants .  . some police 
run phone services that allow anonymous reporting of 
crimes such uses would be straightforward on the network. 
unfortunately , and harassment become more with 
of  . 


3 . 3 . how can be protected on the internet 

the chief means , as alluded to above , are in 
email and posting. however , anonymous accounts  ( public accounts as 
and anonymous as e.g. public telephones ) may be 
effective as well , but this use is generally not 
supported and even discouraged by some system and 
 . the in the requirements of obtaining 
accounts at different sites and makes anonymous 
accounts generally difficult to obtain to the public at large .  . 

many communications protocols are inherently detrimental to 
 . virtually every in existence currently 
contains information on both sender and receiver in every packet .  . 
new communications protocols will likely develop that 
much higher degrees of secure anonymous  . 


3 . 4 . what is mail  

one approach to  mail has been to set up an 
server  that , when by email to its address , responds by 
and an id  that is unique to the 
person requesting it  ( based on his email  . this will vary 
for the same person for different machine address email 
 . to send anonymous mail , the user sends email directed 
to the server containing the final  . the server 
 the message by of information 
and the message , which appears to originate from the 
anonymous server only from the anonymous user id .  . 
this is the  use of or 
mentioned above. 

another more  approach is to run a  
from a regular user account  ( no root system are 
 . these are currently being by eric and 
. the operator runs a process on 
a machine that mail sent to him with certain 
characteristics that distinguish it from his regular mail 
 ( typically fields in the  . one has been implemented as a 
running on unix .  . several of these are in existence 
currently but sites and software currently are highly 
they may be in operation outside of system administrator knowledge. 
the do n't generally support anonymous return addresses .  . 
mail that is incorrectly addressed is received by the operator .  . 
generally the user of the has to any 
responsibility for the messages through his system , 
although actually may be held liable regardless .  . 

these approaches have several serious and weaknesses 

the anonymous server approach requires maintaining a mapping of 
anonymous id 's to real addresses that must be 
indefinitely .  . one alternative is to allow  of 
at the request of the user , but this has not been 
implemented yet. 

although an unlikely scenario , traffic to any of these sites could 
be from the  , the 
use of cryptography for basic protection , . 

local administrators can shut them down either out of or 
under pressure from local , network , or government  . 

of the services can the traffic 
that goes through them. 

most currently keep that may be  . 

the approach tends to be highly because these 
operators are basically network users who do not own the 
equipment and are accountable to their own system 
administrators , who may be of the use and unsympathetic 
to the philosophy of when the operation is discovered , 
regarding it as illicit use. 

in all cases , a high degree of trust is placed in the anonymous 
server operator by the user .  . 

currently the most direct route to involves using 
protocols to submit a message directly to a server with arbitrary 
field information. this practice , not to , and the 
approach used by , is generally viewed with hostility by 
most system administrators .  . information in the data 
and of network connection information may be 
that can be used to track the site. in practice , this 
is generally and rarely carried out. some 
administrators on the network will contact local administrators to 
request a message be and its writer or punished 
more severely  ( such as the account ) , all of this actually 
happening but  . 

see the sections anonymous mail and posting sites   and 
associated with  . 


3.5 what is posting  

anonymous have been established as well for anonymous usenet 
posting with all the associated above  ( monitored traffic , 
or local circumstances ,  . make sure to 
test the system at least once by e.g. anonymous posting to 
misc . test .  ( however some operators do n't recommend this because many 
sites  to test messages , possibly causing the 
anonymous server to anonymous for those  . 
see the associated with anonymous posting   
before proceeding .  . 

another direct route involves using nntp protocols to submit a 
message directly to a with arbitrary field information. 
this practice , not to , is also generally viewed 
with hostility by most system administrators , and similar 
consequences can  . 

see the sections anonymous mail and posting sites   and 
associated with  . 


3 . 6 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 

as noted , many factors compromise the currently available 
to the general internet community , and these services should be 
used with great  . to summarize , the technology is in its 
and current approaches are , unreliable , and not 
completely trustworthy .  . no standards have been established and 
situations of loss of and in the software 
are  . here are some encountered and potential 

one anonymous already anonymous 
return addresses .  . 
others passed signature information embedded in messages 
 . 
address resolution problems resulting in mail 
to a are common .  . 
to the anonymous server itself are a problem , possibly 
allowing users to glean anon id email 
address in the file. this can be with 
the use of  . 
infinite mail loops are possible with  . 

source code is being , tested , and refined for these 
systems , but standards are and  . the 
field is not likely to improve without official 
endorsement and action by network  . the whole idea is 
essentially still in its and viewed with suspicion and 
distrust by many on the internet , seen as illegitimate or 
to  . the major objection to over regular 
internet use is the perceived lack of accountability to system 
operators , i.e. to account restrictions resulting 
from outside  . system at some sites have 
threatened to filter anonymous news postings generated by the 
prominent from their  . this may only 
have the effect of encouraging server operators to create less 
detectable  . probably the least 
approach , and the most traditional to usenet , is for 
individual users to deal with anonymous mail however they prefer , 
e.g. ignoring it or filtering it with kill files. 


3 . 7 . what is the future of on the internet 

new anonymous protocols effectively serve to increase 
of  . for example , the same mechanism that 
email over multiple hosts , thereby threatening its , 
can also be used to it. in a scheme called  an 
anonymous message is passed through multiple anonymous 
before a  . in this way generally multiple 
links of the have to be  for security to be 
 . re at each link makes this scenario even 
more unlikely .  . even more the anonymous 
could be spread over the internet so that local weaknesses 
 ( such as corrupt governments or legal within a nation ) 
would be more unlikely to sacrifice overall security by message 
 . however , run by corrupt operators are possible. 

the future of anonymous services on the internet is , at this time , 
highly and with peril .  . while specific groups seem 
to benefit from anonymous posting capabilities , many 
feel that unlimited newsgroup for anonymous posting is a 
and dangerous idea and from discussions in 
 groups. the introduction of unlimited group 
may have fundamental repercussions on usenet conventions and 
distribution mechanisms such as moderated and  groups have had 
in the past. for example , as part of new group creation , the 
charter may whether  posting is  . 

nevertheless , the widespread introduction and use of may 
be inevitable .  . based on traffic statistics , anonymous services are 
in huge demand .  . and readily available could 
carry significant and social consequences .  . however , if 
its use is continued to be generally regarded as it may 
be confined to the  . the ramifications of widespread 
introduction of to usenet are still largely unknown .  . it 
is whether it will of new 
traffic or , instead of , cause a shift where a greater 
portion of existing traffic is  . the 
services could play a role in future mainstream social 
acceptance of usenet .  . 




this is part 1 of the faq , obtained via anonymous 
ftp to pub usenet news.answers net or 
newsgroups news.answers , sci . answers . , alt . answers . every 21 days. 
written by l. . 
all rights  . 


from  ( bob bickford ) 
subject re more technical details 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization whole earth  link 
lines 17 


the system , or  family  , key would appear to be 
useless , since every chip must know it and be able to remove its 
effects from the  . i daresay that it will be widely known 
almost immediately after this system is , and since it 's been 
pointed out that there is not a separate key the same key 
is used for both and there goes any benefit 
to the use of a system wide key in  . 

robert a hacker is any person who joy from 
ways to  . 86 

i recognize that a class of criminals and juvenile has 
taken to calling themselves   , but i consider them irrelevant 
to the true meaning of the word just as the calls themselves 
  but nobody that fact any attention .  . 90 


from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
lines 43 

from  ( germano caronni ) 

in article  ( graham toal ) writes 
can someone tell me if hardware is or is not needed to run 
digital speech down 14 . i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets 
say 8 bit samples .  . would raw data at the rate 
be if not , how fancy does the need to be 

as far as i know  ( call it here , and it 's being in ) it 's 
8 bit  ( gives you one channel of sec ) i guess you should not go 
below a rate of 6000 if you want to have same quality as on an 
line. anybody knows factors for voice 

i 've posted some info on coding on sci .  . looks like you can 
speech into if you have a fast enough computer like a 
 ( or a newton with the risc machine in it ) ) 

this drops the bandwidth to so low a figure that it 's to run 
speech over running on top of slip down a  . not only 
will this let us run point to point speech , it 'll let us 
run speech internationally over the internet if no one stops us by 
getting very heavy about  . the thought of this , if the 
realised , would probably them  . 

now of course the trick is to develop and define a standard 
for internet speech damn fast , allowing anyone who to 
hardware as well as us it on our 
workstations .  . should n't be too difficult. the stuff is , 
we use , and a allowing to be used to 
up on any net , and also to avoid sending any data during 
 ( ie it 's not wise to be real time on each end 
because any net would add up to big voice lags ) 

as for me , i'm going to press ahead on trying this stuff as soon as 
i get my back from being out and buy the necessary  . 
it 'll save me a in calling my friend in texas every night ) 
 ( whether or not ) 

you know , surely someone is working on this. who it 's so obvious , 
why does n't it exist already i 've only seen for and 
it did n't do the so was restricted to  . 

g 

from  ( andrew molitor ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization department of mathematical sciences 
lines 29 
distribution 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( 1016 2ef221 ) writes 
i guess the read this group too. but of 
course i knew that because it is so easy to do. there is 
not a single doubt in my mind that every that passes 
every significant gateway or  bone is captured for the 
of data about  ( maybe your name is  . 

i really like these claims .  . where did they come from we hear , 
practically daily , that the , oh , everything. they can 
crack anything. they 'd never release a they could n't crack .  . 

where do people get these fascinating facts  the puzzle  
if you can get it for a , 2nd hand , it must be true , eh i'm pretty 
sure the is supposed to , among many other things , provide high quality 
to a variety of places. i do n't recall reading anywhere 
reliable that they 're supposed to 

1 ) my  . 
2 ) usenet .  . 
3) provide only they can easily crack .  . 
4 ) etc etc. 

this is not to say that they do n't , they might .  . but you do n't 
know that they do , and you have no evidence that they do , for almost 
all values of you. it follows , therefore , that for most values of  you  , 
your claims about the border on paranoia .  . 

andrew 


from douglas johnson 
subject unix for dos 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization class technology corporation 
x mailer dos (3 . 
lines 4 

i 've recently moved from unix to a dos box and have a number of files 
that i used to protect . does anyone know of a dos version of 
i 've found one , but it insists on letter and i used 
some ones. thanks for your help. doug 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 17 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

some of the more notorious self dissidents here , for example , have 
already got their heads so high above the grass that they 'd have little 
chance of getting a  . 

if there are many as .  .  .  . , er , people in the usa who reason like the 
above , then it should not be surprising that the current plot has been 
allowed to happen .  .  .  . 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re more technical details 
organization for an america free drug 
lines 15 

 ( stephen r. tate ) writes 

now , i'm not one of the people who the government at every 
turn , but taking someone 's word for it that the pairs are not kept 
around is pushing what i'm willing to believe just a little bit too far. 


even if they somehow address this issue it is unlikely to be the only 
back door in they might even have a few intentionally to 
from the ones that are n't  . 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( peter k. boucher ) 
subject pseudo random character  ( large state ) 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

here are four pseudo random character , based on 
 . each contains 16 separate , 
one of which is on  ( there are 64 
distinct between the 4  . the are 
with a 32 bit seed , and a 4 bit 
 . 

i would like to get comments on these by anyone who is 
interested enough to look them over. please email , 
because our news is on the  ( note that this was 
posted via  . 

peter k. 

clip clip 

begin z . 
m b ( ! , ,  . ' . 1 , j ! d  d ! c 
m ! ' g n ,  ( 0 ,  c2 ) , 
d  ( 3bp((@6 , b 2 , w 4 , 01 . f . ! 2 . 
( 5 12)bo9 ) 0 , b ls ) m 00 .  ( d j . (f . 
m  . k  ( @v , 04 . 2 .  .  ( 3)dy(fv ) h ) , ' 
! !  ( 7 m  ( v ! @ , , 8 ! , , w l 6  b 
 . w  ( 27 ,  . gp ) 48 7  
d . , ap  a  7  ( w(uqw 6 
7a821)y ) 9  ' ! 
m g  ( 5(4 x  ( hqfz6c  a  ( 14(vm 
 ( m6y(1 er  b ! 9 ! 33  ( bd(4q0 ! 1 
a ( a ! 5 , , , s 
m tv ! lk , , p 3  ( d z c 
m 2 8  . fu . ) zjx ) t k j  ( sp n 
( .  . , ) 2 p @ ) 3 7 . l , 
s)o )  ( d4kcprfrmscc8h , 3) 3.  ( dx 
m  ( o2i u rs p , , d , 
! t , 4. n i 7  ( 0(4 , @ l w  . 
d 78 ! 5 , 0@@ ) ) ' 6 , ! t ' . w . j0 
! t xi f i )  ( u(q p w ' x 
m  ( y(1  ( r @ ! r 9 0nt)i ) 0 
m ' j s q . n .  . u 
' ! 4 ! gs@@yv1)@6 ) z @ 
m 4r )  ( 1  ( icf ! ' @ r )  . e . 7 q  . z . b  
a8s )  . 2 e t  
o q , , !  ( 1(02 q h ! !  24 7 
b 
m , q r g 7 8si ) ! , , z , 6 
 . v 9 , sf)s ) 7 3 82f0 ) i 4 k 
m sd)6n63v ) f  z , !  . n 
m ! ! , d  . 1 ! 2 t7s ) e)ty ) y 
m 5 g h . sbj2 ) 5 g . h 
m ) @ yh ) u i 
m 6 , n ( .  . 8 d ) 8 
 g . 3 . 6 )  ( o1f0ewme j , 
! eh u 1. 7 u u 
l . 2 ( o 1 p , 4 
  ! @ l)cfa00u4 )  . s 0 7 
7z ) u , i . p !  ( h(h , @ e d 9 
m)1@)244 ) i ce 3 e p)n )  . e  . b. 
m y be ! t .  ( 6mkb 7  ( p  ( s , 8o sf , 1 
i . , z ! ,  ( 8u(9i q p ) n  ! 8 . 2 . 
r d e 0 1 m i ) ! 
a j  ( 7rhn a. 4 1 k a , c . 9 
m 0  p )  . , e e) .  .  ( h1(z  ( 4(bl)4tm )  ( pmv7yb(f)y ) 
m . 2 . ! e) , 
t h .  y ( !  ( 6 y . ' u 
, ) . n . x ! s q . s . ! jqc ) z 
, 5 ! e 'd m  . 5 . mw @ 
 ( m v c ! b ! , r z@ ) 4 3  ( n4cu m 
 . o ! b ! t l 3  . 
l 2 h 1 0 0 
 ( mycwg(sx45 ! o !  d 8 l ( u 
 ( j h 8 q  ( q5l !  p ) 9 , 
, v ! m a 9  ( 1(i 3d ' 1 z 0  . ! 
 ( 7 v ! 85  ( (6 ) ! 2 
,  ( z5@ew)55ndu5v4(er ) ! ( 1. 
 ( mb(bre5 ! ( 6  ( gc)5r )  ( ebu2n z q 2 3 i 
m  ( ms 8  ( 'f(k ! g g 
 ( 5(lp  ( 8ns6(v  ( v(r6(53 2 l 3@)8jyj ) 25 ( 6. 
m 5 5  ( ee(w ,  ( xb(j)e8 ) , . 5 . de . mw !  ( x1dx  ( kv(n8 
m x !  . i j ( x  ( m(xl uk ) 
m  ( 5dt(9 r  (  ) 55 j  ( u 9 . 
 ( my(k0  ( o4)9 ) ' 9 1 , y  . f)2 ) , v n v)3 ) ! z 9)@ty ) j 
m . 7u197w6 ) 4 ! ! 6. ) ! f h 5 ! 
t .  .  ( e)a(g5a )  ( lf(m 40 , q i ! @ , x e z ! .  ( 61r 3 
54 , 0 ! 1 ) 8q ) 
 ( mef8p(1 , t r ! p l  . 6 , , 1 f 
 ( m(19i 4 a !  ( dvawp6a ab ) ab)46fw ) ! g 
o o  ( 6r6823f 
m i s ) !  ( 8a 4 b 0  ( ft)hft1uvur ) , f  ( eyb'h)b(dpb'l ) 
b s f b ! g ! ha , 
m 7 b85)t5flannib9l ) 1 @ 47 )  ( hh(j ! z  ( tg(o9wl9 
m , as  ( 9(7 c . j . v  , ) 1 , ' , , c 1 
0 . i . q ) w l g t fnv)qpx@ )  . 5 .  ( wiqes(q9s f 
i . 8 .  . c , 2rjys)29wlz ) ,  ( q(p m ,  ( xq(s 
m)zr )  w j q , , r ) 
u t r s r . c 
mr  ( vsn7yly(51r  ( t ' 
 . 1 . g ,  ( 3m  ( u ) ,  ( 2u 2 
! , a h)t ) ( , b . x . , , w ! , j !  ( 2 ! 
m 5 . 7 x817 ) , e58 ) 85 4  ( 'uax5r1(9w  ( 4a t 
 ! h be , 18 a  ( a ( b f 
2 j 9 ) 3e ) s  ( jfxi(z d 
m  ( j 6z ) v ob . sc)9 ) v. 9 . b . 9 r 
m . e ( l ) d b v)e ) v ic x y t 
k 6 9 q6 ) x ) 8o j t ' ) r 
m ! o ) r)7b ) 0n )  . z ) ! o) @ (e 
(  ( c(f9f ! 9 0h ) 3 ) , 28 
q g x s s . z , ( c)827 ) 9 5 , , o gv ) 
m i 1 ) ! x ! 
mg)f ) . ! j6 ) jd ) 0 f 9 ' ! o 014t4)o426 ) y 
m 6 66 ' 1 21 n j w , n , o c ! d 6 
m ,  ( 5iz(5a 1 , , 9 mi d c i t 
c t ! ' j ) . 
i j , tj)w ) b o f g j r @ , v 
j0  ( yz1  ( j4(ev ! w , g g 
, 72 d p w)p ) i  ( 'ha4pawawvjqfys(wp a z p 
6jg7la)a'7h )  ( @ , a 
 9vmq)f9s ) j 3 v nc 73 
, r g  . m . 0  ( jxz(p , v d  ( c7(0mis 
mt mn t u ! ! 54 
m t , w p . w . s  5 8 ( 
d ! ,  .  .  . 0 u )  ( sx(55x ,  ( 0('h  . x 
m !  ( 1(uvt   ( 4zt(v !  ( xr , 7  , @ 9 8 
m , n ! b k ! e c ( h ! 
! d . q . , e !  ( 1 ckda ) ! 1 r  ( '8u(ai 
j e n e .  . 3 ! y n 3  . , q 
m e 7 z d h e , 8 x x 2 es c b  b 
 . o  ( nniz 8 . 3 . l . . ! l ! 37 .  . d . ,  ( w(y9 ) 1 
m ,  . 11 . ' 9 . 1 g n , h 
m w  ( sc(y  . z .  ( ol o . 3  ( o27@ (  09 
mr g c 8 t  . d .  . l 9. , , ! d l 
m uvc ) 8 2  ( c)b6kib(w)@i ) ! if .  . dpuk3i ) 
m a , , f , t jr  , q o 5 w 5  
m !  . v)zzi776 ) 
m  ( tzf @ k . @ g 63  ( z 
 . ( 8bmff)s6q5 ) 
9 k t n w 
m w s  0 4 6 l 
! ' !  ( 8('m ) ! h u , @ , x ! 4 l ) 
m . e . ( s r 9 12  .  . 44 . !  ( i6pof  . v s ) g g 
m v ! 3 9336u)no2f ) ! rw)ur'' ) 
n  ( g ! r 0 ) ) , p ! c , j j ) w q . 
h , ! b un  .  . ! w s r ) 
 ( wc4 e ! y  ( fahsy !  ( 1(fqcb a 
, c k ( , l ! c  ( 5q@uj(@ ) r . 
m , , !  2 , rqp@n665xa)ni ) cs 
m ! @ ! l. m 0  . '  ( bx9ld(r 
 ( mpt(8 ! t  ( jr ed , , (s , r d , l ) 
 ( o  9 , s y !  ( @ , j 
mi v t , ej6 )  . , 1 @ r)svf8385beit2 ) 
f ! y z6c36s ) t 2 @  . 7 2 ) 
6h )  g))0o ) 9 ej 1  . x . ! 
 ( mdad(6 j b 93 c w ! 1)@q ) f 
  ( do(w2pjf 14@d'2d@ ) j . 
, ! f , h )  ( 5 ! 5 3 t k c  ( 4'u@(537 ! m 
o 1 , 6 ,  ( ma g )  , 
m  . y . , et 9 ,  ( 9epwv 3 , h 
m 5)nob'u ) . 3 5 6 , , 
mr ' g)mqdw ) 2 ! 4  t ! , u a 
y)a ) 9 1  y 4 ) ,  ( m 
@ 54 0 ! s  ( '(g3@ , 60 f g c  ( b40 ua ) ! 9 , 
7 me  ( o(4  ( yp's8(v 1 0 
u e a . u , i 
8 a w c 2 , ! ! 1ysv)5 ) , j q , 9 
 e  ( e(br  2 18 , 
''i ) v  ( fa6(b)9n ) d ! a 8 ! 
m h nr1 ) m)3kk ) ! e , 6 x n g)i ) 
q)n ) a ) d 8 , p k ) ot 6 , 
f  ( '0f(9j'e1 n y , p 1 
 ( 1yf('d 43 t . 1 4  r ! y 

end 

from  ( dwight tuinstra ) 
subject clipper will corrupt cops  ( was proposal from police point of view ) 
reply to 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 93 
nntp posting host signal . ece . edu . 

in article , hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) writes 
 ( david sternlight ) writes 

posts a very interesting message in which he comments on the 
effects of the clipper chip on state and local police .  . actually , reading 
between the lines , it could be a very good thing for civil liberties in one 
respect , since it will at least prevent cops and state and 
local from reading your traffic if they it  . 

instead of reading between the lines , try to think a little bit. ok , 
if that 's way too difficult to you , here are some hints .  . 

indeed , the new proposal some additional burden on 
the local police , if they want to the magic 
that your mom is telling you on the phone. so , guess what they will 
do propose that the new technology is removed or implement some 
of course , you wo n't want to wait until they get the 
approval from two different to the conversation 
between two child , because those two child 
might be about your child , right so , 
there should be some way for them to get access to those 
quickly , right like , they could have a copy of the , and 
worry about a warrant later .  .  .  . 

i perhaps should have been clearer and more concise in my post , but that 's 
what i get from posting at 1 am .  .  .  . 

the central point i made is that local state police attempting to 
play by the rules and get warrants , , etc. , may find 
themselves at the mercy of and agency 
at the federal level. 

i disagree that this would assist civil liberties by the 
cops .  . it would be a strong incentive , as points out , for more 
police to go and try to get through more efficient 
 ( but less constitutional ) means. notice what the release said 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 

court order , to do the in the first place. 


the clear implication is that there are legal other 
than a court order. just how are these  ( and who 
knows what 's in those 7 pages that the ) .  . there 
may well arise a black market of sorts within police , in which 
are  . furthermore , the police will be in an excellent 
position to carry out this kind of thing without being caught. they 
already have a with secure portions .  . there 
are a few laws that i know of , that limit citizens  rights to access 
police communications  ( or use the information they  . it may be 
very difficult to prove police misuse the fact that you have such 
evidence may itself be evidence that you have broken some other law. 

in private , who have even policy constitutional 
restrictions .  . also consider who 've from intelligence 
 . william gibson must be loving it. great story material. 

do n't think it 'll happen 

well , consider e.g. the michigan state police , generally a very 
organization , which for years kept red files on thousands of suspected 
, knowing full well it was not  . the standards 
of evidence were just about zero people were in the file because they 
happened to park near a place where , say , a us china people 's friendship 
was happening the police went around writing down license 
numbers. if you happened to be a friend who lived near the 
meeting place , well , the state police wound up filing you as a  . 
 ( they were eventually found out and a court ruled against carrying on any 
more such nonsense. i believe may have had to destroy the 
as well . ) . 

even with well meaning cops  ( and i'm sure there are many ) , there will 
be strong pressure to the constitutional  . we do n't need 
to assume corrupt or officers it will all be in the interest 
of enforcing sensible laws , saving lives , and protecting property .  . 
will be made by well meaning officers , facing what  ( to them) 
will be a moral dilemma .  . 

clipper will make criminals out of cops .  . do we want to do this to our 
police forces 


best 


... news at 


from  ( harry shapiro ) 
subject re the source of that announcement 
organization public access unix , 
lines 27 

in  ( marc 
n1nzu ) writes 

i received mail from saying that he did not ask to be on 
the list , and does not know why he was added .  . i'm sure the same 
applies to others on the list. so , i guess my initial theory was 
right , that the clipper list was just someone 's idea of a bad joke. i 
guess i should be happy it was n't a conspiracy .  . 

i have also been in contact with about this. i believe 
him when he says he did n't ask to be on the clipper list. 

he also the traffic he had recieved through that list to 
me which will be placed at some ftp site. 

however , the first on the clipper list was which was 
another mailing list. it basically contained the addresses for 
and board members of the security board. several of 
these people had their accounts within the domain .  . 

these are the people we might wish to  .  .  . 




list administrator of the institute mailing list 
private for the community since 1991 

from  ( mark eckenwiler ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization 
distribution na 
lines 26 

in , 

do the police normally reveal every they do even if no charges are 
laid in many ways , it would be a positive step if they had to. 
judges set time limits on warrants , i assume .  . 

under the relevant federal law , 18 usc  .  ( 2518(8)(d ) , the 
judge must the targets within 90 days after the 
period  ( with extensions ) expires .  . this is the normal practice. 

of course , no law would be complete without the unless clause , 
which in  ( 8(d ) reads like this on an ex showing 
i.e. , by the gov t without opposition , since that would obviously 
involve notice to the targets of good cause to a judge of 
jurisdiction the serving of the required by this 
the order itself dates of etc. may be 
 ( emphasis  . 


followups directed to a few select groups. 


moral always choose the right sort of parents 
before you start in to be rough 
george 
mark ... ! cmcl2 ! ! 

from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject re clipper chip technical details 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 20 

in article ,  . j. bernstein ) writes 
short summary of what says says the says there is 
a key g , plus one key u c for each chip c. the user can choose a 
new key k p for each phone call p he makes .  . chip c knows three 
g , its own u c , and the user 's k p. the government as a whole 
knows g and every u c. apparently a message m is as 
e  ( g(e u c  ( k p ) , c ) , e k p  . that 's it. 

the system as described here ca n't possibly work. what happens when 
someone the above into a receiving chip to get m 
the receiving chip needs k p to get k p the receiving chip needs u c. 
the only information it can work with is c. if u c can be 
from c then the system is useless and the 
  is bullshit .  . otherwise how is a message 

via k p , of course. nothing was said about where k p comes from. it 's 
the key , though , and it 's chosen however you usually choose 
key exchange , shared secret , , etc. 
but however you choose it , the chip will apparently the 
when you do. 

from  ( bill sommerfeld ) 
subject re the source of that announcement 
organization institute of technology 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host bill the cat . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 18 apr 1993 01 19 38 gmt 

gov . 25 
trying .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
first . org . 4 . 1 . ready at sat , 17 apr 93 20 42 56 edt 
clipper 
250 gov . 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
quit 
first . org . connection 
connection closed. 

note also 

gov . 25 
trying 129 . 6 . 54 . 2 .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
gov . 4 . 1 .  ( nist(rbj dougm ) ready at sat , 17 apr 93 23 08 edt 

250 
250 
250 
250 robert 
250 gene 
250 
250 
250 

mail gov . 25 
trying 129 . 6 . 48 .  .  .  . 
connected to mail gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
mail gov . 4 . 1 . 3 ready at sat , 17 apr 93 23 06 50 edt 

250 
250 
250 bill 
250 
250 john 
250 
250 
250 
250 cindy 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 

gov . 25 
trying 129 . 6 . 54 . 91 .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
gov . 4 . 1 . 11 . ready at sat , 17 apr 93 23 13 43 edt 

250 

250 stuart 
quit 
gov . connection 
connection closed by foreign host. 

gov . 25 
trying 129 . 6 . 48 . 2 .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
gov . service ready. 

250 , james 

250 , lynn 
quit 
gov . service complete. 

h rs . net . first . org . 
national institute of standards and technology  ( first dom ) 


, md 

domain name first . org . 

administrative contact 
, john p.  ( jpw18 ) 
 ( 301 )  ( fts ) 
technical contact , contact 
hunt , craig w.  ( cwh3 ) 
 ( 301 )  ( fts ) 

record last updated on 17 dec 91 .  . 

domain in listed order 

gov . 129 . 6 . 16 . 2 . 
ames . nasa . gov . 128 . 102 . 18 . 3 . 


the services host only contains internet information 
 ( networks , 's , domains , and  . 
please use the server at for information. 


from  ( william w. hughes ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of texas at san 
distribution na 
lines 22 

in article 
 ( andrew molitor ) writes 
in article 
 ( timothy c. may ) writes 

tim may , whose sig block may get him in the new regime 

is n't this just a little 

not at all. two weeks ago i a concern about some programming 
that was being conducted by a student organisation here at the 
university of texas at san  . as a result , i was 
by the police , who also attempted to create a positive 
file  ( photo , , etc . ) .  . i refused to this , and filed a 
complaint with the university  . the vice president for 
business affairs  ( the  boss  of the campus police ) stated that he had no 
interest in the legal constitutional implications of those actions .  . 


the greatest threat facing the citizens of the united states in the of 
the is the united states government at all levels federal , state , local 
all opinions are mine , and i reserve the right to deny them at any time 

from  ( josh a. goldfoot ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization yale university 
lines 12 
distribution 
reply to 
nntp posting host cis . yale . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 

it means that the 's public stance is complicated with issues irrelevant 
to the issue per  . there may well be people who care about 
the issue who do n't care to associate themselves with the 
network issue  ( or may even disagree with the 's  . 

perhaps these only types would defend the if it 
was posted 

these issues are not as as you maintain .  . 


from 
subject cryptography faq 02 10 net etiquette 
organization the 
lines 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 2 of 10 of the sci . faq , net etiquette .  . related 
newsgroups , appropriate , how to introduce an scheme .  . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 2 net etiquette 

this is the second of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest. 
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in the last part. 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 


contents 

what groups are around what 's a faq who am i why am i here 
do political discussions belong in sci . 
how do i present a new scheme in sci . 


what groups are around what 's a faq who am i why am i here 

read news . announce . newusers . and news.answers for a few weeks. always 
make sure to read a newsgroup for some time before you post to it. 
you 'll be amazed how often the same question can be asked in the same 
newsgroup .  . after a month you 'll have a much better sense of what the 
readers want to see. 

do political discussions belong in sci . 

no. in fact some newsgroups  ( notably misc . legal . were 
created exactly so that political questions like be 
patented '' do n't get in the way of technical discussions .  . many 
sci . readers also read misc . legal . computing . , org . talk . , 
, sci . math . , , et al. for the benefit of 
people who do n't care about those other , try to put your 
postings in the right group. 

questions about and and other non 
stuff   do n't belong in sci . either. 

how do i present a new scheme in sci . 

just came up with this neat method of  . here 's some 
is it strong '' without a 
doubt questions like this are the most traffic on sci .  . 

if you have come up with an scheme , providing some 
from it is not adequate .  . nobody has ever been impressed by 
random  . any new should be secure even if the 
opponent knows the full  ( including how any message key is 
distributed ) and only the private key is kept secret. there are some 
and ways to take reasonably long 
and them even without prior knowledge of the , but 
this is a time and possibly exercise which most 
sci . readers wo n't bother with. 

so what do you do if you have a new scheme first of all , 
find out if it 's really new. look through this faq for references and 
related methods .  . yourself with the literature and the 
introductory textbooks .  . 

when you can appreciate how your fits into the world at 
large , try to break it yourself ! you should n't waste the time of tens 
of thousands of readers asking a question which you could have easily 
answered on your own. 

if you really think your system is secure , and you want to get some 
from , you might try posting full details of your 
system , including working code and a solid explanation , to 
sci .  .  ( keep in mind that the of cryptography is 
in some areas . ) . 

if you 're lucky an expert might take some interest in what you posted. 
you can encourage this by offering cash rewards for instance , noted 
ralph is offering 1000 to anyone who can break 
4 but there are no  . if you do n't have enough 
experience , then most likely any who look at your system will 
be able to find a flaw .  . if this happens , it 's your responsibility to 
consider the flaw and learn from it , rather than just add one more 
of and come back for another round. 

a different way to get your is to have the 
look at it. a full discussion of this procedure is outside the 
of this faq .  . 

among , a common rule of is that if you want to 
design a , you have to have experience as a  . 

from  ( bill 1 0705 ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization 's cleaning services 
in reply to 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993 11 18 47 0500 
nntp posting host ho . com . 
lines 28 

for example , i do n't own a phone. with clipper , i would. if the 
local men in blue really want to listen to me talk to my friends or order 
pizza , i'm no worse off than i am now , and i do n't have to worry about 
local kids or neighbors. 
i do tend to agree. sigh. 

so , where can i buy a des phone how much does it cost 

of course , if we did n't have government on phone service , 
there probably would be some available. 

how can you reconcile the self purpose of 
providing law enforcement with access to data without making 
the clipper system the only available in the u . s .  .  .  . 
the second and fourth do come to mind. 

the second amendment is especially , given the definitions of 
equipment as , and the gun control people 's increasing 
ability to define things as assault weapons and make them illegal .  . 
des is obviously used for assault , while 
will be legal , and may fall into the gray area 
of to an assault phone ... 


pray for peace bill 
bill 1 at t bell labs nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 fax 1 

from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re powerful similarity too 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 44 

i 've been asked to supply more specific 
for of the source and documentation 
for , the powerful similarity pattern matching tool. 

it is at 

cs . arizona . edu . 
12 . 5 . 

in directory 


2 . 04 . z . 
ps . 1 . z . 
ps . 2 . z . 

 ( the  . ps . files are the optional 
a reasonably good research report with is 
included . ) . 

note for users after a few hours of , 
i the tool to 3 . 2 . 3 . running under system 7 . 1 .  . 
if you would like me to e mail a copy of the tool 
suitable for dropping in to your tools , please write .  .  .  . 

other than the more purely uses for the tool 
i 've been having lots of fun picking up the lost 
references to things i'm interested in. for example , 
starting a search like 

1 i  burning  

immediately finds references like  burning  that i 
have always missed before. see how many times john 
's name is mentioned in the archives 
 ( and how often  . how about your name 

as usual , i will e mail the z . upon request 
if you cannot do anonymous ftp .  . 



15 ad ac 3d 01 


from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 35 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 
i wish i could agree with you. ask yourself this. why would any 
private entity wish to buy a system that was known to be 
at least 

 ( a ) to use for sensitive but not important traffic , 
 ( b ) if the system was cheap .  . 

for example , i do n't own a phone. with clipper , i would. if the 
local men in blue really want to listen to me talk to my friends or order 
pizza , i'm no worse off than i am now , and i do n't have to worry about 
local kids or neighbors. 

that is to say , clipper raises the bar on  . it does n't 
make them secure , by any means , but a , even if the fbi can get a master 
key by court order , is still better than a keep off the grass sign .  . 

the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't .  . there is other hardware 
out there not  . des as an example  ( triple des as a better 
one . ) . 

so , where can i buy a des phone how much does it cost 
personally , stuff is out of my for personal use ) .  .  .  . 

how can you reconcile the self purpose of 
providing law enforcement with access to data without making 
the clipper system the only available in the u . s .  .  .  . 

the second and fourth do come to mind. 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( dan day ) 
subject re the  . 
nntp posting host houston . com . 
organization system , inc. houston 
lines 17 

in article  ( perry e. metzger ) writes 

each of the two  . fits conveniently on a single very 
valuable tape. this can only get easier with time , but who 
cares i can already hold all the clipper in the country in my 
on two  . 

excellent point , and there 's a related point i 'd like to make. 
they 'll have to back up these themselves , wo n't they 
how many copies will there be , and how secure will the 
be if they them off site , it would n't be too 
hard to them in transit .  . if they 're all kept on site , 
one good bomb attack by some group intent on us from 
the threat of government will take care of the problem 
once and for all. i can see it now hi , we 're from the 
government and we , , misplaced our copy of your key .  . could 
you mail us a copy 

from a. charles gross 
subject i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
x id b johnson . org . 
x wed , 21 apr 93 17 40 17 gmt 
nntp posting host l b johnson . org . 
organization electronic foundation 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 22 

in article , 
writes 
however , it 's likely to be as hard or harder to exercise this right as it 
is getting to exercise the other rights that the government is 
 . maybe the would be the best existing organization 
 ( although i think a new one might be better , but perhaps would take too 
long 
to start up. i would certainly join . ) . 

the is successful because  ( among a number of things ) , on the drop of 
a hat , they can get a office flooded with , 
and phone calls .  . certainly , with our way cool internet powers of 
organization , we can act in the same way , if such action is appropriate. 

as long as we are kept informed of events , anyone on this can make 
a call to action. , we 're a strong enough community to act on 
those calls .  . i realize this is a little , and i'm glad is 
working in the loop on these issues , but do n't the 
potential of the net for political action. 

adam 
i speak for myself 

from mathew 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
x newsreader v1 . 02 . 
lines 9 

 ( ben aveling ) writes 
do n't forget , you are in the country that would n't let the russians 
buy apple ii 's because of security concerns .  . 

that 's nothing. they would n't let the british buy systems 
because of security concerns .  . and we designed the damn things ! 


mathew 

subject re the people , is for hard core only 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
bedfellow . mit . edu . bedfellow . mit . edu . 
organization , inc. 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 24 

in bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( john f carr ) writes 

in most cases information you come by properly is yours to use as you wish , 
but there are certainly exceptions .  . if you write a paper which includes 
sufficiently detailed information on how to build a nuclear weapon , it is 
classified .  . as i understand the law , nuclear weapons design is 
automatically classified even if you do the work yourself. i believe you 
are then not allowed to read your own paper. 

this has now been thrown out by the courts .  .  ( the progressive case . ) . 

a less serious example if you tell drivers about a speed trap they are 
about to run into , you can be fined , even though you might argue that you 
broke no law when you discovered the of the  . the charge 
is interfering with a police , which is quite similar what you would 
be doing by reverse engineering the clipper chip .  . 

this is outright illegal .  . it does violate the first amendment .  . if you 
would , give a case in which your speed trap example has been upheld by 
the courts .  . 

l. a  ( work ) 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( michael t. palmer ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization nasa research center , , va 
lines 56 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 


in article  ( clipper chip announcement ) writes 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation .  .  .  . etc 

great .  .  .  . nice choice of bad guys to 
convince everyone how bad 
is. why not use a child 
instead of course , the word 
suspect is never used here , so i guess 
these people have already been convicted 
and are operating this drug from 
their jail cells .  . 

how about this question instead 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a political opponent of a official and 
a conversation .  .  .  . 

kinda changes your interpretation of the event , does n't it and yes , 
the presence of the clipper chip does change things , because it will 
not only give the people talking on the phone a false sense of security , 
it will also give federal law enforcement the justification 
to deny use of strong methods that are to them. 
it all , it 's supposed to be  ( but not  . 
that 's the only sure way to make sure that abuses are while 
still allowing legitimate law enforcement access. 


q how strong is the security in the device how can i be sure 
how strong the security is 

a this system is more secure than many other voice 
systems readily available today. while the will 
remain classified to protect the security of the key 
system , we are willing to an independent of 
cryptography to the to all 
potential users that there are no 
 . 

uh huh .  .  .  . sure. i that within two months  ( weeks ) of the chip 's 
, the full technical details will be posted to sci .  . and if 
this has any impact on the security of the key system , then we 've 
been lied to. any worth its salt can the light 
of public scrutiny , and there is no way you can be sure that an 
has no unless you have half 
the world trying to break it for a or so. even then , you gotta 
be careful .  . 


michael t. a man is crazy who writes a secret in any 
other way than one which will conceal it 
key on server from the  . roger , 


from  ( jerry han ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host doc . ca . 
organization communications research centre , ottawa 
distribution na 
lines 

in article 
hamburg . de . writes 

and some people thought that i am when claiming that the 
chip is just a first step in a plot against the 
civil liberties in the usa .  .  .  . it seems that i 've even been an 
the things are happening even than i expected .  .  .  .  . that 's 
another of the they used to apply on us under the 
communist regime do something secret , then tell the people about is 
 ( after the fact , when nothing can be done any more ) , and of course , 
explaining them how much better the situation is now .  .  .  . 

in my previous messages i wrote that the americans should wake up and 
fight against the new proposal .  . now it seems to me that it is already 
too late it has already happened , the civil liberties have been 
violated , no , from the american people , while the most part of 
this people has been sleeping happily .  .  .  .  (  too sad .  .  .  . 

as one of the happily sleeping people , i would just like to ask this 
are n't people just slightly to this or are we all of a 
sudden going to draw to nazi germany and communist russia 

the point of the matter is that yes this is a serious problem. but it is 
not the end of the world. guess what we 're doing something now you 
ca n't do in a communist country or nazi germany .  . we 're complaining about 
it ,  ( or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us. 

 ( or , rather , if they 're shooting at me , they have real bad aim .  . ( ) ) 

guess what people you live in one of the few countries in the world 
where a person can complain without getting shot at. 

people are always complaining that somebody did this wrong , or somebody 
did that wrong , or whatever. sit down and figure out two things 

1 ) what have they done right 
2 ) how much worse can it get 

and you 'll find that you and i , are pretty damn lucky .  . 

so let 's talk about it , get some action going , decide what 's going on. 
but let 's not ! 


regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 



jerry doc  . of research 
these are my opinions , and my opinions only .  . 
a proud and frozen member of the mighty warriors 
of those i 've left behind , still in my ears .  . genesis 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 22 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon . 

a typical example of minded thinking. we all know that david 
is a jerk , but i'm afraid that in this case 90 of the 
population will think like him. realize it guys , 
, and the us government have already won the battle .  .  .  . 

unless .  .  .  . unless you succeed to wake up the people .  .  .  . but nah , that 's 
too unlikely .  .  .  . the events are happening too fast , cryptography is a 
too sophisticated issue , and almost nobody cares anyway .  .  .  . a few 
thousand of net . readers . wo n't make the difference , if millions are 
caught  .  .  . too sad .  .  .  .  (  

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( marc thibault ) 
subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it ! 
reply to 
distribution na 
organization friends 
lines 10 

in article 
 ( the jester ) writes 

proof is a virus it is very widespread , it eats up your 
space , it down your computer , it takes control over your 
computer , it performs access at random times , it silly 
messages on your , it randomly the computer 

this sounds like a version unix .  . 


from  ( hobbit ) 
subject re white house public fact 
nntp posting host logic . edu . 
organization university 
distribution na 
lines 26 


i have a question about digital communications 

the fact mentioned with 
special for law enforcement for wire purposes. 

if i wanted to , could n't i develop of my own that 
is , if me and a in crime had unique 
devices before the one , could n't we 
the system or replace it 

i 'd be really interested in knowing how the e d might 
be made to prevent such !  ( laymans' language , please ! maybe a bit 
technical .  .  . ) . 

please e mail to me , as i'm not in net news as much as i 'd like to be ! 









regret is a rough to sleep on. 

from  ( simon k train ) 
subject help me please ! 
organization university computing science dept. 
distribution net 
lines 7 

i am a student .  . 
can i get the sci . group posted directly to me 
also i would like some feed back on the that my research in 
finite fields can be applied to. any 
reply to 
thanks yours 
 . 

from  ( bob bickford ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization whole earth  link 
lines 32 

in article , 
 ( tom horsley ) writes 

this is n't intended to be a flame or anything , i am just really curious 
how to manufacture these things while still maintaining the key 
security without simply saying trust the , they wo n't look . 

without getting into the really questions about reverse 
engineering and all of that , let me just point out that there already 
exist gate and that have what 's known as a security 
which can be programmed after you 've verified all other programming 
this makes it impossible to read out the programming of the device 
 ( again , ignoring the reverse engineering  . speaking from 
experience here i had to completely reinvent one of my designs some 
or seven years ago when the file was , the were 
all bad , and the devices were unreadable because of the security  . 
made me appreciate the value of  . ) 

so on this point at least there 's not so much worry .  . 

but whether or not we can get the made and securely is 
really secondary to the question of whether use of the chip is itself 
likely to be secure ,  . 

robert a hacker is any person who joy from 
ways to  . 86 

i recognize that a class of criminals and juvenile has 
taken to calling themselves   , but i consider them irrelevant 
to the true meaning of the word just as the calls themselves 
  but nobody that fact any attention .  . 90 


subject re illegal  ( was 's trust ) 
from  ( tal kubo ) 
distribution 
organization dept. of math , univ .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 33 

in article 
 . neat o tm ) writes 

it is apparently quite easy to get hold of a person 's calling records 
through the phone company .  . police  ( and some lawyers ) are able to acquire 
such information without any warrant or judicial , whether or 
not the target is suspected of specific crimes .  . 

pardon me , but is n't this very illegal i was under the impression that a 
is needed to get this information out of the phone company in 
order to protect people 's  . 

legal or not , i 've seen it done. phone records were obtained 
in order to establish probable cause , rather than as a result of it. 
in other words , for a  . 


a local  ( worcester , ma ) police i 
spoke with only a couple of nights ago told me that they usually only 
the phone records in extreme conditions because it 's so 
much of a  . 

and does the phone company require written , able evidence 
of probable cause in order to process the request i suggest that 
the was in your case even if you 
could prove the offender had called you at a certain time , your 
chances of a harassment suit on the strength of this evidence 
are nil .  . my contact with several people who have dealt with cases 
of extreme phone harassment  ( several thousand calls in one case ) teaches 
me that police in this area are quite about such matters. 




from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject clipper chip technical details 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 

i received the following two notes from martin with details 
on how clipper will work. they are posted with his permission .  . the 
implications of some details are fascinating .  . 


date sat , 17 apr 93 23 05 23 pdt 
from martin 
to (a long list of recipients ) 
subject clipper chip 


most of you have seen the announcement in friday 's ny times , 
etc. about  ( national institute of standards technology ) 
the clipper chip device. several 
on the net have asked for more technical details , and some have 
been under understandable given 
the lack of details in the news articles .  . so here to help out 
is your friendly link me. i was somewhat surprised friday 
to get a call from the agency which many of the missing 
details. i was told the info was public , so here it is  ( the cc of this 
to at is mostly as a double check on my 
facts since i assume he is aware of all this please let me know 
if i have anything wrong) 

the clipper chip will have a secret embedded in 
silicon .  . each chip will have two secret , 80 bit  . one will be the 
same for all  ( ie a system wide key ) and the other will be 
specific .  . i do n't know what and will call them , but i will 
call them the system key and key uk in this message. 
the ic will be designed to be extremely difficult to reverse so 
that the system key can be kept secret.  ( aside it is clear that 
they also want to keep the secret and , in my opinion , 
it may be as much for that as this stated purpose . ) . the key 
will be generated as the of two 80 bit random numbers 
and  ( uk k2 ) which will be kept by the two 
authorities .  . who these authorities will be is still to be 
decided by the general , but it was stressed to me that 
they will not be or law enforcement , that they 
must be parties acceptable to the users of the system as unbiased .  . 
when a law enforcement agency gets a court order , they will 
present it to these two authorities and receive and 
, thereby allowing access to the key uk .  . 

in addition to the system key , each user will get to choose his 
or her own key and change it as often as desired .  . call this key 
plain old k. when a message is to be sent it will first be 
under k , then k will be under the key uk , 
and the serial number of the added to produce a three part 
message which will then be under the system key 
producing 

e e m k , e k uk , serial number 

when a court order obtains and , and k , the law 
enforcement agency will use to all information 
on the suspected link aside it is my guess that 
they may do this constantly on all links , with or without a 
court order , since it is almost impossible to tell which links 
over which a message will flow. this gives the agency access to 

e m k , e k uk , serial number 

in the above message. they then check the serial number 
of the and see if it is on the watch list for which they 
have a court order. if so , they will e k uk to obtain k , 
and then e m k to obtain m. 

i am still in the process of this scheme , so please do 
not take the above as any kind of endorsement of the proposed 
scheme .  . all i am trying to do is help all of us assess the scheme 
more  . but i will say that the need for just one court 
order me. i would feel more comfortable  ( though not 
necessarily comfortable ! ) if two separate court orders were 
needed , one per authority .  . while no explanation is 
needed , the following story some color in researching 
some ideas that and i have been kicking around , 
i spoke with , the constitutional law expert 
here at stanford and he related the following story when 
edward became  . 's general  ( right 
after watergate ) , he was visited by an fbi asking 
for the  . when asked for 
the details so he could review the cases as required by 
law , the told him that his just turned 
over 40 50 , signed forms every time. did not 
comply and changed the system , but the lesson is clear 
no single person or authority should have the power to 
 ( or worse yet , of personal 
 . sometimes he or she will be an edward 
and sometimes a john  . 

martin 



date sun , 18 apr 93 11 41 42 pdt 
from martin 
to 
subject re clipper chip 

it is fine to post my previous message to sci . 
if you also post this message with it in which 

1. i ask to be in their requesting further info 
from me or asking for comments on specific questions. by 
this posting i apologize for any messages i am unable to 
respond to. (i already spend too much time answering too much 
e mail and am particularly this week with other 
) . 

2. i note a probably correction sent to me by  . 
she met with the person from that 
i talked with by phone , so her understanding is likely to 
better than mine on this point where i said the 
info is e e m k , e k uk , serial number 
she says the message is not double  . the system 
key  ( or family key as she was told it is called ) only 
the serial number or the serial number and the 
key .  . this is not a major difference , but i thought it 
should be mentioned and thank her for bringing it to 
my attention .  . it makes more sense since it cuts down 
on  . 

from  ( carl m kadie ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 18 

 ( tal kubo ) writes 

... 
the has been associated with efforts to prevent the banning of sex 
and pictures newsgroups at various universities .  . 
... 

so what justices william , marshall , john paul 
, and white are associated with a supreme court 
decision that prevented the removal of anti american , anti christian , 
anti semitic , and just plain books from a public high school 
library board of education v.  ( 1982 ) . does this mean that 
they could no longer defend free and 



i do not represent any organization this is just me. 


from  ( phill baker ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
lines 63 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 
distribution na 


in article ,  ( william w. hughes ) writes 

in article 
 ( andrew molitor ) writes 
in article 
 ( timothy c. may ) writes 

tim may , whose sig block may get him in the new regime 

is n't this just a little 

not at all. two weeks ago i a concern about some programming 
that was being conducted by a student organisation here at the 
university of texas at san  . as a result , i was 
by the police , who also attempted to create a positive 
file  ( photo , , etc . ) .  . i refused to this , and filed a 
complaint with the university  . the vice president for 
business affairs  ( the  boss  of the campus police ) stated that he had no 
interest in the legal constitutional implications of those actions .  . 

in article ,  ( steve johnson ) writes 

a remark i heard the other day is beginning to take on 
frightening significance .  . the comment was made that in other parts 
of the world the note the big d would be known as 


we might get further if we begin by accepting that the government 
really could n't be bothered less about the political opinions of the 
right pro types .  . just about the only circumstances 
in which i could think that they would be interested in their political 
views would be to recruit them as  . they can be guaranteed to give 
the government line when it  . in us history it has been the 
such as myself who have been persecuted .  . 


now before people start asserting that there is no mechanism by which 
the can get their new chip without legal force 
lets try thinking. 

in the first place the clipper chip must have existed for several years as 
a defense project .  . therefore this is not a party matter at all. george bush 
was in any case hardly adverse to calls , he was chief spook 
remember. 

secondly the govt can quite easily apply pressure .  . they simply ask their 
who they give huge defense contracts to  ( motorola etc ) to be nice 
boys. after all bill is giving them a nice little trade monopoly since the 
wo n't be to foreign  . 

the people who consider the to be are not the 
same as the ones who consider to be communist .  . people might know 
this if the us education system did not suffer from the and 
version of political correctness the sort with and show 
trials .  . ever seen ed i have , it was when he said that socialism 
and communism were the same thing and brought the house down with laughter .  . 
it took several before we realised that he was serious. 


baker 

baker 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 6 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . net . 

for that matter , it should n't be that difficult to design a black box 
that gives off similar to a with on the  .  .  .  . 





from  ( john kelsey ) 
subject re how large are 
nntp posting host missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 20 

in article state . edu . 
state . edu .  ( dane c. butzer ) writes 

finally , can anyone even of a time place where 128 bit are n't 
sufficient (i certainly ca n't even at a a second , it 
would take about 10 billion years to search just one of that 
space . ) . 

it depends on the attack .  . adding a bit to the key the amount of 
work to be done in a straight brute force attack , where you try every single 
possible key until one works. and requirements for this 
kind of attack on a 128 bit key seem like they ought to make it effectively 
impossible. however , there may be other attacks whose difficulty is  ( for 
example) proportional to , say , 2  ( sqrt(n ) , or some such. also , a long 
key does you little good if there is a way to guess a little 
of the key at a time .  .  .  .  . 

thanks , 

john 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 17 

in article steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 

i wonder if she such a fat fee from with the in 
the design and propoganda stages that she does n't care any more 

which is to say is the totally , or does it at least 
have the virtue of taking care of its own g 

of course they take care of their own ... very well ... until the person 
has  his her  .  .  . then  elimination  becomes 
a consideration .  .  .  . ) 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization dsi 
distribution na 
lines 26 

in article 
 ( karl barrus ) writes 


would you trust a black box from the versus an open system from 
elsewhere 

absolutely , if i were assured by someone i trusted that the black box was 
more secure .  . i have nothing to conceal from the government , but i would like 
to be sure that any , japanese , french , or other for my 
services ca n't read my traffic .  . i 'd like to be sure that 
information was safe from and foreign governments 
which would aid them. 

i believe the has identical motivations with respect to my activities. 
the president and many other government have made it very 
clear that they share these motivations .  . thus i 'd trust them on the 
coincidence of interests argument as well as on a basic trust in their 
and a high in their skills. 

david 

david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from  ( bill 1 0705 ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization 's cleaning services 
distribution 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 1993 00 36 44 gmt 
nntp posting host ho . com . 
lines 24 

in article  ( ken shirriff ) writes 
in article  ( brad yearwood ) writes 
finally , because there is essentially no possibility of in 
the content of communications between stolen , 
there will exist strong motivation to record and archive all communications 
in the network for ex post facto scrutiny  ( once some criminal act is 
discovered , and the involved have been  . 

all is a very big number .  . the at t long distance network has 
around 20 , 000  ( 45 sec ) , which is on the order of 10 12 bits  . 
that does n't even count the amount of traffic in the local phone , 
or our long distance  . it 's about 200 second , 
which is pretty large even for the ) 

on the other hand , i can easily see them recording the traffic for 
interesting people , such as dissidents , suspected criminals , 
foreign telephone calls , and anybody noticed using  . 
as ken , recording traffic will probably 
be judged not to be an invasion of pretty soon .... 

pray for peace bill 
bill 1 at t bell labs nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 fax 1 

from  ( greg earle ) 
subject re and 
organization personal usenet site , , ca usa 
lines 54 
distribution world 

in article  ( edward vielmetti ) writes 
w c newell jr wrote 

before we can have a e mail solution , there must be some 
definition of a minimum service level , and does not provide for this 
(yet) .  . 

before the internet will in software , people need to see content. 
i would suggest that 50 attractive news messages a day would be 
sufficient to get a few people thinking about adding support to news 
readers , esp if the content is really worth it. 

imho , we have a long way to go before the unix specific , , etc 
reach the service levels of the other  . there ought to be 
such a definition , consisting of known object data types and rules for their 
handling , included in the transport document .  . 

yes. but there is also a long way to go before most mac , pc , and 
and are ready to handle the volume of news and mail 
that many unix specific tools are able to with. when the choice is 
more or make the damn thing fast enough to keep up with the 
flood , you have to bet that fast enough  . 

ed , as usual , makes a very good point. 

one time a friend of mine at sun sent me an e mail .  . he it using the 
sun 3 which handles  ( non mime ) and the 
like. 

since i do n't use , i had to save it , cut paste , and 
then the actual  . what i got after a not 
amount of time spent doing this was an file. the original message 
was over of mail and data the resulting message 
was a single sentence that i as a character message. 

if he had sent me the sentence in plain text , the e mail would have been 
around 250 , and it would have taken me about 3 seconds to process it at 
most. instead , it was and it took at least a minute. a complete waste of 
 ( my ) time and bandwidth , as far as i'm concerned. sending plain text is still 
the most efficient method of , given the same transport mechanism .  . 
i shudder to think what would happen if everyone started posting their usenet 
articles as files instead of plain text ! of the net predicted ! 
film at ! 

back to ! ( 

this sub thread no longer has anything to do with or administrative 
policy , so i 've followups back to mail . ... greg 


greg 
phone  ( 818 ) fax  ( 818 ) 
internet 
uucp ! a.k.a. ... ! elroy ! ! 

from  ( germano caronni ) 
subject re more technical details 
organization federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , , 
lines 120 

hmm , followup on my own posting .  .  .  . well , who cares .  . 

first let me try to work out the facts that we get to know about the 
clipper chip , from what and were able to tell us 

the chip itself is not confined to  ( digital ) , but performs 
general in a manner. the chip supports 
 ( and whatever the fourth mode of operation for des is) , the 
consists of 32 of whatever , and takes 80 bit  . data 
seems to be 64 bit yes. 
so if two people want secure  ( whatever that means when 
clipper is involved ) they have first to agree on one secret key .  . 
 ( or is it one key per direction ) 
they can exchange this key via or however. 
somehow the two feed their so won secret key into the clipper chip 
which is now ready to work. 
the clipper chip carries an unique serial number  ( 30 bit 's ) , and key bits. 
these key bits seem to have been gained by the serial number 
with seed bits.  ( the seed bits seem not to be in the chip ) 
at beginning of  ( and perhaps at certain ) 
before sending the fist real 64 bit output of the first the clipper 
chip put 's out (i guess 3) which represent the serial number , 
and the key .  . this might look like 
x e k , serial number 
where x is a transformation of these 3 involving a family key .  . 
this  ( family(sp ) key is equal for all  .  ( x might be a simple ) 
after that , the  ( digital ) phone call can be done as usual , every packet 
being and by clipper .  . 

describes how and shall be generated , using a seed of 
bit 's .  . 

now , leaving alone politics , which does not concern me as much as you , not 
being an american  ( citicien(tm ) ) , there are some weak points in this 
scheme , which might be exploited by several parties .  . 

as far as i know about the generation of , and look like the 
obvious  . they could be used to generate the chip by knowing 
the serial number  ( and also the family key ) of the chip .  . i really ca n't 
imagine why these seeds would be needed otherwise , as true random sources 
for the generation of the , can be bought for not to much money. 

then , the  . each of them will get 80 bit of a bit key .  . security 
could  ( as little as existant ) be by giving them bits 
each , which have to be together to give the ,  . now let 's simply 
assume the are trustworthy , and ca n't be by criminals or 
law  .  ( and there will be no quarrel between 
and l . e . a . which would the l . e . a . in doing their duties , and so on 
and so on ) once the are , the 
chip is forever. not very clever , imho  ) . 
how about sending in the for each phone call that 
the police  ( or whoever ) want 's to listen to could then simply 
this key and send it back to police .  .  ( and would naturally not do this 
after the warrant has  .  . ) . this would be a better technical solution , 
but i guess politics will not work that way. 

apparently  ( as miss stated ) the only one actually 
of messages shall be the fbi .  . great .  . so local guys can not inter 
cept  ( understand ) your traffic anymore. does this mean that the fbi 
the right to do legal  ( how is law over there , i have no idea who 
is allowed to , and who not ) this certainly means that watched 
will be automatically from the service providing company 
to the fbi , if the is a watched one. and this means as far 
as i understand it that the family key has to be known by each switching 
company , and those providing phone  . so the family key 
will not be very secret , and thus serial numbers of calls will be 
by anybody who cares .  . i like traffic analysis ! 

what do you guess , what happens , if you use the chip in mode , and the 
first few of the chip are somehow lost or so the 
key would not be actually over the line hmmm .  . should n't be so 
difficult to do that ) 

and now a last point , for the other side. after all i have read and heard about 
clipper  ( not the programming language for , is it ) ) it seems 
to have many , which not be ! 


now an to your rights. please note that i have no idea what i am 
talking about ! ! ! 

from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
amendment 1 

congress shall make no law respecting an of religion , or 
prohibiting the free exercise thereof or the freedom of speech , 
or of the press or the right of the people to , and to 
the government for a of  . 

if this text is actually in your bill of rights , who can this 
but  freedom of speech  is not  secrecy of speech  

maybe you need to extend your amendment 4 to cover information and 
too 

i am not very sure in what position your government actually is legally 
when it tries to ban cryptography  ( and arms ) amendment say you may have them , 
but not under what conditions .  . hmm , tricky situation ( 

actually it will make not much sense to discuss that topic in sci .  .  .  . 
discussion of technical details and of the system are highly 
suggested and ) 

friendly , 




disclaimer everything in here is derived from things i heard and read from 
other persons , so everything could be wrong. all opinions and thoughts in here 
are mine , and subject to change without further  . no , 
neither not explicit etc. etc. etc. ad nauseam .  . 

p.s. please do n't ask me about political opinions , as i might not bother to re 
 .  ( for further information read the last line of p. signature ) 

only through things they 're designed to  . 
space still contains infinite  . 
pgp key id 


from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization for an america free drug 
distribution na 
lines 14 

 ( rob stampfli ) writes 

would n't a a second of similar type and 
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to attacks 

it would be in a different , so a could 
probably lock in on just the one  . failing that , a 
could likely the  . admittedly , this is expensive , but 
so is all the rest of this stuff anyway. 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from !  ( joe zitt ) 
subject re fighting the clipper 
organization press human systems group , austin , tx 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 17 

steve  ( steve brinich ) writes 

as a flaming libertarian ( ) , i at a loss for 
specific objections that do n't sound technical .  . 

the idea that foisting the chip standard on us would 
result in saying to yet another high tech market is n't technical , 
is n't in the least difficult to understand , and plays on a concern lots of 
people are worried about already .  .  .  .  . 



could you expand on this i have a feeling you 're right , but i do n't quite 
understand. 

you could be an going press austin , texas ! 
from door to door .  .  .  . human systems group 

from  ( jim gillogly ) 
subject clipper chip and key 
summary 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
organization institute 
lines 
nntp posting host org . 

this document is in the anonymous ftp directory at  . looks to me 
like the other has dropped .  . 

jim 
, 25 s . r .  . 1993 , 17 00 



note this file will also be available via anonymous file 
from gov . in directory pub and 
via the computer security bbs at  . 


the white house 

office of the press 



for immediate release april 16 , 1993 


statement by the press 


the president today a new that will bring 
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary 
program to improve the security and of telephone 
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law 
enforcement .  . 

the will involve the creation of new products to 
the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications and communications links .  . 

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our 
private and the law enforcement community to resolve the 
between economic and the real challenges of 
protecting americans .  . rather than use technology to 
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , and 
law enforcement , previous policies have government against 
industry and the rights of against law enforcement .  . 

sophisticated technology has been used for years to 
protect electronic funds  . it is now being used to 
protect electronic mail and computer files. while 
technology can help americans protect business and the 
release of personal information , it also can be used 
by , drug , and other criminals .  . 

a state of the art called the clipper chip has 
been developed by government  . the chip represents a 
new approach to technology. it can be used in new , 
relatively devices that can be attached to 
an ordinary telephone .  . it telephone communications 
using an that is more powerful than many in 
use today. 

this new technology will help protect 
information , protect the of personal phone 
and prevent release of data 
 . at the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement to 
the phone of criminals .  . 

a key system will be established to ensure that the 
clipper chip is used to protect the of law 
americans .  . each device containing the chip will have two unique 


2 


, numbers that will be needed by government 
to messages by the device. when the 
device is , the two will be 
in two key data bases that will be established by the 
general. access to these will be limited to 
government with legal to conduct a 
 . 

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no 
new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

to demonstrate the of this new technology , the 
general will soon several thousand of the new 
devices .  . in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of 
's dual sword helps to protect the 
of individuals and industry , but it also can 
criminals and  . we need the clipper chip and other 
approaches that can both provide law citizens with access 
to the they need and prevent criminals from using it 
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology 
trends and new approaches  ( like the key system ) , 
the president has directed government to develop a 
comprehensive policy on that 

the of our citizens , including the need to 
voice or data for business purposes 

the ability of to access telephone 
calls and data , under proper court or other legal 
order , when necessary to protect our citizens 

the effective and use of the most modern 
technology to build the national information 
needed to promote economic growth and 
the of american industry in the 
and 

the need of u.s. to manufacture and 
high technology products. 

the president has directed early and frequent with 
affected , the congress and groups that advocate the 
rights of individuals as policy options are developed .  . 



3 

the is committed to working with the private 
to spur the development of a national information 
which will use new telecommunications and computer 
to give americans access to 
information. this of high speed 
( information ) will video , images , 
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone 
system voice .  . 

since technology will play an important 
role in that , the federal government must act 
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding 
its use. the is committed to policies that 
protect all americans  right to while also protecting 
them from those who break the law. 

further information is provided in an accompanying fact  . 
the of the president 's to acquire the new 
technology are also available. 

for additional details , call , national institute of 
standards and technology ,  ( 301 )  . 




questions and answers about the clinton s 
telecommunications 




q does this approach expand the authority of government 
to listen in on phone 

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with 
no new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 
court order , to do the in the first place. they 
would then present documentation of this to 
the two entities responsible for the and 
obtain the for the device being used by the drug 
 . the key is split into two parts , which are 
in order to ensure the security of the key 
system. 

q who will run the key data banks 

a the two key data banks will be run by two independent 
entities .  . at this point , the department of justice and the 
have yet to determine which will 
the key data banks .  . 

q how strong is the security in the device how can i be sure 
how strong the security is 

a this system is more secure than many other voice 
systems readily available today. while the will 
remain classified to protect the security of the key 
system , we are willing to an independent of 
cryptography to the to all 
potential users that there are no 
 . 

q whose decision was it to propose this product 

a the national security council , the justice department , the 
commerce department , and other key were involved in 
this decision. this approach has been by the 
president , the vice president , and appropriate 
 . 

q who was the congress industry 

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on 
issues , and expect those discussions to 
as we carry out our review of policy. we have 
members of congress and industry leaders on the 
decisions related to this  . 

q will the government provide the hardware to 

a the government designed and developed the key access 
, but it is not providing the 
to product  . product 
can acquire the from the chip 
that produces them. 

q who provides the clipper chip 

a programs it at their in , 
california , and will sell the chip to device 
 . the programming function could be 
to other in the future. 

q how do i buy one of these devices 

a we expect several to consider 
the clipper chip into their devices .  . 

q if the were unable to find a 
solution like the one proposed , would the be 
willing to use legal to restrict access to more 
powerful devices 

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be 
considered during the broad policy review .  . the key 
mechanism will provide americans with an product 
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive 
than others readily available today , but it is just one 
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to 
technology , which the is 
developing .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton 
's policy will differ from 
that of the bush 

a it indicates that we understand the importance of 
technology in telecommunications and computing and are 
committed to working with industry and public interest 
groups to find ways to protect americans  
, help to , and ensure that law 
enforcement have the tools they need to fight crime 
and terrorism .  . 

q will the devices be will other devices that use 
the government hardware 

a voice devices are subject to control 
requirements .  . case by case review for each is 
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices .  . the 
same is true for other devices .  . one of the 
of this technology is the protection it can give 
to u.s. operating at home and  . with this 
in mind , we expect will be granted on a 
case by case basis for u.s. seeking to use these 
devices to secure their own communications  . we plan 
to review the possibility of permitting 
of these products. 




jim 
, 25 s . r .  . 1993 , 17 01 

from  . j. bernstein ) 
subject re clipper chip technical details 
organization 
lines 15 

short summary of what says says the says there is 
a key g , plus one key u c for each chip c. the user can choose a 
new key k p for each phone call p he makes .  . chip c knows three 
g , its own u c , and the user 's k p. the government as a whole 
knows g and every u c. apparently a message m is as 
e  ( g(e u c  ( k p ) , c ) , e k p  . that 's it. 

the system as described here ca n't possibly work. what happens when 
someone the above into a receiving chip to get m 
the receiving chip needs k p to get k p the receiving chip needs u c. 
the only information it can work with is c. if u c can be 
from c then the system is useless and the 
  is bullshit .  . otherwise how is a message 

dan 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 37 

 ( brad yearwood ) writes 

criminals who very want tactical communications  ( specificall 
the and drug who of key cite as threats ) 
will be highly motivated to steal the phone of a legitimate user , and 
to kill this person or hold them so of compromise of the 
device will be  . 

why doing it in such a rough manner it is much more to 
steal the chip from the phone and even to replace it with a 
pin compatible do nothing chip that does not at all. chances 
are that the victim will not notice anything , especially if it is done 
professionally .  . 

once a suitable collection of devices is stolen , criminals can communicate 
with  ( assuming the system carries no apart from 
key escrow ) until and unless the compromise is discovered by some other means. 

no , because the feds will still be able to the  . 
true , they 'll blame the wrong guys , but nevertheless one cannot say 
something like the drugs arrive on the   
when the feds are listening , even if they cannot identify who the 
speaker is. 

no , the criminals will just use some secure  . the new 
proposal does not stop criminals it that the government will 
be able to the average citizen and stops the casual  . 
to me , it also clearly looks as a step towards any other 
strong devices .  . 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
lines 53 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 

though some may argue about the nose of the , it 's worth that 
the government proposal is limited to  . if it is only 
used for that purpose , and does not extend to electronic mail or file 
, then it is an improvement over the current mass produced 
standard civilian technology which , with a few exceptions , is limited to 
easy to break  . 

note that the big issue for the feds is the continued ability to  . 
before we go off the deep end with long about secure for 
e mail and files , let 's focus on this. 

one question that was not asked in the release is whether this proposal is 
limited to , or if the government intends to expand it. 

though i share many of the concerns expressed by some , i find the proposal 
less threatening than many others , since right now most americans have no 
secure , and any jerk with a pair of clip leads and a can 
 . this would also plug up the security hole in and 
 . 



reading between the lines , i infer that the system is highly secure 
without access to the  . this would meet the needs of u.s. 
by rich and powerful , including french and japanese 
security services and rich japanese  . it allows the to make 
available some of its better stuff while protecting law enforcement needs. 

most legitimate u.s. trust the , and would be to 
have a high security system by them , even at the price of 
in  . i see no difficulty in creating a reliable 
 . their to every day of the 
week , and that system has worked pretty well. 

from my point of view this is a fair starting point. there are concerns that 
need to be addressed , including the reliability of the  . but in 
return we get access to high security  . many have suggested that des 
and other systems may be by the and hence others similarly 
and  . there is at least a good possibility  ( which should be 
checked ) that the proposed system is not so  . it does n't have to 
be , nor does it have to have , if the government can get the 
to a legitimate court order. thus they can protect legitimate 
communications against economic , while still being able to 
on to a court order. 

let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your 
i would n't .  . 

doug holland 



from  ( paul repacholi ) 
subject re what is going on ... 
lines 17 
organization university of technology 
distribution 

in article ,  ( paul repacholi ) writes 
... 
if you ca n't be bothered reading , get the video manufacturing consent . 


in reply to mail i do n't know if a video is available yet. i asked 
about a month and was told  . 

several have also asked which of books. my answer is all of them , and 
anything else you can get as well. how ever , due to like the 24 
day etc , i would say   first , them last parts of 
 democracy  ie the bits about the domestic 3rd world . chilling .  . 

anyone at mit have a good st. noam bibliography 

paul 


from  . j. bernstein ) 
subject re clipper chip technical details 
organization 
lines 17 

in article  ( steven bellovin ) writes 
nothing was said about where k p comes from. 

oh said user will get to choose his or her own key . '' . 
that 's the key which i called k p , the key .  . according to 
, if alice and bob are communicating with the clipper chip , 
then alice chooses own key   and bob chooses own key . '' . 
this is incompatible with the suggestion that when alice and bob are 
talking , they use a common k p , chosen by classical or public key 
approaches .  . 

the key description published so far is either 
incomplete or incorrect .  . it leaves me with no idea of how the system 
would actually work . i hope the request so that 
we get full details. 

dan 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re  ( was re once , your code is no good any more ) 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 13 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . net . 

somebody asked me what was wrong about in cases such as this. 

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a 
in a new civil war 

not me which is precisely why the government must be cut off at the 
when it like this , lest the situation to the point 
where extreme measures are required. 






from jim 
subject authority question answered. 
organization software 
lines 12 
reply to jim 
nntp posting host com . 

if you have access to ftp , try to com . , as anonymous .  . 
there are several documents there , including a frequently asked questions 
about today 's cryptography document .  . it has faq in its name. 
i believe this document explains the idea behind the authorities .  . 

good luck 

john kelsey , 

thanks. i 've ftp ed the faq file and it is just what i was looking for. 

jim 

from  ( eli brandt ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization college , , ca 
lines 56 

in article  ( amanda walker ) writes 
agreed. remember , i do n't even think of clipper as in any real 
sense if i did , i 'd probably be a lot more about it. 

i agree with this  . furthermore , its as 
providing greater protection than bare voice is quite true , as far 
as it goes. however , the only way for it to fulfill its stated goal 
of letting and drug is to restrict 
stronger techniques .  . 

targets presently use strong , weak , or 
 ( the vast majority ) no  . the latter two classes can be 
 . with weak in every phone , the no 
class is into the weak class .  . will the 
introduction of clipper cause targets presently strong 
to give up on it that is , to rely for on a system 
designed to deny it to people like them i doubt it. the 
mere introduction of this scheme will give the government nothing . 

the stated goal of preventing the of 
capabilities can be fulfilled by of domestic 
cryptography , and only by this  . clipper appears to be 
no more than a , given to the public to mute any  . we 
would find this a grossly , but i fear the public 
at large will not care. i hate to even mention gun control , but 
most people seem to think that an weapon   ( as the uses 
the word ) is some sort of automatic weapon ,  . 50 . maybe. who 
wants to have such a thing legal well , people know even less about 
i suspect that strong cryptography could easily be 
labeled too much secrecy for law citizens to need . 

that 's not for clinton  ( or anyone under him ) to say , though. only the 
federal and supreme courts can say anything about the  . 
anything the or any agency says is opinion at 
best. 

what they say is opinion , but what they do is what matters , and will 
continue unless  . and the courts are reluctant to 
law or , going to some length to decide cases on other 
grounds .  . furthermore , congress can get away with quite a bit. they 
could a tax this would place enforcement in the 
hands of the , who as we 've seen you really do n't want on your 
case. they could invoke the commerce clause this seems most 
likely. this clause will get you anywhere these days. the was 
required because the supreme court ruled a 
 . in congress many drugs , with a 
textual to the commerce clause .  . the controlled 
act of still stands .  . i think the government could get away 
with it. 

walker 

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail 




from  ( robert lewis glendenning ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 21 

generally , an organization has influence in to 

the of its objectives 
the number of members 
the strength of belief of its members 

this is why the pro and anti abortion groups are so strong narrow objectives , 
lots of interested members who are real  . 

for this reason , mixing with the is probably a bad idea. it 
the interests of both groups. it may well the passion index 
of the combined organization .  . it is not clear it would greatly 
the  . 

so , i believe a new organization , which may with where the 
two organization 's interest coincide , is the strategy .  . 




perspective is worth 80 points.  ( or somebody like  . 

from 
subject how to detect use of an illegal 
organization labs , inc. 
lines 10 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x id 
x fri , 16 apr 93 14 12 23 gmt 

how can the government tell which method one is using without 
being able to the traffic i.e. , in order to accuse me of using an 
strong they would have to take both 
out of , run them against my and draw a . 

i can imagine the exhibiting certain statistical 
characteristics that might give a clue as to the 
used , but not enough to give a handle for  . 
however , or some other scheme that shapes the 
properties of my could this. 

from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
distribution na 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
lines 17 

in article  ( robert ward ) writes 
in article hamburg . de . writes 
and since the us constitutions the right to every american 
to bear , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of 

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in 
context if not , please do so before posting this again. 
it refers to the right of the people to organize a , not for individuals 
to carry , , and assault  . 

read the constitution yourself. the second amendment says the right to bear 
shall not be , so a well may be more easily 
formed .  . i have an interpretation of the second that shows there are no 
to the right to keep and bear  . if you want , i can e mail 
it to you. by the way , gun talk belongs in talk . politics . guns .  . 
doug holland 


from  ( ray ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization etc organization 
lines 27 

in article writes 
views would be to recruit them as  . they can be guaranteed to give 
the government line when it  . in us history it has been the 
such as myself who have been persecuted .  . 

and in russia , were persecuted for trading on the 
black market .  . and in the us , capitalist minded types are imprisoned and killed 
for things such as selling drugs , guns , pornography , and other 
activities. it does n't matter whether you are or capitalist , 
power and control are central to government. since citizens ca n't be trusted to 
run their own affairs , the government must watch them.  ( for their 
own good of course. i mean , with strong cryptography , citizens might ! 
start to hide things from the , sell drugs guns pornography , and 
that cannot be allowed ! ) 

trials .  . ever seen ed i have , it was when he said that socialism 
and communism were the same thing and brought the house down with laughter .  . 
it took several before we realised that he was serious. 

not very surprising to anyone who believes in hands off government. if 
you believe that your private life  ( both social and financial ) are none of 
anyone else 's business , the difference between socialism and communism is 
like the difference between murder by lethal injection or by 
 . the more the economy is , the more potential 
abuses for of information on individuals .  . if you think 
credit are bad , ... well , i'm sure a democratic society 
would vote for absolute of all citizens not ! 

from 
subject frequently asked questions 
content type text x usenet faq version 1.0 title faq 
originator 
supersedes 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization computer science , university 
expires fri , 30 apr 1993 00 00 00 gmt 
lines 

archive name faq 
last update sun , 7 93 21 00 00 0500 

about this posting 

this is a  ( still rather rough ) listing of likely questions and 
information about , a program for public key mail  . it 
 ( this faq , not ripem ) was written and will be by 
, . it will be posted to a 
variety of newsgroups on a monthly basis follow up discussion specific 
to is to the group alt . security .  . 

this month , i have this posting in an attempt to comply 
with the standards for faq to allow easy 
of this document over the world wide  . let me know 
what you think. 

disclaimer 

nothing in this faq should be considered legal advice , or anything 
other than one person 's opinion. if you want real legal advice , talk 
to a real lawyer .  . 

questions and answers 


1 ) what is 

is a program which performs enhanced mail  ( pem ) using 
the techniques of and des .  . it allows your 
electronic mail to have the properties of (i . e .  . who 
sent it can be confirmed ) and (i . e .  . nobody can read it except 
the intended ) . 

was written primarily by mark . 
most of the code is in the public domain , except for the routines , 
which are a library called from data security inc. 

2 ) how can i get 

contains the library of routines , which is 
considered and thus is restricted from distribution 
to people who are not citizens or permanent residents of the u.s. or 
canada .  . therefore , the following request is quoted from the 
file 

please do not the code in this distribution 
outside of the usa or canada .  . this is a personal request from me , 
the author of , and a condition of your use of  . 

note that is not in the public domain , and a license for it is 
included with the distribution .  . you should read it before using 
 . 

the best way to get it is to ask a friend for a copy , since this will 
reduce the load on those sites that do carry it  ( not to mention the 
humans that run them . ) . naturally this requires that you trust the 
friend. 

is available via anonymous ftp to citizens and permanent residents 
in the u.s. from com . to and read the file for 
info .  . last i looked , this site contains only the source tree , and 
does not contain compiled or the nice mac version. 

, as well as some other stuff , has its home site on 
edu . , which is open to non anonymous ftp for users in the 
u.s. and canada who are citizens or permanent residents .  . to find out 
how to obtain access , ftp there , to pub , and read the file 
getting access. for convenience , for many are 
available here in addition to the full source tree. 

3) will run on my machine 

probably .  . it has already been to dos and most flavors of 
unix  ( sunos , next , , aix , , , etc . ) . to 
include a standard unix style and a rather nice 
mac like written by raymond , author of  . more 
are expected , and help of users is invited .  . 

4 ) will work with my mailer 

probably .  . how easy and clean the effective interface is will depend 
on the and of the mailer , though. the users 
guide , included with the distribution , discusses ways to use 
with many popular , including berkeley , , , and  . 
code is also included in to allow easy use of inside 
 . 

if you make a new interface for or create an improvement on one 
in the distribution which you believe is convenient to use , secure , 
and may be useful to others , feel free to post it to alt . security .  . 

5 ) what is 

is a system which is , or public key .  . this means 
that there are two different , related one to and one to 
 . because one cannot  ( reasonably ) be derived from the other , 
you may publish your , or public key widely and keep your 
, or private key to yourself. anyone can use your public 
key to a message , but only you hold the private key needed to 
it.  ( note that the message sent with is normally just 
the des key to the real message.  ( see what is des ) 

note that the above only provides for  . for , 
the of the message  ( see what is a , like 
) is with the sender 's private key .  . the can 
use the sender 's public key to it and that the message 
must have come from the sender .  . 

was named for the three men  ( rivest , and adleman ) who 
invented it. to find out more about , ftp to com . and look in 
pub faq or look in sci .  . 

6 ) what is des 

des is the data standard , a widely used , or 
secret key , system. unlike , des uses the same key to 
and messages. however , des is much than  . 

uses both des and it a random key and 
your mail with des using that key .  . it then that key with the 
's public key and includes the result in the letter , 
allowing the to the des key .  . 

des is sometimes considered weak because it is somewhat old and uses a 
key length considered too short by modern standards. however , it 
should be reasonably safe against an opponent smaller than a large 
corporation or government agency .  . it is not unlikely that future 
will the , possibly by using 
multiple with des .  . 

7 ) what is , and how does relate 

is enhanced mail , a system for allowing easy of 
electronic mail .  . it is described in these 
documents have been approved and the old  . 

is not really a complete implementation of , because 
for , which does not 
handle at this time. their addition is  . 

8 ) what 's this about and 

for a remote user to be able to send secure mail to you , she must know 
your public key .  . for you to be able to that the message 
received came from her , you must know her public key .  . it is important 
that this information be accurate if a bad guy her that 
his key is in fact yours , she will send messages which he can read. 

allows for three methods of key a central server , 
the finger , and a flat file. all three are 
described in the users guide which is part of the distribution .  . 
none of them provide perfect security .  . 

9 ) why do all public look very similar 

public begin with a describing various 
characteristics about the key , so the first bunch of characters in 
your key may be the same as those of lots of other people 's  . 
this does not mean your are similar , but only that they are the 
same class of key , were generated with the same program , are of the 
same length , etc. 

10 ) what is a , like 

is a message digest produced by data security inc. 
it provides a 128 bit , or secure , 
of the  . it is secure because it is not 
possible  ( in a reasonable amount of computation ) to produce a 
different which produces the same  . thus , 
instead of the entire message with the sender 's private key , 
only the of the message needs to be signed for  . 

is sometimes used for other purposes for example , it is often 
used to map an of arbitrary length to 128 bits of data , as a 
or  . 

is described in its  ( including an implementation in c ) in 
 . 

11 ) what is pgp 

pgp is another mail program called pretty good  . 
pgp has been around longer than , and works somewhat differently. 
pgp is not compatible with in any way , though pgp does also use  . 

some major differences between pgp and 

pgp has more key features , particularly for users without 
a direct network connection .  . 

to the and thus has a greater probability of 
working with other software .  . pgp makes no attempt to be compatible 
with anything other than pgp  ( in fact , pgp 1.0 is not compatible with 
pgp 2 . 0 . ) . 

uses , a library of routines from data security 
inc. comes with a license which allows use. 
pgp uses its own implementation of which is not thus , 
, the firm holding the u.s. on the , claims 
that it is a of that to make , use or sell pgp in 
the u.s. or canada .  . in acknowledgement of this , pgp 's original 
author , , says in the documentation 

in fact , if you live in the usa , and you are not a federal agency , 
you should n't actually run pgp on your computer , because public 
key partners wants to forbid you from running my software .  . pgp is 
 . 

both pgp and are restricted , and cannot be sent outside 
the u.s. and canada .  . however , pgp already exists on many ftp sites 
in europe and other places. 

whether you use pgp or or whatever , the documentation to pgp is 
recommended reading to anyone interested in such issues. 

note that the above facts , both regarding and 
restrictions , are somewhat many people think it 
should n't be that way , and some people interpret various documents 
differently. unfortunately , discussions of it on the net inevitably 
seem to produce more than light , and probably belong in 
misc . legal . computing .  .  ( see disclaimer ) 

12 ) what about 

stands for enhanced mail .  . it was similar to , 
but used a public key invented by  ( which is not rsa ) in 
an attempt to avoid the on  . it was written by mark 
, the same author as  . 

its distribution was halted when , contrary to the beliefs of many 
 ( including rabin ) , public key partners  ( pkp ) claimed that their 
was broad enough to cover any public key whose strength 
in the difficulty of products of large primes , not just  . 
this claim is not universally accepted by any means , but was not 
challenged for pragmatic reasons. 

is not really used anymore. it is not compatible with or pgp .  . 

13 ) what is 

stands for internet mail , and is 
described in  . you can find out about it in the newsgroup 
mail .  . how should interact with is not yet entirely 
clear some people use the solution of having a type 
application x in order to send messages as ones. i 
hope some standards will emerge .  . draft internet documents exist on 
the matter. 

14 ) i have this simple way to defeat the security of  .  .  . 

you may wish to check the companion post attacks which 
discusses some of the more obvious attacks on 's security and 
what will minimize the risk. 's main weak area is 
probably key distribution .  . 

from  ( paul crowley ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
reply to  ( paul crowley ) 
organization university 
lines 11 

quoting in article 
you have every reason to be scared  . take a look at the records 
of , (j .  . edgar , not the though they both at 
sucking ) and nixon .  . 

history does not record whether j. edgar was any good at sucking .  . 
as for the , i 'll stick with my and damn the 
 . 

o paul crowley 
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x a fish for jesus ! 

from  ( al donaldson ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
reply to  ( al donaldson ) 
organization corp .  . , va  ( usa ) 
distribution na 
lines 16 

 ( andrew molitor ) writes 
yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some 
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in 
the fbi decide they want to you , they 're gonna , ... 

and if richard nixon had had this kind of , he would n't have had 
to send people into the  . 

but that 's not really the issue. the real issue is whether this 
will be used to justify a ban against individuals  use of private 
(i . e .  . , anything else ) methods .  . 

unrelated question .  .  . is . n't the term clipper , as neat as it is , 
already taken by 

al 

from  ( allan brockman ) 
subject i do n't have ftp , live in canada , how do i get  ( rsa(ras ) 4 my 
organization remote systems 3 , , , canada 
lines 9 

i do n't have ftp and i live in canada ( this means that it would be 
for a u.s. citizen to send the program to me. their 
wishes to restrict its ) but someone in europe must have 
a of to the by now. how do i get a of the 
from a non ftp news feed 



allan 

from  ( bill 1 0705 ) 
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton 
organization 's cleaning services 
in reply to 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 04 41 19 gmt 
nntp posting host ho . com . 
lines 26 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 
here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an 
one make it voluntary .  . 

that is you get high quality secure classified technology if you agree 
to your key .  . otherwise you are on your own. 

that 's the part use of other products is voluntary , for now , 
and the press talk about the white house 's to 
decide that citizens have a right to good gear , 
and about how alternatives will be as long as 
they provide key services .  . that 's a clear implication that 
they 're considering banning alternatives .  . 

, use of real alternatives t totally legal 
you 're not allowed to really good equipment except to 
the government 's friends (e . g .  . the australian government ) 
you can only even bad equipment with their permission , 
and the who control the telephone make 
sure there are only two , so joe 's ca n't 
start offering a secure service .  . 

pray for peace bill 
bill 1 at t bell labs nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 fax 1 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re proposal from police point of view 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 30 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

posts a very interesting message in which he comments on the 
effects of the clipper chip on state and local police .  . actually , reading 
between the lines , it could be a very good thing for civil liberties in one 
respect , since it will at least prevent cops and state and 
local from reading your traffic if they it  . 

instead of reading between the lines , try to think a little bit. ok , 
if that 's way too difficult to you , here are some hints .  . 

indeed , the new proposal some additional burden on 
the local police , if they want to the magic 
that your mom is telling you on the phone. so , guess what they will 
do propose that the new technology is removed or implement some 
of course , you wo n't want to wait until they get the 
approval from two different to the conversation 
between two child , because those two child 
might be about your child , right so , 
there should be some way for them to get access to those 
quickly , right like , they could have a copy of the , and 
worry about a warrant later .  .  .  . 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
distribution na 
lines 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no 
flames , please. 

it is incompetent , like almost anything you have posted here , so 
you 'll be flamed , sorry. 

it comes out of a background of 20 years as a 
in two 50  . 

( your 20 years of background in two 50 i 've 
lived 30 years under a regime , and boy , i can recognize 
a plot when i see one .  .  .  . 

i 'd be happy to use a system by the for business , if 
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular to 

i am sure that you would be happy to use anything they tell you is 
secure we 're talking about the intelligent people here .  .  .  . or the 
criminal ones , if you do n't like the previous sentence .  .  .  . ) or those 
who do n't want their to be guaranteed to be by the 
government any current and future government , mind you .  .  .  . 

i 'd be happy to do so even with , provided i was happy about 
the of the  ( the federal reserve would certainly 
me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting  . 

even if you ignore the nonsense of the above statement for a moment , 
and even if you are happy with such system and the current 
now , what that you 'll be happy with them tomorrow , 
when the government changes or when the current government throws 
away the all the who are reasoning like you will get 
caught by surprise , but it will be too late , because then cryptography 
that is not guaranteed to be by the government will already 
have been outlawed .  .  .  . after all , you 've already got that is 
said to be only by the law enforcement , so if you 
are law , you have no reasons to use a stronger one , right so , 
if you are using a stronger one , you have something to hide from the 
law enforcement , right something , right therefore , 
strong is a clear that you are doing something 
 . 

i 'd trust the or the president if they stated there were no trap 

considering the level of in that you have 
demonstrated in your messages , you would trust just anything .  .  .  . and 
no , this is not an ad hominem attack it 's an attack against the 
contents of your messages . 

doors i 'd be even if a of independent examined 
the thing under of secrecy and reported back that it was secure .  . 

and how do you know that these are not corrupted and how do 
you know that they will not make a mistake and how do you know that 
the version of the they will be let to examine is the same 
as the one that will be really used 

regarding the mistake even the few information they have let out 
has revealed a serious security hole in the the 80 bit key 
is split in two 40 bit ones , thus the whole system is easily 
, if you have only one of the  . 

i 'd trust something from the long before i 'd trust something from some 
or anybody japanese .  . 

the or the japanese are motivated by simple greed is 
motivated by their wish to control the people. that 's why the drug 
have their accounts in banks , instead of in american 
ones. for some reason , they do trust the banks more .  .  .  . guess 
they 'll trust the more too .  .  .  . i see idea becoming 
suddenly popular .  .  .  . ) 

this may seem surprising to some here , but i suggest most would 
feel the same way. most many some  ( pick one) have an attitude 
that the is part of our government and we support our government , as 
one very famous put it to me one day. 

it 's not surprising at all , but not because of the reason you give .  . 
it 's because it is obvious that the us government has put a lot of 
money behind this program and it will support it. thus , most 
will try to get their piece from the by supporting it 
too. the same good old greed .  . strong is not widely 
available now not because of some plot , but because the 
do n't see much money in it. it will be available even less , if the 
can see any penalties associated with it .  .  .  . 

just some perspective from another point of view. 

yeah , just as i predicted , you are here again , to support the new 
system. 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( john f carr ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
organization institute of technology 
lines 16 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article 
 ( ian ameline ) writes 

i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip , 
and of the will likely be fairly widespread .  . 

the chip and are classified .  . if you reverse engineer it and 
tell people , you are likely to go to jail .  . 

perhaps some foreign governments or could help us out by 
cracking the system outside the usa .  . the us government could probably 
stop of hardware , but a software implementation 
should be practical .  . 


john 

from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 26 

wrote 

nobody seems to have noticed that the clipper chip must have been 
under development for longer than the 3 months that 
clinton has been president .  . this is not something that choosing 
choosing bush over clinton would have changed in the slightest it has 
been in the works for some time. 

actually , many of us have noted this. we have noted that the program 
started at least 4 years ago , that the contracts with technology 
and were let at least 14 months ago , that of the 
is well , and so forth .  . 

nobody i know has claimed clinton the program .  . but he chose 
to go ahead with it. 


tim may 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may anarchy , digital money , 
anonymous , digital , zero 
408 knowledge , , information , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . , ca black , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from  ( shaen bernhardt ) 
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 44 

in article  ( bruce schneier ) writes 
in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 

here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an 
one make it voluntary .  . 

that is you get high quality secure classified technology if you agree 
to your key .  . otherwise you are on your own. 


as long as you are on your own means that you can use your own , 
i'm sold .  . 

bruce 

as am i 

if high quality secure classified technology means handing my key 
over to whomever , i 'll take pgp any day. 

right now they are it as voluntary , i.e. over , here it comes .  . 

as soon as enough chip based units are out there , how much 
easier do you think it will be to redefine on your own to mean 
write it yourself and do n't even think about it .  .  .  . 

get honest , no one is going to buy this trash if they know it 's 
already , and less will buy it if the is not  . 

the knows that making this stuff available to the public means 
handing it to whatever foreign powers are interested in the process. 
since when has control stopped anyone  ( especially software wise ) 

ask yourself carefully if high quality secure classified technology 
is something they are going to hand out. not unless you can drive a 
van through the holes .  . 

uni  ( dark ) 


public by finger and or request 
public key archives at pgp public 
is the sign of a brutal past. 
cryptography is not a crime .  . fight the big brother proposal ! 

from  ( jef poskanzer ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
x face upie ) , q  ( pde 8 8bouyx42y ) ,  ( mcm(x s  ( 8lxop(q l ! ha b 4 m ,  ( no(d , j  
reply to 
organization of esoteric 
lines 22 

 ( brad templeton ) 
and yes , this has to be a public key system or it would be almost 
impossible to handle .  . it might not be , but that does not mean 
that does n't get paid .  . until , has the on the 
general concept of public key , as well as the particular 
implementation known as  . 

hmm , my first thought was that they 're using 
key exchange , or an equivalent .  . however , the 
, like the one on public key systems , claims 
all , so the basic point stands .  . 

interestingly , a quote from jim showed up in the media real 
soon after the announcement , and he very  . maybe he had n't 
yet realized that might have just gold all they have to 
do is get someone to admit the general scheme that the clipper uses .  . 




an object never serves the same function as its image or its name. 


from  ( marcus j ranum ) 
subject re how to detect use of an illegal 
organization trusted information systems , inc. 
lines 23 
nntp posting host com . 

how can the government tell which method one is using without 
being able to the traffic i.e. , in order to accuse me of using an 
strong they would have to take both 
out of , run them against my and draw a . 

i was thinking about this , also. it 's quite possible the 
system , in clear , the serial number of the device being 
used. that way they can start a , get the serial number , and use 
the warrant for the first to get the key .  . 

if they someone who 's apparently using , but 
do n't find that , then they 'll assume it 's an un 
scheme .  . 

this does n't handle traffic .  . if the clipper 
does n't impose any unfortunate side effects there 's no 
reason not to use it to a of des 
traffic .  . that way your traffic looks normal and perhaps anyone 
desiring to listen in wo n't even bother , since they know nobody 's 
going to really trust that has classified for 
important stuff. 

 . 

from  ( john kelsey ) 
subject clipper chip and key exchange methods 
nntp posting host missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 13 

i was wanting to ask the same question dan asked how does the 
clipper chip exchange if the public key is only 80 or bits long , 
does anyone know of any public key that are secure with that key 
size  ( diffie or maybe , with p set to a constant value ) 
presumably , the real scheme is something like 

1. exchange verify public  . 
2. send  ( randomly generated ) key .  . 
3. voice with some sort of fast  . 

can anyone elaborate on this , or show me what i'm missing here 

john kelsey , 

from  . tribe ) . 
subject  ( was re text of white house announcement  .  .  . ) . 
organization university of , 
lines 28 
distribution na 
nntp posting host snake . cs . edu . 

in article  ( hal finney ) writes 
it looks like the worst raised by 's 
are coming true. if the government continues on this course , i imagine 
that we will see strong cryptography made illegal .  . programs 
for files and email , as well as software to allow for 
voice communications , will be only through the 
. people will have to learn how to hide the fact that 
they are protecting their  . 

some thoughts 

has any work been done on data inside non 
data files many file can be written with in them to hide 
other data .  . new file could be designed to have alternate data hidden 
by it amongst the legitimate data .  . the hidden data would only 
show up with the right  ( key(s ) , and a file with hidden data would be 
from one without .  . so , only the correct  ( key(s ) would reveal 
the presence of an illegal document .  . 

if i devise a file and only i and a friend have 
the , and otherwise the file appears to be total , do i 
have the right to the file will we have to all our data 
file are required to their hand , and 
phrases 

i think that it 's important to the content of electronic by 
replacing the media with pen and paper or verbal and then re ask the 
question. 

from  ( michael kagalenko ) 
subject some thoughts on clipper proposal 
organization division of academic computing , university , boston , ma .  . usa 
lines 25 


i envision of new into 
various systems , thus making it on the market 
therefore cheap .  . the way to do that may be chip from 
equipment. it seems logical to provide clipper chip 
to the end user not as a part of phone , fax , like but in the 
form of smart card compatible with various  . products. banks 
will encourage extensive use of new cards to make by phone. 
natural step will be to cross reference this card to the person in the 
government or else this new version of proposal 
make no at all one wish to ) . on the particular 
person , not on the particular or phone. 

as a side note , i disagree with one poster , who said he wo n't care about 
ability of the government to , since they can do that now 
anyway. clipper will take away electronic from citizens , 
making it monopoly of the government. may be , we can find examples when 
made by  ( unauthorised ) people crimes of 
state 




for 1 . public key finger 


from  ( philip r. moyer ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization engineering computer network 
distribution na 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( brad templeton ) writes 

let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless 
you get both of the key from the two independent 
houses .  . let 's say you even trust the houses one is 
the and the other is the  .  ( and i'm not entirely about 
those two names ) 

in that case the prince of has nothing to worry about on this 
system. 

i must disagree with this assertion , brad .  . the government is 
notoriously with physical , communications , and information security .  . they 
ca n't keep their computers safe , and they 're trying . read is 
not adequately protecting national security information 31 for an 
excellent example of what i'm talking about. 

private organizations tend to be even more in their security measures .  . 
i believe that the organizations will be penetrated by foreign 
intelligence services within months , if not weeks , of their selection .  . private 
organizations that lack the resources of a full intelligence service will 
take longer perhaps on the order of one to two years. nonetheless , the 
will take place , without question. 

philip r. software 
engineering computer network voice 
fax 

from  ( bear giles ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization national boulder labs 
distribution 
lines 33 

andrew wrote 

1 ) my  . 
2 ) usenet .  . 

they may the data , but making sense of it is another matter. 

on sci . i'm a graduate cs major  ( with strong math background ) and 
experienced programmer taking a course. ( for 
alleged  . 

on sci . skeptic . i'm an ex physics major who 's a new age , talking 
about silly things like how a person 's expectations what he 
sees .  . 

on talk . religion . i'm a physics geek who enjoys 
interesting idea with science , although i do write occasional 
posts showing a minimal knowledge of zen , mythology , etc. 

i could go on , but i'm sure you see my point. i'm a single person , 
but i react differently on different groups  ( admittedly , in part 
because i'm a you always but , on the other hand .  .  .  . ) .  . 
on top of that , i certainty and have taken public positions 
in the past for no reason other than to challenge conventional wisdom . 
i wish them luck in out who i am based on that information. 

 ( they can probably figure out i'm liberal , with a technical degree 
but interests , from a common thread throughout my posts. 
but that describes a fair portion of the users of  . 


bear 
gov . 

from  ( john kelsey ) 
subject 80 bit machine 
nntp posting host missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 26 

in article 
 ( steve simmons ) writes 

normally i 'd be the last to argue with steve . . . but should n't that 
read 3.8 years for all solutions . i mean , if we can imagine the 
machine that does 1 trial , we can imagine the medium 
that could index and archive it. 

hmmmm .  . i think , with really large like this , you need to 
alter the strategy discussed for des .  . attempt of several 
blocks , and check the of the contents .  . i do n't think it 's 
at all to keep 2 80 of a known block on 
any amount of or  . and certainly not 2 128 such 
blocks .  .  ( anyone know a cheap way of converting every atom in the 
system into a one bit device ) 

actually , a of this kind should n't be much worse than the 
simpler kind in terms of speed .  . it 's just that you have to do it over 
for every message. 

question has anyone ever done any serious research on how many 
legitimate ascii 8 blocks there are that could be part of 
an english sentence for attacking des in mode , it seems like a 
dictionary of this kind might be pretty valuable .  .  .  .  . 

john kelsey 

from de .  . dr. pommerening ) 
subject des as additional key 
keywords des , , , key search 
nntp posting host uni . de . 
organization 
lines 15 

the recent discussion in this news group suggests that a key search attack 
against des is quite now. but normally des is applied in or 
mode where one chooses a random of 8  . questions 

makes it sense to handle the as an additional key then we have 
a 56 64 120 bit key .  . 

if yes is anything known about the security of this key scheme can we 
break it than by exhaustive search through the 120 bit key space 



und 
der 
, w , germany 

from  ( george mcbay ) 
subject re what the clipper sound like to me. 
distribution na 
organization clam 
lines 21 

in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 
a lot of this article has been deleted for space .  . 

look ! this is clearly the first step our 
own thread  . if this madness is n't fought , 
tooth and nail , every step of the way , it 'll be a crime to use 
threads other than those our leaders so 
define for us. 

the clipper standard is the first step other 
strong standards. if the government did n't intend to outlaw 
other forms of , than clipper is just a big waste of time and money. 
why , you ask because anyone who is data that any government 
agency could use against him her would be a total fool to use the clipper 
system .  . so . why add the key if all will use alternate 
methods because they assume they can just do away with everything 
else. 
i , for one , am planning on any equipment that contains 
clipper technology. 



from  ( ozan s. yigit ) 
subject re list of large integer arithmetic 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 1993 16 47 03 gmt 
organization york u. student information systems project 
lines 18 

mark writes 

a list of large integer arithmetic 

i thought i would note that except 's , none of the 
large integer are in the public domain .  . as an alternative , 
a straightforward implementation of 's may be 
found as a part of arizona 's distribution .  . 



with , it is possible to make electric 
anything run  . tom x 






from ac . at .  ( hermann schinagl ) 
subject need source of 
organization technical university of , austria 
lines 12 
nntp posting host tu . ac . at . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

hi ! 

i am interested in the source of  . 
does someone of you know where i can get the source from , or 
where i can find documentation about  . 

thanks in advance 


ciao 

please email me ! ! ! 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
lines 24 

 ( graham toal ) writes 

in the uk , it 's impossible to get approval to any device 
to the phone network.  ( anything that in to our phone 
must be approved for some reason devices just never are .  .  . ) . 


the difference between a v . and a v . 

i'm not being entirely silly here what i'm pointing out is that the 
modems that they have already approved for data will work 
just fine to voice .  . 

absolutely .  . i just meant that no secure dedicated device has 
ever been given approval .  . devices should be well 
possible with today 's high speed modems  ( not that i can think of many 
modems that are approved either mind you just the couriers ) 

can someone tell me if hardware is or is not needed to run 
digital speech down 14 . i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets 
say 8 bit samples .  . would raw data at the rate 
be if not , how fancy does the need to be 

g 

from  ( derek atkins ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
organization institute of technology 
lines 37 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 23 52 28 gmt 

begin pgp signed message 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 

in article  ( carl m. kadie ) writes 


so , do n't just think of replacements for clipper , also think of front 
ends. 

this only makes sense if the government prohibits alternative non 
 . otherwise , why not just use the front end without 
clipper 

david 

david , they ( the gov't ) have already said that they hope to do this 
in the long run .  .  .  . 



pgp 2 key available upon request on the key server 
pgp public 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 





end pgp signature 

atkins , mit  93 , electrical engineering and computer science 
, mit student information board  ( sipb ) 
mit media , speech research group 


from  ( arthur melnick ) 
subject some questions regarding big brother  ( clipper ) 
summary some thoughts and questions regarding clipper 
keywords clipper 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization the whole earth  link , , ca 
lines 23 


in previous postings by , , it was 
reported the big brother  ( clipper ) chip will in 
64 bit blocks as is done with des .  . the users key k which can be 
derived from , , etc. is used to 
m and is then used to form a three part message . 
this three part message consists of e m k , k 
with some other key , and the chip serial number .  . this three part 
message is then by still another key .  . 
my question is what is a message 
for example , say we are dealing with an 
voice application .  . the speech is and 
and then some number of samples are into a 64 bit block. 
this block is then and over a non secure 
communications link .  . 
where is the three part message is something to 
each 64 bit block is a sent at the beginning of the 

if the is sent at the beginning of the , how 
do they the equipment using the chip does 
just that can just anyone manufacture products using the chip 
is a required to manufacture 
any ideas 

from 
subject cryptography faq 09 10 other 
organization the 
lines 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 9 of 10 of the sci . faq , other  . 
national security agency .  . us restrictions .  . 
interference  . , a hoax 
american association .  . public key  . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 9 other 

this is the ninth of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest. 
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in the last part. 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 


contents 

what is the national security agency  ( nsa ) 
what are the us 
what is 
what are the , and are they a hoax 
what is the american association , and how do i get in touch 
is patented 
what about the 


what is the national security agency  ( nsa ) 

the is the official security body of the u.s. government. it 
was given its charter by president in the late 40 's , and 
has continued research in till the present. the is 
known to be the largest employer of in the world , 
and is also the largest of computer hardware in the 
world. governments in general have always been prime of 
 . the probably expertise many 
years ahead of the public state of the art , and can break 
many of the systems used in practice but for reasons of national 
security almost all information about the is classified .  . 

's book gives a history of the people and of 
the  . the following quote from the 
difference between public and private research in cryptography 

 .  .  . if one regards as the of government , 
one accepts that most research will be conducted 
behind closed doors. without doubt , the number of workers engaged 
today in such secret research in far that of 
those engaged in open research in  . for only about 10 
years has there in fact been widespread open research in 
 . there have been , and will continue to be , conflicts 
between these two research communities .  . open research is common 
quest for knowledge that depends for its on the open 
exchange of ideas via conference and in 
scholarly  . but can a government agency , charged with 
of breaking the of other nations , 
the publication of a that it cannot break can 
a in good conscience publish such a that might 
the of his own government 's code 
one might argue that publication of a provably secure would 
force all governments to behave like 's  , but one 
must be aware that open research in cryptography is with 
political and ethical of a than in most 
scientific fields .  . the wonder is not that some conflicts have 
occurred between government and open in 
, but rather that these conflicts  ( at least those of which 
we are aware ) have been so few and so mild . '' . 

what are the us 

in a nutshell , there are two government which control 
of software .  . one is the bureau of 
 ( bxa ) in the department of commerce , by 
the  . another is the office 
of defense trade  ( dtc ) in the state department , 
by the international traffic in  . as a rule 
of ,  ( which works with cocom ) has less 
requirements , but  ( which takes orders from nsa ) wants to see 
everything first and can refuse to jurisdiction to  . 

the newsgroup misc . legal . computing . carries many interesting 
discussions on the laws surrounding , what 
people think about those laws , and many other complex issues which 
go beyond the of technical groups like sci .  . make sure to 
consult your lawyer before doing anything which will get you thrown in 
jail if you are lucky , your lawyer might know a lawyer who has at 
least heard of the  . 

what is 

is a standard for for computer 
equipment. it was created in response to the that 
information can be read from computer radiation (e . g .  . , from a crt ) at 
quite a distance and with little effort .  . 

to say , does n't do much good if the 
is available this way. 

what are the , and are they a hoax 

 ( thanks to jim for this information and john king for 
corrections . ) . 

the story in a by j. b. ward  ( 1885 ) goes thomas 
jefferson and a party of a huge mass 
of and buried it in , virginia , leaving 
three with an the describe the 
, contents , and intended of the  . 
ward gives a of the second  ( contents ) called 
it was as a book using the initial letters of the 
declaration of independence  ( doi ) as key .  . and are 
many documents have been tried as the key to  . 

can join a group that attempts to solve by various 
means with an eye the 

the association 
p.o. box 
falls , pa 

you can get the from the rec . by including the 
line 

send index 

in a message to and following the  . 
 ( there are apparently several different versions of the 
floating around. the correct version is based on the , 
says john king  . ) . 

some believe the story is a hoax .  . gives a long list of 
problems with the story. with the 
and found some , including  . 
hammer  ( president of the association ) agrees that this 
string could n't appear by chance , but there must be an 
explanation expert ) is with this 
string .  . 

what is the american association , and how do i get in touch 

the is an organization devoted to cryptography , with an emphasis 
on of systems that can be attacked either with 
and paper or computers. its   includes 
articles and challenge  . among the more than 50 types in 
english and other are simple , , 
, , , , , and  . 

are 15 for one year  ( 6 issues ) more outside of north america 
less for students under 18 and  . should be sent 
to , west st. , , il  . 

is patented 

yes. the number is 4 , , , filed 12 14 , granted 9 20  . 
for further discussion of this , whether it should have been 
granted , in general , and related legal and moral 
issues , see and misc . legal . computing .  . for information 
about the league for programming freedom see . note that one of 
the original purposes of was to questions such as 
be patented '' , which often flooded sci . and other 
technical newsgroups , into a more appropriate forum. 

what about the 

 ( nelson minar ) says there is a mailing list on the 
subject. the address to write to subscribe to the vms mailing list 
is 

the ftp archive is org . pub 

there 's all sorts of information about the itself , of 
course. a good bibliography can be found on the ftp site. 's 
the gives a good introduction .  . 

from 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization mail to news gateway at wang labs 
distribution na 
lines 47 

 ( jerry han ) writes 
the point of the matter is that yes this is a serious problem. but it is 
not the end of the world. guess what we 're doing something now you 
ca n't do in a communist country or nazi germany .  . 

or john edgar 's usa .  . 

we 're complaining about 
it ,  ( or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us. 

yet. 

guess what people you live in one of the few countries in the world 
where a person can complain without getting shot at. 

yet. 

people are always complaining that somebody did this wrong , or somebody 
did that wrong , or whatever. sit down and figure out two things 

1 ) what have they done right 
2 ) how much worse can it get 

and you 'll find that you and i , are pretty damn lucky .  . 

so far. 

so let 's talk about it , get some action going , decide what 's going on. 
but let 's not ! 

what harm is there in 
this may be the largest single threat to civil liberties yet in my 
lifetime. the us has done some pretty things in the past , 
and we have n't yet from all of them. there certainly seems 
to be a historical trend towards less liberty , with occasional 
 . 

time to break out the quotes from american political  . 

grant street 
the gulf pittsburgh 

there are more instances of the of the freedom of the 
people by the gradual and silent of those in power , 
than by violent and sudden  . james madison 



from 
subject of  ( was re rc2 ) 
organization yale cs mail news gateway 
lines 36 

hamburg . de) . writes 

writes it is interesting to note 
in this regard that permission to 's scheme 
has twice been denied by  . draw you own conclusions .  . 

uh , i'm afraid that your information is slightly out of date .  .  .  . 
has obtained a license to their program to the whole 
world , except a very limited list of countries .  .  .  . draw your own 
conclusions about the strength of the  .  .  . ) 

sorry if i was less than clear. ) i was referring to our own efforts 
to receive permission from for the 
, not to any effort on the part of or  . 

i should point out that the original version of this was 
designed by roger and that we  ( meaning roger and myself ) were 
twice denied an license for it. the second go  round was just 
this past fall .  . 

i had no knowledge of 's attempts in this. i do not even know for 
sure if he choose to implement the as it was designed by 
roger , though i believe that was at least the case for versions prior 
to 2 . 0 .  . and then there 's the question of key  . ) 

and even if our applications were identical , there is no reason to 
assume the would treat them that way. ) 




michael j. , r d 
information security corp .  . 0500 , fax 
 . , d 
, il cis , 


from 
subject  .  .  .  .  . 
organization yale cs mail news gateway 
lines 49 


this thread brings up the more general question. can any 
implementation for which highly publicly source code is not 
available ever be trusted 

after ibm had invented the des and the had for , 
but before ibm had decided to respond , i argued that they 
should not they should keep it  . 

the biggest of proposing was dr. lewis  . dr. 
was the ibm chief scientist and had come to ibm from  . fortunately 
for all of us , dr. understood the answer to the above question 
much better than i. he realized how difficult it would be to gain 
acceptance for any mechanism .  . because of the necessary 
complexity , would not be sufficient and neither would 
authority .  . in fact , it has taken both of those plus more than 15 
years. 

we have also had independence .  . the des was by , invented 
and proposed by ibm , and by  . it has also been examined and 
by like , who are not subject to influence by 
any of these. 

even now , there are still people posting on this list who do not trust 
the des in spite of all the time , all of the analysis , and all of the 
public scrutiny .  . 

 ( of course , it is just this point that misses when it attempts to 
gain acceptance for a novel mechanism , developed in secret , on the basis 
of authority alone . ) . 

we had a long thread here about whether or not the can break the 
des .  . that is a silly question. at some cost and in some time they 
can break anything. the important question is at what cost and in 
what time. 

the fundamental strength of the des and are not nearly so important 
as what we know about their strength .  . as long as we understand the 
cost and duration for an , then we can use them in a safe way. 
at this point , we may never replace either because of the inability of 
any to overcome this knowledge gap .  . 

des and are among the most significant of the century 
and the most important in the history of cryptography .  . 
we are damned lucky to have them. 

william , , information system security 
49 avenue , new , 
1 0 0 700 at 

from  ( steven holton ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization northern , inc. 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( amanda 
walker ) wrote 
one thing that clipper is , at a higher degree of 
security than we currently have in non voice systems. 
this means it will be than anyone 's scheme , and easier to 

probably than you think. i 'll bet some of my  ( and yours ) 
tax dollars become a for these  . if these do n't 
sell well , what 's to stop the us government from  giving  them 
away  ( in the interest of national security ) 

 . this is , of course , either a bug or a feature depending on how you 
look at it ) .  . 

walker 
systems corporation 


p. 
network administrator fast 
northern , inc. 
replies to 
on 

opinions expressed here are my own. 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re of public key 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 28 
nntp posting host sw . stratus . com . 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) writes 
i guess we will have to wait for the time in the far future 
when everyone uses such good that the has no job. then the 
agency will be and its files opened after the 
historical delay .  . ) 

you 've a fundamental truth 

both and of any government agency are 
increasing functions .  . 

given that truth , you need to look for what the agency can do to 
all those people and spend all that money when is  . 

perhaps they could talk the world 's telephone into making equipment 
they could break into and  . 

maybe they could convince people that computing was a good idea 
so that even the internal state of a process would be available for access 
by  . 

maybe .  .  .  .  . 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 

stratus computer inc. 2 tel  ( 508)460 ) 
55 ma fax  ( 508)624 ) 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
lines 21 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 

indeed , were it not for the government doing everything possible to 
stop them , would have designed strong right in to 
the phone system they are  . were it not for 
the and company , cheap systems would be everywhere. as 
it is , they try every trick in the book to stop it. had it not been 
for them , i'm sure cheap secure would be out right now. 

in the uk , it 's impossible to get approval to any device 
to the phone network.  ( anything that in to our phone 
must be approved for some reason devices just never are .  .  . ) . 

i was wondering some time ago how big a market there was for good old 
fashion technology to build a secure phone ) ... is 
it possible to out all the real voice well enough so that none of 
it into the perhaps a well 
that was as well as possible , then a white on 
the outside to any real speech 

g 

from  ( bryan cmsc ) 
subject re proposal from police point of view 
organization university of maryland , baltimore campus 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
x user 


in article ,  ( dwight tuinstra ) writes 
it might pay to start looking at what this proposal might mean to a 
police agency .  . it just might be a bad idea for them , too. 

ok , suppose the ny state police want to a suspect 's phone. they 
need a warrant , just like the old days. but unlike the old days , they 
now need to 

 ( a ) get two federal to give them the two parts of 
the key .  . 

now , what happens if there 's a between the two houses 
release of becomes a political  . 

while i think it is to suppose that the federal 
will fail to comply with a court order , there is 
still a good point here. local law enforcement will be unable to perform 
a without bringing in federal  . based on the  ( possibly 
incomplete ) understanding of the system quoted from d. , only the 
fbi will be able to the system key , which seems 
to be needed even to identify what to request. this 
a great deal of law enforcement power to the federal level. 
the reason i like this point is that it may sway or even persuade 
people who do n't generally line up with the civil liberties crowd. a 
national police force is opposed by people from a broad range of political 
viewpoints .  . 




from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re clinton boost in spending 
article i.d. 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 23 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 


right on the of the clinton key comes 

 ( shaun p. hughes ) writes 
from s . f .  . 

president clinton has asked congress for authority to spend more money 
on , and other intelligence activities in 
than it for 1993 , congressional and 
say. 

.... clinton had promised to intelligence spending by 7 billion 
over four years. 

.... although the size of the nations  vast intelligence remains 
an official secret , and congressional 
yesterday that it would total about 28 billion if the increase 
requested by clinton is approved .  . 

wonder how much of that extra money goes into coming up with 
they can easily crack 

the theorem theorem if if , then then 

from  ( p d h ) 
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 

 . detweiler ) writes 

i'm quite , shocked , and appalled at this serious frontal 
assault on american freedoms .  . the clinton 
nor any other government agency has any legitimate role whatsoever 
in cryptography .  . to do so is to 
 speech , and is blatantly  . perhaps we 
should this year  in honor of such an 
proposal .  . let the chip live in , and the 
receive great and discredit for this bizarre  . 

imho , is  ( also ) protected under the second amendment of 
the constitution of the united states. 


i am that my tax money is being used to develop technology 
to restrict my freedoms far beyond reasonable measures .  . the u.s. 
government will have my full and on any 
serious threat to my liberties such as this , and i call on everyone 
with an interest in a sensible government to resist and this 
proposal .  . the does not seem to understand that they 
are merely a instrument to implement the will of the 
public , and hence anyone involved in this proposal in this respect is 
wholly and in their lawful duty .  . 

i am not surprised that this is doing this. 
i could have told you so. 


cryptography is neutral technology. if everybody has strong 
cryptography  ( including policemen , , , 
, and hoodlums ) , we have a 
 . anything less is an anti 
arrangement , intrinsically to american freedoms , and 
guaranteed to collapse under its own weight of inherent 
 . we do n't need to compromise on issues of freedom .  . 

has always been something that has the effect of 
out ability to prosecute criminals .  . we are supposed to have the 
of innocence .  . 

i have the right to pull the over my and close my 
door , and the police may not come in. if i perform a in my home , 
they will have to find out by means other than simply looking .  . 

is to my data as the are to my home. 
simple enough 


for too long our government has demonstrated itself to be 
hostile and a serious to economic 
and protecting americans .  . 

and yet the people vote for these people because they come out a lie 
to them about promising to fix things. 


the has to be committed to leaving private 
alone , esp. on this issue. the government has no 
legitimate role in the content of communications .  . 
law enforcement must be prepared to their 
surveillance they are soon and inevitably to be 
of it. 

you mean they might have to go back to actually working to do their job 
oh heavens .  . 


no such laws can be sound , and this is equivalent 
to a veiled threat , which i do n't appreciate .  . this kind of 
tends to me and others into  . i will 
trade threats for threats , and violation for violation .  . 

perhaps the first amendment .  . definitely the second and  . 


if the did say this , it would find itself 
for and outrageous disregard of essential , 
established , entrenched , and explicit constitutional 
 . the would have no legal standing 
whatsoever such an action would be illegal and 
criminal , and wholly and by vast 
of the population .  . 

unfortunately , the vast of the population are misinformed .  . 
they just have n't to the name of out country , yet. 


this is an outright lie. the two of 
and surveillance are intrinsically and fundamentally 
incompatible , and you have to work for the to think otherwise. 
americans are about to discover ways , through the use of technology , 
to preserve their inalienable but forgotten freedoms that have 
been away by an distant and and 
government. 

i seriously doubt that the thinks that and surveillance are 
compatible .  . i doubt of any smart person in any other agency thinks 
so , either. the problem is that they simply hold to be of no 
value at all. 

, , protection  ( 1(911)a1 ) 
right conservative are out to separate you from your money 
left liberal do are out to separate you from everything else ! ! 


from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization dsi 
distribution na 
lines 15 

in article 
 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 

note that measures to protect yourself from 
surveillance are still classified , as far as i know. 

i think this to be  . one can buy equipment  . 
even  . 

david 

david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from 
subject re more technical details 
organization computer science dept , university 
lines 43 

under k , then k will be under the key uk , 
and the serial number of the added to produce a three part 
message which will then be under the system key 
producing 

e e m k , e k uk , serial number 

my understanding is that e m k is not under  ( called the 
family key ) and that the key to is held by 
law enforcement .  . does anyone have first hand knowledge on this i 
will also check it out , but this is sunday so i did not want to wait. 

ok , so there are in fact two distinct components by the 
chip the real message with the conventional key , and the 
serial number and conventional key with the 
 ( imho kind of bogus , as the whole concept of one key that millions of 
people use which ca n't be changed does n't seem reasonable ) family 
key . 

suppose i analyze the output of this chip and i'm able to determine 
which bits are the packet which contains the serial number 
and key .  . suppose i also design a simple based on 
this information which takes the data containing the 
key and a bit  ( or several ) before it 's sent down the line. 

mind you , i'm sure the thought of this along with a dozen other 
attacks i ca n't imagine , and the system is probably somehow designed 
so that of this information will cause a 
receiving chip to somehow fail to successfully. but how 
what if the two parties agree in advance on some kind of consistent 
bit scheme , so the chip sees the 
proper but an gets a e k uk packet that 's 
wrong 

i suppose this could be easily if the chip sends that 
information out many times in slightly different ways , making it 
effectively impossible to be certain you know all the information 
being sent .  . 

accepted 
if your theory different depending on whether you use 
discrete mathematics or continuous mathematics , then you 've got the wrong 
theory. bruce 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
lines 23 

the cops feds do not need to be able to get hold of your private key to 
listen in to  . is not end to end , but 
to base station it has to be this way so that users 
and fixed can talk to each other. for to 
calls , the is at the base station , passed to another 
base station and re  . the cops feds can listen to the 
call provided they get a warrant to into the 's 
equipment. the only reason for wanting a system is so they can 
listen without having to obtain a warrant .  . 

but , maybe the clipper system is secure , and they really do need a warrant 
to get the key out of before they can listen in using a  ( see 
above they do n't have to go down this route  . i have my , 
but even if true once they have the key they will never again need a 
warrant to into that particular phone whenever they want. , judge , 
it appears he was n't a drug after all , so naturally we 'll stop 
listening  .  .  . 

that was true for the uk paul , but i'm fairly sure they 're talking about 
building end to end out of this chip .  . it 's not for 
 ( though it certainly could be used there in the way you suggest ) 

g 

from  ( brad yearwood ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( david sternlight ) writes 

chances are the government has thought of this , and just anyone wo n't be 
access to enough of the to make a fake clipper chip .  . 
chances are that the government has classified some details of the 
at a very high level , and are required to observe security 
and to that level. 

assume in this case the usual adversary of  . they 
probably have more cash than the did , and they 're probably more generous 
at handing it out. it will be easier than ever to find or 
and for the , and it will be easy enough to find someone to 
reverse engineer the chip  ( unless the is damned clever and 
 . 

brad uunet , pyramid ! ! brad 
, ca 



from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
distribution na 
lines 21 

graham writes 
actually , i am completely baffled by why has chosen 
to away her academic like this. it looks to me 
like a major career limiting move. there can be very few people 
who know what she 's been saying who take her seriously any more. 

i'm not sure it is a major limiting move .  .  .  . in the academic circles 
i 've seen , arguing for increased government intervention and 
is almost always a plus  ( not the least because it usually 
means more high paying jobs for as advisors ) .  . also 
consider that it looks like has some decent government 
, which is always a plus for an academic institute that 
wants more government funding and work their way. 

, yes career limiting , well , the probably 
the  . and there are a whole bunch of people who 
think the whole thing is just peachy  . if it 's only going to be 
used against drug , child , and , well 
it must be good. p 

truth is hard to find and harder to obscure .  . 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 42 
distribution 
nntp posting host access . net . 

criminals who very want tactical communications 
 ( specifically the and drug who of key 
cite as threats ) will be highly motivated to steal the phone of 
a legitimate user , and to kill this person or hold them so 
of compromise of the device will be  . 

why doing it in such a rough manner it is much more to 
steal the chip from the phone and even to replace it with a 
pin compatible do nothing chip that does not at all. chances 
are that the victim will not notice anything , especially if it is done 
professionally .  . 

assuming that the bad guys can easily obtain which do n't 
cause any effect to either the user or the person at the other end 
of the line  ( if there is any significant difficulty to obtaining such , 
some of the criminals will decide to fall back on the murder  . 

once a suitable collection of devices is stolen , criminals can communicate 
with  ( assuming the system carries no apart from 
key escrow ) until and unless the compromise is discovered by some other 
means. 

no , because the feds will still be able to the  . 
true , they 'll blame the wrong guys , but nevertheless one cannot say 
something like the drugs arrive on the   
when the feds are listening , even if they cannot identify who the 
speaker is. 

this assumes that the feds are clipper belonging to ordinary 
citizens  ( getting such a phone is the whole point of the crime under 
discussion) .  . to be sure , i would n't put it past them but the 
possibility of such crime has the benefit of forcing the feds to either 
 fess up about such intentions in advance or state that using clipper 
exposes the user to an additional criminal threat .  . g 

no , the criminals will just use some secure  . the new 
proposal does not stop criminals it that the government will 
be able to the average citizen and stops the casual  . 
to me , it also clearly looks as a step towards any other 
strong devices .  . 

agreed. 

from  ( james r. holthaus ) 
subject re fighting the clipper 
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa 
lines 43 

 ( philip zimmermann ) writes 

philip , 
i think your ideas are well taken and constructive .  . thanks for 
them in this forum. 

2 ) work the press. talk with your local newspaper 's science and 
technology reporter .  . write to your favorite trade  . better yet , 
write some articles yourself for your favorite or 
newspapers. explain why the clipper chip is a bad idea. 
remember to it to your audience .  . the general public may be 
slow to grasp why it 's a bad idea , since it seems so technical and 
and innocent sounding .  . try not to come across as a flaming 
libertarian , even if you are one. 

as a flaming libertarian ( ) , i at a loss for 
specific objections that do n't sound technical .  . any 
suggestions perhaps somebody could post a list of these 

5 ) opposition in industry .  . that will presumably 
develop products that will incorporate the clipper chip should be 
against it , from within and from without .  . if you work for a 
telecommunications equipment , first the aid of your 
and fellow against this , and then 
present your company 's with a united front of engineering 
talent against this  . write persuasive to your 
, with your name and your colleagues  names on it. hold 
meetings on it. 

one way to do this might be to suggest that these should be 
their own , not being limited to the govt 's 
scheme .  . 

i find that most of my reasons for opposition to the clipper scheme 
are and of the govt  . these are hard 
to sell in letters to the editor and to people. any 
hints or advice. maybe a small faq type thing why should i hate 
clipper would be a good idea. 

james james 
government is an association of men who do violence to the rest of us. 

pgp 2.2 public key available on request or from key server 

from  ( noel s. gorelick ) 
subject re white house public fact 
originator 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization , denver 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 24 

wrote 
in article , 
 ( clipper chip announcement ) writes 

in making this decision , i do 
not intend to prevent the private from developing , or the 
government from , other or that 
are equally effective in both and a secure key 
system. 

in making this decision , i intend to prevent the private from 
developing , except with the government 's approval , other 
or that are more effective in  . 


does n't this just mean that the government might not approve 
something for use by other government  . this does not 
sound to me to be any form of threat that joe user ca n't develop 
and use his own  . 


you want it should too yeah we got dogs and 
its a pretty damn good time. 
life is pain. anyone that tells you different is trying to sell you something 

from  ( john ioannidis ) 
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation 
article i.d. cs . 
organization university department of computer science 
lines 35 

in article  ( nicol c so ) writes 
in article  ( bennett @ brothers inc. , ny ) writes 
this came up because i decided to up mit magic 1 security 
for  . for this to work you need to stick some bits that an 
ca n't guess in a file  ( readable only by you) which x applications 
read. they pass the bits back to the server when they want to establish a 
connection .  . 

... 
what i on was grabbing a bunch of traffic off the network. 
basically , i 

u x greater 0 

and over of output , then my bits. as best i can tell , 
these are bits that can be expected to be reasonably , 
and quite by an  . 

for your application , what you can do is to the real time 
value with a secret key .  . 

for a good discussion of good random number 
, check out the draft security randomness 00 . txt . 
internet draft , available at your local friendly internet 
 . 

a reasonably source of randomness is the output of a 
function (e . g .  . , md5 ) , when fed with a large amount of 
more or less random data .  . for example , running on is a 
slow , but random enough , source of random bits there are bound to be 
128 bits of entropy in the tens  ( or hundreds ) of of data in 
a modern workstation 's memory , as a fair amount of them are system 
timers , i o , etc. 



from  ( curt howland ) 
subject re white house chip 
keywords big is watching .  . 
organization nasa science internet project office 
lines 24 



the general will and devices to 
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct 
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure 
law enforcement communications .  . further , the general 
shall funds from the department of justice 
super to effect this  . 

this is the one part that really me. without 
the , it can likely be determined if a person 
is using the state approved method , 
and if not then that persons life is , and 
the go to making more , and more 
profit .  . 

power  . absolute power absolutely .  . 
human nature has not changed very much in only a few 
hundred years .  .  .  .  . 


howland 
center nasa ames 
 ( 800 ) 

from  ( phil karn ) 
subject re white house chip 
keywords big is watching .  . 
nntp posting host unix . org . 
reply to 
organization , 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( bill 1 0705 ) writes 
the general will and devices to 
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct 
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure 
law enforcement communications .  . further , the general 
shall funds from the department of justice 
super to effect this  . 

this is a very curious thing to say.  ( nsa designed secure 
cleared for classified traffic ) are already readily 
available to law enforcement  . word has it they 're standard in 
every fbi office , for example. something like several hundred 
thousand of these exist in all. they are clearly the us government 
standard. 

so why does the need to buy new that , unlike , will 
not be for classified traffic , and in all likelihood will 
not be compatible with existing 

unless , of course , they 're up for large scale of 
civilian clipper users , and they need compatible hardware .  .  .  . 




from 
subject how does it really work  ( was re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption ) 
organization computer science dept , university 
distribution na 
lines 57 

this announcement is somewhat it does n't do anything 
evil in and of itself , but for the future of open 
and standards in information security .  . i wo n't start 
until unless des or or stuff like that is , but 
i'm a little anxious .  .  ( no doubt it wo n't be long before someone posts 
explaining how this just a small part of some far and 
long lived fbi clinton conspiracy to 
subvert freedom , democracy , and mathematics . ) . my feeling is that the 
probably is n't that worried about things like des and 
and pgp and , since they 'll never be used by a group much 
than us computer  . 

the fact that this just came out now suggests one of two things 

1. the has been working on this for a long time , and it only just 
now happened to be   to release to the world at this time. 

2. the has been working on this for a long time , but was n't able 
to get the bush to go along with this plan .  . (i 
find it unlikely that this would have been because of a sympathy 
for the use of cryptography more likely the 
felt that even , secret and , for 
all we know , trivially cryptography should not be made 
widely available . ) . 

thus said  ( clipper chip announcement ) 
this new technology will help protect 
information , protect the of personal phone 
and prevent release of data 
 . at the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement to 
the phone of criminals .  . 

the majority of the discussion involving this clipper chip seems to 
to the of telephone  . does anyone 
know if that means this chip is designed to work primarily with 
the language sort of suggests this , but it 's hard to say. 

the main thing i just do n't get is whether this chip 
or techniques .  . anybody know 

i'm , but they do n't get very clear about it. if it 
is , how is it useful for anything other than link level 
with an identical chip at each end how can you negotiate 
a per key using cryptography without using a trusted 
third party who knows your key  ( or does it even use a per 
key ) 

if it 's , what about 's , which they claim cover 
all methods of doing cryptography are they getting 
, or is hiding the real reason for keeping the 
secret ) 

accepted 
i wo n't hurt you. 
alien you hit me ! 
well , i wo n't hit you again. 

from  ( robert lewis glendenning ) 
subject re the old key idea .  .  .  . 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 25 

the clipper chip will have no effect. current generation , 
and , all have voice digital voice and vice 
capabilities .  . so , i only need a output to the telephone , 
and i can any on my voice traffic i want. 

not even a big deal , but it will pass if the have a way 
of checking whether i am using their clipper chip without 
a full  . 

i have been for stating that was intellectually 
dishonest in the debate and in this newsgroup .  . i have previously 
from suggesting that she is arguing on behalf of 
 . 

now , i say that it is clear that has been 
as a , not a computer scientist .  . she has used legal ethics 
 ( truth is what you can convince anyone of ) , not scientific ethics 
 ( truth is understanding the external  . 

maybe we can her membership 8 ) 




perspective is worth 80 points.  ( or somebody like  . 

from  ( jonathan demarrais ) 
subject conference 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 11 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

i need to know the following information about the 
conference the address to submit articles , and the 
number of copies needed .  . thanks , 
jonathan 



 ( university of southern california ) 

what a stupid machine .  . 
marvin 

subject organized lobbying for cryptography 
from  ( tal kubo ) 
organization dept. of math , univ .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 55 

in article 
 . j. bernstein ) writes 

i want to see an organization which will combat such statements .  . 
does not threaten the public safety , any more than 
do. every american is entitled to use strong which 
his own and is not crippled by a key system. 
i guess i'm looking for a for freedom . '' . or a 
cryptography association . '' . 

an excellent idea. 


to what extent does the serve this purpose is a new organization 
necessary does it already exist 

while i do n't know the full of the activities of the , 
from what little i 've seen i think it would be better to lobby for 
strong cryptography through a distinct organization .  . 

the has been associated with efforts to prevent the banning of sex 
and pictures newsgroups at various universities .  . stories about the 
contents of those groups (e . g .  . pictures of possibly 
models ) have already in the press. the white house 
already raised the of drug dealing and terrorism , which is only one 
step removed from the old child argument. an 
lobbying effort for cryptography would be too easily by the 
connection to child pornography and the like. 

similarly , is connected with and his project .  . in 
light of , say , the manifesto , this means that in a public debate it 
stands to be as communist , anarchist , radical , etc. 

i do n't know about , but if it is an offshoot of for social 
responsibility  ( best known for helen and her 
lobbying ) then it probably also carries political 
baggage .  . 

perhaps for practical reasons a lobbying organization for cryptography 
would best be formed under the umbrella of or some other existing 
group , but its charter should then be distinct , independent , and limited to 
for the right to cryptography .  . to reiterate dan 's 
question does any suitable organization exist if not , what are you going 
to do about it 

having mentioned the possible of political , 
i would be not to suggest something in the opposite direction 
the support of the by the side of the 
issue as well as the first amendment side. 







from  ( rob boudrie ) 
subject why the is secret 
distribution na 
organization center for high  . computing of marlboro ma 
lines 15 


my thoughts on why the is secret 

the chip is  ( regretably ) likely to become a standard. there will 
be many applications where economic factors use of this 
chip , like it or not. 

if the is public , and the code is as secure  ( absent the 
access to keys ) as represented , an sort 
would make compatible for which no key had been 
. this is likely what the release was refering to when 
they refered to the secrecy of the protecting the 
security of the system. 

rob 

from  ( bob bickford ) 
subject re more technical details 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization whole earth  link 
lines 15 


another objection occurred to me. there was a comment about how 
supposedly there would only be one box , operated by the fbi .  . 
this is flat ridiculous , and i do n't believe it for a  . 
even if they in fact only build one  ( or two or some other small 
number ) of these , that wo n't stop others from building one. make 
it work like two clipper chip , one listening to each side 
of the recorded conversation. i 'll have to have another look at 
the posted so far , but i did n't see anything that 
would preclude this sort of thing .  .  .  .  .  . 

robert 
and newsletter editor , 
 . party of  ( ca ) do n't blame me i voted libertarian 
member , ca state central 

from  ( jimmy r. upton ) 
subject shortest path status 
organization labs inc. 
lines 25 

what is the expected run time ( a factor of 10 ) on a 50 
using the best known for finding the shortest path 
solution for cube from a randomly chosen position 

i have read the faq and followed the recent discussion on 
cube but i do n't believe this question has been answered. notice 
that i am specifically looking for an that finds the 
shortest path , not just any solution .  . 

it seems to me that the underlying assumption is that such a program 
would need to do a brute force search though 10 20 positions .  . that 
seems an assumption to me and i want to 
know if someone has improved on that. 

i have some ideas of my own on how to approach this problem , but 
before i spend to much time developing them i wanted to know if 
someone else has already done the work. 

i have posted this to three groups and attempted 
to set the followup to rec . which seems to me to be the 
place to continue this discussion. i will cross post a summary 
when and if it becomes appropriate. email replies accepted. 

jimmy 


from  ( bill campbell ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization celestial software , island , 
distribution na 
lines 23 

in  ( david sternlight ) writes 

in article 
 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 

note that measures to protect yourself from 
surveillance are still classified , as far as i know. 

i think this to be  . one can buy equipment  . 
even  . 

sure you can buy a approved mac if you have enough 
money. i have n't had any reason to look at this type of 
for about 10 years , but a in would raise the 
price of a 2 , 00 . radio shack model iii to something around 
15 , 000 . 00 .  . 

bill 

internet bill campbell celestial software 
uucp ... ! ! ! bill east way 
uunet ! ! bill island ,  ( 206 ) 
speed costs money how fast do you want to go 

from  ( derek atkins ) 
subject re the old key idea .  .  .  . 
organization institute of technology 
lines 40 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 16 apr 1993 15 31 24 

begin pgp signed message 

in article  ( peter wayner ) writes 

2 ) the system is vulnerable to simple phone attacks 
like this. criminals will quickly figure this out and go to 
town .  . 

depends .  .  . its possible that the phone sends its serial number in the 
clear at some  .  .  . so all a listener needs to do is 
get that , and then get the key for it .  .  .  . so is n't 
a problem  ( for the gov t , that is) .  . they still know that this line 
belongs to you , so they just watch the line and see the , and then 
they get the key for that  .  .  . 

in either case , i think we need to look at this a bit deeper .  . 'jbl)mw ) 

well , i think this is understood .  . the major problem is that a lot of 
people just do n't trust this key stuff , and the fact that the 
are classified .  .  .  . so , yes , a lot of this needs to be looked 
at closer ! 



pgp 2 key available upon request on the key server 
pgp public 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 





end pgp signature 

atkins , mit  93 , electrical engineering and computer science 
, mit student information board  ( sipb ) 
mit media , speech research group 


from  ( paul crowley ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
reply to  ( paul crowley ) 
organization university 
distribution 
lines 12 

quoting in article 
perhaps these only types would defend the if it 
was posted 

these issues are not as as you maintain .  . 

in fact , since effective makes censorship impossible , they 
are almost the same issue and they certainly fall into the brief of the 
 . 

o paul crowley 
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x a fish for jesus ! 

from  ( david ) 
subject will feds troll for mutilated law enforcement blocks 
originator 
organization computer systems 
lines 

from 

the 
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all 
n , a 30 bit serial number 
u , an 80 bit secret key that all messages with the chip 

e m k , the message , and 
e e k u n f , a law enforcement block. 

where the key is k , and is in the key u. 
which along with the serial number n is in the family key f. 

presumably the can be  ( if by nothing else , 
 . 

postulate if you will , a chip  ( or logic ) sitting between the clipper chip 
and its communications channel .  . the function of this chip is 

1 ) channel 

the chip the 30 bit serial number with 
a secondary  . this the serial number 
with just the family key 

2 ) receive channel 

the chip the serial number 
with a secondary  ( assuming of the 
law enforcement block is necessary for local operation 
, sequence control , etc . ) .  . 

this has the net result of hiding the serial number .  . it is probable is 
a known pattern used as a in the block containing n  ( 34 bits 
as used in u , , u2 ) correctness of the law enforcement block 
can be determined with only the family key f. whereas , no one has proposed 
federal be denied f , and because they could it themselves , 
the correctness of the serial number can be tested by examining the bits 
of n in e n f . 

the one could alter the law enforcement block as above , but the 
could be detected .  . a better approach would be to the 
entire law enforcement block. if it were done with a group scheme 
such as des or  ( presumably ) , the chances the law enforcement block 
can be are  . 

what do you want to bet the can be recognized and the 
serial numbers in a target search when digital 
becomes widely available , would there be a requirement that clipper 
transmissions be refused when containing mutilated law enforcement blocks 

one way to avoid notice , would be to information of the block 
containing m , as well as the law enforcement block. 

the goal is to use a secure communications scheme , without to 
or key k  ( contained within the law 
enforcement  . the data is returned to its original state 
for use by the clipper chip  ( or system ) if required , for proper operation. 

it is somewhat improbable that the entire will be contained within 
the clipper chip , yet likely that sequence of events will be tested for , 
requiring a valid law enforcement block to be received before accepting 
and  ( e(m k ) 

the chip could be implemented anywhere in the protocols , including 
on the resulting serial data  . existing clipper products could 
be  . after all , they are high security systems right 

super could allow the chip to be used without 
to of the use of the chip , or of the serial 
number .  . security must be adequate to deny the serial number , which should 
not be by other means. one can see the use of cut for 
clipper , or once the number of units is high enough , 
them. it would be a mistake on the part of authority , but nice 
from a point of , if the serial number n were not associated with 
a particular clipper chip or lot of through the manufacturing and 
distribution process. the list of known missing or stolen 
clipper serial numbers n with f , and the protocols are not 
sufficient to the super clipper  . 
this could be further made difficult by altering the and or 
relationship of the clipper to that of the super 
 . 

of an could off the use of the 
scheme .  . 



if you could capture valid law enforcement blocks not your own , and use 
them in a with your own , where they point to a valid 
law enforcement block in a library utilizing a key matching 
the remainder of the , you could simply out and out lie , yet 
deliver to and or hostile forces a seemingly valid law enforcement 
block. these captured law enforcement blocks would be used as , 
such as in a system. this off would require 
in examining the protocols and blocks in the  . 

the m code might be independently attacked based on knowledge of 
clipper chip protocols as revealed  . this could be 
by changing the and or relationship of the clipper m 
and the actual , under the control of a secure key 
between  . 

the useful life time of captured law enforcement blocks might be limited 
based on hostile forces using them as targets following 
 . you would need a large number of them , but , hey there 's 
supposed to be millions of these things , right adding time to 
the law enforcement block is probably impractical , who wants 
an chip with a real time 



the entire idea of the law enforcement block can be  . 









from  ( steve johnson ) 
subject re how do they know what to ask for  ( re clipper ) 
organization systems division , va 
lines 23 

 ( brad templeton ) writes 

... 
and of course you have to identify yourself to the phone company , and 
since the phone company with court orders , they will know the 
magic number of your chip when they sign out a warrant on you , and 
then can present the warrant to the key house. 

who makes them forget and destroy all copies of the key once they 've 
decided you 're not a criminal today just curious. 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 
any views expressed are those of myself and not my employer .  . 
c. johnson , 

129 . 172 . 90 . 
1 federal systems park drive phone 1 (703) 1000 . 
, virginia u . s . a .  . fax 1 (703) 

any views expressed are those of myself and not my employer .  . 
c. johnson , 

129 . 172 . 90 . 

from  ( danny o'bedlam ) 
subject re why the clipper is secret 
organization ,  ( new city ) 
lines 29 

in  ( john r. levine ) writes 
 ( quoting someone else here ) 
the , though , is another matter. i see no valid 
reasons for keeping it secret , and as i hope i 've shown above there 
are a lot of ways to do things that are n't  ( quite ) as bad. 

it just occurred to me why the is secret. if it were 
published , one could then build physically identical versions 
of the chip that would with official clipper  . but 
the would n't provide the to the houses .  .  . 

yeah ! 

the is classified because a military contract  ( or similar 
government equivalent to military ) has been let for this 
design that the feds say that developed .  . is there a is that 
publicly available my is that that too is classified .  . 

if the were made public , or reverse engineered , it would 
compromise not only the goal of justice of being able to read every chip 
users data but would reduce for the chip  . 

would n't that just be too bad 



o cmcl2 ! ! 
po box church station , new , new ,  ( usa ) 


from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re how does it really work  ( was re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption ) 
lines 22 

from 

the majority of the discussion involving this clipper chip seems to 
to the of telephone  . does anyone 
know if that means this chip is designed to work primarily with 
the language sort of suggests this , but it 's hard to say. 

i 'd a few that its just data in data out in parallel .  . i suspect 
to make it a phone you 'd need a and speech  . there would 
be a loss of bandwidth on the speech signal , which i suspect would 
any of the suggestions i 've seen here about putting a different 
front end on it. 

there 's no hint of any scheme in the  . i'm sure it 's purely 
a digital chip .  . the back end will come later , but i'm positive it wo n't 
be left to the they all have to be the same 
scheme to make it easy for the to them. 

the only other possibility is that this is intended only for  . 
 ( puts a whole new spin on about if true , ! ) ) 

g 

from  ( eli brandt ) 
subject re costs benefits 
organization college , , ca 
lines 23 

in article  ( robert lewis glendenning ) writes 
first , what the fuck is nasa doing wasting my tax dollars doing 
policy papers on stuff far outside of their mission 

i do n't think they 're paying for it. 

do us a favor. rather than right this paper for nasa .  . go 
do useful work for the society. 

useful i find his estimate of the value to law enforcement 
of 5 million quite useful , if rough (e . g .  . may be 
used on otherwise hard to criminals , resulting 
in an  . this comes to twenty a head over the 
u.s. population .  . i would find some rigorous numbers on this quite 
useful it would make for nice your is worth 
0 . 37 . , or whatever it turns out to be. 



pgp 2 key by finger or e mail 




from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

though some may argue about the nose of the , it 's worth that 
the government proposal is limited to  . if it is only 
used for that purpose , and does not extend to electronic mail or file 

as usual , david is demonstrating his inability to read. the 
proposal clearly states 

the will involve the creation of new products to 
the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications and communications links .  . 

it speaks about telecommunications in general. read it again , david .  . 
maybe you 'll understand it the next time .  .  .  . nah , probably not. 

, then it is an improvement over the current mass produced 
standard civilian technology which , with a few exceptions , is limited to 
easy to break  . 

that 's exactly what the government wants all minded people to 
think. let 's look at the current situation. it allows to almost 
anybody to almost everybody , unless secure  ( and i mean 
secure ) is used. what will happen when ( if ha ! 
 .  . ) . the new proposal gets accepted almost nobody except 
some will be able to everybody else , but the ability of 
these some to will be guaranteed ! the proposal emphasizes 
on the former ( almost nobody ) which is clearly an improvement 
and to mention the of the latter ( guaranteed ) .  . 
yes , my statement assumes that the next step will be to make the 
strong  . you think that it will not happen good luck. 

note that the big issue for the feds is the continued ability to  . 

it 's not just continued ability . it 's guaranteed ability .  . 

before we go off the deep end with long about secure for 
e mail and files , let 's focus on this. 

yeah , that 's exactly what your government wants you to think. let 's 
take small steps , one at a time. concentrate on the current one , do n't 
think about the future. trust us. 

one question that was not asked in the release is whether this proposal is 
limited to , or if the government intends to expand it. 

it 's not asked because the proposal clearly says that this is the 
intention .  . they , unlike you , read what they write .  . 

though i share many of the concerns expressed by some , i find the proposal 
less threatening than many others , since right now most americans have no 
secure , and any jerk with a pair of clip leads and a can 
 . this would also plug up the security hole in and 
 . 

yes , it will. it will stop the jerk who is now. it will 
allow only to the government to  .  ( if the scheme is secure , 
of course , which is yet to be proven . ) . but how do you know that the 
jerk you are fearing now will not get a government job tomorrow the 
new proposal him the ability to then. hell , 
that will even motivate him to get that job if he indeed is that 
mentally  .  .  . 

reading between the lines , i infer that the system is highly secure 
without access to the  . 

great .  . the greatest of all times david  ( tm ) 
has succeeded to the new system in the of any 
details whatsoever and has concluded that it is highly secure . i 
guess , that comes from the background of working some 50 years for the 
two major evaluating , right gee , now the government 
can save all that money and trouble to ask a secret council of 
to secretly the new secret method for david 
has already done all the job for them .  .  .  . 

this would meet the needs of u.s. 
by rich and powerful , including french and japanese 
security services and rich japanese  . it allows the to make 
available some of its better stuff while protecting law enforcement needs. 

trust us , we 're from the government and we 're here to help you. 

most legitimate u.s. trust the , and would be to 
have a high security system by them , even at the price of 
in  . i see no difficulty in creating a reliable 

those who are prepared to trade their liberties for the promises of 
future safety , do not either. this  ( or something like that i 
do n't have the exact quote , but the meaning is the same) has been said 
by one of your great men. maybe you should study their works more 
carefully , if you have the brains to understand them , of course. 

from my point of view this is a fair starting point. there are concerns that 
need to be addressed , including the reliability of the  . but in 

the main question is to to of really secure 
cryptography to the masses .  . gee , if the proposal was saying we 
that every american will still have the full right to use 
any kind of s he would like and regard this proposal as 
just a default , voluntary implementation , there would have been much 
less opposition .  .  .  . for some reason , they did n't even try to promise 
you that. i wonder why .  .  .  . was off only by 10 years 

return we get access to high security  . 

no , in return you get that is guaranteed to be crippled .  . 

many have suggested that des 
and other systems may be by the and hence others similarly 
and  . 

while the above is just , and while even if it is true , it is 
not done easily , the new scheme can is guaranteed to be easily 
by anybody who has the two  . it might be also 
by somebody who does not have them but knows the right trick. or who 
has only one of them. also told you that des is secure , why do n't 
you simply trust them , huh 

there is at least a good possibility  ( which should be 
checked ) that the proposed system is not so  . it does n't have to 

it is guaranteed to be easily just get the  . it 
might be even easier , but until there is some evidence , this is just a 
wild speculation .  . 

be , nor does it have to have , if the government can get the 

the are there. in government 's hands. the  . 

to a legitimate court order. thus they can protect legitimate 
communications against economic , while still being able to 
on to a court order. 

legitimate and who decides what communications are legitimate oh , i 
guess , it 's the government , right the guys who already have the 
it 's kinda if i have the from your car and i am asked to decide 
who has the right to use it legitimately ... 

in discussing this , let 's try to avoid the , personal attacks and 
of some previous threads .  . 

impossible , since you are demonstrating the same level of 
and ignorance as in the threads .  . 

this is a substantive and technical issue , 
and personal remarks have no place in such a discussion. 

unfortunately , i have yet to see you posting a technically 
message. 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
organization dsi 
lines 35 

in article 
 ( robert i. eachus ) writes 

but , if you are making equipment in any case , why not just 
roll your own clipper implementation and report the wrong to the 
agency  ( tells us who is going to be in the chip business if 
this thing goes through , and those with something to hide from 
) . 

this wo n't work if there is a on the you do n't know about. 
neither will a clipper chip and then a 
one if the serial number contains a  . 

chances are the government has thought of this , and just anyone wo n't be 
access to enough of the to make a fake clipper chip .  . 
chances are that the government has classified some details of the 
at a very high level , and are required to observe security 
and to that level. 

while not perfect , it would prevent joe hacker from his own 
chip , since not many can survive a background investigation .  . 
some of the more notorious self dissidents here , for example , have 
already got their heads so high above the grass that they 'd have little 
chance of getting a  . 

of course it 's not impossible that someone do this , but probably extremely 
difficult. chances are there will also be very heavy criminal penalties for 
clipper , on some national security classified info grounds or 
other , thus making the game not worth the  . 


david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from t .  . falk ) 
subject alt . security . pgp . 
nntp posting host ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge , england 
lines 25 

begin pgp signed message 

hi all .  .  . 

does anyone know of a unix utility allowing using 
public key i 'd like something so that nobody can my or 
text while i'm in remotely over the network. 

thanks 

g. 


please report  ( hence unauthorised ) messages purportedly from me , 
sent after 22 04 93 .  . 



begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 

o 


end pgp signature 

from  ( peter wayner ) 
subject the old key idea .  .  .  . 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 25 
nntp posting host access . net . 

okay , let 's suppose that the 
key system becomes standard and i'm able to buy such a system 
from my local radio shack .  . every phone comes with a built in 
chip and the government has the key to every phone call .  . 
i go and buy a phone and the key .  . 

what 's to prevent me from with a friend or 
buying a used phone at a sale  . the secret 
just became  . when the government comes 
to listen in , they only receive because the 
secret key under my name is n't the right one. 

that leads me to that 

1 ) the system is n't that secure .  . there are just two master 
that work for all the in the country. the part about 
your is just bogus .  . 

or 

2 ) the system is vulnerable to simple phone attacks 
like this. criminals will quickly figure this out and go to 
town .  . 

in either case , i think we need to look at this a bit deeper .  . 'jbl)mw ) 

from  ( robert ward ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization national computer security center 
distribution na 
lines 11 

in article hamburg . de . writes 
and since the us constitutions the right to every american 
to bear , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of 

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in 
context if not , please do so before posting this again. 
it refers to the right of the people to organize a , not for individuals 
to carry , , and assault  . 

robert l. ward 


from  ( d v wallace ) 
subject the people , is for hard core only 
organization support , cambridge , ma usa 
lines 11 
nntp posting host com . 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 93 19 57 21 gmt 

date 19 apr 93 19 57 21 gmt 
from  ( jim hart ) 

simply everyone should have this attitude the only people 
who can have this attitude are the most hard core 
computer , who never make phone calls away from their 
computer 

in 10 everybody will be into his or her anyway. 
that should solve most of the problem. 


from 
subject cryptography faq 03 10 basic 
organization the 
lines 187 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 3 of 10 of the sci . faq , basic  . 
definitions of basic terms. references .  . and 
practical strength of  . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 3 basic 

this is the third of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest. 
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in the last part. 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 



contents 

what is cryptography key 
what references can i start with to learn 
how does one go about 
what is a brute force search and what is its relevance 
what are some properties satisfied by every strong 
if a is theoretically , then is it 
guaranteed analysis proof in practice 
why are many people still using that are 
relatively easy to break 


what is cryptography key 

the story begins when sent messages to his trusted 
, he did n't trust the  . so he replaced every a 
by a c , every b by a d , and so on through the  . only someone 
who knew the by 2   rule could his messages. 

a or system is a method of messages so 
that only certain people can see through the  . cryptography is 
the art of creating and using  . is the art 
of breaking seeing through the even when 
you 're not supposed to be able to. is the study of both 
cryptography and  . 

the original message is called a  . the disguised message is 
called a  . means any procedure to convert 
into  . means any procedure to convert 
into  . 

a is usually a whole collection of  . the 
are the are called  . for instance , 
probably used by n   for several different 
values of n .  . it 's natural to say that n is the key here. 

the people who are supposed to be able to see through the are 
called  . other people are enemies , opponents , , 
, or third parties .  . 

what references can i start with to learn 

for an introduction to technical matter , the survey articles given 
in part 10 are the best place to begin as they are , in general , 
concise , authored by people , and well written. however , 
these articles are mostly concerned with as it has 
developed in the last 50 years or so , and are more abstract and 
mathematical than historical .  . the by is 
in its history and technical detail of up 
to the mid 60 's .  . 

introductory can be learned from or 
. this is recommended especially for people who want 
to devise their own since it is a common 
mistake to try to make a system before knowing how to break one. 

the selection of an for the des the attention of 
many public to problems in  . consequently 
several textbooks and books to serve as texts have appeared .  . the 
book of gives a good introduction to a broad range 
of security including , security , 
access control , and formal models of security .  . similar comments 
apply to the books of price and . 

the books of and are quite 
technical books. both and were directly involved in 
the development of des , and both books give a analysis of 
des .  . 's book is quite mathematical , with detailed analyses 
of many classical  . and concentrate on 
modern methods , especially to key 
and the of security facilities into computer systems and 
 . 

the books of and concentrate on 
the application of number theory and to cryptography .  . 

how does one go about 

classical involves an interesting combination of 
reasoning , application of mathematical tools , pattern 
finding , patience , determination , and luck. the best available 
textbooks on the subject are the military series 
. it is clear that in is , for 
the most part , gained through the attempted solution of given 
systems. such experience is considered so valuable that some of the 
performed during wwii by the allies are still 
classified .  . 

modern public key may consist of an integer , 
or taking a discrete  . these are not the traditional 
of the  . number are some of the 
most successful against public key systems. 

what is a brute force search and what is its relevance 

in a nutshell if  ( f(x ) y and you know y and can f , you can 
find x by trying every possible x. that 's brute force search .  . 

example say a has found a and a 
, but does n't know the key .  . he can simply try the 
using each possible key , until the or 
the to match the , is  . 
every well designed has such a large key space that this 
brute force search is impractical .  . 

advances in technology sometimes change what is considered 
practical .  . for example , des , which has been in use for over 10 years 
now , has 2 56 , or about 10 17 , possible  . a with 
this many was certainly unlikely for most users in the 
mid 70 's .  . the situation is very different today given the 
in cost per processor operation. parallel 
machines threaten the security of des against brute force search .  . 
some are described by and . 

one of a more sophisticated may involve a 
brute force search of some small space of possibilities .  . 

what are some properties satisfied by every strong 

the security of a strong system with the secrecy of the key 
rather than with an attempt to keep the itself secret. 

a strong has a large , as mentioned above. the 
distance is a measure which gives the minimum amount of 
that must be to identify the key and 
if for some key , the distance is much longer than the amount 
of you intend to under that key , the system is 
probably strong .  . 

a strong will certainly produce which appears 
random to all standard statistical  ( see , for example , ) .  . 

a strong will resist all known previous attacks .  . a 
system which has never been to scrutiny is suspect .  . 

if a system passes all the mentioned above , is it necessarily 
strong certainly not. many weak looked good at first. 
however , sometimes it is possible to show that a is 
strong by mathematical proof. joe can break this system , then 
he can also solve the well known difficult problem of 
integers . '' . see part 6. failing that , it 's a crap shoot .  . 

if a is theoretically , then is it 
guaranteed analysis proof in practice 

methods include what is known as 
  the enemy does n't have to just at your 
until he out the  . for instance , he might 
assume   stretches of probable  . if the is 
correct then he might be able to deduce the key and then the 
rest of the message. or he might   the same 
in several or several  . thus 
he might obtain solutions even when theory says he 
does n't have a chance. 

sometimes , or are misused .  . the one time , 
for example , loses all security if it is used more than once ! even 
chosen attacks , where the enemy somehow into 
the until he can deduce the key , have been employed .  . see 
. 

why are many people still using that are 
relatively easy to break 

some do n't know any better. often think they can design 
secure systems , and are not aware of what an expert 
could do. and sometimes there is insufficient motivation for anybody 
to the work needed to crack a system. 

from  ( eli brandt ) 
subject re how to detect use of an illegal 
organization college , , ca 
lines 25 

in article  ( brad templeton ) writes 
your honour , the suspect suddenly started using another level of 
cryptography and we ca n't his phone calls any more. he must 
have something to hide .  . please sign the warrant to search his 
house .  .  .  . 

what they would need to do , though , is make sure that nobody has 
access to decent in the first place. they probably ca n't 
tell voice from voice until they 
get their copy of your key .  . any criminal who 's going to use 
will do it under cover of clipper .  . the only way to avoid 
this will be to try to strong  . 

i probably should n't say this , but they could try to detect the use 
of an illegal by in the clear some statistical 
properties of the  . an old could then 
detect the use of pre , which would drastically increase 
the measured entropy of the input. a to this would 
be to use techniques which put out voice .  . 

you can tell if the built this feature in blow on the mike , and 
observe whether a of comes through your  . 

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail 


from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization communications corp .  . 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
lines 24 

one the system could work as follows 

a ) are by and  . the number 
produced is carefully and they are to the first 
house. 

it programs the with its half the key , and out a paper slip 
with the key half and non secret chip serial number .  . the of paper 
are filed in locked boxes in the , a is in the chip so 
that the key is now unreadable .  . 

the chip then goes to the next house , where the same thing is 
done. this continues through n houses , perhaps , could be more than 
2. 

the last one provides the chip to the phone  . 

and yes , this has to be a public key system or it would be almost 
impossible to handle .  . it might not be , but that does not mean 
that does n't get paid .  . until , has the on the 
general concept of public key , as well as the particular 
implementation known as  . 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from  ( harry barnett ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
reply to 
organization control 
lines 48 

in article ,  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 
in article  ( robert ward ) writes 
in article hamburg . de . writes 
and since the us constitutions the right to every american 
to bear , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of 

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in 
context if not , please do so before posting this again. 
it refers to the right of the people to organize a , not for individuals 
to carry , , and assault  . 

read the constitution yourself. the second amendment says the right to bear 
shall not be , so a well may be more easily 
formed .  . i have an interpretation of the second that shows there are no 
to the right to keep and bear  . if you want , i can e mail 
it to you. by the way , gun talk belongs in talk . politics . guns .  . 
doug holland 

mr. ward , before you start about your interpreting 
the constitution , it might be helpful to learn to read. after a review 
with a high school english teacher phrases , you 
might start with the second amendment , and follow it up with 

congress , 2nd , print , the right to keep and 
bear , of the on the constitution of the on 
the , united states senate , congress , second , 
february ,  . no. 88 o 

this authoritative , researched and document clearly 
turns your interpretation into specious , which is a polite 
way of saying utter bullshit .  . in spite of your false assertion to the 
contrary , the second amendment does protect the right of the individual 
citizen , in his capacity as an individual , to keep and bear  . 

and , mr. holland , imho , blatantly and false information , 
asserted as fact and , deserves 
in the forum in which it is posted. 

 ( and besides , this site does n't carry t . p . g .  .  .  . ) 

com . 
! com . 

no free man shall ever be the use of  . the strongest 
reason for the people to the right to keep and bear is , 
as a last resort , to protect themselves against tyranny in government. 
thomas jefferson 


from  ( andrew molitor ) 
subject what the clipper sound like to me. 
organization department of mathematical sciences 
lines 55 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 
originator 

the following is available in some ftp archive somewhere , i insert 
my comments throughout this of big 

white house announcement on thread standards 


this is to announce that the american national standards 
institute  ( or whatever it is) has been given the authority to define 
standard for threads .  . 

look ! this is clearly the first step our 
own thread  . if this madness is n't fought , 
tooth and nail , every step of the way , it 'll be a crime to use 
threads other than those our leaders so 
define for us. 

the purpose of this is to industry to draw upon a standard 
pool of and , to ensure of 
various objects across  . 

rubbish , i say ! standard threads will have subtle weaknesses , 
allowing their to our more easily , 
causing our to fall off at  . 

questions and answers on the thread standards 


q will the threads defined by be as good as other thread 
designs available elsewhere 

a yes. 

! trust us 

q will i be able to use my own threads if i desire 

a of course , but this will make your objects unlikely to 
correctly with others within the industry .  . 

see ! see this is the first step. 

it is clear we must together , write your ! 
use pretty good threads , not this devil inspired trash .  . 
protect your constitutional right to use whatever thread you 
desire .  . thread must become the order of the 
day. boycott , and build your own car , using from 
thread  . 

you , bill clinton ! you and your ! 


finger for personal thread pitch , or 
threads see the thread  . 
must be freed ! 


from 
subject re fighting the clipper 
organization data research , st. 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( vernon schryver ) writes 
in article ,  ( david sternlight ) writes 
even the department of has successfully kept 
from  . 

! remember the big a year or two  ( or 3 ) ago about 
exactly such 

my choice for the house would be the , and on 
the west coast .  . my biggest concern is n't that the house could 
be  ( it will be ) , but the fact it has been will 
be kept secret. 

the could be kept under glass , with 24 hour c  . if you 
thought your key had been stolen just turn on the , and wait until 
the camera the case with your key .  . or if you think the 
c has been , take a of the 
yourself , and view the on your key .  . 


, data research , , st. , 
domain , voice  ( work ) 1 

from  ( hagberg jr , d. j . ) . 
subject clipper and 
keywords clipper clinton rant 
distribution usa , local 
organization university of arizona 
lines 26 
nntp posting host ccit . arizona . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

i would think that you could reduce the defense of using non clipper 
based to defending freedom of 
 ( ie , free  . that you have to right to express whatever you 
want in whatever form your little heart desires so long as you do 
not on the rights of others. 

text sound video is just another form of of that 
particular text sound video .  . just like sound is another 
means of of sound of instead of 
continuous  . 

also , it should n't be up to the government at all. 
standards can be decided upon by independent standards 
 ( apologies for the  . one can note how well this has worked 
with and the system , , etc. independent entities 
or of people in that particular area are far 
more qualified to set standards than any one government agency .  . 
consider for example what the ascii character set would have looked 
like if it was decided by the government. 

i hope this helps folks to formulate their  . i'm still working 
on mine and hope to be my soon .  .  .  . 

d. j. 

finger for info and pgp public key 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 34 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( graham toal ) writes 
oh , i see your point. i think you 're wrong. but if you sit back and 
wait to find out if i'm right , it 'll be too late. just listen very 
carefully for the first  such and such will not be on network 
 to drop .  . 

i 've been a very intent of the for years. as a 
software , it really is my opinion that the 
, at this point , is irrelevant to private  . if it had 
been five years ago , it would have been a major development .  . now , 
however , it 's just an to the , and an attempt to the 
use of the national  . you could cut out the 
completely , and the internet would continue along without a 
 ( aside from a few  . 

long and internet have long since ceased to be 
under federal or , at least in the usa .  . the success of 
the  ( commercial internet exchange ) is a prime example of this. while our 
dear has been promoting his data , the private has 
been building it , without the 's restrictions .  . 

to illustrate , a connection from the machine on my to the machine your 
article was posted from demon . co . involves only 
until it  . no  . no  . no appropriate 
use restrictions .  . it 's even 1 .  ( t1 ) until it the 
gateway .  .  .  . 

 . 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( uri blumenthal ) 
subject re key bodies 
distribution usa 
reply to 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host watson . ibm . com . 
organization ibm t. j. watson research center 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( lynn r grant ) writes 
if we do not trust the to be a of clipper chip key , 
i would not trust either. 

i would n't trust for another reason 
remember the 's egg how great was 
their security , eh 

well , with the list of known , 
does it make you wonder how many more unknown 
still are there 

( ) ( ( 

regards , 
 . ! ! 

disclaimer 

from  ( andrew molitor ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization department of mathematical sciences 
lines 16 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article graham writes 
actually , i am completely baffled by why has chosen 
to away her academic like this. it looks to me 
like a major career limiting move. there can be very few people 
who know what she 's been saying who take her seriously any more. 

actually , i 've been following her remarks for some time , with 
interest .  . i'm also a member of , and her remarks have nothing 
but her in my eyes. it remains to be seen whether 
you are the radical fringe , or i. 

it is generally an error to assume that your beliefs are held by 
the majority , or even a minority .  . especially when you 're seeing 
tens , , of people on usenet with you. 

andrew 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization for an america free drug 
distribution na 
lines 

 ( robert ward ) writes 
in article hamburg . de . writes 
and since the us constitutions the right to every american 
to bear , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of 

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in 
context if not , please do so before posting this again. 
it refers to the right of the people to organize a , not for individuals 
to carry , , and assault  . 

the supreme court seems to disagree with you they have stated that 
the people is a term of art refering to an individual right , and 
have explicitly mentioned the second amendment as an example. 

i quote 

...  the people  seems to have been a term of art employed in 
select parts of the constitution .  . the that the 
constitution is , and established by  the people of the 
the u . s . ' . the second amendment the right of the people 
to keep and bear .... 
supreme court of the u.s. , u.s. v.  . 

furthermore , in the miller decision , they only prosecution 
for of a off because the defense had not 
presented testimony and they therefore accepted the argument of the 
government that such weapons have no military value they held that 
the amendment protected the individual right to military 
weapons .  . unfortunately , no second amendment case has successfully 
gotten to the court in fifty years. however , that does not change the 
interpretation .  . 

furthermore , it appears that others disagree with you as well , 

the conclusion is thus that the history , concept , 
and wording of the second amendment to the constitution of the 
united states , as well as its interpretation by every major 
and court in the first half century after its 
, indicates that what is protected is an individual right 
of a private citizen to own and carry in a peaceful manner. 
report of the on the constitution of the 
on the , united states senate , 
congress , second ( february ) 

you might rightfully ask well then , what does that first bit about 
mean 

well , in historical context basically means the whole of the 
adult males of the country.  ( indeed , the u.s. code still defines 
as all armed men over the age of  . 

the comprised all males physically capable of acting 
in for the common defense .... and ... these men were 
expected to appear bearing by themselves and of 
the kind in common use at the time. 
supreme court of the united states , u.s. v. miller  . 

the reason for the phrase being there was to explain the rationale 
behind the amendment , which was this by depending on the people to 
bear in defense of the country , no centralization of military 
power could ever occur which would tyranny in short , the 
government would remain in fear of the people , rather than 
the other way around. 

no free man shall ever be the use of  . the strongest reason 
for the people to the right to keep and bear is , as a last 
resort , to protect themselves against tyranny in government. 
thomas jefferson , proposal virginia constitution , june 1776 
1 thomas jefferson papers , (c .  . j. boyd , ed .  . ,  . 

and what country can preserve its liberties , if its rulers are not 
warned from time to time that this people preserve the spirit of 
resistance let them take ... the tree of liberty must be 
from time to time , with the blood of patriots and tyrants .  . 
thomas jefferson  ( letter to william s. smith , , in 
jefferson , on democracy 20 , s. , ed .  . ,  . 

before a standing army can rule , the people must be 
as they are in almost every kingdom of europe .  . the supreme 
power in america cannot enforce unjust laws by the sword 
because the whole body of the people are armed , and constitute 
a force superior to any of regular troops that can be , on 
any , raised in the united states. 
webster , an examination into the principles 
of the federal constitution  ( 1787 ) , in on the 
constitution of the united states  . ,  . 

you may disagree with the second amendment , and wish that it be 
, but please do not pretend that it is n't there and that it 
does n't mean what it says .  . you might argue that conditions have 
changed and that it should no longer be present , but you ca n't imagine 
it away. 

i could fill a book with detailed argumentation .  . many have already. 

however , none of this has anything to do with cryptography .  . lets get 
it out of here. if you insist on discussing this , please do it in 
talk . politics . guns . , where people will discuss this matter with 
you. 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( nikos i nassuphis ) 
subject source 
organization institute of technology 
lines 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

i got a number of requests for code. 
so , here it is. 
its written in  . 
will do. 


t 


the code 



 ( c ) by 


code segment 
assume cs code , code 

org 

start 
begin 



gas particle 

bit 0 particle moving east 
bit 1 particle moving west 
bit 2 particle moving north 
bit 3 particle moving south 

bit 4 particle moving east 
bit 5 particle moving west 
bit 6 particle moving north 
bit 7 particle moving south 


rules 

1. gas rules 

if (e w ) and !  ( n s) then (e , w )  ( n , s) 
if  ( n s) and ! (e w ) then  ( n , s) (e , w ) 

for 




and for 











2. reflection rules 

just bits along 




this look up table two particle 
for the gas 




































































































































































































































































this rule the needed to 
run the gas evolution in reverse .  . its called a 
because its the same as is all particles hit a 
head on. 




































































































































































































































































55 
23 

offset 
offset 


 ( lineno 1 )  ( dup(0 ) 


 ( lineno 1 )  ( dup(0 ) 
256  ( dup(0 ) 


 ( lineno 1 )  ( dup(0 ) 
256  ( dup(0 ) 







data 



this is a test for a gas based 
 . the data is as particles of a 
digital gas , whose time evolution is then 
with a type  . 
can be achieved by running the in reverse .  . 
a argument that even if a single 
bit is , no of the data is possible 

after the gas is let to evolve for 256 , 
one can either run the reverse evolution by 
space , or flip a bit and then run by  0  

for a application , the key would consist 
of the number of time steps and the time and 
of specific bit  . 







fill the gas with a piece of code 


, cs 
, offset data 

, 

push 
push 
, 

al , cs 
cs , al 


loop 
pop 
pop 
add , 
loop 
, cs 
, offset 
, 3 
al , 0 

cs , al 
not al 

loop 




display gas around 


push es 
push 
push 
push 
push 

, 
es , 
, cs 
, 2 10 2 
, 3 
add , 3 

push 
push 

, 

al , cs 
es , al 

add , 2 
dec 


pop 
pop 
add , 
loop 

pop 
pop 
pop 
pop 
pop es 




cs of data 
cs of data 



first is a special case because of 

, 0 al is the assembled  . 
, cs north is one line up  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 7 and 3 
or , or them into the assembled 
, cs south is one line down  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 6 and 2 
or , place the stuff into al 
, cs  ( maxbyte 1 ) west is one left  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 5 and 1 
or , 
, cs 1 east is one right  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 4 and 0 
or , 
, 0 
al , cs offset 
cs , al 



middle can be in a loop 

, 2 

, 0 al is the assembled  . 
, cs north is one line up  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 7 and 3 
or , or them into the assembled 
, cs south is one line down  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 6 and 2 
or , place the stuff into al 
, cs 1 west is one left  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 5 and 1 
or , 
, cs 1 east is one right  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 4 and 0 
or , 
, 0 
al , cs offset 
cs , al 


loop 

last is also special 

, 0 al is the assembled  . 
, cs north is one line up  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 7 and 3 
or , or them into the assembled 
, cs south is one line down  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 6 and 2 
or , place the stuff into al 
, cs 1 west is one left  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 5 and 1 
or , 
, cs  ( maxbyte 1 ) east is one right  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 4 and 0 
or , 
, 0 
al , cs offset 
cs , al 







cs of data 
cs of data 



first is a special case because of 

, 0 
, cs  ( lineno 1 ) 
and , and at bits 7 and 3 
or , or them into the assembled 
, cs 
and , and at bits 6 and 2 
or , place the stuff into al 
, cs 1 west is one left  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 5 and 1 
or , 
, cs 1 east is one right  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 4 and 0 
or , 
, 0 
al , cs offset 
cs , al 



middle can be in a loop 

, 2 

, 0 al is the assembled  . 
, cs  ( lineno 1 ) 
and , and at bits 7 and 3 
or , or them into the assembled 
, cs 
and , and at bits 6 and 2 
or , place the stuff into al 
, cs 1 west is one left  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 5 and 1 
or , 
, cs 1 east is one right  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 4 and 0 
or , 
, 0 
al , cs offset 
cs , al 


loop 

last is also special 

, 0 al is the assembled  . 
, cs  ( lineno 1 ) 
and , and at bits 7 and 3 
or , or them into the assembled 
, cs 
and , and at bits 6 and 2 
or , place the stuff into al 
, cs 1 west is one left  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 5 and 1 
or , 
, cs  ( maxbyte 1 ) east is one right  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 4 and 0 
or , 
, 0 
al , cs offset 
cs , al 





cs of data 
cs of data 



first is a special case because of 

, 0 al is the assembled  . 
, cs 
and , and at bits 7 and 3 
or , or them into the assembled 
, cs  ( lineno 1 ) 
and , and at bits 6 and 2 
or , place the stuff into al 
, cs  ( maxbyte 1 ) west is one left  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 5 and 1 
or , 
, cs 1 east is one right  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 4 and 0 
or , 
, 0 
al , cs offset 
cs , al 



middle can be in a loop 

, 2 

, 0 al is the assembled  . 
, cs 
and , and at bits 7 and 3 
or , or them into the assembled 
, cs  ( lineno 1 ) 
and , and at bits 6 and 2 
or , place the stuff into al 
, cs 1 west is one left  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 5 and 1 
or , 
, cs 1 east is one right  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 4 and 0 
or , 
, 0 
al , cs offset 
cs , al 


loop 

last is also special 

, 0 al is the assembled  . 
, cs 
and , and at bits 7 and 3 
or , or them into the assembled 
, cs  ( lineno 1 ) 
and , and at bits 6 and 2 
or , place the stuff into al 
, cs 1 west is one left  ( lower ) 
and , and at bits 5 and 1 
or , 
, cs  ( maxbyte 1 ) east is one right  ( higher ) 
and , and at bits 4 and 0 
or , 
, 0 
al , cs offset 
cs , al 








all in the gas 


push 
push 
push 
, cs 
, 0 
, 

push 
, 

, cs 
al , cs  ( offset wallrule ) 
cs , al 

loop 
pop 
loop 
pop 
pop 
pop 






, cs 
, cs 
cs , 
cs , 

push 
push 
call 
pop 
pop 
add , 
add , 
, 2 dont first and last 

push 
push 
push 
call 
pop 
pop 
pop 
add , 
add , 
loop 

push 
push 
call 
pop 
pop 





rule times 


push 
call 
pop 
call 
loop 




rule times 


, 0 
, offset offset 

al , cs offset 
cs offset , al 

loop 

call 
call 
, cs 
, 3 
, 0 
ah , 0 
al , 

, cs 
, cs 
not ah 
, ah 
and al , 

loop 
, 0 
, offset offset 

ah , cs offset 
and ah , al 
cs offset , ah 

loop 


, offset 
push 

256  ( dup(90h ) 

push 
push 
push 
push 
push 

ah , 9 
, cs 


pop 
pop 
pop 
pop 
pop 


 ( dup(90h ) 

offset 
this message is printed out by , 10 , 13 
code using data from the , 10 , 13 
which was applied to the , 10 , 13 
after every time step , 10 , 13 
the function left the code , 10 , 13 
except after the gas evolution had , 10 , 13 
reversed the , 10 , 13 , 


times 16 256 are enough to 
the gas 

begin 
, 
, 7 
, 25 
, 80 
, 0 


ah , 2 
, 0 
, 24 
, 0 


call 
call 
ah , 0 

push 
, times 
call 
call 
call 
ah , 0 

al , 0 

, cs 
cs , 

, times 
call 
call 
call 
, 



code ends 
end start 


from 
subject cryptography faq 10 10 references 
organization the 
lines 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 10 of 10 of the sci . faq , references .  . 
history and classical methods .  . modern methods .  . survey and reference 
articles .  . and conference  . electronic sources 
 ( ftp  . related newsgroups .  . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 10 references 

this is the tenth of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest. 
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in this part. 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 


contents 

books on history and classical methods 
books on modern methods 
survey articles 
reference articles 
, conference 
other 
electronic sources 
 ( available from ) 
related newsgroups 


books on history and classical methods 

d. , william f. , military  . 
park press , . 
a. , machine cryptography and 
modern  . house , washington st. , 
, ma , 1985 .  . 
william f. , german codes in world war i. 
park press , . 
h. , , a study of and their 
solution .  . ,  . 
f . h . , et al. , british intelligence in the second 
world war. cambridge university press.  ( vol 's 1 , 2 , , 
4 , so  . years and authors , fix 
andrew , the  . books 
ltd .  . , 
david , the  . , 1991. 
d. , the  . publishing ,  . 
history the paperback edition left out most 
technical details the original hardcover edition is 
recommended .  . 
w. ,  . university of america , 1984 
s. , statistical methods in  . 
park press ,  . 
a. , elementary  . math .  .  . am .  .  . 
gordon , the story. hill ,  . 
o .  . , the american black chamber .  . park 
press , . 

books on modern methods 

h. , f. , systems. ,  . 
g. , modern a  . 
, 1988. 
d. , cryptography and data security .  . 
publishing company ,  . 
n .  . , a course in number theory and cryptography .  . 
springer , 1987 .  . 
a. , cryptography a primer .  . ,  . 
c. and s. , cryptography a new dimension in 
computer security .  . ,  . 
wayne , mathematical for computer 
scientists and  . , 1987 .  . 
c. , security in computing .  . hall , 1989. 
w. price , d. , security for computer  . , 1984 .  . 
r. , design and analysis of  . 
springer , 1986 .  . 
a. , public key cryptography .  . springer , 1990. 
d. , codes and cryptography .  . press , 1988. 

survey articles 

d. , d. , security in 
systems a survey .  . yale university , department of computer 
science , ,  . 
t. , engineering for public key  . 
areas of ,  ( 1(4 ) , 458 , 
1990. 
m. , j. , elements of  . in secure 
digital communications , g. ed .  . , 1 57 ,  . 
w. , m. , and an 
introduction to cryptography .  . ,  ( 67(3 ) , 
,  . 
w. , the first ten years of public key cryptography .  . 
,  ( 76(5 ) , , 1988. 
h. , cryptography and computer  . scientific 
american ,  ( 228(5 ) , 15 23 ,  . 
h. , h , w. , j. lynn smith .  . some 
techniques for machine to machine data communications , 
,  ( 63(11 ) , ,  . 
m. , the mathematics of public key cryptography .  . 
scientific american , 130 ,  . 
s. , for public key 
 . in advances in computers , m. ed .  . , 
22 , academic press , 45 ,  . 
a. , in , computing , 
 ( 11(4 ) , ,  . 
j. , an introduction to contemporary , 
,  ( 76(5 ) , , 1988. 
g. ) . , contemporary the science of 
information  . press , 1991. 

reference articles 

d. , j. , on the of and 
 . trans. on  . 
theory ,  ( 28(4 ) , ,  . 
john bennett , analysis of the used in 
the word program .  .  ( 11(4 ) , 
, 1987 .  . 
h. a. and w. j. , file security in 
5 . 0 .  .  ( 15(1 ) , 57 66 , 1991. 
e. and a. , of 
des like  . journal of , vol. 4 , 1 , 
3 72 , 1991. 
e. , a. , of , 
, ii , and lucifer .  . in of 
 91 , ed .  . by j. , , 1992 .  . 
j. , sequences produced by pseudo random 
number  . journal of the , 1989. 
e. , j. , m. , structure in the 
s boxes of des .  . in of  86 , a. m. 
ed .  . , 3 8 , 1987 .  . 
l. brown , a proposed design for an extended des , computer 
security in the computer age. science publishers 
b . v .  .  ( north holland ) , , w. j. ed .  . , 9 22 , 1989. 
l. brown , j. , j. , a 
primitive for and secrecy applications .  . 
in of 90 , , 1990. 
h. , e. , w. , comparison of block 
 . in of  90 , j. and j. 
 . , 208 , 1990. 
k. w. campbell , m. j. , proof the des is not a group. 
in of  , 1993 .  . 
m. , a solution of the messages. , 
vol. , 3 , , 1988. 
s. even , o .  . , des like functions can generate the 
alternating group. trans. on  . theory , vol. 29 , 
6 , ,  . 
g. , r. , des watch an examination of the 
of the data standard for financial 
in the 1990 's .  . , vol. , 3 , 
, 1991. 
, .  ( 4(2 ) ,  . 
, , probabilistic and 
how to play mental keeping secret all information. 
of the symposium on theory of 
computing ,  . 
d. g. n .  . and a. r. , experiments with 
for breaking simple 
 . computer journal  ( 26(1 ) ,  . 
j. , g. , a design of 
 . trans. information 
theory ,  ( 28(10 ) , ,  . 
p. , data and  . 
, vol. ii 4 , ,  . 
, .  ( 12(4 ) , 1988. 
x. , j. , a proposal for a new block 
standard. 90 , , 1990. 
c. , m. , how to construct 
from functions .  . journal of 
computing , vol. 17 , 2 , , 1988. 
j. , an introduction to contemporary  . 
,  ( 76(5 ) , , 1988. 
r. , fast software functions .  . in 
of  90 , and ed .  . , , 1991. 
c. , and key 
vs. number of for the data 
standard. conference , 47 , , 
 . 
data standard. national bureau of standards , 
pub 46 , washington , , 1977 .  . 
j. ,  a random number  . 
 ( 1(1 ) , 20 26 , 1977 .  . 
j. a. and p. j. , file security and the unix 
command. at t bell laboratories technical journal , 
vol. 63 8 , part 2 , , october , 1984 .  . 
c. , theory of secrecy systems. bell 
system technical journal  ( 28(4 ) , , 1949 .  . 
b. , r. , a. sherman , is the data 
standard a group. journal of , vol. 1 , 1 , 
1 36 , 1988. 
a. , s. , fast data 
 . '87 , , 1988. 
a. , lucifer a  . 
,  ( 8(1 ) , 22 35 , 1984 .  . 

, conference 



on information theory 
a journal , quarterly since jan 1977 .  . 
rose institute of technology 
general systems , analysis , history , ... 
journal of international association for 
research published by springer  ( quarterly since 
 . 
the  ( journal of the american association ) 
west street , il primarily 
puzzle of various sorts 
journal , published by tony , p.o. box , 
pa , usa or tony s 
's comment includes complete with 
source and programs on  .  . the 
typical supports and 
field arithmetic .  . hardware random number 
details. 

computer and security , published by  . 
issue available from various ftp sites , including 
black . ac . uk .  . c o 's 
comment we review all the conference in this field , 
including not just and , but regional 
like and  . we also abstract over 50 , 
and cover computer security as well as , so readers can 
see the research trends in applications as well as theory. 

other 

address of note park press , p.o. box , , ca 
 . answering machine at  . 

the book   is 28 . , published december 1985 as 
part of the book   series .  . write to department of defense , 
national security agency , , road , , md 
6000 , and ask for the trusted computer system evaluation 
 . or call  . 

, the puzzle  . penguin books , . 
i. j. good , good thinking the foundations of probability and 
its applications .  . university of minnesota press ,  . 
d. e. , the art of computer programming , volume 2 
 . ,  . 
, information theory and statistics .  . 
,  . 
a. , information theory. in complexity in 
information theory , ed .  . by , 1988. 

how may one obtain copies of and standards cited 

many textbooks on cryptography contain complete of the 
standards , which are not  . 

the following standards may be ordered from the 
u.s. department of commerce , national technical information service , 
, va  . 

pub 46 1 data standard  ( this is des ) 
pub 74 for as using the des 
pub des modes of operation 
pub computer data  ( using des ) 

the following standards may be ordered from the 
american national standards institute sales office , 
, new york , ny  . 
phone 212 . 642 . 

data  ( identical to 46 1 ) 
modes of operation  ( identical to 113 ) 

notes figure 3 in pub 46 1 is in error , but figure 3 in 
is correct. the text is correct in both  . 


electronic sources 

anonymous ftp 

ftp . net . sources des 
ftp . net . usenet sources . unix . 
ftp . fi . pub unix security z . 
ftp . au . pub des 
com . 
edu . pub z . 
ftp . com . orange book 
ai . mit . edu . pub 
edu . packet des . z . 
merit . edu . documents 
com . pub 
pub des des . 1 . 0 . z . 
ftp . net . usenet sources . unix . 
fi . pc zip . 

 ( available from ) 


, b. for internet electronic mail part 
key and related services .  . 1993 february 9 p.  ( format 
txt bytes ) 

, d. for internet electronic mail part 
iii , modes , and  . 1993 february 14 p.  ( format 
txt bytes )  ( obsoletes 1115 ) 

kent , s. for internet electronic mail part ii 
based key  . 1993 february 32 p.  ( format 
txt bytes )  ( obsoletes 1114 ) 

, j. for internet electronic mail part i 
message and  . 1993 february 42 p. 
 ( format txt bytes )  ( obsoletes 1113 ) 


related newsgroups 

there are other newsgroups which a sci . reader might want also to 
read. some have their own faq as well. 

alt . discussion of and code 
alt . security . general security discussions 
alt . security . index . index to alt . security . 
alt . security . pgp . discussion of pgp 
alt . security . discussion of 
alt . society . civil . liberty general civil liberties , including 
org . news . news reports from 
org . talk . discussion of related issues 
discussion of s w , including 
risks . some mention of and 
society . general issues 
security . announce . of security holes 
misc . legal . computing . 
sci . math . general math discussion 

from  ( david ) 
subject re will feds troll for mutilated law enforcement blocks 
organization computers 
lines 43 

the m code might be independently attacked based on knowledge of 
clipper chip protocols as revealed  . this could be 
by changing the and or relationship of the clipper m 
and the actual , under the control of a secure key 
between  . 

the useful life time of captured law enforcement blocks might be limited 
based on hostile forces using them as targets following 
 . you would need a large number of them , but , hey there 's 
supposed to be millions of these things , right adding time to 
the law enforcement block is probably impractical , who wants 
an chip with a real time 



the entire idea of the law enforcement block can be  . 

i just had the thought , that you could capture your own law enforcement blocks 
for k that you will not use in actual transmissions as 
the key  . the that you do n't mind your own 
serial number being discovered .  . 

d. just sent out further information of a new version of the clipper 
chip .  . if a function were to be embedded in a clipper m 
block the law enforcement block , it better not fall on 64 bit block 
 . if it were a , you could lie with it too. 

i like the in the 80 .  . i remember reading that 
had an approved random source on silicon , hence the ability 
to put it inside. 

you ever think that sounds like one of those made up names of 
used as for intelligence organizations 











from  ( rob boudrie ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization center for high  . computing of marlboro ma 
distribution na 
lines 26 

in article graham writes 
in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 
if the clinton clipper is so very good , why not make its public 
so many people can exchange ideas and examine it , rather than a few 
isolated  respected   ( respected by whom for what perhaps a 

one more time .  .  .  . 

if they released the , it would be possible for someone 
to come up with an implementation which was identical , but 
lacking an key .  . 

note that the press announcement mentioned that the was 
being kept secret for security of the key system. in this 
case security means an key for every clipper chip . 


assuming you believed all that is said about the effective of 
the , and the system , which would you buy 

 ( a ) chip from firm a with the key 
 ( b ) second source chip from firm b with no key 
in government  . 

there would obviously be powerful economic for a second 
source , non ,  . 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject chip 
lines 19 

how about this the 
has your clipper key .  . the 
has your intended 's key , if he is 
using one. whenever you call , the message 
gets and 
y key exchange .  . i know it 's a stupid 
system , but for the feds , it 'd be 
great .  . the point of this t to 
take over the market , btw. clinton 
not want people to have any sort of at 
all  ( just like  . but he needs some support 
for the technology garbage he 's 
pushing  ( industrial policy stuff ) and a computer 
hip designed by the gov t is just the thing. 

who 's going to thing about the  ( literal ) billions of 
dollars it took for a government agency to design 



from  ( ag russell ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
originator 
organization ibm austin 
lines 29 


in article ,  ( steve simmons ) writes 
 ( steven bellovin ) writes 

thousands tens of thousands do some arithmetic , please .  .  .  . 
has 2 80 possible  . let 's assume a brute force engine like that 
for des 1 per trial , 1 million  . that 's 
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials .  . well , 
maybe they can get running at one trial per , and build 
a machine with 10 million  . sure only 3.8 years for each solution .  . 

normally i 'd be the last to argue with steve . . . but should n't that 
read 3.8 years for all solutions . i mean , if we can imagine the 
machine that does 1 trial , we can imagine the medium 
that could index and archive it. 

at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was des 
and the person that had sent it , went on  . rather than wait two weeks 
i set up a straight frontal attack with one key at a time. it only took  ( two(2 ) 
days to crack the file. no , i do n't have any faith in des .  . 

a . g .  . 




a . g .  . russell dept section of pals group id at 
email phone 
these are my views , on anyone else they would look silly. free the berkeley 4 . 4 . 

from 
subject vs  ( was re once  .  . ) . 
organization , inc. 
lines 19 

douglas craig holland writes 

with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp , they 'll just 
call up one of their and read the 
from your computer or terminal .  . note that measures to 
protect yourself from surveillance are still classified , as 
far as i know. 

 ( jason  think ! ' steiner ) writes 

are vulnerable to 

i can see high type display devices being vulnerable  ( crts , 
, etc . ) . but jason me to this question. what 
about em radiation from low items like 

perhaps the critical element is the the 
what about a pc mac etc. , where all the is 
into one tiny area 

from  ( jurgen botz ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization mount college 
lines 32 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( marc n1nzu ) writes 
just who is that , i asked myself , or rather , i asked the computer .  . 

gov . 25 
trying .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
first . org . 4 . 1 . ready at sat , 17 apr 93 20 42 56 edt 
clipper 
250 gov . 
... 
first . org . connection 
connection closed. 

well , is n't that interesting. , , ... 

even more interesting the server at gov . no longer 
the   and   commands .  .  .  . 

gov . 
trying 129 . 6 . 54 . 11 .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
first . org . 4 . 1 . ready at tue , 20 apr 93 17 01 34 edt 
clipper 
command 

seems like did n't like your around ,  . 

, machines should respond to a finger 
south , ma , usa request with a list of all items currently 
unix is dead , long live unix available for  .  .  . 

from  ( russ schnapp ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host 
organization inc. 
lines 19 

it might be nice to 

1. cut out the ad hominem attacks on  . , mr. , 
etc. if you have something objective to say about their views , go 
ahead and say it  ( subject to point 2 . ) .  . personal attacks reflect more 
on the more than on the  . light , not ! 

2. restrict the discussion to appropriate newsgroups .  . i submit that 
org . and org . are not appropriate for this 
discussion. you have now made to these newsgroups aware of 
the issue. if they want to know more or participate in the discussion , 
they can easily join sci . , security . misc . , alt . security . , or 
org . talk .  . 


 .  .  . 
email netcom ! ! or or 
voice fax 
la , california unless , speaking only for myself ! 

from  ( william smythe ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host its . edu . 
organization polytechnic institute , , ny 
distribution na 
lines 29 

in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 
 ( al donaldson ) writes 
 ( andrew molitor ) writes 

this appears to be generic calling upon the name of the anti christ .  . 
just for the hell of it , let 's destroy this remark .  . let us imagine that 
the branch actually could extract from the houses 
without anyone knowing , or telling .  . now what dick has 80 bits of data .  . 
what the hell 's he gonna do with it 

1 ) around to the and say  we 'd like an 
 . uh huh .  . 
2 ) break in to and his own  ( so his people still 
do have to break in , neat , huh ) record some , then get the 
branch phone box  ( huh they 've got one goodness , wait  the 
washington post gets hold of this) and the  . 
3) more likely , at the key , and say  oh , hell it 's not 
worth all this bloody  


no , he gives the to the fbi  ( who may then give them to the local police 
on request ) who then simply put some on your phone 
box and conduct an illegal  . they then when they the tape. 
its just doing what the government does best breaking the law. 

bill 




from  ( rebecca snyder ) 
subject public awareness  ( wasre text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption ) 
organization new mexico tech 
distribution na 
lines 50 

in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 
i think this is no accident. it comes from the same philosophy that 
the government rules the people , not the people controlling 
the government , that the citizens are not sophisticated enough 
to know what is best for them , so the government must tell the people 
what they need or do not need ... we know best .  .  .  . . and the idea that 
that a can defend himself against government 
or attack is totally unacceptable to people with this  . 


this all with pushing for national identity cards with  smart 
 to anything they please  ( internal passport ) under the 
of the state people 's health care system , and with 
 ( you can be certain ) more yet to come , and one sees an extremely 
trend .  . so what if 1984 will be ten years late .  .  .  . it still is 
turning out to be an amazingly accurate prophecy .  .  .  . unless a lot of 
people wake up , and in a  . 

one should always have every red warning light and bell and danger flag 
come up when the government seeks to set itself apart in regard to 
rights , etc. from the citizen  ( or should we 
now be saying  subject  instead ) .  .  .  . why t the average person 
have a good , secure system of data security , not dependent on 
  for maintaining that security why t the average 
person be able to defend himself from an agency gone am sure 
the feds could break into any data they really wanted to  ( but it would 
take some work ) , and using the same logic , one should not be allowed to 
have a good safe , unless a of the  ( key(s ) or combination are 
for   by the government i do n't really see a 
difference , philosophically .  . data sure wo n't , not 
with such high tech tools as a  .  .  . 


the average today seems to think that the government should be 
able to on everyone  . opinion show that most 
people the bill of rights to grant too much freedom to people , 
when it is not identified as such  ( btw , if anyone knows of a cite for that , 
i 'd love to have it) .  . not only does this mean that these people are 
willing to give up everyone  ( else 's ) rights , they do n't even know what 
the bill of rights actually says .  . 

how can we show the average person  ( not the average usenet reader ) that 
people are actually to these rights so many people do n't 
care if the government is taking more and more control of us all , a little 
at a time. 

if there was some sort of awareness of what the government is trying 
to do by a majority of the us population .  .  .  . just think about what 
could be accomplished but there are so many that trust , , 
in whatever the media and government tell them. 

from  ( ian farquhar ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
organization university , australia 
lines 46 
nntp posting host laurel . edu . au . 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( john f carr ) writes 
the chip and are classified .  . if you reverse engineer it and 
tell people , you are likely to go to jail .  . 

i do n't find this a credible argument , for two reasons. one you have 
below unless i care about entering the usa at any time in the 
future  . the who btw have been known to 
silicon and reproduce it on when 
high profit machines and the like who would n't care less ) , i am not 
going to care much about us , am i only people like the 
real me , who does care about travelling to various countries for business 
reasons , will sit up and follow laws like this , but i would that 
we 're not the main threat .  . 

i also have grave whether an widely in silicon 
could possibly be called classified .  . it 's like handing out military 
to the whole world in do n't open me. i can 
imagine several credible defences which could be employed if it came to 
a trial .  . one would be the stupidity of the government 's actions .  . 

perhaps some foreign governments or could help us out by 
cracking the system outside the usa .  . the us government could probably 
stop of hardware , but a software implementation 
should be practical .  . 

amusing thought could they have employed an which is 
for a fast software implementation , but which is easy in hardware 
in des , the extensive use of  ( trivial in hardware you 
just lines ) , but relatively slow in software have had a big effect 
on the speed difference between hardware and software of 
that  ( indeed , i suspect that lucifer 's were well aware that 
it would be , and approved . ) . certain  ( usually parallel search 
algorythms ) can be very slow in software , yet can in hardware .  . 
i have no proof of their employment in clipper it is pure  . 
however , as a software implementation of this is something that its 
would have been trying to avoid at all costs , then the 
of such techniques seems credible .  . 

hmmm .  .  .  . i also wonder what thinks about the use of the name 
clipper for this device. ) 


phone 61 2 
office of computing services fax 61 2 
university also 61 2 
australia email 

from state . edu .  ( dane c. butzer ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization the ohio state university dept of electrical engineering 
distribution na 
lines 19 

in article  ( rob stampfli ) writes 
with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp , they 'll just 
call up one of their and read the 
from your computer or terminal .  . note that measures to protect yourself from 

2. i could independently invent about half a dozen right off 
the top of my head. if i had studied advanced e m a little better , 
i could probably come up with a very good system. 

would n't a a second of similar type and 
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to attacks 

actually , old video games and machines are supposed to work pretty 
good  ( at blocking em eavesdropping ) , too. those things put out a lot of em 
 . back in the 80 's , i read about computer putting 
of games in their buildings for just this purpose  ( not to mention the ) .  . 




from tony 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
distribution world 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
lines 13 

 ( graham toal ) writes 

whatever happens though , the effect of this new chip will be to make private 
stand out like a sore  . 

only if this chip on. which means alternatives have to be 
developed .  . which will only happen if clipper is discredited .  . 


tony is pgp 2.2 public key available from key 
or tony such as pgp public 
or even 


from  ( shaen bernhardt ) 
subject re what the clipper sound like to me. 
distribution na 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 60 

in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 

the following is available in some ftp archive somewhere , i insert 
my comments throughout this of big 

white house announcement on thread standards 


this is to announce that the american national standards 
institute  ( or whatever it is) has been given the authority to define 
standard for threads .  . 

look ! this is clearly the first step our 
own thread  . if this madness is n't fought , 
tooth and nail , every step of the way , it 'll be a crime to use 
threads other than those our leaders so 
define for us. 

text deleted , no value judgement implied 

you , bill clinton ! you and your ! 


finger for personal thread pitch , or 
threads see the thread  . 
must be freed ! 


at first i was going to complain that your analogy was completely 
irrelevant .  . but then i something. 

remember that move to get the u.s. to the system all those 
years ago as far as i know we were supposed to be there by now. 

the government sold it as better for the people , easier to be in 
tune with the rest of the world. they had decided it was for 
our own good. 

then , when the plan was released , it soon became that the 
government were a bunch  o   . 

think about it , change all the track , signs , 
, the old regime .  . 

at the cost of millions of dollars .  . 

your point is well taken .  . you think there is nothing to worry 
about , you could care less who designs your cryptography , any 
more than who designs your or the system of measurement 
you use. 

sit back , that 's right , just relax , we 'll take care of all your 
needs mr.  . 



public by finger and or request 
public key archives pgp public 
is the sign of a brutal past. fight clinton 's chip ! 
is not a crime ! ask me how ! 

from 
subject revised technical summary of clipper chip 
distribution world 
organization university 
lines 

here is a revised version of my summary which some errors 
and provides some additional information and explanation. 


the clipper chip a technical summary 



revised , april 21 , 1993 


introduction 

on april 16 , the president a new that will bring 
together the federal government and industry in a voluntary program 
to provide secure communications while meeting the legitimate needs of 
law enforcement .  . at the heart of the plan is a new proof 
chip called the clipper chip together with a split key approach to 
 . two are used , and the key parts from 
both are needed to a key .  . 


chip contents 

the clipper chip contains a classified single key 64 bit block 
called  . the uses 80 bit 
 ( compared with 56 for the des ) and has 32 of 
 ( compared with 16 for the  . it supports all 4 des modes of 
operation. the takes 32 , and in electronic 
 ( ecb ) mode runs at 12 per second .  . 

each chip includes the following components 

the 
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all 
n , a 30 bit serial number  ( this length is subject to change ) 
u , an 80 bit secret key that all messages with the chip 

the are programmed by , inc. , which calls them the 
78 .  . the silicon is by technology inc. they are 
implemented in 1 technology and will initially sell for about 
30 each in of 10 , 000 or more. the price should drop as the 
technology is to  . 8 .  . 


with the chip 

to see how the chip is used , imagine that it is embedded in the at t 
telephone security device  ( as it will  . suppose i call someone and 
we both have such a device. after pushing a to start a secure 
conversation , my security device will negotiate an 80 bit key k 
with the device at the other end. this key takes place 
without the clipper chip .  . in general , any method of key exchange can 
be used such as the public key distribution method. 

once the key k is established , the clipper chip is used to 
the conversation or message m  ( digitized  . the 
telephone security device k and m into the chip to produce two 
values 

e m k , the message , and 
e e k u n f , a law enforcement field , 

which are over the telephone line. the law enforcement 
field thus contains the key k under the key u 
with the serial number n , all under the family 
key f. the law enforcement field is by law enforcement after 
an has been  . 

the e m k is by the receiver 's device using the 
key 

d e m k k m . 


chip programming and 

all clipper are programmed inside a  ( secure 
information facility ) , which is essentially a  . the contains 
a computer and equipment to program the  . about 
are programmed during a single session. the is at 
 . 

at the beginning of a , a trusted from each of the two key 
enters the  . 1 enters a secret , random 
80 bit value into the and 2 enters a secret , random 
80 bit value  . these random values serve as seeds to generate 
for a sequence of serial numbers. thus , the are a 
function of secret , random bits , where each knows only 80 .  . 

to generate the key for a serial number n , the 30 bit value n is 
first padded with a fixed 34 bit block to produce a 64 bit block n1 .  . 
and are then used as to n1 , producing a 
64 bit block 

e d e n1 . 

similarly , n is padded with two other 34 bit blocks to produce and 
, and two additional 64 bit blocks and are 

e d e 
e d e . 

, , and are then together , giving bits. the 
first 80 bits are to and the second 80 bits to  . the 
rest are discarded .  . the key u is the of and  . and 
are the key parts that are with the two 
 . 

as a sequence of values for , , and u are generated , they are 
written onto three separate  . the first contains a 
file for each serial number that contains the key part 
 . the second is similar but contains the values .  . the third 
contains the u. 1 takes the first and 
2 takes the second  . thus each walks away knowing 
an 80 bit seed and the 80 bit key parts. however , the does not 
know the other 80 bits used to generate the or the other 80 bit 
key parts. 

the third is used to program the  . after the are 
programmed , all information is discarded from the and the 
leave .  . the may be for additional that no 
information is left behind. 

the may be changed slightly so that four people are in the 
room instead of two .  . the first two would provide the seeds and , 
and the second two  ( the agents ) would take the back to 
the  . 

the have as yet to be determined , but they will not 
be the , , fbi , or any other law enforcement agency .  . one or 
both may be independent from the government. 


law enforcement use 

when law enforcement has been to an line , they 
will first take the warrant to the service in order to get 
access to the communications line. let us assume that the is in 
place and that they have determined that the line is with the 
clipper chip .  . the law enforcement field is first with the 
family key f , giving e k u n .  . documentation that a 
has been for the party associated with serial number n is 
then sent (e . g .  . , via secure fax ) to each of the key , who 
return (e . g .  . , also via secure fax ) and  . and are 
together to produce the key u , and e k u is to get the 
key k. finally the message is  . all this will 
be accomplished through a special black box  . 


the next generation 

a to the clipper chip , called by the government 
and 80 by , has already been developed .  . it will include 
the , the digital signature standard  ( dss ) , the 
secure  ( sha ) , a method of key exchange , a fast 
, and a  . a will be available for 
on april 22 , and the are expected to be ready for 
in june or  . 


and distribution notice. this article is based on 
information provided by , , fbi , and  . permission to 
distribute this document is granted .  . 




from  ( vadim antonov ) 
subject re re policy an statement 
organization uunet , falls church , va 
lines 18 
nntp posting host net . 

in article 
writes 
the 80 bit key will be divided between two , each of whom 
hold 40 bits of each key .  . 

i somehow started to doubt technical of the 
people who designed the system. why on the earth split the 
80 bit key in 40 bit parts to keep them in 
 ( having 40 bit and large volumes of data voice links produce 
it should be relatively easy to break it) when they simply 
could keep 80 bit sequences in n  ( n 2 ) independent places 
and then all the to get the actual key  ( n 1 
sequences should obviously be randomly and is the 
actual key ed with the random  . 

 ( or is it a conspiracy 1 2 ) 



from 
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets 
organization police 
lines 22 


 ( carl ellison ) writes 
for example , if i had a program on my which created totally random 
files looking like messages and could demonstrate that the file 
in question could have been created by that program , then my claim that 
it was , in fact , created by that program must stand as true  ( since i'm 
innocent ) unless someone can prove me wrong. 

hmmm .  .  .  . that brings up a neat idea. 

unfortunately , it 's sooo neat , i think i ought to it. 

so i ca n't tell you about it. 

sorry. ) 

bill 

1993 william s.  ( aka the merciless ) 
all rights , no responsibility taken .  . 

i love the smell of in the morning ! it like .  .  . like . theatre 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization etc organization 
lines 17 
nntp posting host co . uk . 
keywords , , clipper , key , 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 

though some may argue about the nose of the , it 's worth that 
the government proposal is limited to  . if it is only 
used for that purpose , and does not extend to electronic mail or file 
, then it is an improvement over the current mass produced 
standard civilian technology which , with a few exceptions , is limited to 
easy to break  . 

try reading between the lines david there are strong hints in there 
that they 're for next , and the only conceivable meaning of 
applying this particular technology to a computer network is that they 
intend it to be used in exclusion to any other means of  . 

do n't be lulled by the because its end looks so thin .  . 

graham 

from  ( geoffrey kuenning ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization , computer science department 
distribution na 
lines 18 

in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 

without the target 's  . do n't give up the 
right to be safe from that that should be non , and clinton 
and co .  . know it  ( which is probably why they developed this thing , 
if they get it this far , they can it on  . 

it always amazes me how quick people are to blame whatever 
is current for things they could n't possibly have 
initiated .  . this chip had to take years to develop , yet already 
we 're claiming that the clinton it in on us. 
bullshit .  . the bush and the career gestapo were 
responsible for this , and the presented it to the 
new as a  . that does n't excuse clinton and 
from criticism for being so stupid as to go for it , but let 's 
the body at the proper door to start with. 

geoff 

from  ( carl m kadie ) 
subject re amendment and 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 42 

state . edu .  ( andrew s hall ) writes 

i am someone will correct me if i am wrong , but does n't the 
also cover not being forced to do actions that are self 
... 

from mike , posted with permission 

sadly , it does not. can be compelled to give and 
voice , and to take blood and dna  . 

e.g. the police could n't demand that you silently take them to where the 
body is buried or where the money is hidden .  . 

no , but they could you to produce the key to a safe where , as it 
happens , evidence that will convict you is  . 

the key issue has n't come up yet , but current law 
suggests that it 's a for the he 'll be compelled to turn 
over the key .  . 

the test for compelled self is whether the material to 
be in itself tends to the  . in the example 
i gave above , the safe key itself has no testimonial value ergo , it can 
be under compulsion (e . g .  . ,  . 

moreover , the government can always the of a 
key compelling you to the key at the price of not using the fact 
of your as evidence in the case against you. of course , they 
can use whatever they discover as a result of this against 
you. 


mike 






i do not represent any organization this is just me. 


from  ( shaun p. hughes ) 
subject clipper crap 
organization san francisco state university 
lines 17 


's dual sword helps to protect the 
of individuals and industry , but it also can 
criminals and  . we need the clipper chip and other 



just a random passing thought , but can anyone cite a documented use 
of technology by criminals and  . 
 ( excluding the iran gang ) 




p. 

finger for pgp 2.2 public key 

from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re hard drive security 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 18 
nntp posting host sw . stratus . com . 
keywords 

in article writes 
say , can anyone send my info on how to a hard ... 
ps .  . i would also like know the consequences of those types of actions if i 
so chose to do them in the future in this country and european countries. 

people have been notes in their for hundreds of years 
maybe over a thousand .  . it 's a long tradition dating at least back to 
the  . 

i know of nothing bad happening to them. i would assume that nothing bad 
would happen to you , given this long history establishing as 
the property of individuals , to do with as they please. 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 

stratus computer inc. 2 tel  ( 508)460 ) 
55 ma fax  ( 508)624 ) 

from graham 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
originator 
nntp posting host demon . co . uk . 
reply to graham 
organization anonymous 
distribution na 
lines 17 

in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 
if the clinton clipper is so very good , why not make its public 
so many people can exchange ideas and examine it , rather than a few 
isolated  respected   ( respected by whom for what perhaps a 
certain professor who likes key banks would be one of the 
 .  .  . this does seem to expand on some ideas the person was 
advocating , if i recall ) .  . how would anybody know that what the 

actually , i am completely baffled by why has chosen 
to away her academic like this. it looks to me 
like a major career limiting move. there can be very few people 
who know what she 's been saying who take her seriously any more. 

i wonder if she such a fat fee from with the in 
the design and propoganda stages that she does n't care any more 

g 

from  ( bear giles ) 
subject how do they know what to ask for  ( re clipper ) 
organization systems labs , , boulder , co usa 
lines 24 


this may be a stupid question , but how does the government know which 
to ask for 

will owners be required to their , , modems , etc. , 
and the government when they are moved to a different phone number 
will there be if the public does not do this will 
 ( the national health care id , perhaps ) be required when a 
clipper phone 

or will each chip information at the start of 
a conversation which could be used to automatically 
log who calls whom  ( the phone company keeps records , but this 
information would be by a well placed van near a 
relay  . 

this raises the question of how the two agree on a communications 
key .  . will it be something that is derived from information 
at the start of the conversation and hence by 
an 


bear 


from 
subject re clipper chip technical details 
organization computer science dept , university 
lines 24 

thus said  . j. bernstein ) 
short summary of what says says the says there is 
a key g , plus one key u c for each chip c. the user can choose a 
new key k p for each phone call p he makes .  . chip c knows three 
g , its own u c , and the user 's k p. the government as a whole 
knows g and every u c. apparently a message m is as 
e  ( g(e u c  ( k p ) , c ) , e k p  . that 's it. 

the system as described here ca n't possibly work. what happens when 
someone the above into a receiving chip to get m 
the receiving chip needs k p to get k p the receiving chip needs u c. 
the only information it can work with is c. if u c can be 
from c then the system is useless and the 
  is bullshit .  . otherwise how is a message 

given the description of the given , the only plausible 
i can find is that k p must be agreed to out of bandwidth 
in advance by the two parties i.e. it 's a standard shared 
key .  . 

accepted 
security through n .  . theory which states that the public 
of good computer games is vital to maintaining system 
safety .  . security through  . 

from  ( mark riordan ) 
subject list of large integer arithmetic 
organization michigan state university 
lines 
nntp posting host edu . 
summary c functions to do arbitrary precision 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

this is the file txt . from edu . , last updated april 1993 .  . 

in response to email requests , i have assembled this list of 
large integer arithmetic of which i have heard. 
most of these are c function , available in source form. 

for your convenience , i have placed copies of 
some of these on edu . 8 . 1 .  . they are 
available for anonymous ftp in the directory pub . 
however , what i have may not be the most current version in all cases. 

here they are , in no particular order 


multiple precision that comes with some 

multiple precision via flag on your 
 . provides , , , , , , 
 . comes with , next , 1000 , 
and probably a few others. see man . 
object code only , of course. 


cohen , et al. , i , , france 

multiple precision and library routines .  . 
contains assembly code for motorola , 
semi code for , and apparently rather slow 
generic c version. does both integers and  . 
does and as well as  . 
contains a number of advanced functions , some of which i 've 
never heard of. ( 's function ) 
has a function , test , other related stuff. 
plenty of documentation .  . 
public domain , but you ca n't distribute modified versions. 
available via anonymous ftp from math . edu .  . there seem to 
be mac and next specific versions there in addition to 
1 . z . 

arithmetic in fields  ( arith ) 
kevin r. , david r. grant 

of routines for arbitrary precision integers or 
over finite fields .  . includes basic , , , 
and a few others like  . source code in c. 
under the terms of the public license .  . 
includes man pages and documentation .  . 
z . 

arbitrary precision math library 
lloyd los , ca 

c which supports basic , , , . provides for 
points (i . e .  . , non  . not as polished as the others here. 
posted to sources . misc . in october 1988. 
z . 


j. , , france , and others. 
by digital equipment research lab  ( decprl ) 

a and efficient arbitrary precision integer  . 
c code , with generic c , plus assembly for 
, , , , pyramid , and of course vax .  . 
this is probably one of the better known of this type .  . 
, , , , , plus logical or , and ,  . 
both signed and arithmetic available. 
available via email from 
you will receive 5 shell archives .  . give your address 
and you will also receive printed documentation from france .  . 
includes documentation .  . 
publicly available for non use. 
i removed this from my archive when i heard a that 
does n't like others to distribute it. however , is 
as part of  ( see below) .  . 

's 


integer written entirely in c. 
includes , , , , , , , 
, random number , and a few others. the 
was and i have tried to add enough 
comments to get by. this is the only of these that i 
have actually used. it works well and is very  . 
i have n't done any against the others , but the code 
looks clever is an accomplished number  . 
unlike the other here , this one requires you to 
only a problem if your numbers are really huge .  . 
has placed the code in the public domain .  . 
z . 

3 . 1 . 
, 

an improved version of 's above. this one 
does signed arithmetic and  ( which can be turned 
off as an  . has a few new routines , too. 3 . 1 . contains 
minor to the previously available 2 and 3 . 
3 . 1 . c . 

 ( brent 's multiple precision ) 
r. p. 

code to do extended precision floating 
fixed point arithmetic .  . includes most of the mathematical 
functions you 'd find in a run time library. 
this code is an , number  . 
to obtain , send a mail message to 
containing the line send f . from or better yet , perhaps 
just start with help . 


joseph , dec 

this is a huge public key system 
based on  . i mention it here because those who have heard 
of have probably correctly guessed that it contains a large 
integer and i want to you that the large integer 
it contains is indeed dec 's from france .  . 
you can get a test copy of from dec . com .  . 
use it only for , as it may on a certain date. 
(i do n't know whether this has yet . ) . 

 ( antti 's multiple precision ) 


multiple precision integer in c. includes , , , , , 
, , 1 x y , random , ,  . available for non 
use. the includes share secret , a public key system based 
on the  . 
this is normally part of the well known des z . , 
but i have removed the des part to avoid having to deal with 
laws , and have named the result 
z . 


per u of wisconsin madison 

c routines and classes to do generic arithmetic , both 
integer and rational .  . 
available on cs . edu .  . however , it 
seems to have disappeared .  . sorry. 


 ( by someone in dublin , ireland ) 

integer and multiple precision  . 
includes , ,  . 
not public domain , apparently .  . it is available from the austin 
code works.  ( see in magazine or dr. ) . 

precision 
dave 

multiple precision integer in c with , , , , , , 
, , log .  . simple support .  . does of memory. 
free as long as you do n't sell it or any program that uses it. 
precision . z . 


 . , university , 3 , tokyo , japan 


multiple precision version of the basic programming language , 
for dos .  . includes floating point. said  ( by keith briggs ) 
to be pretty fast .  . object only , i think. 
says this is the best that i know of for 
fast arithmetic .  . has a version for machines .  . includes 
routines to do , the currently known general 
 . an additional file is at both sites to allow to use 
hard drives so that it can factor up to 80  . many number 
functions are included in  . it allows over 
of precision .  . 
available via anonymous ftp from shape . mps . ohio . state . edu . , 
or army . , or edu .  . 


unknown 

dos c like language that allows infinite precision .  . 
nice intrinsic functions .  . reports problems 
when changing precision on the fly. 
see or  . 


keith 

pascal 5 source for routines that do multiple precision 
, , , , , , , for integers also includes 
, , , and for rational numbers. 


institute 
dr schneider ( ) 

fast c multiple precision library. 
i do n't know anything about it says 
to contact for more info .  . 
address 
institute 
29 
12 germany 




precision arithmetic written in 2 , with the most time critical 
parts written in assembler .  . includes basic ( , , , , ) as 
well as a number .  . an additional provides a 
collection of for , , 
and more. the is part of a enhanced mail  ( pem ) 
which includes a mailer , key and 
generation tools .  . 

source is in 2 , c , and assembler for sun 3. has 
also been to dos under 2 and 
assembler .  . free for university use  ( research and 
education ) otherwise , a source license is required. to obtain , 
write or email to 


7 


email 

1.2 


written in c. will in the future 
conform to the common lisp functions that handles integers .  . 
currently includes , , , , , , 
comparison , random numbers , and  . 
1.2 

multiple precision 
 ( free software foundation ) multiple precision  . 
i have n't looked at it yet. this is current as of april 1992 , 
but there may be a more recent version by the time you read 
this. this is very widely available on ftp sites .  . 
1 . 2 . z . 

curve proving 
, france .  . 

large to prove the of any prime .  . 
includes 's  . 
obtained from ftp . fr . 93 . 1 .  . 
4 . 1 . z . 

pgp  ( pretty good privacy ) 
philip 

based that includes routines in c , 
said to be quite fast for  . unix and mac 
versions also available. 
the violates , but the routines 
can be used without fear of legal repercussions .  . 

bell 's arbitrary precision 
david i. bell , australia 

arbitrary precision with good help , c like 
language , many functions , support for integers , 
rational numbers  ( they work like floating point ) , complex numbers , 
, , lists , files , objects . includes 
, , even functions .  . recommended .  . 
 ( large , though . ) . obtained from sources . unix .  . 
1 . 24 . 7 . z . 

built in support in other 
various 

multiple precision arithmetic is available in a number of 
programming , such as lisp and abc  . eu .  . 
 ( by larry , available from jpl . nasa . 
includes source , in , for such a , but it 's probably 
not suitable for serious use. 
for some of these , source code may be available. this list is 
long enough , so i'm not going to pursue it  . 

thanks to ed and several others who contributed to this list. 

mark 

from de .  ( detlef lannert ) 
subject re facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed and 
organization , , 
lines 40 
nntp posting host rz . uni . de . 

in article  ( perry e. metzger ) writes 

hmmm .  . we must assume that the key u from the serial 
number n rather than it from a randomly and 
is an intentional way of a fail safe for the government 
u is determined given , and n .  . 
... 
if and do not change , even if they remain secret i wonder if 
they can somehow be back derived given enough key serial number 
pairs .  . ... 

maybe such pairs suffice to and by such a back 
door  ( in the perhaps ) it would be possible  ( for 
the manufacturer ) to get the of all that were programmed in 
one session. this would not , btw , anybody else to the 
in the same way because they 'll never get a bunch of  ( n , u ) 
pairs with identical and  .  ( note that these have to be constant 
for the whole by the very nature of the procedure , i.e. , they 
have to be typed in by the number  ! ) 

and i was wondering why they 'll always do in one ... 
since the procedure described by high costs on the 
of every chip  ( at least three persons for one hour each , 
plus the cost of a finally blown to pieces in a , 
hollywood like add travelling , and , 
divide the sum by 300 ) there wo n't be a larger demand not from the 
private anyway. 

and let me mention one other thought that certainly has occurred to all 
the notoriously people in this group before who is going to 
verify that no interested party will perform attacks on the 


where there 's so much and there ca n't be a nice , honest 
fire but something really worth hiding ... 

e mail de . 
pgp 2.2 key via server or finger de . 
i am  . oh , you 're smith , are you with a preliminary 
p. which , however , is not  . p . g . 

from  ( rob boudrie ) 
subject re how to detect use of an illegal 
organization center for high  . computing of marlboro ma 
lines 25 

as for my of the whole scheme it seems that instead of trying to 
ban strong , they are trying to co opt it. their contention that they 
need to keep the secret to protect the security of the key 
suggests possible inherent weakness to the  . more likely 
is that they dont want anyone constructing black market devices which dont 
have the  . anyone else notice that in their q a , they 

preventing black market w non is exactly what they 
mean by protecting the security of the key system. there are 
two parts to the security of such a system 

 ( a ) preventing by 
 ( b ) that the can always clipper 
traffic when it itself to do so. 

of course , the ministry of propoganda will do a lot of about 
 ( a ) and very little about  . 

rob 


ps anyone care to guess what scheme the gov t is using on 
its formed of who oppose this entire 



from  ( john kelsey ) 
subject 
nntp posting host missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 7 

some sick part of me really liked that phrase .  .  .  .  . 

actually , merely the threat of a long prison sentence , even without 
a beating , can get most people to give in. especially if it 's also 
with a trip to the jail , where one just happens to get 
locked up with all the crazy folks that are too violent to be 
left in cells with other people .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( ken shirriff ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 24 
distribution 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

in article  ( brad yearwood ) writes 
finally , because there is essentially no possibility of in 
the content of communications between stolen , 
there will exist strong motivation to record and archive all communications 
in the network for ex post facto scrutiny  ( once some criminal act is 
discovered , and the involved have been  . 

it seems likely to me that that a large subset of communications 
would be to so they could be read if sometime in the future 
probable cause and a warrant is obtained .  . i can even imagine this 
being found legal and constitutional , since nothing is actually to 
until a valid warrant is issued and the are obtained .  . 

imagine all pay phone , so if someone turns out 
to be a drug , you can listen to all their past drug deals .  . and 
archive calls to from suspected members , potential , 
, etc. imagine the convenience for the police of being able to 
get a warrant now and listening to all the calls the world trade center 
bombers made in the past year .  . 

since would be such a powerful tool and so easy to do , why 
would n't it happen 

ken 

from  ( marcus j ranum ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization trusted information systems , inc. 
lines 10 
nntp posting host com . 

i mean , if we can imagine the 
machine that does 1 trial , we can imagine the medium 
that could index and archive it. 

i think you 'd have to do some massive data just to 
fit a bit of key information on each primary particle of the known 
universe. 
but , hey , it 's fun to imagine. 

 . 

from de .  ( stephan  ( hiwi mattern ) 
subject re pgp 2.2 general comments 
nntp posting host uni . de . 
organization university of , germany 
lines 39 

de .  ( stephan  ( hiwi mattern ) writes 

lots of stuff. 

i hate to follow up to my own posting , but i should perhaps clarify 
some things so i wo n't get flamed .  . 

first of all , when i'm talking about the   or a 
in   , what i really mean is a in 
the of  . i know that and breaking are 
not proven to be equivalent it 's just so damn convenient not to 
repeat this every time. 

i also have to admit that i do n't really know if the group   
property of a is essential only for key  . i have 
thought about it a little while , but i ca n't find a way that a 
could a group structure .  . that , of course , means 
nothing at all. 

then i wrote , 

please note that as long as it is much harder to factor a 
than it is to generate it , the increase in computer speed alone will 
keep key lengths and in lock step , i.e. , people will 
simply start using longer and still be safe .  . 

what i meant was that as long as the only advantage of the 
is a computer , then we will probably have for 
a long time to come , because even if bit somehow could be 
broken with fast computers  ( not with a new algorithm ) , then people 
would simply use longer  . both users and benefit 
from better technology in the same way. 

hope this keeps the flames away .  .  .  . have fun. 


de . 
sig closed for  . please leave your outside .  . 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. note the date. 

from  ( bob cain ) 
subject re pgp , , and 's  ( was cryptography patents ) 
organization usa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 22 

charles wrote 
in article  ( bob cain ) writes 

i hope my is misplaced here. go ahead .  .  . i'm . not afraid to 
be wrong every once in a while. but , i have an uneasy feeling that i 
am right. ( 

it is and you are wrong yet you emotionally state a bunch of crap as fact 
with a tiny disclaimer at the end. check your facts first and grow up. 
why is there such a strong correlation between interest in cryptography 
and i wonder .  . 

oh , i see , flame someone , tell them that they are , tell them 
they are wrong , and then do n't offer any proof for your assertions .  . 

you really are a  . put up or shut up. 


i will provide any proof you wish in private .  . name it ,  . 


cain 

from  ( lars poulsen ) 
subject re is there any security in the clipper 
organization network systems  ( rockwell dcd ) , santa , ca , usa 
lines 35 

in article  ( ze'ev wurman ) writes 
it seems to me that all discussions about clipper security are almost 
irrelevant if i cannot choose the key , but have to use a key chosen for 
me by the , the security of the whole universe of users is as good 
 ( or as bad ) as the security of inc. 

or their  . 

it is a trivial effort to run any all the ever 
after all we are talking about 1 to 100 million that 
will ever be  . the key can be as secure and 
as they wish to be , nobody cares anyway .  .  .  . ( 

they key are irrelevant .  . in order for the applicable law 
to be able to know what to request from 
, the system will have to its serial number in clear text 
as part of the link  . whoever owns the program 
that assigns to each serial number wo n't need access to the key 
 . 

in other words , the fbi may need a court ordered release of 
, but the has the before the chip is ever  . 
there is no need to go through the or to try all  . while 
relations between law have sometimes been , 
there is also a long history of trading favors .  . this will re establish 
the as a very important agency for everyone to get along with , 
because they can give you without court 
orders .  . 

the more i think about this affair , the it  . i 'd rather 
have a des with an engineered in ... 

, software engineer internet e mail 
network products l telephone 1 
santa , ca 1 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 72 

in article  ( brad yearwood ) writes 
if clipper comes to along with legal against 
using other systems on these , a new and dangerous 
class of crime is created. 

aside from of terrorist tools  ( unapproved devices 
or  .  .  . 

criminals who very want tactical communications  ( specifically 
the and drug who of key cite as threats ) 
will be highly motivated to steal the phone of a legitimate user , and 
to kill this person or hold them so of compromise of the 
device will be  . 

once a suitable collection of devices is stolen , criminals can communicate 
with  ( assuming the system carries no apart from 
key escrow ) until and unless the compromise is discovered by some other means. 

because life is cheap criminals are currently willing to kill people to steal 
very large and property  ( luxury cars ) , it is reasonable to assume 
that they will be willing to kill people to steal small and 
property (a  . just as we have seen in the past with 
blue box technology , and in the present with modified , 
we can expect to see among high criminals a market for 
stolen which can be used for a few days. the high 
criminals will pay the life is cheap types substantial for stolen 
 . 

because a person is typically discovered as missing or dead in a few days , 
a stolen instrument will be for only a few days. there will be a 
continuing demand for bodies .  . 

and since clinton is also going full bore to deny citizens 
the means to defend themselves ( we will protect you ... is good 
enough for you .  .  .  . ) by perverting or trashing the second amendment , 
the targeted individuals will be guaranteed easy prey .  . what is a few 
bodies compared to the greater good of the fed being able to defeat 
a citizen 's security with you do n't think there does n't 
exist a means by which the can do their usual , 
for keywords , with or without a court order or any   , do you 
if so , i got some great florida real you might be interested in .  .  .  . 

perhaps the idea of is meant to the discussion to 
how they will be , and away from the basic fact that the 
government is systematically taking away our right to , to be 
secure , for the means of self defense , and just about every other right 
spelled out in the bill of rights 

they are the government ! trust us .  .  .  . 

in other words , clipper and similar systems have the potential to turn a 
current to law enforcement into a direct , , and 
persistent threat to the general public. 

what is more important to the government law enforcement  ( people control ) 
or the safety of the general public the gun control issue should answer 
that one look at how good that works in making cities safer the places 
that are the worst in that regard are also the places with the  best  gun 
control. government is not about public good , it is about control. 

never forget that. our founding fathers sure were concerned about it. 


... remainder deleted ... 




without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( jerry han ) 
subject  ( was re once , your code is no good any more ) 
nntp posting host doc . ca . 
organization communications research centre , ottawa 
distribution na 
lines 36 

in this giant ho over this clipper chip i noticed a rather 
trend in some of the e mail and posts i 've back and 
forth .  . 

somebody asked me what was wrong about in cases such as this. 

the reason is very simple how many people do you want to die in a 
in a new civil war 

everybody is jumping up and down and screaming about it , and i'm worried 
that people are going to reach for their and before their 
and paper. 

can people work within the system before trying to break it examine your 
history books , and find out how many armed led to democratic 
 ( or democratic style ) governments .  . i think you 'll only find one in over 
five thousand years of written history. 

that 's not very good odds .  . 

somebody once said something like armed violence is meant only to be 
used in response to an armed attack .  . it is not meant to be used in 
 . this is the difference between self defence and murder .  . 

let 's try to avoid killing things , eh there 's enough blood shed in the 
world , without adding a couple of riots , civil wars , etc. 

i'm probably  . but what i 've read scared me a lot. i do n't 
want my children growing up in a war  . 



jerry doc  . of research 
these are my opinions , and my opinions only .  . 
a proud and frozen member of the mighty warriors 
of those i 've left behind , still in my ears .  . genesis 

from state . edu .  ( dane c. butzer ) 
subject how large are 
organization the ohio state university dept of electrical engineering 
lines 13 

what are the typical sizes for for secret key 
i know des is 56 bits ( des is bits ) and idea is 128 bits. is 
there anything made in the us that has 128 bit anything anywhere 
that has larger i 've heard that can be to arbitrarily 
large , but is this actually implemented anywhere 

finally , can anyone even of a time place where 128 bit are n't 
sufficient (i certainly ca n't even at a a second , it 
would take about 10 billion years to search just one of that 
space . ) . 

thanks , 


from  ( paul crowley ) 
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets 
reply to  ( paul crowley ) 
organization university 
lines 14 

if i forgot does n't have as much credibility as you 'd like , consider 
this alternative .  . somewhere on the hard , a few times , 
keep a 128 bit random number .  . when the 128 bit digest of your 
is , it is with the random number before being 
used as the key for your hard  . writing random junk over the random 
numbers makes the hard unreadable by anyone. 

now , if you were merely to claim that you have written random junk 
over the key , no one would be able to tell whether or not you were 
telling the truth. this is  ( a ) , and  ( b ) to 
cryptography , but otherwise effective. 

o paul crowley 
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x a fish for jesus ! 

from  ( steve kramarsky ) 
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets 
keywords 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 34 

in article  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 
i'm not a lawyer , so correct me if i'm wrong , but doing that could be 
considered of justice , which could land you in prison for 
quite a while. 

the thing that 's great about the secret key is it is idea , so 
even if the fbi do get the key , they 're unless they know the magic 
word. if they try to force you to give them your pass phrase , just say 
oops , i forgot .  . since the burden of proof is still on the prosecution 
in this country , if you keep your mouth shut , how can they prove that you 
did n't forget your pass phrase .  . 

ok , doug is right , it would be of justice , blah blah blah , 
but , saying i forgot is a lie , which is just as bad from a moral point 
of view if you think is a good in and of itself  ( which 
admittedly most people do not . ) . but there 's an even better way out of this. 
provided the government is you , you can probably 
the and thus legally avoid revealing your key .  . the 
government cannot demand information from a criminal which may 
tend to that  . though this has never been applied 
in the cryptography context  ( at least as far as i can tell ) it seems an 
obvious application to me. 

this may be a common suggestion in this group , but if it 's not  ( i'm new 
here ) i 'd love to hear what people have to say about it. since i do n't 
really read this group  ( and since the subject matter is more legal than 
cryptoid ) maybe misc . legal . computing . would be an appropriate place 

steve .  . 


steve , university of chicago law school 
or 
all i did was a girl .  . , the night before his hanging .  . 

from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
article i.d. 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 11 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( john hesse ) writes 
oh great .  . wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds .  . 

and anybody who can get the from the company .  . this is a 
that 's going to take plenty of they think they can 
keep it secure please .  .  .  . and that 's just primary , not secondary 
sources , such as police using the key under a warrant .  . would anyone 
be surprised if they just to the key if it turned 
out they could n't nail you on anything 

a and it will pick out your eyes. 

from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it ! 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 87 

robert lewis wrote 
clipper chip is a response to the fact that there is no business 
or body in a position to establish a standard and 
provide to implement it for or 
systems. 

might be in position to do it , if they had active of 
a couple of of or  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
is of the gov enough to this i , for one , 
would pay via secure  . 


hear hear ! i completely agree that we need to work quickly to 
establish alternatives to the government 's clinton clipper .  . as brad 
and others have noted , once the clipper becomes in 
enough there will be enormous pressure to make it the legal 
standard , and it will become the market standard as well.  ( there is 
a lot of confusion in the proposal about whether the use of clipper is 
mandated , about whether non alternatives will be allowed , etc . ) . 

 ( there are also issues about how hard , or how illegal , it will 
be to make which meet the standard but which generate 
or  .  . i'm . sure the next several weeks will see 
these issues out in this and other groups . ) . 

, i 'd be interested to hear data security 's reaction. 
often criticized in this group for their policies  ( the usual 
about costing too much , at or so , and the 
general issue of software  .  . ) . , we may find that 
ourselves with is the best thing we can do. what 's a mere 
fee when our liberty may be at stake  ( if everyone who 
wanted true security paid , say , 100 for a lifetime use of all of 
's which in the period , or so then 
would make tons of money and be happy , i'm sure. a small price to pay .  . 
for those to whom 100 sounds like too much , i'm sure the actual terms 
could be different , spread out over several years , whatever. to me , 
it 's a small price to pay . ) . 

strong means strong  . , sending copies of 
to large , and into two 40 bit pieces , 
all done with secret and non protocols and , is 
not strong ! 

whatever some of us may think about the abstract principles of 
number theory applications , this minor issue in 
comparison with the potential of the clipper proposal  ( note 
that i said potential  .  .  . we . 'll presumably learn more in the coming 
 . 

the are at least public , have been and 
attacked for years , and source code is available  ( to better ensure no 
deliberate or  . 

i know of a number of groups putting together voice systems 
using off the shelf hardware  ( like for the pc ) and 
type software .  . the new generations of , using fast and 
are fast enough to do real time voice  . combined 
with key exchange , this should provide an alternative 
to the clipper system. 

of course , we do n't really know if the to 
outlaw competing systems.  ( it seems to me that their goal of 
, child , and would be 
if low cost alternatives to clipper  . not to defend child 
or , but limiting basic freedoms to a 
few criminals is not the american way of doing things. end of soapbox 
mode . ) . 

i suggest we in these groups set aside any differences we may have had 
with  ( and do n't look at me .  .  .  . i . have both and a fully 
legal copy of ! ) and instead work with them as quickly as we can. 

, jim , are you listening 

tim may 

p.s. i reserve the right to retract these opinions if it should turn 
out that data security was involved in the clipper proposal .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may anarchy , digital money , 
anonymous , digital , zero 
408 knowledge , , information , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . , ca black , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from  ( john f carr ) 
subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it ! 
organization institute of technology 
lines 22 
distribution na 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article 
 ( the jester ) writes 

ignoring for the moment the question of patented processes  ( such as 
public keys ) , can the government stop me from using an 
process 

following precedent in other areas , the government is likely to put a tax on 
technology. once the tax is imposed , it becomes a federal matter 
and of an tool will bring the or 
fbi into your house.  ( the appears to be the logical 
agency to enforce such federal control over , , 
and is based on taxes . ) . 

look at the they wo n't allow sale of any that can receive 
that are supposed to be private .  . this has nothing to do with any 
desire to prevent harmful interference .  . if the government can make a radio 
receiver illegal what makes you think they wo n't claim the right to control 



john 

from  ( charles kincy ) 
subject bob cain  ( was pgp and other bs ) 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of missouri , , 
lines 21 

in article  ( bob cain ) writes 
charles wrote 
in article  ( bob cain ) writes 
... 
oh , i see , flame someone , tell them that they are , tell them 
they are wrong , and then do n't offer any proof for your assertions .  . 

you really are a  . put up or shut up. 


i will provide any proof you wish in private .  . name it ,  . 

do n't bother .  . has pretty much made 
your pathetic ass  . you lose .  . pack up your and 
go home. 

cain 

well , if the fits .  .  .  .  . 



from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
lines 25 

there are which perform the voice  . they ca n't 
be expensive , because they exist in many connected to or on the 
line cards , as well as in a lot of equipment which 
voice grade circuits to save the cost of long distance , or 
circuits .  . 

i ca n't remember the generic term for these  . my impression is that 
this was a big deal 10 years ago , but circuits have gotten so cheap that 
it is n't done much now. 

 . they have to get about 6 1 on 8 bit samples to 
them down  . i played around with the   program 
last night , but it only managed 2.5 1. i 've got some code 
but it 's not obvious that it runs in real time i think it 's just proof of 
concept code , and i have some about with file to do before 
i can put my own through it. 

looks like the current option is to use a voice mail with built in 
chip to do this in hardware .  . that means two modems for a system , 
putting the cost at 600  .  . maybe soon we 'll be able to 
do it in software on high games is n't the an 
risc machine inside that runs like shit off a shovel .  .  .  . and 
will be nicely mass market too. 

g 

from  ( michael finch ) 
subject re why the clipper is secret 
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va 
lines 17 
nntp posting host csugrad . cs . vt . edu . 

 ( john r. levine ) writes 
the , though , is another matter. i see no valid 
reasons for keeping it secret , and as i hope i 've shown above there 
it just occurred to me why the is secret. if it were 
published , one could then build physically identical versions 

i recall seeing a post some time ago saying that if the details of 
an scheme could n't be revealed , then the 
scheme is worthless .  . i believe the statement was in response to 
somebody saying that they had some new scheme , but the 
was a secret. 

does this depend on the fact that the scheme is secret or 
is it for the stated reasons above 


mike 

from  ( clipper chip announcement ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization national institute of standards technology 
lines 65 

in article  ( harry shapiro ) writes 
in  ( jurgen botz ) 
writes 

even more interesting the server at gov . no longer 
the   and   commands .  .  .  . 

gov . 
trying 129 . 6 . 54 . 11 .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
first . org . 4 . 1 . ready at tue , 20 apr 93 17 01 34 edt 
clipper 
command 

seems like did n't like your around ,  . 

then it is a good thing we already have this 

the mailing list gov . , and address on 
rest of names deleted 

sigh .  .  .  . my version of   asked me whether i really want to send this 
posting ! 

you may as well know that all this stuff about the secret source of the 
clipper announcement is because of a silly mistake. i am the administrator 
of gov . , first . org .  . it 's a system set up to help out 
the needs of first , a forum of incident response and security teams , which 
includes a number of world wide incident response teams such as cc and 
other places in europe .  . as to the and commands , they are normally 
, since early on we did n't want to find out the names of 
incident response folks on our mailing lists .  . we had a crash several 
months ago which required completely the o s files same old 
story , our were n't especially helpful .  . as you can guess , i did n't 
remember to re and until i saw people on the net trying to 
find out who was behind when i saw people 's names posted 
here , i felt it was time to clear things up. so , and on have 
always been in the past for reasons having nothing to do with 
clipper .  . 

i posted the white house at the request of policy folks here 
because also provides usenet service .  . i posted them from an account 
called ' . i also created an called  clipper  that contains 
the addresses of members of the computer security and 
board , set up under law of the computer security act of 1987 , and addresses 
of other individuals not with but involved in cryptography , 
security , and i believe that these individuals were included on 
this list because felt it important to get them the clipper information 
first hand. 

the  clipper  is there for the benefit of those named above. it is 
not a source for information , it was set up solely to any initial 
traffic .  . individuals on the list have requested that they continue to get 
traffic that is not already on usenet .  . 

while you can rightfully say we were a bit in handling this , 
i would ask that people stop speculating about any hidden or motives 
of the individuals on the  clipper  i 've already to them 
for what 's happened. and is an common 
practice  ( albeit to some ) , and any effect of it again 
was unintentional .  . 

john 


from  ( bill 1 0705 ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization your typical phone company involved in your typical 
distribution na 
in reply to 's message of 17 apr 93 06 13 26 gmt 

nntp posting host ho . com . 
lines 21 

in article  ( brad templeton ) writes 
once it land you can record it if you have access. the 
is n't supposed to give that without a warrant .  . that 's the rule today. 

but even so , the evidence would not be , i think , unless the 
judge so ordered .  . i think that even of the 
without a warrant would be illegal .  . cops ca n't record today 's plain 
calls and then ask a judge , hey , can we have permission to 
listen to those can they 

how long do you think it will be before it becomes legal for the 
police to record it 's not violating your 
because we ca n't read the without a warrant , with the usual 
good faith exception if they accidentally record a non conversation. 

besides , it 's covered by the drug exception to the fourth amendment .  .  .  . 

pray for peace bill 
bill 1 at t bell labs nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 fax 1 

from  ( bennett @ brothers inc. , ny ) 
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation 
lines 44 
nntp posting host 

for your application , what you can do is to the real time 
value with a secret key .  . 

well , almost .  .  .  .  . if i only had to solve the problem for myself , and were 
willing to have to type in a second  ( the secret key ) whenever i 
in , it could work. however , i'm trying to create a solution that 
anyone can use , and which , once , is just as to start up 
as the non solution of just using  ( xhost(1 ) to control access. i 've got 
problems with secret on computers. 

for a good discussion of good random number 
, check out the draft security randomness 00 . txt . 
internet draft , available at your local friendly internet 
 . 

thanks for the pointer ! it was good reading , and i liked the idea of using 
several unrelated sources with a strong mixing function. however , unless i 
missed something , the only source they suggested  ( aside from a hardware rng ) 
that seems available , and by an , when a unix is 
, is i o related to network traffic .  . i believe my 
solution basically uses that strategy , without requiring me to reach into 
the  . 

a reasonably source of randomness is the output of a 
function (e . g .  . , md5 ) , when fed with a large amount of 
more or less random data .  . for example , running on is a 
slow , but random enough , source of random bits there are bound to be 
128 bits of entropy in the tens  ( or hundreds ) of of data in 
a modern workstation 's memory , as a fair amount of them are system 
timers , i o , etc. 

i heard about this solution , and it good. then i heard that folks 
were experiencing times of 30 60 seconds to run this , on 
reasonably workstations .  . i'm not willing to add that much delay 
to someone 's process. my approach  ( etherfind , 10k ) takes 
a second or two to run. i'm considering writing the be all and end all of 
solutions , that the , and simultaneously tries to bits off 
the net , and if the net should be sitting so idle that it ca n't get 
after before , use the  . this way i could have 
guaranteed good bits , and a bound on time , and 
still have the common case of take only a couple of extra seconds .  . 

bennett 


from  ( bill campbell ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization celestial software , island , 
distribution na 
lines 53 

in  ( brad templeton ) writes 

it occurs to me that if they get a order on you , and the 
houses release your code to the cops , your code is now no longer secure .  . 

a very good point ! 

it 's in the hands of cops , and while i am sure most of the time they are 
good , their security will not be as good as the houses .  . 

why should we expect the cops to be honest ! they 're 
for the risks they face every day. the media on the all 
the time and them for all sorts of discrimination , 
 .  .  .  . how can we expect them to be more than human 

besides there are lots of cases of police abuses from 
protection to outright  ( when i worked in d . c .  . there 
was a at a local radio shack and the company heard the 
cops responding to the call over the in the ) .  . 

what this effectively means is that if they perform a on you , 
at the end of the , they should be obligated to you that 
a was performed , and replace  ( for free ) the clipper chip in your 
phone so that it is once again a code known only to the 
houses .  . 

then you would know that big brother had been listening .  . does he 
really want to let you know 

do the police normally reveal every they do even if no charges are 
laid in many ways , it would be a positive step if they had to. 
judges set time limits on warrants , i assume .  . at the end of the time 
limit they should have to or replace your chip .  . 

that 's if we go with this scheme , which i am not sure i agree with. 

i'm completely against anything that makes it easier for the 
government to on the rights of individuals .  . the 
of this country spent a lot of effort limiting the power 
of the government and specifying exactly what the governments 
rights were  ( and this did n't include a gov t in every 
 . imho , there are entirely too many things going on 
today designed to preserve the government organism at the expense 
of individuals .  . look around and reread 1984 and many early 
heinlein books. are n't there many between the thought 
police  ( can you texas ) , and heinlein 's years   

bill 

internet bill campbell celestial software 
uucp ... ! ! ! bill east way 
uunet ! ! bill island ,  ( 206 ) 
speed costs money how fast do you want to go 

from  ( marc n1nzu ) 
subject re the source of that announcement 
organization institute of technology 
lines 19 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 08 17 28 gmt 

in article  ( timothy c. may ) writes 

i know that at least one person on that list says the first he heard 
of clipper was in the friday morning newspaper ! and another has 
already fired off a letter of to  . 

my point i suspect this list , interesting as it is for various 
reasons , does not represent the that put this proposal together. 
some of them , yes. others , no. 

i received mail from saying that he did not ask to be on 
the list , and does not know why he was added .  . i'm sure the same 
applies to others on the list. so , i guess my initial theory was 
right , that the clipper list was just someone 's idea of a bad joke. i 
guess i should be happy it was n't a conspiracy .  . 





from  ( james r. holthaus ) 
subject re costs benefits 
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa 
lines 27 

 ( robert lewis glendenning ) writes 

in article  ( robin hanson ) writes 
i'm attempting to write a serious policy paper examining whether the 
proposed  ( or clipper ) chip is a cost effective tool for 
police investigation .  . that is , ignoring concerns about government 
intrusions into individual , is the value of easy to 
greater than the cost to the communications industry , 
and their , to support this technology 
... 

first , what the fuck is nasa doing wasting my tax dollars doing 
policy papers on stuff far outside of their mission 
... 
do us a favor. rather than right this paper for nasa .  . go 
do useful work for the society. 

! take it easy on the guy. maybe he 's going to do this in his 
spare time. maybe he 's going to do this to see how much a 
really costs .  . maybe he 's going to do this so he can add to the 
opposition to clipper .  . i do n't know fully why he might do this , but 
maybe we should n't start flaming at the drop of a hat .  . 

james james 
government is an association of men who do violence to the rest of us. 

pgp 2.2 public key available on request or from key server 

from  ( bill 1 0705 ) 
subject re the clipper chip a technical summary 
organization brought to you by the numbers 2 , 3 , and 7 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 93 18 23 27 
nntp posting host ho . com . 
lines 62 

in article writes 
 . 's description of mostly 

chip structure 
the clipper chip contains a classified 64 bit block 
called  . the uses 80 bit  ( compared 
with 56 for the des ) and has 32 of  ( compared with 16 
for the  . it supports all 4 des modes of operation. is 
16 a second .  . ... 

f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all 
n , a 30 bit serial number 
u , an 80 bit secret key that all messages 
with the chip 
the key k and message m (i . e .  . , voice ) are then 
fed into the clipper chip to produce two values 

e m k , the message , and 
e e k u n f , a law enforcement block. 

three questions 
1 ) it looks like each 64 bits of gives you 4 64 bits of output 
e m k 64 bits 
e k u e 80 bits 128 bits 
e e k u , n f e 128 30 bits bits 
do you really need to all 256 bits each time , 
or do you only the bits of block at the beginning 
all 256 would be really obnoxious for bandwidth limited applications 
like  ( or even regular over 

2 ) how do the 4 des modes interact with the two part output 
do the various modes only apply to the message block , 
or also to the block or , if the block is only 
at the beginning , does it get incorporated into 
everything through modes , but not during mode 

3) does the clipper chip check the block itself 
does the block have to be present at all 
since the receiving chip does n't know the 's u , 
it presumably ca n't check the validity of e k u , so it 's 
limited to checking the form of the block , 
and maybe checking the serial number for reasonableness 
 ( unless there 's some sort of back door structure that lets 
it recognize a valid e k u  . ) . 

in that case , can you replace the block with a different 
block , presumably an old valid one to avoid attention 
 ( the chip wo n't do it , so you the output . ) . 
regular people can do one with their own serial number and a key 
people can use someone else 's serial number .  . 

on the other hand , if i could think of that solution so easily , 
presumably the could too have they done something to block it , 
like use message that 's really e m k , u , n 


thanks ! 

pray for peace bill 
bill 1 at t bell labs nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 fax 1 

from  ( germano caronni ) 
subject re more technical details 
organization federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , , 
lines 

in article  ( steven bellovin ) writes 
here are some corrections and additions to 's note , courtesy of 
 . again , this is reposted with permission .  . 

two requests first , note the roles of and  . it appears to me 
and others that anyone who knows those values can construct the 
key .  . and the nature of the generation process for and is such 
that neither can be produced alone. thus , the scheme cannot be 
implemented such that one the first half key , and 
another the second .  . that is  . 

second these postings are not revealed scripture , nor are they 
carefully spook postings .  . do n't attempt to draw out hidden 
meanings  ( as opposed to , say , the official of  . 
leave out of this given 's record of opposition to des , 
which goes back before some folks on this newsgroup knew how to read , i 
do n't think you can his  . 

oh yeah the folks who invented clipper are n't stupid. if you think 
something does n't make sense , it 's almost certainly because you do n't 
understand their goals. 


this is an addition  ( posted with permission ) to some tech .  . details of 
 . they the use of and for  . 

date mon , 19 apr 93 08 51 57 edt 
from  ( dorothy denning ) 
subject re clipper chip 

i just had another conversation with to clarify some of the features 
of clipper .  . please feel free to distribute this and my other messages 
on clipper .  . 

the name of the is  . 

martin had written 

and the serial number of the added to produce a three part 
message which will then be under the system key 
producing 

e e m k , e k uk , serial number 

to which i responded 

my understanding is that e m k is not under  ( called the 
family key ) and that the key to is held by 
law enforcement .  . does anyone have first hand knowledge on this 

i was correct in that e m k is not under  . however , 
being a single key system , there is , of course , not a separate key 
for the family key  . 

the key , also called the chip key , is generated from the 
serial number n as follows .  . let n1 , , and be 64 bit blocks 
derived from n , and let and be two 80 bit seeds used as  . 
the 64 bit block 

e d e n1 

 ( note that this is like using the des in mode with 
two ) . similarly blocks and starting with and  . 
 ( i'm about whether the and change .  . the fact that 
they 're called seeds suggests they might . ) . then , , and are 
together giving bits. the first 80 bits form and 
the next 80 bits form  . the remaining bits are discarded .  . 

the seeds and do not change .  . the whole process is performed on 
a computer , and and are by two independent people 
so that no one person knows both. the same and are used during 
an entire programming to generate for a of serial 
numbers. everything is discarded at the end  ( the computer could be 
thrown out if  . 

the serial number is 30 bits and the values n1 , , and are formed 
by the serial number with fixed 34 bit blocks  ( separate 
for each  . 

the resulting and are output onto separate , paired 
up with their serial number .  . each pair is in a separate file. the 
are taken away by two separate people on behalf of the two 
 . 





i am sure more technical detail will be known when time goes by. 
please remark , that in posting this , i do not automatically agree 
with it 's contents and implications .  . so do n't my ) 

i just think this is an valuable addition to the less than technical 
discussion that is here. and , no , i do n't mind if you call 
and   , as i could imagine the key generation process 
working without these seeds and the of , from the 
serial number .  . 


friendly , 



only through things they 're designed to  . 
space still contains infinite  . 
pgp key id 


from  ( paul repacholi ) 
subject re clipper chip .  . long follow up. 
lines 
organization university of technology 

in article ,  ( jim gillogly ) writes 
this document is in the anonymous ftp directory at  . looks to me 
like the other has dropped .  . 

jim 
, 25 s . r .  . 1993 , 17 00 


thanks for posting this and making it available. this post will be long , i will 
comment on most of it , and am reluctantly leaving all of the original in place 
to provide context. 

please note that an alt. group has been set up for the clipper stuff. 



note this file will also be available via anonymous file 
from gov . in directory pub and 
via the computer security bbs at  . 


the white house 

office of the press 



for immediate release april 16 , 1993 


statement by the press 


the president today a new that will bring 
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary 

, at t , and are  industry  
wonder what happened to ibm , this should be right up their street. 
and a scheme is voluntary mr would love this. 

program to improve the security and of telephone 

communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law 
enforcement .  . 

telephone and are years behind digital ones like , 
idea , or even des .  . the above , while true , is a straw man claim 
in the context of non real time circuits such as e mail and the like. 

the will involve the creation of new products to 
the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications and communications links .  . 


i would propose that a mandated use of would do more for 
than this lot. 

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our 
private and the law enforcement community to resolve the 
between economic and the real challenges of 
protecting americans .  . rather than use technology to 
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , and 
law enforcement , previous policies have government against 
industry and the rights of against law enforcement .  . 

sophisticated technology has been used for years to 
protect electronic funds  . it is now being used to 
protect electronic mail and computer files. while 

des .  . 

technology can help americans protect business and the 

release of personal information , it also can be used 
by , drug , and other criminals .  . 

note the use of the word business in the above. the whole of this 
release seems to be establishing a ground rule that only business use 
is legitimate for debate. if you want the you drop in your wife 's 
ear to remain secret and private , that is not even on the for debate. 
note that there is no role for you to contain private info in this. the only 
reference is to information already in the hands of others. the  
release  bit is also drawing a long bow .  . most of these cases are by people who 
have legitimate access it , and revealing , or often selling the info .  . 
these people are , of course , in this proposal , the people who will have the 
 . 

the criminals also use , courts , the , white house and 
to go about their business. when will they be outlawed as well yeah , several 
of them would be a better idea than clipper ! 

them again , the of law and the courts have been seriously 
over the last so. 

a state of the art called the clipper chip has 
been developed by government  . the chip represents a 



new approach to technology. 

yeah , this bit is very true. 

 .  .  .  . it . can be used in new , 
relatively devices that can be attached to 
an ordinary telephone .  . it telephone communications 
using an that is more powerful than many in 
use today. 


note the repeated mixing of telephone and  . a 
of the above claim on an would be a good nights 
i suspect .  . note also the  . not  all  , as the general tone implies .  . 

this new technology will help protect 

information , protect the of personal phone 

and prevent release of data 
 . at the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement to 
the phone of criminals .  . 

the case record seems to indicate that what is needed is a brutal 
of the current abuses .  . i have not heard , yet , of a case that was by 
the use of secure by the men in black .  . the other side , abuse by law 
is well documented , even by govt  . and the phone vs other 
is yet again. 


















a key system will be established to ensure that the 
clipper chip is used to protect the of law 
americans .  . 















a key system will be established to ensure that the 
clipper chip is used to protect the of law 
americans .  . 

lets run that line twice .  . not very carefully what it says .  . the stated 
purpose of the key is to make the use of clipper compulsory .  . note the 
word ensure . as to  protect  , or  law  , i will leave to you. 
so to the person who asked if it included the of other , 
the answer in this press release is , yes. 

 .  .  . each . device containing the chip will have two unique 
, numbers that will be needed by government 
to messages by the device. when the 
device is , the two will be 
in two key data bases that will be established by the 
general. access to these will be limited to 
government with legal to conduct a 
 . 

just as they only can now with a  . 

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no 
new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

just makes sure that the illegal ones are preserved .  . 

to demonstrate the of this new technology , the 
general will soon several thousand of the new 
devices .  . in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

where do you find many  . any ex people looking for a contract ) 
and as a later posting asks , what of the they already have. it will 
be very interesting to see if the military and us start to use it. 
after all , it is secure , is n't it. the govt will answer that point by its own 
actions .  . 

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of 
's dual sword helps to protect the 
of individuals and industry , but it also can 
criminals and  . we need the clipper chip and other 
approaches that can both provide law citizens with access 
to the they need and prevent criminals from using it 
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology 
trends and new approaches  ( like the key system ) , 
the president has directed government to develop a 
comprehensive policy on that 

the of our citizens , including the need to 
voice or data for business purposes 


again , personal use seems to be a question. 


the ability of to access telephone 
calls and data , under proper court or other legal 

order , when necessary to protect our citizens 

ah , so are not always needed it seems. 


the effective and use of the most modern 
technology to build the national information 
needed to promote economic growth and 
the of american industry in the 
and 

the need of u.s. to manufacture and 
high technology products. 

the seem to slightly this. 

the president has directed early and frequent with 
affected , the congress and groups that advocate the 
rights of individuals as policy options are developed .  . 
the is committed to working with the private 
to spur the development of a national information 
which will use new telecommunications and computer 
to give americans access to 
information. this of high speed 
( information ) will video , images , 
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone 
system voice .  . 

note that all this stuff will be in secret. only the  proper people  
will be able to express an opinion , hence only the desired result will emerge .  . 

since technology will play an important 
role in that , the federal government must act 
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding 
its use. the is committed to policies that 
protect all americans  right to while also protecting 
them from those who break the law. 

and codes have been around for  . they are in 
with the technology of the time. the study of 
has resulted in a swing in favor of the , at the moment .  . i have no 
doubt that the problem will fall in time. probably practical 
purposes by the middle of the next century. 

further information is provided in an accompanying fact  . 
the of the president 's to acquire the new 
technology are also available. 

for additional details , call , national institute of 
standards and technology ,  ( 301 )  . 




questions and answers about the clinton s 
telecommunications 




q does this approach expand the authority of government 
to listen in on phone 

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with 
no new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 
court order , to do the in the first place. they 
would then present documentation of this to 
the two entities responsible for the and 
obtain the for the device being used by the drug 
 . the key is split into two parts , which are 
in order to ensure the security of the key 
system. 

q who will run the key data banks 

a the two key data banks will be run by two independent 
entities .  . at this point , the department of justice and the 
have yet to determine which will 
the key data banks .  . 

it is a little hard to a non proposal .  . 

q how strong is the security in the device how can i be sure 
how strong the security is 

a this system is more secure than many other voice 
systems readily available today. 

note we drop back to  phone mode  again. if this is a true answer , it can be 
rephrased as it big time. anyone who can drive the work 
will use it for light amusement before  . 

... while the will 
remain classified to protect the security of the key 
system , 

this link between the security of the key , and the actual is 
a real winner .  . given that i have 2 secret 40 bit numbers , could someone please 
explain how the details of an will reveal them 

... we are willing to an independent of 
cryptography to the to all 
potential users that there are no 
 . 

just make sure you read the real , ok. 


q whose decision was it to propose this product 

a the national security council , the justice department , the 
commerce department , and other key were involved in 
this decision. this approach has been by the 
president , the vice president , and appropriate 
 . 

quick , with out looking back , what name is missing from that list 

q who was the congress industry 

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on 
issues , and expect those discussions to 
as we carry out our review of policy. we have 
members of congress and industry leaders on the 
decisions related to this  . 

the people who agree with us and who think there is a in it for them. 

q will the government provide the hardware to 

a the government designed and developed the key access 
, but it is not providing the 
to product  . product 
can acquire the from the chip 
that produces them. 

the reverse engineering of the  work  act could be relevent 
here. 

q who provides the clipper chip 

a programs it at their in , 
california , and will sell the chip to device 
 . the programming function could be 
to other in the future. 

q how do i buy one of these devices 

a we expect several to consider 
the clipper chip into their devices .  . 

you do n't .  . not unless you are one of the  right  . 

q if the were unable to find a 
solution like the one proposed , would the be 
willing to use legal to restrict access to more 
powerful devices 

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be 
considered during the broad policy review .  . the key 

they missed the word secret here. he needs a grammar lesson too. 

mechanism will provide americans with an product 
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive 
than others readily available today , but it is just one 
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to 
technology , which the is 
developing .  . 

i would say less secure , less , more expensive ( pgp is free ) , 
less available , and more prone to being 
to the will be welcome. note proof. 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . 

they do n't seem to be saying anything that makes much sense. and this proposal 
does it except in a very limited way. and , this is the one explicit 
reference to personal rights. it is a denial .  . and yes , i do n't think that the 
, , and are included in clinton et 
 . 

... there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

the  false  is false .  . the is between two points. the 
right to is hand to non existance by putting it behind the false 
. it is assumed that the removal of the right to take what ever steps 
you suitable to protect your is non , hence is defined 
in the language to be non existant .  . if you do n't agree , you must be a 
criminal , as only criminals do n't agree with out laws .  . also note the non 
question. if what is here was not possible .  .  .  . 

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton 
's policy will differ from 
that of the bush 

a it indicates that we understand the importance of 
technology in telecommunications and computing and are 
committed to working with industry and public interest 
groups to find ways to protect americans  
, help to , and ensure that law 
enforcement have the tools they need to fight crime 
and terrorism .  . 

it indicates we know that bush dropped the ball in that nasty insert 
suitable and will stamp out this , of 
freedom and national  . 

q will the devices be will other devices that use 
the government hardware 

a voice devices are subject to control 
requirements .  . case by case review for each is 
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices .  . the 
same is true for other devices .  . one of the 
of this technology is the protection it can give 
to u.s. operating at home and  . with this 
in mind , we expect will be granted on a 
case by case basis for u.s. seeking to use these 
devices to secure their own communications  . we plan 
to review the possibility of permitting 
of these products. 


this one is a real  . in australia or france , they will have to reveal the 
, and the  . do n't think it 's at the top of my list of things i must 
have , so the restrictions will protect me from trying to sell me a bill 
of crock .  . 

any for any others using it , they must be nuts ! 

good luck folks .  . 

paul 


from  ( paul olson ) 
subject re white house public fact 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization mission and data systems 
distribution na 
lines 44 

in article ,  ( carl ellison ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( clipper chip announcement ) writes 

further , the general 
shall funds from the department of justice 
super to effect this  . 

talk about adding insult to injury ... 

i , for one , believe that the use of civil should be abolished by 
a decent , not continued .  . instead , it looks like that 
ill gotten gain will be used to help pay for equipment. 

i agree. knowing that we have let our law enforcement 
our property against the amendment of our constitution tells me that 
we are ourselves of our responsibility for self governance .  . we have 
to take our government back from the self serving politicians who create laws 
and rules only to better their positions within the government. we have allowed 
them to take too much power from the people of this nation .  . that situation has 
to be changed. 

allowing the law enforcement to use the property to pay off drug 
who lie and continue to deal in drugs is to making a 
with the devil himself. it 's a cycle .  . the law enforcement are 
motivated to property to their own activities. and having no easy 
way for the citizen to the property once taken gives even more 
incentive for the to take property .  . 

it 's also interesting to note that two months ago rush said that 
clinton would have the out in force shortly .  . clinton and his 
firmly believe in strong ubiquitous government control. anytime a 
leader believes in that , the leader will use every means possible to that 
control and take more. 

we have to take our government back .  . otherwise we will end up living in the 
equivalent of a high tech third world dictatorship .  . we have to take 
responsibility for ourselves , our personal welfare , and our actions .  . 

paul j. vax systems resident 
c voice , 
paul 
internet 
xx disclaimer statements in my messages are my own. 
ignorance is a resource .  . p . j .  . o 

from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re how to detect use of an illegal 
organization communications corp .  . 
lines 16 

in article  ( eli brandt ) writes 
get their copy of your key .  . any criminal who 's going to use 
will do it under cover of clipper .  . the only way to avoid 
this will be to try to strong  . 

this is n't true. today 's criminals regularly use all sorts of 
methods , from to to plain old 
wire that you can put on to plan and 
execute their crimes .  . 

it is amazing how stupid they are , which is why the fbi was so on 
the digital law , and its the clipper chip .  . they 're 
here that most will remain stupid , feel safe using clipper 
chip and get caught. 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from  ( ted dunning ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization computing research lab 
lines 7 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 15 19 06 gmt 


nobody seems to have noticed that the clipper chip must have been 
under development for longer than the 3 months that 
clinton has been president .  . this is not something that choosing 
choosing bush over clinton would have changed in the slightest it has 
been in the works for some time. 


from de .  ( marc conrad ) 
subject re list of large integer arithmetic 
organization linguistics dept. , u 
lines 
nntp posting host math . uni . de . 

 ( mark riordan ) writes 

not very comprehensive list deleted 

there is a very comprehensive list in sci . math . , 
which detailed descriptions of many  . 
 ( especially you , mark , should update your list ) ) 
here it is 


available systems 

this is the list of currently developed and software for 
math applications .  . no is on systems no longer 
being supported like saint , , , , , sin , , , 
, , , , , or  . 

for more detailed info on any of the systems below , look into the directory 
pub math in the anonymous ftp of math . berkeley . edu . . no particular 
is made for any of these. if you want contact the 
company .  . programs are listed by ) . the reverse order of the number of 
machines they run on , in each class , general purpose systems first. 

if you have any information to add to this list  ( we know we are missing 
felix ) please send it to 


de 
department of mathematics 
university of california 
berkeley ca 

general purpose 



type 
machines most impressive list of machines i seen for a program 
workstations  ( dec , , ibm , , sun , sgi , apollo ) , 
pc 's , mac , , , at t , , , 
, pyramid , , and 's .  . 
contact 
software , street west , 
, ontario , canada 
phone  ( 519 ) 
version 5 release 1 
comments general purpose , source available for most routines , 
support in 5 . 0 .  . a of the program for pc dos 
can be obtained from anonymous ftp at 
edu . edu math modern . zip . 


type 
machines down to mac 's and pc 's 
contact , phone 1 math 
research , inc. 
100 trade center drive , champaign il 
version 2 . 1 . 
comments general purpose , interface on next , mac , 
nice  . 


type 
machines sun 3 , sun 4  ( sparc ) , vax  ( unix and vms ) , , 
, dec risc , dos , computers , 
and  ( no 's ) pc 's .  . 
contact , phone 
, 20 st. , arlington ma 
version depends on machine 100 . is the latest  ( for sun 4 , , 
and dec risc ) , for pc 's 
comments general purpose , many capabilities , one of the 
oldest around. includes from 
and inc. of mit 's  . 

doe 
type distribution fee only 
machines , , and lisp machines .  . the nil 
version runs on using the vms system. the public 
domain lisp version , runs on unix machines , including 
and using unix .  . 
contact energy science technology software center 
p. o .  . box oak 
phone  ( 615 ) 
comments help with doe , general and help with issues such as 
obtaining support , new versions , etc 
from paradigm  . paradigm , inc. 
29 avenue , 6 cambridge , ma  ( 617 )  . 


type for a fee .  . get from before  . 
machines unix workstations  ( sun , , , pc 's ) and pc dos  . 
contact  ( bill schelter ) 
version 4 . 
comments general purpose mit family. common lisp 
implementation by william f. , based on 
common lisp .  . modified version of doe available 
to  ( doe ) sites .  . get the from  ( phone 
2606 ) and then the software from 
dos math . utexas . edu . pub zip . or 
unix utexas . edu . pub 4 z . 
currently their charge for 1 machine license is to 
universities .  . site are also available. 


type 
machines mac 's with of  . 
contact , phone  ( 508 ) , pond research .  . 
15 pond road , ma us 
version 1.0 
comments mit family , uses lisp .  . 


type 
machines vax vms , sun 3 , sun 4 ,  ( sgi and mac 's on the works ) 
contact 
version 
comments 


type distribution fee only 
machines vax unix 
contact  ( see doe above) 
version 
comments general purpose mit family  . 
includes source and with assembler for 
and lisp 38 

reduce 
type 
machines all unix workstations , a variety of , 
dos and st. 
contact reduce 
version 3 . 34 . 
comments general purpose 

form 
type public domain 1 , version 2 
machines , , mac , , , , next , 
vax vms , vax , , and others 
contact  ( jos vermaseren ) 
versions of version 1 are available 
by anonymous ftp from 16 . 
version 1 and 2. 
comments general purpose , designed for big problems , like 
interface 

axiom 
type 
machines ibm rs 6000 's and other ibm 
contact , phone  ( 708 ) fax  ( 708 ) 
group , 
1400 place , 200 , , il 
version 
comments general purpose. 


type anonymous ftp 
machines , and siemens workstations .  . 
contact de . 
version 3.5 
comments general purpose 

derive 
type 
machines runs on pc 's and 's .  . 
contact 
soft inc. harding , 
, hawaii 
version 2 . 01 . 
comments said to be very , gets problems that other larger 
programs fail on. low cost .  . 


type 
machines mac 's 
contact , phone  ( 415)543 ) fax  ( 415)882 ) 
corp , , san francisco , ca 
version 1 . 11 . 
comments general purpose , , if you like the mac interface 
you 'll love this , fixed precision ( 19 ) , runs on 
smaller mac 's than  . 

mas 
type anonymous ftp 
machines  ( tdi and 2 compilers ) , ibm pc at 
 ( m2sds and 2 compilers ) and 
 ( m2amiga  . 
contact h.  . computer group 
university of , germany 
version 0 . 60 . 
comments mas is an experimental computer system 
imperative programming facilities with 
capabilities for design and study of 
 . mas is available via anonymous ftp from 
alice . uni . de . 123 . 10 . 1 . 


type anonymous ftp from berkeley . edu . 
machines anywhere running common lisp .  . 
contact 
version 
comments it does  ( or i that ! ) .  . 


type anonymous ftp from ftp . cs . edu . pub 
contact 
version 4 . 240 . 
comments intended to be incorporated in larger , more 
systems. 


type 
machines ibm pc 's  ( dos ) 
contact victor l. , institute for control sciences , 
65 , , ussr 
version 
comments functional language 


group theory 



type cost 
machines sun 3 , sun 4 , ibm aix and machines , , dec 
vax vms , mac running a 2 . 01 . or higher and  . 
contact 
phone  ( 61 )  ( 02 ) , fax  ( 61 )  ( 02 ) 
group 
university of 
australia 
version 3 . 8 . 3 . 
comments designed for fast with and 
structures such as groups , , 
fields , and  . although it began as a 
group theory system it has recently evolved into a 
general  ( abstract ) system. 

gap 
type anonymous ftp  ( free , but not basically copyleft ) 
machines all unix workstations , , ibm pc and mac 
contact de . 
ftp site samson . math . de . 226 . math . edu . 
version 3 . 1 . (3 . 2 . to be released dec 92 ) 
comments group theory calculations .  . 


number theory 



type anonymous ftp 
machines most workstations , mac and next 
contact fr . 
anonymous ftp to math . edu . 64 . 
in the directory pub 
version 1 . 35 . 
comments number , source available , key 
routines are in assembler , ascii and  . 
pc dos version available from anonymous ftp at 
edu . edu math modern . 


type anonymous ftp 
machines complete source available , mac versions available 
contact anonymous ftp to edu . 103 . 1 . 
version 
comments on type ( 
over finite fields ) , things like that. 

kant 
type 
machines 
contact kant group 
 . dr. m. e. dr. v. 
, at 
 . 1 , d d 1 
or 
version 1 2 
comments kant  ( computational number theory ) is 
for from geometry of 
numbers and number theory. there are two 
versions of kant kant v1 is written in , 
while kant is built on the and written in 
c. 

lie 
type 
machines unix workstations  ( sun , dec , sgi , ibm ) , next , pc 's , 
and mac 's .  . 
contact , phone 31 20 , fax 31 20 
can expertise centre , , 
, the 
version 2 
comments lie group 


type anonymous ftp 
machines mac and ibm pc 's 
contact , phone  ( 313 ) 
e. g. , department of mathematical sciences 
university , rochester , mi 
version 8 . 30 . 
comments basic like environment for number theory. in the collection 
of programs written for it one can find 
 ( collection of number theory programs 
by e. g.  ( and by him ) , including 
test , for 
chinese , curve method to n , 
's method of , general periodic continued 
to , 's 
function d. h. 's method of x 2 q  ( mod  . 
 ( prime program for numbers over 80 
, that can be found in the 
archives  . 

numbers 
type free but not public domain , required. 
machines pc dos 
contact phone ( 49 ) 541 
fax ( 49 ) 541 
bitnet 

w germany 
version 
comments numbers is a for number theory. it performs 
various routines in elementary number theory , some of 
which are also in or  . 
available in the anonymous ftp in ftp . rz . uni . de . 
in the directory pub math 


type 
machines mac 's 
contact 
version 
comments in 


type 
machines ibm pc dos 
contact inc. , 26 , a , austria 
version 
comments and number theory written by 
r. , r. w. matthews , and r. from the u. 
in pascal 0 .  . 


type anonymous ftp 
machines any system with common lisp , x 11 , and has at least 
a lisp c interface .  . 
contact andrew 
department of computer science , university 
west , in 
 ( bajaj and 
version 
comments is an geometry , for computing 
and solutions to systems of  . 
it is written in common lisp and c , and runs under version 
11 of the x system. 
is available from the anonymous ftp at 
cs . edu . in the file pub z . 


analysis 



type 
machines 
contact mentioned in  .  . 8 , 1  . 
version 
comments i have heard this program mentioned , it 's designed 
for large problems (i . e .  . thousands of terms in series 
) .  . developed at for 


type 
machines vax , sun , , , 
contact , 
, physics department , university of 
9 . , s 46 , , 
version 
comments system for and 


lisp 



type 
machines needs a lisp  ( either common or scheme ) 
contact available by anon ftp to ai . mit . edu . 18 . 43 . 0 . 
version 
comments an ibm pc version on for 50 is available from 
, pleasant st. ma , usa .  . 


type 
machines where runs .  . 
contact free software foundation 
version 
comments it runs inside and is written entirely in 
lisp .  . it does the usual things arbitrary precision integer , 
real , and complex arithmetic  ( all written in lisp ) , 
scientific functions , and , 
, , etc. and can display expressions with 
square root signs and by drawing them on the 
with ascii characters. it comes with well written 
600 page manual .  . you can ftp it from any site. 






type informal distribution 
machines ibm pc 's  ( dos ) 
contact a. v. , program systems institute , 
ussr of science , , 
p.o. box 11 , ussr , 
version 
comments equation 


pc 



type , student and advanced versions. 
machines ibm pc 
contact 
version 2 . 1 . 1 . 
comments runs on plain  ( 640k ) dos machines .  . the version 
is available in the file zip . on the archives .  . 
more capable versions are available by mail order from the 
author. 


type anonymous ftp 
machines pc dos 
contact 
version 2.0 
comments a or which 
rank , , reduced form , 
form , characteristic equation , , 
etc. of a  . file zip . on the archives .  . 


type anonymous ftp 
machines pc dos 
contact david , department of mathematics 
san francisco state university 
san francisco , ca 

version 4 . 0 . 
comments called  . well integrated and some 
 ( numerical ) routines .  . intended for 
students .  . hall this with a book 
 ( isbn 0 13 x or by calling 767 5937 ) , but it 
is also available  ( without the manual but with a 
comprehensive help system ) by anonymous ftp from 
edu . edu math zip .  . 


type , evaluation copy available by anonymous ftp 
machines pc dos 
contact mark  ( 71571 ,  ( 404 ) 
software , po box , , 
version 3 . 0 . 
comments the program  ( amp ) is written in 
2 and is a tool. functions 
in an mode and program mode .  . it has 
using index  . the evaluation copy is 
available in the anonymous ftp at 
ftp . rz . uni . de . pub math zip . 


type 
machines pc dos 
contact 
version 2 . 06 . 
comments limited in capabilities , but is extremely 
at and produces publication 
quality output .  . this used to be 's ! , 
but when abandoned it , its original author started 
selling it as under the name  . available 
from anonymous ftp at 
edu . edu math zip . 


type public domain 
machines pc dos 
contact 
version 5 . 46 . 
comments available from the anonymous ftp at 
edu . edu math modern . zip . 

lie 
type public domain 
machines pc dos 
contact (a .  . k. head ) 
csiro division of materials science and technology 
australia or 
locked 33 , clayton , , australia 
phone  ( 03 ) telex aa fax  ( 03 ) 
version 3 . 3 . 
comments lie is a program written in the language  ( not a 
package ) for lie analysis of  . 
available from anonymous ftp at 
edu . edu math 


type 
machines pc dos with 
contact , dept. of mathematics 
university of il .  . urbana , il  . 
version 9 . 0 . 
comments program for and  . it has 
 .  ( simple functions ) ,  . 
very program no reason to use it , except for 
price  ( suggested fee is 30 .  . 
available from anonymous ftp at 
edu . edu math 


, des 
de . 
france germany these opinions are not necessarily these 
x you are here ! of the group  ( and maybe even not  . 

from de .  ( thomas koenig ) 
subject re white house public fact 
organization university of , germany 
lines 26 
distribution na 
nntp posting host rz . uni . de . 
version 1.0 
content type text plain 1 
content 

 ( clipper chip announcement ) writes 

the president has approved a on public 
 . the provides for the following 

... 

when 
, it can be used to foreign intelligence 
activities critical to our national interests .  . 

... 

the general of the united states , or her representative , 
shall request of communications hardware which 
to the u.s. government developed 
key in their products. 

quite interesting. how does the us intend to persuade 
non us governments to let the on them or should u.s. 
these in systems sold 
without the customer 's or consent , or not at all 

thomas , de . , 
the joy of engineering is to find a straight line on a double 
 . 

from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
distribution na 
lines 8 

 ( jeff w. hyche ) writes 
yes , clipper is a of  . its the risc chip used 
in some of thier workstations .  . i wonder what is going to 
do to this on thier name sake 

probably keep quiet and take it , lest they get their  . 

good news. ten weeks from friday will be a good day. 

from  ( carl m kadie ) 
subject re clipper crap 
organization university of illinois , dept. of  . sci .  . , urbana , il 
lines 9 

's dual sword helps to protect the 
of individuals and industry , but it also can 
criminals and  . we need the clipper chip and other 

necessity is the plea for every of human freedom .  . it is 
the argument of tyrants it is the creed of slaves .  . william pitt 

i do not represent any organization this is just me. 


from 
subject re freely public key cryptography c code where 
organization computer science dept , university 
lines 43 

thus said  ( jonathan k saville ) 
d. wrote 

do you know of any freely c  ( or c ) code for public 
key cryptography  ( such as rsa ) 

i 've tried various searches to no avail. 

have you heard of pgp i assume from your post that you have not. pgp 2.2 
is a program which includes digital and 
comprehensive key facilities .  . most sites also keep the source code. 
a growing number of people are using this excellent software to  ( to 
a very high standard ) their email and data .  . get it before clinton outlaws it. 

two of the many sites are 
com . pub pgp 
soda . berkeley . edu . pub pgp 

pgp is not available on the archive site com .  . if it were , it 
would be highly amusing , since com .  ( actually public key partners , 
but it 's the same entity ) is the organization holding the 
which they claim are violated if you actually make , use or sell pgp .  . 
i believe those also apply in canada , but i'm not a 
lawyer or anything. 

there is no such thing as freely redistributable code for which 
can be used in north america without legal  . you may 
wish to consider , however , which is available from the ftp 
site com . in but probably does n't meet your definition of 
freely redistributable  ( it 's readily available in source , in c , and 
does , , etc. and comes with a license allowing 
use. like any other strong software , it 's not 
legally .  . it can be modified with permission from , which a 
number of people have received in the past . ) . for reasons that are n't 
entirely clear to me , says that only u.s. people should take 
from its server , although there are n't issues regarding 
canada .  . the distribution site has in its 
distribution , and is ok for  . 

accepted 


the is simply rush in a suit .  . lost boy 

from  ( phil karn ) 
subject re re policy an statement 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization , 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( vadim antonov ) writes 
i somehow started to doubt technical of the 
people who designed the system. why on the earth split the 
80 bit key in 40 bit parts to keep them in 
 ( having 40 bit and large volumes of data voice links produce 
it should be relatively easy to break it) when they simply 
could keep 80 bit sequences in n  ( n 2 ) independent places 
and then all the to get the actual key  ( n 1 
sequences should obviously be randomly and is the 
actual key ed with the random  . 

without real technical details , it 's hard to answer this question. but 
suppose they already are the two 40 bit parts to produce only 
40 bits of real key material maybe they 're using the version 
of  .  .  . ) 



from  ( brad kepley ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization university of north at 
distribution na 
lines 13 

in article  ( felix gallo ) writes 
 ( pat myrto ) writes 

if the clinton clipper is so very good , ... 

please note that bill clinton probably has little if anything to do 
with the design , implementation or reasoning behind this chip or behind 

ca n't we move the political to a more appropriate group 

brad internet 
work days voice  ( 704)252 ) 


from  ( stefan brands ) 
subject report on protecting off line cash available 
organization , 
lines 60 

i recently published a new protecting off line electronic cash 
system as a technical report at  . being a student at david 
's cryptography group , our group has a long history in research 
in the field of protecting cash systems. 

the report is called cs ps . z . , contains pages , and can be 
from 

ftp . 16 . 

from the directory pub aa .  . 
the file is suitable for  . 


abstract  ( from coverpage ) we present a new off line electronic cash 
system based on a problem , called the representation problem , of which 
little use has been made in literature thus far. our system is the 
first to be based entirely on discrete  . using the 
representation problem as a basic concept , some techniques are 
introduced that us to construct protocols for and 
that do not use the cut and choose of earlier 
systems. as a consequence , our cash system is much more efficient in 
both and complexity than any such system 
proposed previously .  . 

another important aspect of our system concerns its  . 
contrary to previously proposed systems , its correctness can be 
mathematically proven to a very great extent .  . specifically , if we 
make one plausible assumption concerning a single function , the 
ability to break the system seems to imply that one can break the 
problem. 

our system a number of that are hard to achieve in 
previously known systems. in our opinion the most interesting of these 
is that the entire cash system  ( including all the extensions ) can be 
incorporated in a setting based on with observers , which has 
the important advantage that double spending can be prevented in the 
first place , rather than the identity of a double 
after the fact. in particular , it can be incorporated even under the 
most requirements conceivable about the of the user , 
which seems to be impossible to do with previously proposed systems. 
another benefit of our system is that attempts by a bank have 
negligible probability of success  ( independent of computing power ) by 
a simple mechanism from within the system , which is something that 
previous solutions lack entirely .  . furthermore , the basic cash system 
can be extended to , show cash and , while 
its  . 


are challenged to try to break this system ! 

i made a particular effort to keep the report as self contained as 
possible. nevertheless , if you have any questions , please e mail to 
me and i will try to reply as good as i can. any comments are also 
welcome ! 

brands , 

, , , the 
tel 31 20 , e mail 

from  ( jim mccoy ) 
subject re amendment and 
reply to  ( jim mccoy ) 
organization the university of texas austin 
lines 53 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
originator 


in article ,  ( phil karn ) writes 
in article ,  ( rob stampfli ) writes 
sadly , it does not. can be compelled to give and 
voice , and to take blood and dna  . 

i am sure that mike is correct on this point. i am also pretty sure that 
truth would be ruled a violation of your right 
not to yourself. but , what is the difference 

you can find the difference in any number of amendment 
related supreme court opinions. the court limits amendment 
to what they call testimonial evidence , as opposed to 
physical evidence. 

i have a question that is a slight on the previously mentioned 
examples that perhaps people could give me some on  ( it has been a 
couple of years since my con law class in college so i hope i am not 
missing something obvious here .  .  . ) . 

basic scenario 

i set up a bbs that uses public key and of 
files on  . the general setup is designed so that when users 
connect they send a private key using the system public 
key and the user 's public private is used to the 
one time used for the files on  . the 
result of this is that even if i reveal the system private key it 
is impossible for anyone to gain access to the files on the 
machine .  . what is possible is for someone to use the revealed 
system private key to users into revealing thier personal 
private during the sequence .  . 

questions 

does the fact that the system private key does not provide any 
information useful for a search give me any protection as far as 
being to reveal the key (i doubt it myself .  . ) . 

it seems providing the system private key does not mean that i am 
in  ( the users would send thier key anyway 
and are not being into doing something they would not 
otherwise do ) but is there any other that can be used 

would the user private key require approval 

any answers or general on the subject would be  .  .  . 

jim 

jim mccoy unix sysadmin tiger team 
include disclaimer . h . 
j pgp key available via finger or upon request 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re automatic of data 
lines 46 

from  ( marc anderson ) 

also .  .  . how about a box that you plug your phone into , which would allow 
voice communications with someone who has a similar box 
 ( digitizing speech , , and on the other  . i 
do n't know how a public key system could work in this regard , but it might 
... 

 .  .  . i posted this just before reading all the clinton chip messages .  .  . 
i guess they me to it .  .  . anyway , i think it would be a great idea to 
develop such a product , perhaps in the , as it would otherwise 
probably become illegal pretty quickly here .  .  .  . 

it 's really very and should n't be too expensive all that 's needed 
is a box with a phone jack on one side , a in the middle to do 
functions of speech , and an on the other side. 

you 'd plug your phone into it , plug the into your computer , and have 
a good old normal on your other  . the in the 
middle would do the with a version of pgp modified to work on 
a  . 

with or better modems to carry the , it should work. 
quality would only be lower than a normal telephone .  . 

at the very highest price , you could use one of those voice mail compatible 
modems to do the that puts an bound of about on 
the cost of such a box .  . in practice , you really ought to be able to get 
the price well below 100 i could do it now in software on my cheap nasty 
home risc box  ( acorn archimedes ) with the i bought 
for 25 pounds , if i knew how to write good speech software 
 ( which i do  . 

the reason it wo n't work of course is that hardly anyone will have one 
the only consumer equipment to have will use the chip .  . 
economics , i'm afraid .  . 

however .  .  .  . we can get about on the internet even with 
the of a  . when we get for all  ( ha ha ha ) 
and the new , it might then be trivial to run speech 
over a connection on the internet .  . perhaps we should start 
thinking now of a standard to keep voice on the internet compatible 
for everyone , and side step the clipper stuff and use internet for 
all our phone calls in future ) 1 2 

g 

from  ( andrew molitor ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization department of mathematical sciences 
lines 38 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 
 ( timothy c. may ) writes 

but is it any worse than the current system it becomes much 
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 


not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this 
kind of the theory when one little country falls , its neighbor 
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all salt 
in for not turning in our secret  . 

surely the hypothesis relying on the least wild assumptions is 
to take this at face value. our at the were asked to up 
something that 's pretty secure , with a key that can be , 
and they did. the government plans to sell this thing , for the reasons 
they state. yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some 
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in 
the fbi decide they want to you , they 're gonna , and you 're 
gonna hate it. fact is , the fbi does n't want to listen to your phone 
calls , and if they do , and if you 're using des , they 'll just 
get a and point it at your head. 

this is pretty clearly an effort by the government to do exactly 
what they 're saying they 're doing. as is typical with governments , 
it 's , and full of holes and  . as is typical 
with our government , it 's not too bad , could be worse. 

my interpretation .  . 

andrew 

tim may , whose sig block may get him in the new regime 


is n't this just a little 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
distribution na 
lines 

 ( clipper chip announcement ) writes 

the president today a new that will bring 
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary 
program to improve the security and of telephone 
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law 
enforcement .  . 

a nice for the introduction of the first 
devices with built in just like the feds wanted .  .  .  . 

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our 
private and the law enforcement community to resolve the 
between economic and the real challenges of 
protecting americans .  . rather than use technology to 
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , and 
law enforcement , previous policies have government against 
industry and the rights of against law enforcement .  . 

bla bla .  . 

protect electronic mail and computer files. while 
technology can help americans protect business and the 
release of personal information , it also can be used 
by , drug , and other criminals .  . 

indeed , and the current proposal does nothing to prevent the latter .  . 

an ordinary telephone .  . it telephone communications 
using an that is more powerful than many in 
use today. 

this does n't say much. there are many incredibly weak 
in use today .  .  .  . 

this new technology will help protect 
information , protect the of personal phone 
and prevent release of data 
 . 

except from the government. 

at the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement to 
the phone of criminals .  . 

nope .  . the criminals wo n't be stupid enough to use the new chip , 
they 'll use something secure .  . this technology provides only means to 
the phone of people who are stupid enough to 
use it. 

to messages by the device. when the 
device is , the two will be 
in two key data bases that will be established by the 
general. access to these will be limited to 
government with legal to conduct a 
 . 

that is , the government has the  . it does n't matter much if they 
are in one or in two of its hands .  .  .  . 

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no 
new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

correct. it does , however , provide those americans with the false 
sense of  . 

devices .  . in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

if the is not public , it cannot be trusted .  . some people do 
not trust des even today , after all the only because 
some parts of its design were kept secret. 

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of 
's dual sword helps to protect the 
of individuals and industry , but it also can 
criminals and  . we need the clipper chip and other 
approaches that can both provide law citizens with access 
to the they need and prevent criminals from using it 
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology 

so they 'll use a different technology to hide their illegal 
activities. so will those law citizens , who do not trust their 
government not to misuse its abilities to their  . 

the of our citizens , including the need to 
voice or data for business purposes 

except from the government. 

the need of u.s. to manufacture and 
high technology products. 

huh later it says that the new technology will be restricted .  . 

since technology will play an important 
role in that , the federal government must act 
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding 
its use. the is committed to policies that 
protect all americans  right to while also protecting 
them from those who break the law. 

in short , the new technology can 

1 ) protect the law citizen 's from the casual  . 

it cannot 

1 ) protect him from the government , if it decides to misuse its 
ability to the  . 

2 ) protect him from the criminals who succeed to break the new 
scheme or to steal the , or to the people who 
handle them , etc. 

3) prevent the criminals from using secure for 
 . 

q does this approach expand the authority of government 
to listen in on phone 

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with 
no new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

correct. however , it does not provide them that much as it 
claims .  . 

q who will run the key data banks 

a the two key data banks will be run by two independent 
entities .  . at this point , the department of justice and the 
have yet to determine which will 
the key data banks .  . 

two the and the  . 

q how strong is the security in the device how can i be sure 
how strong the security is 

a this system is more secure than many other voice 
systems readily available today. 

that is , trust us . 

while the will 
remain classified to protect the security of the key 

security through . 

system , we are willing to an independent of 
cryptography to the to all 
potential users that there are no 
 . 

if it 's not entirely open to public examination , it cannot be 
trusted .  . besides , who can prove that the devices used for examination 
and the ones built into your will be the same 

q whose decision was it to propose this product 

a the national security council , the justice department , the 

the and the fbi 

q who was the congress industry 

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on 
issues , and expect those discussions to 
as we carry out our review of policy. we have 
members of congress and industry leaders on the 
decisions related to this  . 

why did they forget the 

q will the government provide the hardware to 

a the government designed and developed the key access 
, but it is not providing the 
to product  . product 
can acquire the from the chip 
that produces them. 

does n't this smell to 

q who provides the clipper chip 

a programs it at their in , 
california , and will sell the chip to device 
 . the programming function could be 
to other in the future. 

like the 

q if the were unable to find a 
solution like the one proposed , would the be 
willing to use legal to restrict access to more 
powerful devices 

this is the main question , why was it buried at the end 

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be 
considered during the broad policy review .  . the key 

we 'll see . 

mechanism will provide americans with an product 
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive 
than others readily available today , but it is just one 

trust us . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 

in short , if we decide to outlaw strong , we 'll tell you . 

effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . there is a 

since the us government seems to consider strong as 
and since the us constitutions the right to every american 
to bear , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of 
right , to an product 

a it indicates that we understand the importance of 
technology in telecommunications and computing and are 
committed to working with industry and public interest 
groups to find ways to protect americans  
, help to , and ensure that law 
enforcement have the tools they need to fight crime 
and terrorism .  . 

bullshit .  . the proposed technology provides a false sense of security , 
devices with built in capabilities for breaking the 
, does not prevent the criminals to use strong , and 
is a step to outlaw strong  . 

q will the devices be will other devices that use 
the government hardware 

a voice devices are subject to control 
requirements .  . case by case review for each is 
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices .  . the 

who was the who believed that the new will 
leave the on strong devices 

ok , i'm not american , it 's not my business , but i just could n't resist 
to comment .  .  .  . the whole plot looks so  .  .  . it 's up to 
you , americans , to fight for your rights. 

regards , 


p.s. now is the time for david to pop up and claim that the 
new system is great .  . 

virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( felix gallo ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization cooperative computing , inc. 
distribution na 
lines 31 

 ( pat myrto ) writes 

if the clinton clipper is so very good , ... 

please note that bill clinton probably has little if anything to do 
with the design , implementation or reasoning behind this chip or behind 
any being made using this chip as a  . 

remember , when you elect a president of the united states , it 's not 
the case that all the , etc. in the and fbi and 
immediately pack their and get replaced by a team of young 
 . most of the government say , is or 
rather than elected .  . since this clipper device has been in 
for over months , it probably has little or no 
foundation in the currently elected democratic body. 

btw those who suggest that this is just an attack on clinton , believe 
this i would be going who seriously proposed 
this thing. it is just another step in a gradual of our rights 
under the constitution or bill of rights. the last couple of decades 
have been a non stop series of end runs around the of the 
constitution .  . it has to stop .  . now is as good a time as any , if it 
is n't too late  . 

could be. however , the sky has n't fallen yet , little. 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 26 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an 
one make it voluntary .  . 

as usually , you are not reading. the proposal does say that it is a 
voluntary program . this does n't make it more desirable , though .  .  .  . 

that is you get high quality secure classified technology if you agree 
to your key .  . otherwise you are on your own. 

secure how do you know because is trying to make you believe it 
trust us. yeah , right. 

otherwise you are on your own how do you know that tomorrow they 
will not outlaw devices that do n't use their technology 
because they are promising you gee , they are not doing even that 
read the proposal again. 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject the  . 
organization for an america free drug 
lines 

here is a thought. 

now , we no longer live in the days of big filing  . we live in 
the electronic age. i asked myself , how big could the 
get how hard might it be to steal the whole thing , particularly were 
i an official operating with the tacit permission of the 
houses  ( we can pretend that such will not happen , but naive . ) . 

well , lets see. ten of each half .  . lets ten of 
serial number in fact , i believe the serial number is smaller , but 
this is an order of magnitude  . we assume 250 10 6 as the 
population , and that each person has a key .  . i get five for 
each of the two  . fits conveniently on a single very 
valuable tape. this can only get easier with time , but who 
cares i can already hold all the clipper in the country in my 
on two  . 

, they will think of  . they wo n't put the whole 
on one ,  . maybe they will blocks 
in the way. this changes nothing they will be needed every day 
by hundreds if not thousands of law enforcement types , so convenience 
will that the system quick electronic  . at 
some point , with or without by the , those 
are going to get cut. and david will 
doubtless claim this ca n't happen but we know that ca n't is a 
prayer , not a word that in this instance  . 

with two in your , you would hold the for 
every person 's in the country in your hands. yeah , you 
need the master key two but just ten of information 
that have to be an awful lot of places. 

come to think of it , even if the getting a copy of the 
is n't a threat to you because unlike me you have no 
political views , consider foreign intelligence services .  . you know , the 
ones that david wants to protect us from because of the 
evil industrial that they do. the french apparently do have 
a big operation in friendly countries to get industrial 
, so he is n't being completely irrational here  ( although why 
our could n't use without back doors is left 
by those that point out this threat . ) . 

presumably , foreign intelligence services can get into the 
and other  . we have proof by example of this its happened 
many times. presumably , someday they will get their hands on some 
of the  . you ca n't avoid that sort of thing. 

do n't pretend that no one will ever get their hands on 
the  . 

we types are all taught something very important at the 
beginning of intro to cryptography security must depend on the 
easily changed key that you pick to run your system , and not on a 
secret. the are n't the sorts of that our 
teachers told us about , but they are the sort of big they 
would into this category .  . imagine trying to replace 100 million 
clipper  . 

i cannot believe that the or whomever it is doing this 
does n't realize all this already. they are too smart .  . there are too 
many of them who have made their bones in the real world. i suspect 
that they know precisely what they are doing and that what they are 
doing is giving us the appearance of safety so that they can continue 
to in spite of the growth of strong cryptography .  . i suspect 
that they realize that they ca n't put things off forever , but they can 
try to delay things as long as possible. 

who knows. maybe even some of the higher , the inevitable 
types that rise in any organization , really do believe 
that this scheme might give people some security , even as their 
in their hands over the foolishness of 
it all. 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re how do they know what to ask for  ( re clipper ) 
organization communications corp .  . 
lines 10 

the actual is classified , however , their main thrust here is 
for , and is only over the radio end , not 
end to end , i think. end to end will come later. 

and of course you have to identify yourself to the phone company , and 
since the phone company with court orders , they will know the 
magic number of your chip when they sign out a warrant on you , and 
then can present the warrant to the key house. 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from  ( john f. woods ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization square research corp .  . 
lines 20 

 ( steve johnson ) writes 
tim may , whose sig block may get him in the new regime 
a remark i heard the other day is beginning to take on 
frightening significance .  . the comment was made that in other parts 
of the world the note the big d would be known as 


and in other parts of the world , european would be known as 
capitalist  . get your head out of your and think carefully 
for once 

according to the announcement on this thing , the has been developing 
this for four years. the manufacturing contract was let 14 months 
ago . anyone out there who believes that the fact that clinton 's name was 
on this white house announcement means that bush or any other republican is 
a supporter of personal is a fool .  . 

if this topic you , can the political finger pointing and talk about 
what you can do about it. if you 've just got to point fingers , remember that 
this scheme was started when a secret was president .  . 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 

organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 12 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( robert ward ) writes 
it refers to the right of the people to organize a , not for 
individuals to carry , , and assault  . 

false , as federal courts have affirmed on many  . this is getting 
out of sci . territory , though .  .  .  . 


walker 
systems corporation 



subject looking for dos programs 
from  ( maddison , david ) 
organization la university 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
lines 11 

i am a new reader of sci . i would like to obtain a copy of a 
public domain program that can files , using des , 
that runs under dos .  . 

i would also like to obtain a program which will protect 
, if this is possible. 

thanks. 

david 
, australia 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
lines 65 

 ( graham toal ) writes 
try reading between the lines david there are strong hints in there 
that they 're for next , 

where i honestly did n't see any .  .  .  . 

hint 1 

sophisticated technology has been used for years to 
protect electronic funds  . it is now being used to 
protect electronic mail and computer files. while 


hint 2 

this new technology will help protect 
information , protect the of personal phone 
and prevent release of data 

 . at the same time this technology preserves the 

the of our citizens , including the need to 
voice or data for business purposes 

the ability of to access telephone 
calls and data , under proper court or other legal 

order , when necessary to protect our citizens 

very big hint 3 

the is committed to working with the private 
to spur the development of a national information 
which will use new telecommunications and computer 
to give americans access to 
information. this of high speed 
( information ) will video , images , 
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone 
system voice .  . 

very big hint 4  ( see above) 

since technology will play an important 
role in that , the federal government must act 
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding 
its use. 

and the only conceivable meaning of 
applying this particular technology to a computer network is that they 
intend it to be used in exclusion to any other means of  . 

i disagree , if for no other reason than that there are already other 
standards in place. besides , even if they restrict on the , 
who cares most of the internet is anyway. the is only for 
and university research  ( read the it 's a data 
for users , not anything having to do with the  . 

oh , i see your point. i think you 're wrong. but if you sit back and wait 
to find out if i'm right , it 'll be too late. just listen very carefully 
for the first  such and such will not be on network  to 
drop .  . 

g 



from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 17 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 
chances are the government has thought of this , and just anyone wo n't 
be access to enough of the to make a fake clipper 
chip .  . 

once the are released  ( in , or whatever ) , they are vulnerable to 
inspection and observation .  . now , i will grant that there will no 
doubt be against the chip , but the has no monopoly 
on  . the chip , and the it uses , will not remain secret 
for very long .  . any university with a lab has the required equipment , as 
does any  . 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( germano caronni ) 
subject some questions  ( was revised summary ) 
organization federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , , 
lines 90 



here is a revised version of my summary that some errors and 
provides some additional information and explanation. 

thank you very much. after reading the text some distinct questions 
to me , which i guess will also be asked by other people. perhaps 
would it be interesting to find an answer to these questions 


the clipper chip a technical summary 
n , a 30 bit serial number  ( this length is subject to change ) 

or longer 

once the key k is established , the clipper chip is used to 
the conversation or message m  ( digitized  . the 
telephone security device k and m into the chip to produce two 
values 

e m k , the message , and 
e e k u n f , a law enforcement field , 

which are over the telephone line. the law enforcement 
field thus contains the key k under the key u 
with the serial number n , all under the family 
key f. the law enforcement field is by law enforcement after 
an has been  . 

first question when will the be , and how 
does the remote clipper chip handle it is it periodically 
in the of blocks , or just at the beginning does the 
phone at the other side discard those via a whatsoever , 
or tries it to turn them into voice output  ( which would not be disturbing ) 


at the beginning of a , a trusted from each of the two key 
enters the  . 1 enters a secret , random 
80 bit value into the and 2 enters a secret , random 
80 bit value  . these random values serve as seeds to generate 
for a sequence of serial numbers. thus , the are a 
function of secret , random bits , where each knows only 80 .  . 

second question why ! ! why is such a strange procedure used , and not 
a real this turns those , in a kind of for system 
security .  . 


when law enforcement has been to an line , they 
will first take the warrant to the service in order to get 
access to the communications line. let us assume that the is in 
place and that they have determined that the line is with the 
clipper chip .  . the law enforcement field is first with the 
family key f , giving e k u n .  . documentation that a 
has been for the party associated with serial number n is 
then sent (e . g .  . , via secure fax ) to each of the key , who 
return (e . g .  . , also via secure fax ) and  . and are 
together to produce the key u , and e k u is to get the 
key k. finally the message is  . all this will 
be accomplished through a special black box  . 

so no  ( technical ) will be taken to place a   on these 
warrants this would be a unique possibility to realize such a technical 
, by letting the perform the of the 
key .  . just take lines instead of secure fax .  . is this such 
a bad idea 


a to the clipper chip , called by the government 
and 80 by , has already been developed .  . it will include 
the , the digital signature standard  ( dss ) , the 
secure  ( sha ) , a method of key exchange , a fast 
, and a  . a will be available for 
on april 22 , and the are expected to be ready for 
in june or  . 

wow !  ( how does the work ) are the  ( and key exchange ) secret , 
or publicly known key exchange is , i guess 

it seems that those who are opposed to this chip shall have a tough time , 
your government means to act. ( 

friendly , 



only through things they 're designed to  . 
space still contains infinite  . 
pgp key id 


from  ( tim scanlon ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
summary whatever .  .  .  . 
keywords hmm .  .  .  . 
organization george university , va .  . 
distribution world 
expires 06 31 93 
lines 65 



after reading the debate over the clipper , i have a few things to 
add .  . 

first , most of the people i know who use 
privately do not care about most of the issues that this debate , 
and any questions about what is or is not ok to use in the us. all they 
care about is wether or not what they are using is secure or not. that , 
after all is the bottom line. 

second , if i look at all the people i know who use any form 
of at all , and this group spans people from the who 
still insist that the des is a good and secure standard , to people 
looking at trying to improve upon existing , i can not think 
of anyone of them who would approve blindly of a strategy that leaves 
their methods open to abuse .  . the clipper does this , because people make 
mistakes by nature , and the us government is made up of people who are 
just as vulnerable to mistakes as everyone else. 

third , since most of the people i know are at least 
familiar with the present in current software 
, i ca n't see how most of them are going to blindly trust that 
someone will not figure out a good way to compromise the clipper chip .  . 
that despite any or weaknesses that may exist in it. so , i can 
not see a high degree of developing in the chip .  . 

fourth , when it comes to criminal abuse , sure there are many stupid 
people out there. and yes , some will be open to being caught via the 
built in back door of the clipper chip .  . however , anyone who is going to 
do any serious investigation of how best to secure their data is going 
to run into that problem pretty damned fast and , i would assume , start 
looking around for other easily methods of  . 


if nothing else were , none of this would be an issue. however , 
the truth is that most private users that i 've ever run into 
simply do not give a damn about the legal status of or pgp or anything 
else. if it works , they use it. this is not going to change either. i do 
not think for a moment that anyone with serious criminal intent will be 
down by the advent of the clipper chip .  . it is all to easy to 
convert data into garbage as it is , if anything , 
the clipper chip just another tool to the user .  . 


the bottom line here is that people will use what works , and 
, i'm sure most criminals would rather face an 
related charge than one which could lead to death penalty 
charges in the case of criminals who murder as part of their  . 
the other thing that has me since the advent and wide 
of public has begun is that quite simply the cat is 
out of the  ( or if you have an interest in , 's box 
has been opened ) , and this is not going to change .  . i 've seen a 
to this that i 've found utterly , and the clipper chip , along 
with the way it has been presented only this to me to a larger 
degree. 


, 

tim 





from  ( eli brandt ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization college , , ca 
lines 15 

in article  ( steven bellovin ) writes 
remember that they 've promised to let a of outside see 
the design. 

i hope there are some silicon on the who can follow 
the through to hardware .  . while i doubt the would pull 
any business on this point they have to expect that the 
chip will be reverse engineered sooner or later it 's an obvious 
opportunity to introduce additional holes .  . 

steve 

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail 



from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
lines 29 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 
in article 
 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your 
i would n't .  . 

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon .  . sure. 
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon . 

are you sure you are n't being watched let me you that 
was only the of the  . nixon used the 
to watch people because he did n't like them. according to the 
puzzle 

presumably , the is restricted from conducting american surveillance 
by both the foreign intelligence surveillance act of  ( 1978(fisa ) and a 
series of presidential , beginning with one issued by 
president following richard nixon 's bold misuse of the , in 
which he explicitly directed the to conduct widespread domestic 
surveillance of political dissidents and drug users. 

of course , just because there are laws saying the gov t is not 
supposed to conduct illegal surveillance does n't mean those laws ca n't be 
broken when they are in the way. 
doug holland 



from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 24 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( eli brandt ) writes 
instead we have a deliberately brain dead version of a 
that has not even been peer  . yes , the owns some smart 
people. but if they a , well , at t is going to be left with 
a lot of on its hands. 

agreed. remember , i do n't even think of clipper as in any real 
sense if i did , i 'd probably be a lot more about it. 

 . the government already gave it up for us. remember in the 
announcement they described this scheme as balancing the two 
of having no and claiming that citizens had a 
constitutional right to 

that 's not for clinton  ( or anyone under him ) to say , though. only the 
federal and supreme courts can say anything about the  . 
anything the or any agency says is opinion at 
best. 


walker 
systems corporation 



from 
subject cryptography faq 04 10 mathematical 
organization the 
lines 203 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 4 of 10 of the sci . faq , mathematical  . 
private key systems. types of attacks  ( brute force , , 
, etc . ) .  . mathematical of cryptography .  . security 
of one time  . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 4 mathematical 

this is the fourth of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest. 
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in the last part. 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 


contents 

in mathematical terms , what is a private key 
what is an attack 
what 's the advantage of all this mathematically 
why is the one time secure 
what 's a only attack 
what 's a known attack 
what 's a chosen attack 
in mathematical terms , what can you say about brute force attacks 
what 's a key attack what 's entropy 


in mathematical terms , what is a private key 

a private key consists of an system e and a 
system d. the system e is a collection of 
functions e k , by   k , mapping some set of 
  p to some set of   c. similarly the 
system d is a collection of functions d k such that 
d  ( k(e  ( k(p ) p for every p. that is , 
of into is accomplished using the same key 
 ( index ) as was used for the of 
into  . such systems , wherein the same key value is used to 
and , are also known as    . 

what is an attack 

in intuitive terms a  ( passive ) attack on a is any method 
of starting with some information about and their 
under some  ( unknown ) key , and out 
more information about the  . it 's possible to state 
mathematically what this means. here we go. 

fix functions f , g , and h of n  . fix an system e , 
and fix a distribution of and  . 

an attack on e using g assuming f giving h with probability p is an 
a with a pair f , g of and one output h , such that 
there is probability p of computing h  ( h(p 1 , ... , p n ) , if we have 
f  ( f(p 1 , ... , p n ) and g  ( g(e  ( k(p 1 ) , ... , e  ( k(p  . note that this 
probability depends on the distribution of the  ( k , p 1 , ... , p  . 

the attack is trivial  ( or ``pointless'' ) if there is probability at 
least p of computing h  ( h(p 1 , ... , p n ) if f  ( f(p 1 , ... , p n ) and 
g  ( g(c 1 , ... , c  . here c 1 , ... , c n range over the possible 
, and have no particular relation to p 1 , ... , p n .  . in other 
words , an attack is trivial if it does n't actually use the 
e  ( k(p 1 ) , ... , e  ( k(p  . 

an attack is called   if n 1 ,   if 
n 2 , and so on. 

what 's the advantage of all this mathematically 

in basic you can never prove that a is secure .  . 
read part 3 we keep saying strong must have this 
property , but having this property is no that a 
is strong ! '' 

in , the purpose of mathematical is to precisely 
formulate and , if possible , prove the statement that a is 
strong .  . we say , for example , that a is secure against 
all  ( passive ) attacks if any attack against the system  ( as 
defined above) is too slow to be practical .  . if we can prove this 
statement then we have that our will resist 
any  ( passive )  . if we can reduce this statement 
to some well known problem then we still have that 
the is n't easy to break .  . 

other parts of are also to mathematical 
definition .  . again the point is to explicitly identify what assumptions 
we 're making and prove that they produce the desired results. we can 
figure out what it means for a particular to be used 
properly it just means that the assumptions are valid .  . 

the same is useful for too. the 
can take advantage of incorrect assumptions .  . often he can try to 
construct a proof of security for a system , see where the proof fails , 
and use these failures as the starting points for his analysis. 

why is the one time secure 

by definition , the one time is a where the 
, , and are all  ( say strings ) 
of some length m , and e  ( k(p ) is just the sum  ( let 's say the exclusive 
or ) of k and p. 

it is easy to prove mathematically that there are no 
single attacks on the one time , assuming a uniform 
distribution of  . note that we do n't have to assume a uniform 
distribution of  .  ( here 's the proof let a be an attack , 
i.e. , an taking two f , g and producing one output h , 
with some probability p that h  ( h(p ) whenever f  ( f(p ) and 
g  ( g(e  ( k(p ) (i . e .  . , g  ( g(k  . then , because the distribution of 
k is uniform and independent of p , the distribution of k p must also 
be uniform and independent of p. but also the distribution of c is 
uniform and independent of p. hence there is probability exactly p 
that h  ( h(p ) whenever f  ( f(p ) and g  ( g(c ) , over all p and c. thus 
a a is trivial . ) . 

on the other hand the one time is not secure if a key k is used 
for more than one i.e. , there are 
multiple attacks .  . so to be properly used a key k must be 
thrown away after one  . the key is also called a   
this explains the name time '' . 

what 's a only attack 

in the above , a only attack is one where f is 
constant .  . given only some information  ( g(e  ( k(p 1 ) , ... , e  ( k(p n ) about 
n , the attack has to have some chance of producing some 
information  ( h(p 1 , ... , p n ) about the  . the attack is trivial 
if it has just as good a chance of producing  ( h(p 1 , ... , p n ) when given 
 ( g(c 1 , ... , c n ) for random c 1 , ... , c n .  . 

for example , say  ( g(c ) c , and say  ( h(p ) is the first bit of p. we can 
easily write down an attack the attack , '' which simply 
that  ( h(p ) is 1. this attack is trivial because it does n't use 
the it has a fifty fifty chance of correctly no 
matter what. on the other hand there is an attack on which 
produces one bit of information about p , with 100 success , using c. 
if it is fed a random c then the success rate drops to 50 . so this is 
a attack .  . 

what 's a known attack 

the classic known attack has  ( f(p 1 , p 2 ) p 1 , 
 ( g(c 1 , c 2 ) (c 1 , c 2 ) , and  ( h(p 1 , p 2 ) depending only on p 2. 
in other words , given two c 1 and c 2 and one 
p 1 , the known attack should produce information about the 
other p 2. 

note that known attacks are often defined in the literature 
as producing information about the key , but this is pointless the 
generally cares about the key only as it lets him 
further messages. 

what 's a chosen attack 

a chosen attack is the first of an impractical 
series of active attacks on a attacks where the 
data to the  . these attacks do n't fit into 
our model of passive attacks explained above. anyway , a 
chosen attack lets the choose a and 
look at the , then repeat until he has 
out how to any message. more absurd examples of this sort of 
attack are the key attack   and system attack . '' . 

a much more important form of active attack is a message corruption 
attack , where the tries to change the in such a 
way as to make a useful change in the  . 

there are many easy ways to into all of these attacks 
for instance , automatically any p as 
t , e  ( k(h(t r p ) , r , p ) , where t is a time key  ( sequence number ) chosen 
for each message , r is a random number , and h is a one way 
function. here means and plus means exclusive or. 

in mathematical terms , what can you say about brute force attacks 

consider the following known attack .  . we are given some 
p 1 , ... , p n 1 and c 1 , ... , c n 1 . we 're 
also given a c n .  . we run through every key k. when we find 
k such that e  ( k(p i ) c i for every i n , we print d  ( k(c  . 

if n is big enough that only one key works , this attack will succeed 
on valid all the time , while it will produce correct results 
only once in a blue moon for random  . thus this is a 
attack .  . its only problem is that it is very slow if there are many 
possible  . 

what 's a key attack what 's entropy 

say somebody is using the one time but is n't choosing 
randomly and from all m bit messages , as he was supposed to 
for our security proof. in fact say he 's known to prefer which 
are english words. then a can run through all english 
words as possible  . this attack will often succeed , and it 's much 
than a brute force search of the entire  . 

we can measure how bad a key distribution is by its 
entropy .  . this number e is the number of bits of information   
of the key a will typically happen across the key within 
2 e  . e is defined as the sum of p k log 2 p k , where p k is 
the probability of key k. 

from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
distribution na 
lines 12 

 ( ted dunning ) writes 
nobody seems to have noticed that the clipper chip must have been 
under development for longer than the 3 months that 
clinton has been president .  . this is not something that choosing 
choosing bush over clinton would have changed in the slightest it has 
been in the works for some time. 

i 've got no that this would probably have gone ahead if bush 
was still president .  . what 's to me are the people who are 
apparently amazed that clinton is going along with it. 

other than that , mrs .  . lincoln , how did you like the play 

from  . j. bernstein ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine 
organization 
lines 12 

in article  ( steven bellovin ) writes 
and key size is one of the things that can be 
verified  . 

gee .  . say they feed the 80 bit key through 8 and take the first 60 
bits of the result , then use those 60 bits as the real key .  . how do you 
figure out that each key is one of 2 20   you can try a 
birthday attack , but if the key can be changed only once a second then 
you will need several lifetimes to get reliable statistics .  . somehow i 
do n't think you could the at this sort of  . 

dan 

from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 51 

brad wrote 
it occurs to me that if they get a order on you , and the 
houses release your code to the cops , your code is now no longer secure .  . 

it 's in the hands of cops , and while i am sure most of the time they are 
good , their security will not be as good as the houses .  . 


what this effectively means is that if they perform a on you , 
at the end of the , they should be obligated to you that 
a was performed , and replace  ( for free ) the clipper chip in your 
phone so that it is once again a code known only to the 
houses .  . 

getting the court order to reveal the key also makes 
all past  ( which may be on , or , or whatver ) , 
as i understand the proposal .  . i could be wrong , but i 've seen no 
mention of being the entities .  . 

as the noted , this raises further issues about the of one 
to in other areas .  . 

but is it any worse than the current system it becomes much 
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 

and it may also become much worse if the security is 
increased , thus allowing greater access to central office records by 
the government  ( the being , who will object to 
letting the government have access to them , perhaps even automatically 
large  .  . ) .  . this was one of the main objections to 
the s . proposal , that it would force to provide 
easy access for the government. 

one the government has had access to months or years of your 
, now all it takes is one , one violation that 
gets them the paperwork needed to all of them ! 

do we want anyone to have this kind of power 

tim may , whose sig block may get him in the new regime 


 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may anarchy , digital money , 
anonymous , digital , zero 
408 knowledge , , information , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . , ca black , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from dan 
subject clipper chip 
reply to dan 
organization canada remote systems 
distribution sci 
lines 30 

i have here a bit lately , and though some of the math is 
unknown to me , found it interesting. i thought i would post an article i 
found in the saturday , april 17 , 1993 star 

 clipper chip  to protect 

washington  ( reuter ) president bill clinton yesterday a 
plan to plant a new clipper chip in every government telephone and 
computer line to prevent  . 

eventually the , developed by the government 's national 
institute for standards and technology , would be used by and 
private users. 

the white house said that to , each device containing 
the devices would be two unique numbers 
that will be needed by government to messages. 

the general has been the task of that the 
are in two key data bases .  . access to them would 
be limited to government with legal to conduct a 
, the white house said in a statement. 

30 


dan 

canada remote systems , ontario 


from  ( allen baum ) 
subject re 80 bit machine 
organization advanced risc machines ltd 
lines 13 

state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) writes 

 ( regarding of us military code traffic ) 

btw , folks , was n't being given the  . and the walker case 
shows for some of the systems , the did n't need them either. 

on the contrary the walker case is one where the was 
given  ( as i recall ) 



allen j. baum apple computer , 

from graham 
subject re the battle is joined 
originator 
nntp posting host demon . co . uk . 
reply to graham 
organization anonymous 
lines 27 

in article  ( eli brandt ) writes 
in article  ( phil karn ) writes 
it looks like 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the 
even sooner than we  . 

i 'd long odds that it was the other way around. clinton did n't 
just pull this plan out of any bodily the has to have 
been working on it for years. while it 's possible that  ( and 
other prominent people ) just happened to start arguing for such a 
system , it seems more likely that there was a suggestion involved. 
if this guess is wrong , i apologize .  . 

i'm sure is an honest person and would n't lie to us. 
simply think up a question to ask her about her involvement , but be 
very careful to phrase it in such a way that there can be no 
evasion or a true but wholly answer. 

in this country , are at answering these questions for 
instance there was a british  ( jonathon moyle ) killed in south 
america a couple of years ago. asked was he an 
no. turns out afterwards he was n't paid , therefore was n't an  . 
they could equally have said he was n't an he went on his 
private business with no brief from , but was and 
at length only on his return . 

g 


from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re 2.2 source problems 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 19 

yes my error you will need the between the 
standard h . and c . with 
's think c 5 . 0 . 4 . and the modified 
one that works with 2 . 2 .  . 

i added the two to the end of the signature 
file in pub of netcom . com . 

please via anonymous ftp and , using  ( oops ) , 
cutting and , fix em up. 

will one of you mac please this to 
or , or .  .  .  . 




15 ad ac 3d 01 


from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject new clipper chip proposal from the  .  .  . 
keywords , , individual rights , legalities , big brother 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 310 

i saw this article posted in a local newsgroup .  . i have n't seen it , 
or any followup traffic to it in these groups or other groups 
which i subscribe to. so , i am posting it here so others can read it , 
check it out , and comment on it , and provide ideas for handling these 
sorts of things. 

i have no to the accuracy or lack of accuracy of this 
article , but if accurate , i find it extremely , especially in 
light of various abuses of the number regarding , (i understand 
it is now to be required in ca to a drivers license , or to 
a car ) and other regarding  smart  national identity cards , 
, and such. one simply wonders what other are in 
the wings ready to be on the people by our government. perhaps 
suggestions and ideas for preventing this and other such from 
the force of law would be useful. the cost simply 
any possible benefits , imo. 

btw , reading this makes me think of some ideas a has been 
promoting , in an even more form. 

that said , with no further comment , the article follows 

begin included article 

note this file will also be available via anonymous file 
from gov . in directory pub and 
via the computer security bbs at  . 


the white house 

office of the press 



for immediate release april 16 , 1993 


statement by the press 


the president today a new that will bring 
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary 
program to improve the security and of telephone 
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law 
enforcement .  . 

the will involve the creation of new products to 
the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications and communications links .  . 

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our 
private and the law enforcement community to resolve the 
between economic and the real challenges of 
protecting americans .  . rather than use technology to 
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , and 
law enforcement , previous policies have government against 
industry and the rights of against law enforcement .  . 

sophisticated technology has been used for years to 
protect electronic funds  . it is now being used to 
protect electronic mail and computer files. while 
technology can help americans protect business and the 
release of personal information , it also can be used 
by , drug , and other criminals .  . 

a state of the art called the clipper chip has 
been developed by government  . the chip represents a 
new approach to technology. it can be used in new , 
relatively devices that can be attached to 
an ordinary telephone .  . it telephone communications 
using an that is more powerful than many in 
use today. 

this new technology will help protect 
information , protect the of personal phone 
and prevent release of data 
 . at the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement to 
the phone of criminals .  . 

a key system will be established to ensure that the 
clipper chip is used to protect the of law 
americans .  . each device containing the chip will have two unique 


2 


, numbers that will be needed by government 
to messages by the device. when the 
device is , the two will be 
in two key data bases that will be established by the 
general. access to these will be limited to 
government with legal to conduct a 
 . 

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no 
new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

to demonstrate the of this new technology , the 
general will soon several thousand of the new 
devices .  . in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of 
's dual sword helps to protect the 
of individuals and industry , but it also can 
criminals and  . we need the clipper chip and other 
approaches that can both provide law citizens with access 
to the they need and prevent criminals from using it 
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology 
trends and new approaches  ( like the key system ) , 
the president has directed government to develop a 
comprehensive policy on that 

the of our citizens , including the need to 
voice or data for business purposes 

the ability of to access telephone 
calls and data , under proper court or other legal 
order , when necessary to protect our citizens 

the effective and use of the most modern 
technology to build the national information 
needed to promote economic growth and 
the of american industry in the 
and 

the need of u.s. to manufacture and 
high technology products. 

the president has directed early and frequent with 
affected , the congress and groups that advocate the 
rights of individuals as policy options are developed .  . 



3 

the is committed to working with the private 
to spur the development of a national information 
which will use new telecommunications and computer 
to give americans access to 
information. this of high speed 
( information ) will video , images , 
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone 
system voice .  . 

since technology will play an important 
role in that , the federal government must act 
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding 
its use. the is committed to policies that 
protect all americans  right to while also protecting 
them from those who break the law. 

further information is provided in an accompanying fact  . 
the of the president 's to acquire the new 
technology are also available. 

for additional details , call , national institute of 
standards and technology ,  ( 301 )  . 




questions and answers about the clinton s 
telecommunications 




q does this approach expand the authority of government 
to listen in on phone 

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with 
no new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 
court order , to do the in the first place. they 
would then present documentation of this to 
the two entities responsible for the and 
obtain the for the device being used by the drug 
 . the key is split into two parts , which are 
in order to ensure the security of the key 
system. 

q who will run the key data banks 

a the two key data banks will be run by two independent 
entities .  . at this point , the department of justice and the 
have yet to determine which will 
the key data banks .  . 

q how strong is the security in the device how can i be sure 
how strong the security is 

a this system is more secure than many other voice 
systems readily available today. while the will 
remain classified to protect the security of the key 
system , we are willing to an independent of 
cryptography to the to all 
potential users that there are no 
 . 

q whose decision was it to propose this product 

a the national security council , the justice department , the 
commerce department , and other key were involved in 
this decision. this approach has been by the 
president , the vice president , and appropriate 
 . 

q who was the congress industry 

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on 
issues , and expect those discussions to 
as we carry out our review of policy. we have 
members of congress and industry leaders on the 
decisions related to this  . 

q will the government provide the hardware to 

a the government designed and developed the key access 
, but it is not providing the 
to product  . product 
can acquire the from the chip 
that produces them. 

q who provides the clipper chip 

a programs it at their in , 
california , and will sell the chip to device 
 . the programming function could be 
to other in the future. 

q how do i buy one of these devices 

a we expect several to consider 
the clipper chip into their devices .  . 

q if the were unable to find a 
solution like the one proposed , would the be 
willing to use legal to restrict access to more 
powerful devices 

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be 
considered during the broad policy review .  . the key 
mechanism will provide americans with an product 
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive 
than others readily available today , but it is just one 
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to 
technology , which the is 
developing .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton 
's policy will differ from 
that of the bush 

a it indicates that we understand the importance of 
technology in telecommunications and computing and are 
committed to working with industry and public interest 
groups to find ways to protect americans  
, help to , and ensure that law 
enforcement have the tools they need to fight crime 
and terrorism .  . 

q will the devices be will other devices that use 
the government hardware 

a voice devices are subject to control 
requirements .  . case by case review for each is 
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices .  . the 
same is true for other devices .  . one of the 
of this technology is the protection it can give 
to u.s. operating at home and  . with this 
in mind , we expect will be granted on a 
case by case basis for u.s. seeking to use these 
devices to secure their own communications  . we plan 
to review the possibility of permitting 
of these products. 

end included article 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from 
subject  .  .  . 
organization yale cs mail news gateway 
lines 24 


this actually supports bill 's speculation if there is a in 
and if is supported secretly by the , then it is more 
than natural that they will welcome any public key implementation that 
uses and will strongly oppose themselves against any 
implementation that does n't .  . 

my speculation does not include or depend upon a in  . i 
do not believe that would consent to such. 

however , there are other in the concept of in which 
has an interest .  . it has an interest in a limited number of 
, i.e. , targets .  . it has an interest in fixed key or 
size. 

it has a legitimate  ( literally ) right to pursue such interests .  . within 
bounds , it probably has a right to pursue those interests by 
means. at least it has the same right as the rest of us not to 
all of its motives and intentions .  .  ( institutions are not self aware 
they do not know their intentions in any meaningful sense . ) . 

william , , information system security 
49 avenue , new , 
1 0 0 700 at 

from  ( phil karn ) 
subject re keeping your mouth shut  ( was hard drive security ) 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization , 
lines 37 

in article ,  ( vince kub ) writes 
now , 
the original scheme as suggested here would be to have the key disappear if 
certain threatening conditions are met .  . once the key is gone there is no 
question of of court as there is nothing to , the key is no 
longer there to be produced .  . 

getting rid of the is actually pretty easy to do automatically on 
a communications link , as opposed to where the have to be 
somehow as long as the owner wants to be able to the 
data .  . 

the right way to do communications security is to generate a random 
key with , use it for a while and then destroy 
it. once it 's gone , there 's no getting it back , and no way to 
of the conversation. 

to make sure you are n't being attacked by a man in the middle , you 
have to your  . the at t secure phone does 
this by the key so you can compare them over 
the phone. this is nice and simple , but it relies on user awareness 
plus the inability of the man in the middle to the users  
 . 

a better way is to the with  . since you 'd 
never use for actual , compromising your secret key 
would only allow someone to you in a future conversation , 
and even that only until you your public key .  . they would still 
not be able to of prior for which the 
have been  . 

i'm convinced that this is how the government 's own secure 
 ( the iii ) must work. neat , eh 





subject re clipper considered harmful 
from  ( nina yuan ) 
distribution 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 37 

 ( ken shirriff ) writes 

it seems likely to me that that a large subset of communications 
would be to so they could be read if sometime in the future 
probable cause and a warrant is obtained .  . i can even imagine this 
being found legal and constitutional , since nothing is actually to 
until a valid warrant is issued and the are obtained .  . 

imagine all pay phone , so if someone turns out 
to be a drug , you can listen to all their past drug deals .  . and 
archive calls to from suspected members , potential , 
, etc. imagine the convenience for the police of being able to 
get a warrant now and listening to all the calls the world trade center 
bombers made in the past year .  . 

imagine if this were available during the 1992 elections instead of 
searching through the clinton file , they could have 
just done a voice  ( as someone stated earlier ) on his telephone 
for the last 10 years. 

i'm not a lawyer and i do n't even play one on tv , but there 's 
something wrong with having one 's words for possible future 
use against you. this possibility me more than any of the 
talk about the clipper chip , right to cryptography , etc. 

since would be such a powerful tool and so easy to do , why 
would n't it happen 

i'm afraid it just might .  . 





h. it 's a miracle that curiosity 
college formal education. 
albert einstein 

from  ( john r. levine ) 
subject why the clipper is secret 
organization i . e . c . c .  . 
lines 21 

the , though , is another matter. i see no valid 
reasons for keeping it secret , and as i hope i 've shown above there 
are a lot of ways to do things that are n't  ( quite ) as bad. 

it just occurred to me why the is secret. if it were 
published , one could then build physically identical versions 
of the chip that would with official clipper  . but 
the would n't provide the to the houses .  .  . 

or is there a technical hack that i 've missed e.g. how about if the 
were made but , and then to the 
two houses who programmed in their of the , but 
in a way that requires that secret known only to the houses 
be as well , without which versions would n't 
this is getting awfully complicated , but that 's 
for you. 


john r. , , , cambridge ma , 1 
, world ! ! 
time is money ! steal some today ! 

from  ( jan bielawski ) 
subject re clipper chip .  . long follow up. 
organization , san diego , ca 
lines 34 

in article  ( paul repacholi ) writes 

questions and answers about the clinton s 
telecommunications 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 
court order , to do the in the first place. they 
would then present documentation of this to 
the two entities responsible for the and 
obtain the for the device being used by the drug 
 . the key is split into two parts , which are 
in order to ensure the security of the key 
system. 

i apologize for being so but this sentence reads as if it 
was lifted from a luis  . am i missing something 
why on earth would drug even use the device then 
obviously , they 'll be using something like des instead. 
as long as alternatives to clipper remain legal , clipper 
absolutely nothing , zero , as far as law enforcement is concerned. 
the whole scheme is an absolute , total , incredible , waste of government 
time and money as long as other that are any good 
remain legal .  . in order for clipper to work as intended all strong 
have to be outlawed .  . 

jan 
, san diego 



from  ( brad yearwood ) 
subject clipper considered harmful 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 48 

if clipper comes to along with legal against 
using other systems on these , a new and dangerous 
class of crime is created. 

criminals who very want tactical communications  ( specifically 
the and drug who of key cite as threats ) 
will be highly motivated to steal the phone of a legitimate user , and 
to kill this person or hold them so of compromise of the 
device will be  . 

once a suitable collection of devices is stolen , criminals can communicate 
with  ( assuming the system carries no apart from 
key escrow ) until and unless the compromise is discovered by some other means. 

because life is cheap criminals are currently willing to kill people to steal 
very large and property  ( luxury cars ) , it is reasonable to assume 
that they will be willing to kill people to steal small and 
property (a  . just as we have seen in the past with 
blue box technology , and in the present with modified , 
we can expect to see among high criminals a market for 
stolen which can be used for a few days. the high 
criminals will pay the life is cheap types substantial for stolen 
 . 

because a person is typically discovered as missing or dead in a few days , 
a stolen instrument will be for only a few days. there will be a 
continuing demand for bodies .  . 

in other words , clipper and similar systems have the potential to turn a 
current to law enforcement into a direct , , and 
persistent threat to the general public. 

on the other hand , if a criminal were to apply some arbitrary to a 
device in a mostly non network , the will at least 
stand out as being unusual , and perhaps worthy of other means of investigation .  . 

finally , because there is essentially no possibility of in 
the content of communications between stolen , 
there will exist strong motivation to record and archive all communications 
in the network for ex post facto scrutiny  ( once some criminal act is discovered , 
and the involved have been  . while recording and 
may not be for , it is probably 
across the more limited bandwidth of radio  . the existence of these 
could open up vast potential for abuse .  . 

brad uunet , pyramid ! ! brad 
, ca 


from  ( ray berry ) 
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets 
organization design 
lines 32 

 ( ross anderson ) writes 

in article , 
 ( tim cuffel ) writes 

this suggests a new pc security product design approach first fill the hard 
drive with 50 random files and 50 files under a number of known 
 . then whenever a new secret file is created , you delete a random file and 
replace it with real data .  . new non secret files are under 
a known key .  . 

better yet , instead of around on the dos file system , take 
it a step further. write yourself a minimal file system program that 
is used to create delete files , en them to , list a 
directory .  . put the , protected , on a  . 

the is that the space used by this is not part 
of the dos file system. instead , your , thus all 
into 0 n .  . then use the back end of the 
partition to hold your  stealth  file system. or , leave a small 2nd 
partition on the that is not to dos .  . another approach 
might be to use a directory that contains a set of files  ( dos 
system files , for  . due to dos a minimum 
of a there is unused physical space on the between 
the tail end of each file and the end of its associated  . these 
dead could be and used to hold your stealth file 
system. 

now you have a situation where no data appears on your 
at all ) .  . 

ray 

from  ( hal finney ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 23 
distribution na 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( brad templeton ) writes 

their strategy is a business one rather than legal one. they are 
pushing to get a standard in place , a secret standard , and if they 
get it as a standard then they will drive out of the market .  . 
it will be legal to sell better , that does n't have 
, but it will be difficult , and thus not a plan for 
most phone  . 

if brad 's analysis is correct , it may offer an explanation for why the 
is being kept secret. this will prevent 
from coming out with clipper compatible which lack the government 
back door .  . the strategy brad describes will only work as long 
as the only way to get compatible is to have ones with the government 
 . 

 ( it would be nice , from the point of view of personal , if brad 
turns out to be right. as long as people still have the power to provide 
their own in place of or in addition to the clipper , 
is still possible. but the wording of several passages in the announcement 
makes me doubt whether this will turn out to be true . ) . 



from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed and 
lines 20 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 

 ( vidkun abraham quisling ) writes 

each chip includes the following components 

the 
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all 
n , a 30 bit serial number 
u , an 80 bit secret key that all messages with the chip 

hmmm .  . a thirty bit serial number .  . and , we are told , the key u is 
derived from this serial number .  . that means that 
there are only one billion possible  . 

oh hell , it 's much worse than that. you think they 'll ever make 
more than a million of them serial numbers are n't handed out at random 
you know , they start at 1 and work up .  .  .  . call it a 20 bit space maybe. 

g 

from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization communications corp .  . 
lines 22 

it occurs to me that if they get a order on you , and the 
houses release your code to the cops , your code is now no longer secure .  . 

it 's in the hands of cops , and while i am sure most of the time they are 
good , their security will not be as good as the houses .  . 


what this effectively means is that if they perform a on you , 
at the end of the , they should be obligated to you that 
a was performed , and replace  ( for free ) the clipper chip in your 
phone so that it is once again a code known only to the 
houses .  . 

do the police normally reveal every they do even if no charges are 
laid in many ways , it would be a positive step if they had to. 
judges set time limits on warrants , i assume .  . at the end of the time 
limit they should have to or replace your chip .  . 


that 's if we go with this scheme , which i am not sure i agree with. 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from ( mike h. ) 
subject re another data hiding scheme .  .  .  . 
distribution world 
organization 
reply to 
x mailer simple news 1 . 90 .  ( ka9q 1 . 
lines 23 

in article writes 

since the price of 1 . 44 . m 3.5 were still high until the last 
few years. if you old data , with old file times , in the public 
the casual observer may miss the ... especially if you 
accidently cover it with  . 


bear 
gov . 


it has been done already ! 

in the uk the box was with in the first few 
years and then later  . in order to make life less complicated , 
many on were double like this. side 0 of the 
had on it and could be read by any st. it also had a flip side 
program .  . this would the sides around so that side 1 became side 0. 



mike 

from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re white house chip 
keywords big is watching .  . 
article i.d. 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 10 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( bill 1 0705 ) writes 
fascinating .  . most of the content of the white house was 
in what was not said. it gives us almost nothing of value , threatens to 
take away a lot , and does it with a sincere on its face , 
and the nice friendly word . 

the computer , err , government , is your friend. have a nice day  ( under 
penalty of  . 

to refuse praise is to seek praise twice .  . 

from  ( bob cain ) 
subject re pgp , , and 's  ( was cryptography patents ) 
organization usa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 41 

charles wrote 

all i have to say is .  .  . yeah . , right. if you 're willing to pay them 
big and or use the routines they tell you to do. 
does n't sound very reasonable to me. 

all i have to say is this is full of shit. i have a license 
and the are incredibly reasonable with an charge on a 
scale depending on your  . if you are a 
and ca n't afford it you ca n't afford to start up in the first place. 
why do people insist on making statements about that which 
they know nothing. 


but i do n't guess and are interested in big  . maybe 
they have some other secure communications only for 
government , perhaps 

have you considered treatment for paranoia the government is the 
single biggest thorn in 's side. 


some  . let me guess do n't use the code in any way or 
does n't like .  .  .  . such . as .  .  . providing . secure communications for the 
average citizen .  . 

that was exactly its purpose if you know anything about it. there is 
nothing at all preventing the average citizen using it , only selling 
it. 


i hope my is misplaced here. go ahead .  .  . i'm . not afraid to 
be wrong every once in a while. but , i have an uneasy feeling that i 
am right. ( 

it is and you are wrong yet you emotionally state a bunch of crap as fact 
with a tiny disclaimer at the end. check your facts first and grow up. 
why is there such a strong correlation between interest in cryptography 
and i wonder .  . 

bob cain  ( normally 

from  ( michael kagalenko ) 
subject re how to detect use of an illegal 
organization university , boston , ma .  . , usa 
lines 19 

in article  ( eli brandt ) writes 

i probably should n't say this , but they could try to detect the use 
of an illegal by in the clear some statistical 
properties of the  . an old could then 
detect the use of pre , which would drastically increase 
the measured entropy of the input. a to this would 
be to use techniques which put out voice .  . 

this way to detect pre may be one can do 
transformation of the spectrum of signal just by adding some 
pre  ( in the beginning of communication ) function. 
i think so. say , you can do of your signal .  . 
just thinking ... 



for 1 . public key finger 


from  ( bill 1 0705 ) 
subject white house chip 
organization ministry of truth 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 20 44 gmt 
keywords big is watching .  . 
nntp posting host ho . com . 
lines 

fascinating .  . most of the content of the white house was 
in what was not said. it gives us almost nothing of value , threatens to 
take away a lot , and does it with a sincere on its face , 
and the nice friendly word . 

fact 
public 

the first thing it does n't say is we 're giving you stronger . 
what it says is 
the u. s. government has developed a that not only 
provides through that is more 
than the current government standard , but also of 
the needed to the  . the system for the 
of will allow the government to gain access to 
information only with appropriate legal  . 
but des is strong enough that only the government can break it now , 
so the major effect is to make it easier for government to break ! 
at best it makes it more difficult for the to break , since they 
need to get one of the two to do a brute force search 
for the other 40 bit key .  . 

similarly , it did n't say we 're making is available. 
because is already available , including 
forms the may not be able to break , like des or idea. 
and phone could offer des based systems now if they were 
convinced the government would let them and they could make enough money. 

the next thing it did n't say is we 're making legal , 
because of course has always been legal , and the 
president ca n't change the first amendment merely by decree .  . 
what it did say was 
in making this decision , i do not intend to prevent the 
private from developing , or the government from , 
other or that are equally effective in 
both and a secure key system. 
which clearly means we 're making illegal unless we get your  . 
soon. once business buys into this. 

another thing it did n't say is we 're going to ask congress for money 
to do lots more , because of course , there 's a crisis , 
and congress might debate the policy issues or not give them the cash .  . 
what it did say was 
the general will and devices to 
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct 
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure 
law enforcement communications .  . further , the general 
shall funds from the department of justice 
super to effect this  . 
which means we 've got money congress ca n't control and we 're going to 
buy lots of equipment with it to detect non approved 
 ( that 's what preserve the government 's ability to conduct ... surveillance 
means . ) . 

pray for peace bill 
bill 1 at t bell labs nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 fax 1 

from  ( bill sommerfeld ) 
subject a little political philosophy worth reading. 
lines 66 
nntp posting host com . 
organization 

read this through once or twice .  . then replace prince with 
government or president , as appropriate , and read it again. 

from chapter xx of the prince , by n .  . , as translated by 
daniel  . 

in order to keep their lands secure , some have 
their subjects others have prompted division within the 
cities they have subjugated .  . some have against 
themselves others have sought to win the approval of those they 
initially  . some have others have 
them. now , although it is impossible to set down definite 
judgements on all of these measures without considering the particular 
circumstances of the states where they may be employed , i shall 
nevertheless discuss them in such broad terms as the subject itself 
will allow .  . 

to begin with , there has never been a case of a new prince 
his subjects .  . indeed , whenever he found them , he 
proceeded to them. for by your subjects , you make their 
your own. those among them who are suspicious become loyal , 
while those who are already loyal remain so , and from subjects they 
are into  . though you cannot them all , 
nonetheless you increase your safety among those you leave unarmed by 
to those you  . your different treatment of 
the two categories will make the latter feel obligated to you , while 
the former will consider it proper those who assume added duties 
and should receive  . 

when you your subjects , however , you offend them , by 
showing that , either from or from lack of faith , you 
distrust them and either conclusion will them to hate you. 
moreover , since it is impossible for you to remain unarmed , you would 
have to resort to , whose have already been 
discussed .  . even if such troops were good , however , they could never be 
good enough to defend you from powerful enemies , and doubtful 
subjects .  . therefore , as i have said , a new prince in a acquired 
state has always taken measures to his subjects , and history is 
full of examples proving that this is so. 

but when a prince takes of a new state which he 
as an addition to his original domain , then he must all 
the subjects of the new state except those who helped him to acquire 
it and these , as time and , he must seek to render 
soft and weak. he must matters in such a way that the of 
the entire state will be in the hands of soldiers who are native to 
his original domain .  . 

... 

and since the subject demands it , i will not fail to 
any prince who has acquired a new state by the aid of its 
that he consider what them to assist him if the 
reason is not natural for him , but rather 
with the former government , he will find it extremely difficult to 
keep them friendly , for it will be impossible to please them. if he 
will carefully think the matter through in the light of examples drawn 
from ancient and modern affairs , he will understand why it is much 
easier to win the favor of those who were happy with their former 
government , and hence were his enemies , than to keep the favor of 
those who , out of with the former rule , helped him to 
replace it. 





from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton 
organization dsi 
lines 29 

in article writes 


as an , i'm sure you can see the flaws in this logic .  . if the  ( naive ) 
market is flooded with , but weak , , then truly strong 
will be unable to  . 

this is true for the mass market , but not for those who need strong 
and are willing to pay the price .  . after all , one can buy strong today 
if one is willing to spend enough. 

thus the concern is not economic .  . 

the issue most worth worrying about is that after the system takes hold , the 
government will outlaw other systems , and something voluntary will become 
the only system available. that is a political , not an economic issue. 

as a separate matter , you may be making an implied for cheap secure 
for everyone. it 's true that the clipper chip would probably prevent 
that except via clipper , but cheap , secure for everyone is a 
political discussion , not an economic one , and the whole point of clipper is 
to resolve that political  ( policy ) between legitimate 
communications and the  . 


david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 8 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . net . 

you 're off topic. in any case , if you check on any of the 
devoted to gun rights issues , you will find ample evidence that 
the misinformation is your assertion that the term the people in 
the second amendment has mysteriously taken on a meaning 
opposite the meaning of the exact same term in the first and fourth 
 . 



from  ( phil karn ) 
subject re amendment and 
nntp posting host unix . org . 
reply to 
organization , 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( rob stampfli ) writes 
sadly , it does not. can be compelled to give and 
voice , and to take blood and dna  . 

i am sure that mike is correct on this point. i am also pretty sure that 
truth would be ruled a violation of your right 
not to yourself. but , what is the difference 

you can find the difference in any number of amendment 
related supreme court opinions. the court limits amendment 
to what they call testimonial evidence , as opposed to 
physical evidence. 

the whole question would on whether a key would be 
considered testimonial evidence. i suppose arguments could be made 
either way , though obviously i would hope it would be considered 
testimonial .  . 



from  ( andrew molitor ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization department of mathematics 
lines 19 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 
 ( andrew molitor ) writes 

the   is voice , and exists for a very short 
time , probably in a couple of ,  . it 's not 
available your bug in my office can hear my voice , and even 
it , but it 's going to get a different  . 

i am an idiot .  . the that 's relevant is the key .  . 
if you know that , you probably do n't need a of , do you 
if you were going to brute force something interesting , that 'd be the 
message , which is sort of approximately known by , say , a bug in 
my office. then your of could get the key .  . which 
i change every morning. 

really , it 's just a whole lot easier for the illicit 
to stick a bug in your phone. 

andrew 

from  ( john kelsey ) 
subject the chip , clones , and secure key exchange 
nntp posting host missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 33 

writes 
the must be kept secret , or 
private individuals could make with 
which they could messages which the feds would not have 
ready access to. 

not necessarily .  . i 've been thinking about this , and if this chip scheme 
is to provide any real security , there must be some sort of key exchange , 
either using a public key scheme , or using a key exchange scheme 
like  . if there 's an out of of a shared 
key , then what that from if the phone 
company or some other central authority a key and 
sends it to both users , then what 's the point of going to the trouble of 
having some complicated key just ask the phone company for 
a copy of the key for each call .  . 

now , it 's probably not practical for each user to keep an copy of 
every public key used by anyone anywhere , right so , probably , there will 
be some way of getting these verified .  . this might be a 
signed  ( by the chip manufacturer ) copy of the public key in this , 
by this  . it might also be an directory with access to 
everyone 's public  .  ( this would introduce another weakness to the 
security of the scheme , of course . ) . presumably , if you do n't use your 
key , you ca n't get a verified connection to other standard  . 

it might be useful to have a modified chip , which would allow you to 
use either the original public private key pair , or some other key pair 
and scheme .  . unfortunately , this would not allow you to call 
most people and establish secure communications .  .  .  .  . 

john kelsey 
i hope somebody starts doing this soon after the first 
ones are released .  .  .  . 

from  ( charles kincy ) 
subject re pgp , , and 's  ( was cryptography patents ) 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of missouri , , 
lines 19 

in article  ( bob cain ) writes 

i hope my is misplaced here. go ahead .  .  . i'm . not afraid to 
be wrong every once in a while. but , i have an uneasy feeling that i 
am right. ( 

it is and you are wrong yet you emotionally state a bunch of crap as fact 
with a tiny disclaimer at the end. check your facts first and grow up. 
why is there such a strong correlation between interest in cryptography 
and i wonder .  . 

oh , i see , flame someone , tell them that they are , tell them 
they are wrong , and then do n't offer any proof for your assertions .  . 

you really are a  . put up or shut up. 



it 's been 80 days. do you know where your is 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 

in article  ( brad templeton ) writes 
in article  ( timothy c. may ) writes 
getting the court order to reveal the key also makes 
all past  ( which may be on , or , or whatver ) , 
as i understand the proposal .  . i could be wrong , but i 've seen no 
mention of being the entities .  . 

true in theory. in practice the technology of will 
probably be spread spectrum and quite difficult to record the 
without the key .  . if the path depends on they key , as i 
understand it to , it could be made effectively impossible to record .  . 

i am not an expert in the cryptography science , but some basic things 
seem evident to me , things which this clinton clipper do not address. 
the all to for abuse , and conclusions based on what 
i have seen the membership of this group  ( except for two persons ) 
agree to. if anything bad is possible by the government in theory , it 
almost always ends up happening in fact. so the key is to make abuse 
impossible. question authority , and remember power does corrupt .  . 

i think one has to regard this whole idea in the sense that it will be 
expanded to include other data forms , such as data and 
data .  . and as such should be treated as if it were expanded  ( or such 
will be almost impossible to stop , using clipper as a  . 
there was a hint of that in the proposal , remember. that said , please 
bear with me , i am not very , so i take more words to say 
what others could say much more  . thank you. 

once it land you can record it if you have access. the 
is n't supposed to give that without a warrant .  . that 's the rule 
today. 

as i suggested this is now. the hint is in the proposal that this or 
similar are being considered for other forms of 
such as data , data files , and such , largely dependent on how 
this thing is accepted or  . i think one would be wise to treat 
this in the manner one would when  ( not if ) it gets expanded to other 
areas than  . i think this is guaranteed to happen , if 
this proposal gets by. politics. it has been and is used in 
several other areas , it is certain to be used here. government is not 
going to easily give up on the idea that they should be able to 
whenever they want to.  court order required  has proven to be a rather 
 . if the case warrants , they can always the 
material , and force one to give the key , or sit in jail forever on 
periodically charges .  . so it is not denying the justice 
system the information , nor the ability to lock someone up if guilty 
 ( or refuses to the means to access the info this is not 
protected under the one can be forced to perform acts that would 
result in  . so , blocking restrictions 
on private is not preventing legitimate law enforcement it 
does make illegitimate law enforcement a bunch more difficult. especially 
without the target 's  . do n't give up the 
right to be safe from that that should be non , and clinton 
and co .  . know it  ( which is probably why they developed this thing , 
if they get it this far , they can it on  . how come 
those could be roughly described as us they cannot 
it though , when they ban other to ensure its 
exclusive use. hence the nice document to try and everyone. 
do n't buy into it. has government really earned that kind of trust , 
past or future to be secure and free , one must keep government honest 
and the only way to do that is to make abuse impossible , not  unlikely  
or  . 

but even so , the evidence would not be , i think , unless the 
judge so ordered .  . i think that even of the 
without a warrant would be illegal .  . cops ca n't record today 's plain 
calls and then ask a judge , hey , can we have permission to 
listen to those can they 

so what one could use information gained by re use of the  ( saved 
after the last case was finished ) or other means  ( master key , , 
easily broken algorithm ) to find other evidence which , given to a judge , 
would a which would n't have been possible otherwise. this 
has been the more common manner of abuse of in the past .  .  .  . for 
local cops , this might be workable to keep them honest , but the feds 
have a somehow , bet on it. does anyone really believe 
for example , that the government will use a scheme cannot listen 
in on for keywords either easily in or 
via a  master key  i sure do n't .  . 

this whole thing sounds like something to eliminate the need to use 
old police work to build a case. in the past , 
was rather easy  ( with or without a court  . i think the law 
enforcement community has become a bit spoiled , and will resist changes 
that require them to to using old work. i 
just find it somewhat surprising coming from a bunch that cares so much 
about civil and individual rights , that puts people first . the question 
is put people first to where 

with the not being revealed , how is one to be sure there t 
exist a  master key  for use by , etc  ( so they can do their 
, etc on they routinely , without a specific 
court order ) remember , the phone is only temporary .  . 
bet on it. and so far i have not heard about police telling people that 
they have been and nothing was found. what is to 
keep them from simply keeping the on file for  next time  after 
, they would have quite a collection. kept especially for folks 
they  . and if they get only one key , that would 
reduce the search space a lot , unless it is an scheme .  . remember 
nixon years need for court orders really them down , did n't it 

and unless the accounts are not government controlled  ( fat chance ! 
i see one ending up being under , say treasury , the other under justice 
 ) it could be worth some serious to some folks to get to 
a 's clinton clipper  ( or when this idea is expanded 
to be used for all non government  . enough would get 
one the or the for this  . perhaps not an important 
concern , but given past government behavior and the other problems .  .  .  . 

worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 

yes , that is a major concern , but i think that they think they can 
win just by having 5 . of the usa use this system. they do n't even 
have to care about the  . 5 . that 's left. they do n't the 
really smart anyway. john , who would have to be 
not to realize he was likely to be , away 
on his phone about murder plans. that 's why he 's in jail now. 
hard to believe , but true. 

what will one do when it is expanded to data you 
can bet that if clipper is accepted , that will be next on the  . 
it is even at in the proposal read it carefully .  .  .  . expect the 
well , if you got nothing to hide .  .  .  . fine. then using that 
argument , one should not object to video being in 
every room of one 's home. granted an of the idea but 
the principle holds .  . private stuff should remain private , even from a 
govt  . and laws rules may change in the future as 
to  . when it comes to the fed government , are 
pretty meaningless , if they want to do get something. 

do n't work so hard to give up some rather rights , or establish 
bad , please. the price could be hell to pay , later. 

this scheme can succeed without laws more , which people would 
fight a lot harder .  . they like this enough that they are dropping the so 
called digital proposal , according to rumours .  . however the 
meaning of that is complex , since they still want to get at the 
on systems , and that requires a bit of work. 

people would fight laws more now , but in , say two years , 
because we have this  crisis  situation which must be addressed by some 
 action  , just this added reasonable will only bother 
those who have to hide .  .  .  . etc. please do n't buy into it. 

if the clinton clipper is so very good , why not make its public 
so many people can exchange ideas and examine it , rather than a few 
isolated  respected   ( respected by whom for what perhaps a 
certain professor who likes key banks would be one of the 
 .  .  . this does seem to expand on some ideas the person was 
advocating , if i recall ) .  . how would anybody know that what the 
examine is the same as what will end up being used in the clipper 
chip , if it is kept secret perhaps the clipper will use a crippled 
version  ( with a  master key  provision ) , or features not present in the 
version for study and evaluation by the  . and who 
chooses the the government no conflict of interest there .  .  .  . 
) 

and is n't it a requirement for any decent scheme that it not 
have its reduced by having the widely known 
i was lead to believe that one should assume the other side has everything 
you have , except for the  .  .  . i recall ideas presented to this 
group are rejected if a requirement exists the be secret .  .  .  . 

another question since it is a safe bet this clipper thing would not 
be used for government security , they are regarding it as not real secure 
but good enough for common folk .  . i think i would like to see a full 
description  ( not a non statement ) of just what good enough means 
i think when saying how strong it is , good enough really means not 
very . the excuse that other countries have these restrictions is not 
acceptable other countries do not have our bill of rights and 
constitution  ( which the people , not the governments , of those other 
countries often regard with what we have as rights they have as 
 . and if we expect to those rights and 
, we must not allow them to be because we just gotta 
have this thing to  fight  . we have have our bill of 
rights pretty much to  . we should not more 
for yet another  noble cause  , instead we should be trying to 
the damage. our crime problem may have a number of causes , but too 
many rights and is not a one. a broken court 
system and poor police work are a much more cause as having 
too many rights  ( disregarding addressing the root causes for crime , 
 . 

btw those who suggest that this is just an attack on clinton , believe 
this i would be going who seriously proposed 
this thing. it is just another step in a gradual of our rights 
under the constitution or bill of rights. the last couple of decades 
have been a non stop series of end runs around the of the 
constitution .  . it has to stop .  . now is as good a time as any , if it 
is n't too late  . 


brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 



without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( carl m. kadie ) 
subject would clipper make a good cover for other method 
originator 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the electronic foundation 
lines 26 

clipper might be a good way to cover the use of another of 
 . 

currently , when you send an message , an opponent can usually 
tell 1 ) that you are using 2 ) which method you 
are using because that information is usually in the clear . 

with clipper , most opponents will only know that you are sending 
clipper text , they wo n't know that your clipper text is itself 
 . 

only those few opponents who get your clipper will know 
that your message is double  . 

... kind of like a safety deposit box containing a lock box .  . 

so , do n't just think of replacements for clipper , also think of front 
ends. 






i do not represent this is just me. 
, 

from  ( andrew richard conway ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 94 

in article  ( hal finney ) writes 
the key question is whether non clipper will be made illegal .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 

does anyone know what countries are these 

american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

the clear middle ground implied by these statements is to say that americans 
have the right to clipper , but not to  . 
this implies that , ultimately , non clipper strong must become 
illegal .  . 

with the following logical consequences 
 ( a ) using any code designed to obscure which is 
not easily will be illegal , including 
 ( i ) using code words such as   
 ( ii ) speaking a language other than english 
 ( iii ) ever refering implicitly to events not known to 
everyone , eg 
hi john .  . how was last night 
for all the listener knows , this may be a code for 
did you pick up the drugs ok last night 
of be a code for 
ok. we blow up the at  . 
 ( iv ) mentioning anything that could not be perfectly 
understood by an average person with no education. 
 ( v ) words with more than one syllable .  . 
 ( vi ) speaking with a heavy accent that could 
by people not used to it. 
 ( vii ) books with an inner meaning  .  .  . such . 
as animal farm . 

 ( as an aside , is n't the language here all this talk about 
when they 're talking about taking away people 's 
right to communications ) 

yes. 

it looks like the worst raised by 's 
are coming true. if the government continues on this course , i imagine 
that we will see strong cryptography made illegal .  . programs 
for files and email , as well as software to allow for 
voice communications , will be only through the 
. people will have to learn how to hide the fact that 
they are protecting their  . 

i have a wonderful you can borrow that converts a message 
eg meet me at 11 30 to bomb the white house. bring some 
to an apparently  ( relatively ) message. this message 
here is an example of the output for the above message ) .  . 

it 's and frightening to see that this is actually happening here. 

it is that it could happen anywhere. 
it is that it could happen in a country 
that has the arrogance to call itself free. 

what you can do 
(1) write to your congress person in plain text. 
(2) write to your congress person in text. 
 ( decrypter optional ) 
 ( 3 ) send some random to your 
 ( 4 ) send some random the us , 
and keep the busy trying to it. 
 ( 5 ) write your own  . 
 ( 6 ) do n't buy clipper products. 

p.s. i ca n't work out why the us government does n't want to sell 
them  . after all , they are rather easy for us interests to , 
so make a perfect tool for industrial military  .  . 
anyone stupid enough to buy it into a false sense of security .  . you will 
notice that there is no mention anywhere about safety for non americans .  . 

disclaimer my opinions are mine alone , and do not represent anyone elses .  . 
i have nothing that i particularly want to hide at the moment .  .  . though . i 
consider the right 
to be able to use whatever method of coding data i like to be high on my 
list of  . 



andrew conway phone usa 


from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 5 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . net . 

i wonder if she such a fat fee from with the in 
the design and propoganda stages that she does n't care any more 

which is to say is the totally , or does it at least 
have the virtue of taking care of its own g 

from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization itc community access unix internet project 
lines 16 

in article  ( peter gutmann ) writes 
article deleted 

just doing a quick reality check here is this for real or did someone 
invent it to a reaction from people it sounds more like the 
sort of thing you 'd have heard , suitably rephrased , from the leader of a 
certain german political party in the 's .  .  .  .  . 

it sounds like a joke  ( but then the war on drugs has always been a joke .  .  . ) .  . 


join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the reform church bbs at . . . . 


from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 35 

i guess the read this group too. but of 
course i knew that because it is so easy to do. there is 
not a single doubt in my mind that every that passes 
every significant gateway or  bone is captured for the 
of data about  ( maybe your name is  . 

maybe we should start a newsgroup for the distribution of 
posts intended of members of groups with a shared private 
key .  . for example at the coming up meeting , a private 
key to that particular meeting could be passed out 
by a  . , followup comments to other participants , 
and so on could be posted to the alt . group for the use 
of the people who attended .  . intended by the group for 
non could of course just be signed using the private key 
but not  . 

starting a alt . newsgroup rather than just maintaining 
mailing lists is better for several reasons. first , it would be 
easier to archive for people who might join a group late and 
who might like to easily read earlier posts second , traffic analysis 
to know exactly to whom an message is directed would be 
three , a newsgroup is much more public and would serve to 
available measures on the internet .  . 

and it would be fun to accumulate a secret full of such 
it beats giving out t shirts as a door prize .  . 

we could send a copy of alt . directly to judge william 
or to save them the time of having it 
for them. 



15 ad ac 3d 01 


from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 23 50 03 0500 
reply to 
organization brothers 
lines 36 


in article  ( amanda walker ) writes 

from  ( amanda walker ) 

 ( john hesse ) writes 
oh great .  . wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds .  . 

hey , it 's better than the status quo .  . 

i am far less worried about the feds my phone than high school 
who get their kicks out of on and 
phone calls .  . 

i'm a political  . i'm scared of the feds listening 
in on my calls .  . my opinions are the sort that would get me 
disappeared in a slightly less free society and who knows what 
sort of society we will be in in five or ten years i have friends who 
have had their none of this is to me. 

as for its better than the status quo , well , first of all , you can 
get a from like today and they work 
well. in addition , a number of groups are now working on building 
software to turn any pc into a enhanced phone right now and 
they are all working in mode .  . 

and yes , i 'd rather just see all restrictions lifted , but this is at 
least an improvement for certain applications .  .  .  . 

there are no restrictions .  .  .  . yet. you can use anything you want 
right now. the point is to maintain that right. 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( rob stampfli ) 
subject re amendment and 
organization little to none 
lines 20 

i am someone will correct me if i am wrong , but does n't the 
also cover not being forced to do actions that are self 

from mike , posted with permission 

sadly , it does not. can be compelled to give and 
voice , and to take blood and dna  . 

i am sure that mike is correct on this point. i am also pretty sure that 
truth would be ruled a violation of your right 
not to yourself. but , what is the difference 
both drawing blood and truth you for 
a while , but do no permanent damage. is it simply that we have come to 
view one as acceptable , while the other is viewed as a fundamental 
violation of one 's rights if this is the case , how do we expand the 
of the amendment to incorporate new without 
the results being a of different judges personal opinions 

rob the neat thing about standards 
ham radio there are so many to choose from. 

from 
subject the clipper chip a technical summary 
distribution world 
organization university 
lines 

the following document summarizes the clipper chip , how it is used , 
how programming of the chip is coupled to key generation and the 
process , and how law enforcement communications .  . 
since there has been some speculation on this news group about my 
own involvement in this project , i 'd like to add that i was not in 
any way involved. i found out about it when the fbi me on 
thursday evening , april 15 .  . since then i have spent 
time talking with the and fbi to learn more about this , and i 
attended the at the department of commerce on april 16. 
the document below is the result of that effort .  . 




the clipper chip a technical summary 



april 19 , 1993 


introduction 

on april 16 , the president a new that will bring 
together the federal government and industry in a voluntary program 
to provide secure communications while meeting the legitimate needs of 
law enforcement .  . at the heart of the plan is a new proof 
chip called the clipper chip together with a split key approach to 
 . two are used , and the key parts from 
both are needed to a key .  . 


chip structure 

the clipper chip contains a classified 64 bit block 
called  . the uses 80 bit  ( compared 
with 56 for the des ) and has 32 of  ( compared with 16 
for the  . it supports all 4 des modes of operation. is 
16 a second .  . 

each chip includes the following components 

the 
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all 
n , a 30 bit serial number 
u , an 80 bit secret key that all messages with the chip 


with the chip 

to see how the chip is used , imagine that it is embedded in the at t 
telephone security device  ( as it will  . suppose i call someone and 
we both have such a device. after pushing a to start a secure 
conversation , my security device will negotiate a key k with 
the device at the other end  ( in general , any method of key exchange can 
be  . the key k and message m (i . e .  . , voice ) are then 
fed into the clipper chip to produce two values 

e m k , the message , and 
e e k u n f , a law enforcement block. 

the law enforcement block thus contains the key k 
under the key u with the serial number n , all 
under the family key f. 


chip programming and 

all clipper are programmed inside a  ( secure computer 
information facility ) , which is essentially a  . the contains 
a computer and equipment to program the  . about 
are programmed during a single session. the is at 
 . 

at the beginning of a , a trusted from each of the two key 
enters the  . 1 enters an 80 bit value 
into the and 2 enters an 80 bit value  . these values 
serve as seeds to generate for a sequence of serial numbers. 

to generate the key for a serial number n , the 30 bit value n is 
first padded with a fixed 34 bit block to produce a 64 bit block n1 .  . 
and are then used as to n1 , producing a 
64 bit block 

e d e n1 . 

similarly , n is padded with two other 34 bit blocks to produce and 
, and two additional 64 bit blocks and are 

e d e 
e d e . 

, , and are then together , giving bits. the 
first 80 bits are to and the second 80 bits to  . the 
rest are discarded .  . the key u is the of and  . and 
are the key parts that are with the two 
 . 

as a sequence of values for , , and u are generated , they are 
written onto three separate  . the first contains a 
file for each serial number that contains the key part 
 . the second is similar but contains the values .  . the third 
contains the u. 1 takes the first and 
2 takes the second  . the third is used to program the  . 
after the are programmed , all information is discarded from the 
and the leave .  . the may be for additional 
that no information is left behind. 

the may be changed slightly so that four people are in the 
room instead of two .  . the first two would provide the seeds and , 
and the second two  ( the agents ) would take the back to 
the  . 

the have as yet to be determined , but they will not 
be the , , fbi , or any other law enforcement agency .  . one or 
both may be independent from the government. 


law enforcement use 

when law enforcement has been to an line , they 
will first take the warrant to the service in order to get 
access to the communications line. let us assume that the is in 
place and that they have determined that the line is with 
clipper .  . they will first the law enforcement block with the 
family key f. this gives them e k u n .  . they will then take a 
warrant the chip serial number n to each of the key 
and get back and  . and are together to produce 
the key u , and e k u is to get the key k. 
finally the message is  . all this will be accomplished 
through a special black box operated by the fbi .  . 


and distribution notice. all information is based on 
information provided by , , and the fbi .  . permission to 
distribute this document is granted .  . 




from  ( john hesse ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 34 

in article  ( amanda walker ) writes 
 ( john hesse ) writes 
oh great .  . wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds .  . 

hey , it 's better than the status quo .  . 

i am far less worried about the feds my phone than high school 
who get their kicks out of on and 
phone calls .  . 


really why are so you worried about high school kids getting their kicks 
with , as compared to what the feds can do , and have done , to their 
targets 

better than the status quo is n't good enough , i 'd say. the same 
technology could be implemented without a back door open to the state. 

we all know about power and corruption .  . but we all know that abuse is 
something that only happens to the other guy. 


walker 
systems corporation 






john a man , 
a plan , 
beach , a , bob .  . 


from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization communications corp .  . 
distribution na 
lines 37 

the of the government is interesting. the real fear comes from 
them doing more than this. 

this is a voluntary program , and thus harder for us to object to on 
the surface .  . 

their strategy is a business one rather than legal one. they are 
pushing to get a standard in place , a secret standard , and if they 
get it as a standard then they will drive out of the market .  . 
it will be legal to sell better , that does n't have 
, but it will be difficult , and thus not a plan for 
most phone  . 

you see , with clipper chip you 'll be able to talk to any 
company , or other or because they will follow 
the standard. at t has already a clipper chip 
product .  . the government has hard to get major to 
use these  . if they get enough market share , they will rule. 

and thus there will be very little market for systems that ca n't be 
by the police .  . the public is n't that concerned about it now , 
after all. they freely do calls that anybody with an old tv can listen 
to today ! they wo n't pay big extra for that secure 
them only from the police .  . 

well , some people will buy these , but they will only work with 
other , so the market will be small and the 
expensive .  . unless they are made in numbers large enough to sell them 
cheap , only the will buy them. 

and this means that the fbi will want to track the customer lists of 
better , because the only reason a person would want 
one is to the police .  . 

interesting. 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core 
only 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 35 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( jim hart ) writes 
you do n't care that people are being lied to , into believing the 
chip gives when it fact it allows 

it does give , just not absolute  . the announcement was very 
up front about this , and about allowing  . how is this 
anyone 

are you so smart that you know when you 're talking 
to somebody who has a chip on their phone instead of a 
chip with private ) 

sure. the two do n't  . you could n't talk to , say , a phone 
from a clipper phone. i would expect even to come with 
saying which kind of link is in use .  .  .  . 

we do need an alternative to , but 
we 're talking here , including hand 
, that need strong , real  . 

so start a company and build them. this is still mostly a capitalist 
economy .  .  .  . 

what we need is a true chip . for example , a real time 
voice , put it into a silicon and out 
 . put this chip on the market as a de facto standard for 
international business , , and private communications .  . 

i agree. go for it. 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization for an america free drug 
lines 17 

 ( graham toal ) writes 

in the uk , it 's impossible to get approval to any device 
to the phone network.  ( anything that in to our phone 
must be approved for some reason devices just never are .  .  . ) . 


the difference between a v . and a v . 

i'm not being entirely silly here what i'm pointing out is that the 
modems that they have already approved for data will work 
just fine to voice .  . 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re the source of that announcement 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 37 

wrote 
the message from the about the clipper chip comes from the 
following address 

 ( clipper chip announcement ) 

just who is that , i asked myself , or rather , i asked the computer .  . 

gov . 25 
 .  .  . list . of name for  .  .  .  .  .  . 

well , is n't that interesting. , , 
, ron , jim , and others. the government , , 
, , and the are all represented .  . i do n't suppose anybody 
within any of these organizations would care to comment or is this 
just the white house 's idea of a cruel joke on these peoples  

i know that at least one person on that list says the first he heard 
of clipper was in the friday morning newspaper ! and another has 
already fired off a letter of to  . 

my point i suspect this list , interesting as it is for various 
reasons , does not represent the that put this proposal together. 
some of them , yes. others , no. 

this may be nothing more than a mailing list of people who get 
related from , er , i mean  . 

tim may 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may anarchy , digital money , 
anonymous , digital , zero 
408 knowledge , , information , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . , ca black , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed and 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 93 18 23 27 
reply to 
organization brothers 
lines 102 


 ( vidkun abraham quisling ) writes 

each chip includes the following components 

the 
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all 
n , a 30 bit serial number 
u , an 80 bit secret key that all messages with the chip 

hmmm .  . a thirty bit serial number .  . and , we are told , the key u is 
derived from this serial number .  . that means that 
there are only one billion possible  . 

to generate the key for a serial number n , the 30 bit value n is 
first padded with a fixed 34 bit block to produce a 64 bit block n1 .  . 
and are then used as to n1 , producing a 
64 bit block 

e d e n1 . 

similarly , n is padded with two other 34 bit blocks to produce and 
, and two additional 64 bit blocks and are 

e d e 
e d e . 

, , and are then together , giving bits. the 
first 80 bits are to and the second 80 bits to  . the 
rest are discarded .  . the key u is the of and  . and 
are the key parts that are with the two 
 . 

hmmm .  . we must assume that the key u from the serial 
number n rather than it from a randomly and 
is an intentional way of a fail safe for the government 
u is determined given , and n .  . if and do not 
change they constitute effective master  ( along with f ) , the 
theft of which  ( or the of which by various authorities ) 
completely the security of the system. however , more 
interestingly , we know , for a fact that if and are fixed no 
matter what the for u is no more than 2 30 .  . why not pick 
and at random why this interesting of they key space 
if it not to provide an additional back door 

i find it that at the very best my security is on 
approximately 30 worth of information that could be written on 
the back of a  . 

even if and change periodically , the rationale behind this 
in the size of the seems strange if one is 
assuming that the goal is security and makes perfect sense if the 
goal is an illusion of security .  . 

if and do not change , even if they remain secret i wonder if 
they can somehow be back derived given enough key serial number 
pairs .  . we are assured that this cannot happen but no one 
how works outside of government and , 
soon , foreign intelligence services that gain the information via 
 . presumably we will eventually have the information as well 
reverse engineering gets more and more advanced every year but 
by the time we know it may be too late. 

as a sequence of values for , , and u are generated , they are 
written onto three separate  . the first contains a 
file for each serial number that contains the key part 
 . the second is similar but contains the values .  . the third 
contains the u. 1 takes the first and 
2 takes the second  . the third is used to program the  . 
after the are programmed , all information is discarded from the 
and the leave .  . the may be for additional 
that no information is left behind. 

none of this makes me feel the least bit secure .  . the silly notion of 
destroying the appears to be yet another bizarre distraction .  . 
we all know that you ca n't read data from that has been turned 
off for more than a few  . on the other hand , what we do n't know 
is why there is a need to generate the from and in the 
first place other than to the system. we do n't know if the 
in question would resist a million in cash a piece for their 
information its probably worth hundreds of million , so you can make 
the arbitrarily hard to resist .  . and to tell you the truth , doing 
this in a rather than in joe random room 
with a computer seems like designed to make 
high school from peoria impressed but it does very little 
for most of the rest of us. 

the may be changed slightly so that four people are in the 
room instead of two .  . the first two would provide the seeds and , 
and the second two  ( the agents ) would take the back to 
the  . 

what would this provide lets say the are the and 
the and their personally take back the and are always 
honest .  . who cares the must be laughing out loud , because they 
have the to u given n and likely do n't need to 
steal they as they effectively already have them. 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( paul robichaux ) 
subject suggestions for  ( was re more technical details ) 
reply to 
organization new technology , inc. 
lines 53 

( below is my response to dr. 's letter to  . comments 
are invited .  . paul ) 

in alt . clipper . , steve posted your message to 
him , which included a brief passage concerning selection of 
as  . 

i am glad to see that the proposal as written states that the 
wo n't be law enforcement  . i would argue , however , 
that one of the should n't be federal at all. 

as a private citizen , i would feel much more secure in my person and 
papers knowing that an organization committed to individual civil 
liberties the and the come to mind was half of 
my key .  . both the and the are to government pressure 
by the simple fact that they are not supported , funded , or 
controlled by the government. 

of those federal and funded candidate that you 
mentioned , i have the following comments 

, , , and national labs i agree that they have 
great experience sensitive information. i am not 
convinced that they would adequately this 
information , since in any case requiring , there 's 
likely to be pressure for possibly 
wrongful  . 

perhaps. i would like to see more concrete evidence of 
their fidelity and ability .  . 

treasury surely you 're  . perhaps you 'd ask 
to  . maybe the federal reserve would be a 
better choice. 

ever since last fall 's trial was posted in sci . , your 
name has been with those who place a great deal of trust in 
the ability of government and to act within the law. 

i agree with you in part those and almost always 
act properly. however , there have been enough cases where 
of the federal government have acted wrongly to make me feel 
that having two federal as key is unacceptable .  . 


, 
paul 
 ( not speaking for , , or nasa ) 



paul , help stop the big brother chip ! 
mission software development  . key on request. 

from  ( eli brandt ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
organization college , , ca 
lines 22 

in article  ( carl m. kadie ) writes 
clipper might be a good way to cover the use of another of 
 . 

could somebody provide an overview of the proposed systems using the 
chip  ( ought to see if has a sheet ) sounds like a 
normal digital , so the data path will have to be 
voice 
will be necessary to fit the data on the wire , unless 
they want to wait for  ( that we should be so lucky .  .  . ) .  . feeding 
pre data into the will cause it to chuckle at 
you you 'd have to into the of the phone and hack either 
the data , or parts of the output 
before it the  . unless you want to pay for two fast 
modems on top of the , and just plug the box in between 
your phone and the wall. 



pgp 2 key by finger or e mail 



from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re fighting the clipper 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 7 
nntp posting host access . net . 

er , excuse me but since the are n't yet chosen , how can you 
say they have a history of sic 

i refer to the federal law enforcement  ( which is ultimately in 
charge of this) generally .  . 



from  ( dwight tuinstra ) 
subject re announcement 
reply to 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 70 
nntp posting host ece . edu . 
cc 


q who was the congress industry 

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on 
issues , and expect those discussions to 
as we carry out our review of policy. we have 
members of congress and industry leaders on the 
decisions related to this  . 

congress so we 're playing politics before we talk to , , 
the public , internet users heard of top down design , but top down 
democracy just whose state district are the chip in 

q if the were unable to find a 
solution like the one proposed , would the be 
willing to use legal to restrict access to more 
powerful devices 

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be 
considered during the broad policy review .  .  .  .  . bs . about 
the of the key system .  .  .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) 

they 'll just provide an easily version to public. 

nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . 

maybe we need a rights amendment .  . 

there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

nice  . but why am i not 


also , 

in article ,  ( andrew richard conway ) writes 
p.s. i ca n't work out why the us government does n't want to sell 
them  . after all , they are rather easy for us interests to , 
so make a perfect tool for industrial military  .  . 
anyone stupid enough to buy it into a false sense of security .  . you will 
notice that there is no mention anywhere about safety for non americans .  . 


why repeat themselves it appears to some  ( and the story looks pretty 
convincing to me , too) that the justice department stole a case 
system , modified it , and it to friendly police and 
around the world , eg .  . the canadian  . of course , i have 
no doubt they scout 's honor that there were no  . 

with that kind of intelligence , who 'd want to be with 
of traffic 


best 


... news at 


from  ( lynn r grant ) 
subject re key bodies 
organization yale cs mail news gateway 
lines 22 

if we do not trust the to be a of clipper chip key , 
i would not trust either. does lots of work for , at least 
in the trusted product evaluation program  ( evaluation of off the 
shelf software for its in classified information ) , and 
i assume in other , less open , programs. 

there are at least two other  ( federally funded research and development 
corporations ) that work for corporation and the institute for 
defense analysis. now , if were to be (a position that i 
am neutral about , for purposes of this posting) , it would be in a position to 
exert economic pressure upon to release key on demand .  . it could 
just say , if you do n't with us , we 'll place all our evaluation 
contracts with and ida .  . 

i am not saying that people at , , , or ida are dishonest 
folk .  . but since they are people , and people go bad , the 
system works better if organizations that you are depending upon to be 
independent really are. 

and , of course , i speak for myself , not my employer .  . 

lynn grant 

from  ( derek atkins ) 
subject re safety measure 
organization institute of technology 
lines 33 

nntp posting host steve mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 5 apr 93 19 21 18 gmt 

begin pgp signed message 

in article  ( lance m cottrell ) writes 

btw i have not been able to get pgp to produce a signature 
that i can to the end of this message. what is 
the procedure thanks. 

try 
pgp sat on 

this will do the  .  .  . 

enjoy ! 



pgp 2 key available upon request on the key server 
pgp public 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 





end pgp signature 

atkins , mit  93 , electrical engineering and computer science 
, mit student information board  ( sipb ) 
mit media , speech research group 


from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 17 
nntp posting host access . net . 

thousands tens of thousands do some arithmetic , please .  .  .  . 
has 2 80 possible  . 

we do n't yet know if all 80 bits count. 

that does n't worry me at all they 're not going to cheat at something 
they can get caught at. and key size is one of the things that can be 
verified  . feed lots of random key pairs into the 
chip , then see what happens to the output .  .  .  .  . 

if the device is designed to use the key that 's with the feds , 
i do n't see how you can feed it a different key .  . if the user can change 
the key to any of the 2 80 possibilities , the main reason for regarding 
this proposal as unacceptable  . 




from state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
nntp posting host top . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 25 

in article  ( brad templeton ) writes 

... 
the greatest danger of the , if it were kept on , 
would be the chance that a complete copy could somehow leak out. you 
... 
of course then it 's hard to  . however , i think the consequences 
of no the data is not there when a warrant comes are worse 
than the consequences of a secret  . 

if the data is n't there when the warrant comes , you effectively have 
secure  . if secret are kept .  .  . then . you effectively have 
no  . thus , this poster is arguing no is better 
than secure  . 

if the data is n't there when the warrant comes , then the government will 
just have to use normal law enforcement techniques to  . is 
this so bad btw , bugging is n't yet a normal law enforcement  . 
with the clipper , it will become a normal  . 
jim 

information at .  .  .  . for phone finger a a 
the ohio state university state . edu .  ( 0 0 ) 
jim e mail 
( ) 

from  ( rob quinn ) 
subject thought  ( was re more technical details 
organization kansas state university 
lines 18 
nntp posting host ksu . edu . 

in  ( steven bellovin ) writes 
date sun , 18 apr 93 07 56 39 edt 
from  ( dorothy denning ) 
the clipper chip will have a secret embedded in 
the operates on 64 bit blocks  ( like des ) and the chip supports 
all 4 des modes of operation. the uses 32 of 
compared with 16 in des .  . 

so in a few years there could be millions of these in the usa , all 
networked together sounds like a good science fiction story the government 
wants to crack foreign des  ( or whatever ) messages , so they con the public into 
individually buying all of the components and them. soon the us 
could be covered by the largest parallel computer in the world , built on top of 
our current phone net. 

those who suppress freedom always rob 
do so in the name of law 
and order. john 

from 
subject re is there any security in the clipper 
organization cold media 
lines 13 

 ( ze'ev wurman ) writes 

but do we really believe that the various governments 
 ( including ours ) wo n't have the full lists of all the ever 

yes , but they 'll be with chip , the 
so great it 's top secret and so 
they won t even let you look at it ! 

does n't that make you feel secure 

robert w. clark just say no ! to the 
big brother chip 

from rob 
subject symposium on net security 
x id mac . org . 
x fri , 16 apr 93 15 27 54 gmt 
nntp posting host mac . org . 
organization the corporation , , virginia , usa 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 94 


call for papers 
the internet society symposium on 
network and system security 

3 4 february , , san diego , california 

the symposium will bring together people who are building software and 
hardware to provide network or system security services .  . 
the symposium is intended for those interested in practical aspects of 
network and system security , rather than in theory. symposium 
will be published by the internet society. for the 
symposium include , but are not limited to , the following 

design and implementation of services access control , , 
, , , and non 
including for services at particular 
layers .  . 

design and implementation of security mechanisms and support 
services and key systems , 
and systems , and systems. 

requirements and for applications and 
network functions message handling , file transport , remote 
file access , , time , interactive 
, remote data base and access , , voice and 
video and , news groups , network , 
services , computing , and remote i o .  . 

special issues and problems in security , such as 
very large systems like the international internet , and 
high speed systems like the now being built .  . 

between security goals and other goals , 
reliability , , resource , and low cost .  . 

general chair 
dan , lawrence national 

program 
, special information systems 
rob , the corporation 

program 
dave , trusted information systems 
tom , laboratories 
matt , college 
ed cain , u.s. defense information systems agency 
jim , center 
steve kent , , and newman 
john , independent 
, information sciences institute 
michael , cambridge university 
rob , u.s. national institute of standards and technology 
jeff , institute of technology 
, george university 
peter , u.s. national and space 

the seeks both original technical papers and 
for discussions on technical and other of general 
interest .  . technical papers should be 10 20 pages in length .  . 
should include three or four speakers .  . a proposal must name the 
chair , include a one page topic introduction authored by the chair , 
and also include one page position authored by each speaker 
both the technical papers and the papers will appear in the 
 . 

must be made by 16 august 1993 .  . should be made 
via electronic mail to 



may be in either of two ascii or  . if 
the is unable to read a submission , it will be 
returned and ascii requested .  . therefore , should 
arrive well before 16 august .  . if electronic submission is absolutely 
impossible , should be sent via mail to 

robert w. , mail stop 
the corporation 
, virginia usa 

all must include both an internet electronic mail address and 
a address. each submission will be acknowledged through the 
medium by which it is received .  . if is not received within 
seven days , please contact either rob or 
, or telephone at 
in ,  . 

authors and will be of acceptance by 15 october 1993 .  . 
instructions for camera ready copy for the will be 
at that time. the camera ready copy must be received by 
15 1993 .  . 

from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 21 


well , it now seems obvious what professor was doing last fall 
when this key trial was raised ! 

all the more need for end to end that the 
government approved system. 

by the way , the clipper name .  .  . is . n't this already used for the 
clipper processor from i doubt they 're the ones making the 
chip , so a name conflict may be present. 

tim may 


 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may anarchy , digital money , 
anonymous , digital , zero 
408 knowledge , , information , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . , ca black , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from  ( peter trei ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the corporation 
lines 41 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 
actually the is telling you that if you want to use their 
product the  ( actually better yet , some trusted pair 
of agencies ) has to have the key .  . 

most of us already are in this situation our car makers have to our 
cars  ( or can get them quickly from the number ) , and i have no doubt 
that if presented with a court order , they 'd surrender copies to the 
government. 

chances are that many have the code numbers for house 
they 've , and in an emergency can cut thus they 'd also 
provide such to the government to a court order. 

of course , nothing prevents you from buying a new lock with cash 
and it yourself. even the core to match some 
arbitrary key is not difficult to do at home. i once knew someone who 
had fixed his in this way his house , office and cars all took 
the same key  ( which he took good care of ) 

the state has no difficulty access to your safe deposit box if they 
have a court order. 

bad analogy .  . 

very bad  ( yours , that is) .  . have you ever had a safety deposit box 
they work on a two key system. the bank has one , and you have 
the other  ( they are different  . the bank does not keep a copy of 
your key .  . if you lose it , they have to out the lock , and replace 
the door .  . this is a time and expensive process  ( which they 
will be happy to charge to your account ) .  . 

this process is exactly analogous to having a private key which 
is not in a system , and the state having to crack your 
to get the data .  . 

please do not use false analogies .  . 

peter 



from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject , 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 13 
nntp posting host access . net . 

second question why ! ! why is such a strange procedure used , and not 
a real this turns those , in a kind of for system 
security .  . 

the only theory that makes any sense is that and are either the 
same for all , or vary among very few possibilities , so that anyone 
trying to break the by brute force need only through the 
possible serial numbers  ( 2 30 , about one billion ) , by the number 
of different , combinations .  . 





from  ( paul crowley ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
reply to  ( paul crowley ) 
organization university 
lines 17 

quoting  ( david sternlight ) in article 
in article  ( carl m. kadie ) writes 


so , do n't just think of replacements for clipper , also think of front 
ends. 

this only makes sense if the government prohibits alternative non 
 . otherwise , why not just use the front end without 
clipper 

because that will make private stick out like a sore 
and the government will start to take a interest in everything you 
do. 

o paul crowley 
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x a fish for jesus ! 

from  ( danny eldar ) 
subject need help ! ! 
keywords gateway model , 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 14 

i am currently writing a paper on computer protocols security .  . i would 
appreciate your help. i currently have no insight into these except 
that they relate to security in security network. please me 
any references , books , faqs or contact persons names and internet addresses .  . 
the i am interested in 
1. the gateway model as implemented in internet  . 
2. service 

please send me a private e mail at and or post it on the board. 

thanks a lot , 




from  ( stephen r. tate ) 
subject re why the clipper is secret 
organization duke university computer science dept. , n . c .  . 
lines 31 

in article  ( john r. levine ) writes 
it just occurred to me why the is secret. if it were 
published , one could then build physically identical versions 
of the chip that would with official clipper  . but 
the would n't provide the to the houses .  .  . 

not necessarily they could release the details of the 
without the system key  ( called by  . that would 
make most people happy , and with some sort of procedure 
before key exchange , the official would only work with other 
official  . in other words , secrecy of makes physically 
identical versions impossible secrecy of the should n't 
be necessary. 

of course , revealing the them up to attacks on 
since all units share this key , compromising it may be a big deal. 
personally , i would n't feel too comfortable knowing that one secret 
80 bit number held in many places was all that guaranteed my security .  . 
of course , compromise of does n't necessarily mean that the system 
is , but it 's impossible to tell whether or not that 's true 
with a secret  . 

, what 's to keep a secret from using the secret 
as the main key , with uk being only important. then 
a court order for uk may not even be necessary to do a  . 


steve the reason why mathematics enjoys special , 
dept. of computer science above all other sciences , is that its laws are 
duke university absolutely certain and , while those of all 
, nc other sciences are to some extent  .  ( einstein ) 

from  ( robert l ullmann ) 
subject re why the is secret 
organization the world in boston 
distribution na 
lines 27 

exactly. 

but i 'll add another observation if the chip does become a standard , 
the wo n't remain secret. 

leaving the government with the only remaining option to make use 
of un illegal .  . which wo n't begin to bother the 
and child the government is so of referring to. 

note that the papers one reason for the right 
of citizens to bear to defend themselves against the army .  . 
our army .  . 

imho the primary purpose of private is defend ourselves 
against the government. the odd terrorist i'm not worried about 
the my quality of life every day. 

rob 

robert 1 
la , et , 
bar , de , un 
en on s l re  . ... re 
, il on d un n de la main , 
de , un , m au de l eau et , 
la t e en re ,  . 
text is 1 universal character set 

from  ( jim reeds ) 
subject re  ( was rc4 ) 
summary pop law 
article i.d. alice . 
organization at t bell laboratories , hill nj 
lines 13 

in article matt ,  ( matt healy ) writes 
and 
hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) wrote 
and 
 ( andrew haley ) writes 

about coca and and what they can teach us. 


surely , if we must use pop law examples to discuss and , 
it would make more sense to consider the case of rc 

jim 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 21 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( graham toal ) writes 
try reading between the lines david there are strong hints in there 
that they 're for next , 

where i honestly did n't see any .  .  .  . 

and the only conceivable meaning of 
applying this particular technology to a computer network is that they 
intend it to be used in exclusion to any other means of  . 

i disagree , if for no other reason than that there are already other 
standards in place. besides , even if they restrict on the , 
who cares most of the internet is anyway. the is only for 
and university research  ( read the it 's a data 
for users , not anything having to do with the  . 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( david l. cathey ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization software concepts , tx 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( 1016 2ef221 ) writes 
maybe we should start a newsgroup for the distribution of 
posts intended of members of groups with a shared private 
key .  . for example at the coming up meeting , a private 
key to that particular meeting could be passed out 
by a  . , followup comments to other participants , 
and so on could be posted to the alt . group for the use 
of the people who attended .  . intended by the group for 
non could of course just be signed using the private key 
but not  . 

i like it. pgp would be useful , i guess. although i do n't have 
a working version for vms yet .  .  .  . ( 

15 ad ac 3d 01 

david l. 
software concepts uucp ... ! ! 
p. o .  . box , tx  ( 214 ) 

from  ( david croley ) 
subject re new 
organization experimental systems lab 
lines 48 

in article ,  ( haywood j. blowme ) writes 
as promised , i spoke today with the company mentioned in a washington 
times article about the clipper chip announcement .  . the name of the company 
is secure communications technology  ( information will be given at the end 
of this message on how to contact them) .  . 

... 

his belief is that at t was made known of the clipper well before the 
rest of the industry .  . this is for several reasons , several of which are 

this is a very good point. at t obviously knew and participated in the 
development of the clipper chip .  . this to unfair business practice and 
gives at t an early monopoly on the market a non existant market . 
other that with at t in the market  ( motorola , , etc ) 
have grounds to file a complaint over this. 


right now the company is afraid that the new clipper chip will put them out 
of business. this is a very real possibility .  . so they really need help in 
stopping the clipper chip from becoming a standard. if you want to contact 
them , they can be reached at .  .  . 

secure communications technology 
 . 
silver spring , md 

 ( 301 ) 

... 

it would seem that the one fact that the government has in this 
whole is the economic standpoint .  . as others have mentioned , the most 
difficulty the clipper chip faces is an economic one. let 's face it , the 
average consumer does n't care or know that the clipper is a bad idea. if 
there is a perceived need for , then the will 
provide one. most likely , a standard will emerge .  . but if the clipper is 
too expensive  ( and 25 a chip is way too much ) then they will their 
own or buy a one. i give my full support , and hope the 
clipper chip goes the way of the video format .  . 

also hope they get over re using the name clipper .  . 



david t. sys lab a place not real , no , no  . 
austin , texas a ghost unseen .  .  . the . world between . 


from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
lines 16 

from  ( brad templeton ) 

let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless 
you get both of the key from the two independent 
houses .  . let 's say you even trust the houses one is 
the and the other is the  .  ( and i'm not entirely about 
those two names ) 

i'm really not entirely sure i trust any more to be honest .  . 

anyway , any organisation can be deeply  . look at in britain 
a dozen years ago one of their top members was an who stole their 
complete address list. how hard would it be to get one person to in 
and copy the data to 

g 

from  ( ian ameline ) 
subject facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed and 
organization c set 2 development , ibm canada lab .  . 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
lines 

hmmm .  . we must assume that the key u from the serial 
number n rather than it from a randomly and 
is an intentional way of a fail safe for the government 
u is determined given , and n .  . if and do not 
change they constitute effective master  ( along with f ) , the 
theft of which  ( or the of which by various authorities ) 
completely the security of the system. however , more 
interestingly , we know , for a fact that if and are fixed no 
matter what the for u is no more than 2 30 .  . why not pick 
and at random why this interesting of they key space 
if it not to provide an additional back door 

i find it that at the very best my security is on 
approximately 30 worth of information that could be written on 
the back of a  . 

even if and change periodically , the rationale behind this 
in the size of the seems strange if one is 
assuming that the goal is security and makes perfect sense if the 
goal is an illusion of security .  . 

if and do not change , even if they remain secret i wonder if 
they can somehow be back derived given enough key serial number 
pairs .  . we are assured that this cannot happen but no one 
how works outside of government and , 
soon , foreign intelligence services that gain the information via 
 . presumably we will eventually have the information as well 
reverse engineering gets more and more advanced every year but 
by the time we know it may be too late. 

perhaps the trusted can be the ones who come up with 
and , and if these are really trusted  ( aclu is an 
interesting example) , we can hope that they 'll use some physical 
process to come up with truly random numbers. if the comes up with 
the numbers , that 's a trap door you could drive a through. 

none of this makes me feel the least bit secure .  . 

me either. 

it seems from the following that the is starting to 
question this 


april 16 , 1993 
washington , 

computer call for public 
debate on new government 

computer for social responsibility  ( cpsr ) 
today called for the public of technical data 
underlying the government 's public 
 . the new cryptography scheme was 
today by the white house and the national institute 
for standards and technology  ( nist ) , which will implement the 
technical of the plan .  . a spokesman 
acknowledged that the national security agency  ( nsa ) , the super 
secret military intelligence agency , had actually developed the 
technology around which the new is built .  . 

according to , the technical and the 
presidential establishing the plan are classified .  . to 
open the to public review and debate , today 
filed a series of freedom of information act  ( foia ) requests 
with key , including , , the national security 
council and the fbi for information to the 
plan .  . the requests are in keeping with the spirit of the 
computer security act , which congress passed in 1987 in order to 
open the development of non military computer security standards 
to public scrutiny and to limit 's role in the creation of 
such standards. 

previously has questioned the role of in 
developing the so called digital signature standard  ( dss ) , a 
communications technology that proposed for 
government wide use in 1991. after in a 
lawsuit last year , the civilian agency for the first 
time that had , in fact , developed that security standard. 
is due to file papers in federal court next week justifying 
the of records concerning its creation of the 
dss .  . 

david , legal counsel , called the 
's apparent commitment to the of 
electronic communications , as in today 's official 
statement , a step in the right direction .  . but he questioned 
the propriety of 's role in the process and the apparent 
secrecy that has thus far the development process from 
public scrutiny .  . at a time when we are moving towards the 
development of a new information , it is vital 
that standards designed to protect personal be 
established openly and with full public participation .  . it is 
not appropriate for an agency with a long tradition of 
secrecy and opposition to effective civilian cryptography to 
play a role in the development process. 

is a national public interest alliance of computer 
industry dedicated to examining the impact of 
technology on society. has 21 chapters in the u.s. and 
offices in , california , cambridge , 
and washington ,  . for additional information on 
, call  ( 415 ) or e mail . 

regards , 
 . 

from  ( clipper chip announcement ) 
subject text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization national institute of standards technology 
distribution na 
lines 


note this file will also be available via anonymous file 
from gov . in directory pub and 
via the computer security bbs at  . 


the white house 

office of the press 



for immediate release april 16 , 1993 


statement by the press 


the president today a new that will bring 
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary 
program to improve the security and of telephone 
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law 
enforcement .  . 

the will involve the creation of new products to 
the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications and communications links .  . 

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our 
private and the law enforcement community to resolve the 
between economic and the real challenges of 
protecting americans .  . rather than use technology to 
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , and 
law enforcement , previous policies have government against 
industry and the rights of against law enforcement .  . 

sophisticated technology has been used for years to 
protect electronic funds  . it is now being used to 
protect electronic mail and computer files. while 
technology can help americans protect business and the 
release of personal information , it also can be used 
by , drug , and other criminals .  . 

a state of the art called the clipper chip has 
been developed by government  . the chip represents a 
new approach to technology. it can be used in new , 
relatively devices that can be attached to 
an ordinary telephone .  . it telephone communications 
using an that is more powerful than many in 
use today. 

this new technology will help protect 
information , protect the of personal phone 
and prevent release of data 
 . at the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement to 
the phone of criminals .  . 

a key system will be established to ensure that the 
clipper chip is used to protect the of law 
americans .  . each device containing the chip will have two unique 


2 


, numbers that will be needed by government 
to messages by the device. when the 
device is , the two will be 
in two key data bases that will be established by the 
general. access to these will be limited to 
government with legal to conduct a 
 . 

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no 
new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

to demonstrate the of this new technology , the 
general will soon several thousand of the new 
devices .  . in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of 
's dual sword helps to protect the 
of individuals and industry , but it also can 
criminals and  . we need the clipper chip and other 
approaches that can both provide law citizens with access 
to the they need and prevent criminals from using it 
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology 
trends and new approaches  ( like the key system ) , 
the president has directed government to develop a 
comprehensive policy on that 

the of our citizens , including the need to 
voice or data for business purposes 

the ability of to access telephone 
calls and data , under proper court or other legal 
order , when necessary to protect our citizens 

the effective and use of the most modern 
technology to build the national information 
needed to promote economic growth and 
the of american industry in the 
and 

the need of u.s. to manufacture and 
high technology products. 

the president has directed early and frequent with 
affected , the congress and groups that advocate the 
rights of individuals as policy options are developed .  . 



3 

the is committed to working with the private 
to spur the development of a national information 
which will use new telecommunications and computer 
to give americans access to 
information. this of high speed 
( information ) will video , images , 
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone 
system voice .  . 

since technology will play an important 
role in that , the federal government must act 
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding 
its use. the is committed to policies that 
protect all americans  right to while also protecting 
them from those who break the law. 

further information is provided in an accompanying fact  . 
the of the president 's to acquire the new 
technology are also available. 

for additional details , call , national institute of 
standards and technology ,  ( 301 )  . 




questions and answers about the clinton s 
telecommunications 




q does this approach expand the authority of government 
to listen in on phone 

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with 
no new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 
court order , to do the in the first place. they 
would then present documentation of this to 
the two entities responsible for the and 
obtain the for the device being used by the drug 
 . the key is split into two parts , which are 
in order to ensure the security of the key 
system. 

q who will run the key data banks 

a the two key data banks will be run by two independent 
entities .  . at this point , the department of justice and the 
have yet to determine which will 
the key data banks .  . 

q how strong is the security in the device how can i be sure 
how strong the security is 

a this system is more secure than many other voice 
systems readily available today. while the will 
remain classified to protect the security of the key 
system , we are willing to an independent of 
cryptography to the to all 
potential users that there are no 
 . 

q whose decision was it to propose this product 

a the national security council , the justice department , the 
commerce department , and other key were involved in 
this decision. this approach has been by the 
president , the vice president , and appropriate 
 . 

q who was the congress industry 

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on 
issues , and expect those discussions to 
as we carry out our review of policy. we have 
members of congress and industry leaders on the 
decisions related to this  . 

q will the government provide the hardware to 

a the government designed and developed the key access 
, but it is not providing the 
to product  . product 
can acquire the from the chip 
that produces them. 

q who provides the clipper chip 

a programs it at their in , 
california , and will sell the chip to device 
 . the programming function could be 
to other in the future. 

q how do i buy one of these devices 

a we expect several to consider 
the clipper chip into their devices .  . 

q if the were unable to find a 
solution like the one proposed , would the be 
willing to use legal to restrict access to more 
powerful devices 

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be 
considered during the broad policy review .  . the key 
mechanism will provide americans with an product 
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive 
than others readily available today , but it is just one 
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to 
technology , which the is 
developing .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton 
's policy will differ from 
that of the bush 

a it indicates that we understand the importance of 
technology in telecommunications and computing and are 
committed to working with industry and public interest 
groups to find ways to protect americans  
, help to , and ensure that law 
enforcement have the tools they need to fight crime 
and terrorism .  . 

q will the devices be will other devices that use 
the government hardware 

a voice devices are subject to control 
requirements .  . case by case review for each is 
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices .  . the 
same is true for other devices .  . one of the 
of this technology is the protection it can give 
to u.s. operating at home and  . with this 
in mind , we expect will be granted on a 
case by case basis for u.s. seeking to use these 
devices to secure their own communications  . we plan 
to review the possibility of permitting 
of these products. 




from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 76 

in article  ( hal finney ) writes 
 ( brad templeton ) writes 

their strategy is a business one rather than legal one. they are 
pushing to get a standard in place , a secret standard , and if they 
get it as a standard then they will drive out of the market .  . 
it will be legal to sell better , that does n't have 
, but it will be difficult , and thus not a plan for 
most phone  . 

if brad 's analysis is correct , it may offer an explanation for why the 
is being kept secret. this will prevent 
from coming out with clipper compatible which lack the government 
back door .  . the strategy brad describes will only work as long 
as the only way to get compatible is to have ones with the government 
 . 

 ( it would be nice , from the point of view of personal , if brad 
turns out to be right. as long as people still have the power to provide 
their own in place of or in addition to the clipper , 
is still possible. but the wording of several passages in the announcement 
makes me doubt whether this will turn out to be true . ) . 

even if what brad says turns out to be accurate , you can bet that the 
will have made it very clear to the that it 
would very much be in their best interests to institute a voluntary 
policy of refusing to sell anything but clinton equipment 
to anyone other than government and law enforcement , 
or individuals and who have been been determined by the 
to have a valid need on a case by case basis for an 
effective system. 

note that this is very much like the language used in many gun control 
laws the is pushing for , or otherwise supporting .  . 
the logic and actual rationale  ( as opposed to the excuses that get fed 
to the media ) is the same in both cases , only the items or technology 
in question are different. 

i think this is no accident. it comes from the same philosophy that 
the government rules the people , not the people controlling 
the government , that the citizens are not sophisticated enough 
to know what is best for them , so the government must tell the people 
what they need or do not need ... we know best .  .  .  . . and the idea that 
that a can defend himself against government 
or attack is totally unacceptable to people with this  . 




this all with pushing for national identity cards with  smart 
 to anything they please  ( internal passport ) under the 
of the state people 's health care system , and with 
 ( you can be certain ) more yet to come , and one sees an extremely 
trend .  . so what if 1984 will be ten years late .  .  .  . it still is 
turning out to be an amazingly accurate prophecy .  .  .  . unless a lot of 
people wake up , and in a  . 

one should always have every red warning light and bell and danger flag 
come up when the government seeks to set itself apart in regard to 
rights , etc. from the citizen  ( or should we 
now be saying  subject  instead ) .  .  .  . why t the average person 
have a good , secure system of data security , not dependent on 
  for maintaining that security why t the average 
person be able to defend himself from an agency gone am sure 
the feds could break into any data they really wanted to  ( but it would 
take some work ) , and using the same logic , one should not be allowed to 
have a good safe , unless a of the  ( key(s ) or combination are 
for   by the government i do n't really see a 
difference , philosophically .  . data sure wo n't , not 
with such high tech tools as a  .  .  . 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( philip gladstone ) 
subject more clipper stuff 
organization 
lines 15 
nntp posting host com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

as of yet , there has been no description of the general principles 
behind the clipper proposal .  . for example , is this a public key system 
or a private key system if the latter , then i do n't see how the 
system could work  ( given that the are to the device and 
not the  . 

further , the 80 bit are split into two 40 bit  . 
i would guess that the of one of these 40 bit 
and a reasonable key search machine , would allow you to read the traffic .  . 
i'm not suggesting that this is a deliberate weakness of the system , 
but it does make you think. of course , this is easily by 
giving out two 80 bit which could be x to generate the 
real 80 bit key .  . 

philip 

from  ( lee brintle ) 
subject re re policy an statement 
summary 40 bit key half is way too small 
organization project , inc. 
lines 23 

in article 
writes 
the 80 bit key will be divided between two , each of whom 
hold 40 bits of each key .  . 

presumably , the key split is so that no one group the 
of the key , and that it would be to gain access from 
both  . 

however , if one wishes to break the without the 
of the other , a 40 bit key is not going to stand in the way of a 
brute force attack .  . if an agency  ( for example , the nsa ) were to hold one 
of the two key , then i do n't imagine they really need the other half of 
the key to start listening in. 

or was that the point 


 ( this is not to imply , at all , that i like the idea of the rest of the 
system . ) . 

so , i leave you with this final word 
director , project '' . 

from  ( justin york ) 
subject clipper chip how would it work 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 18 


with all the talk about this clipper chip , i have developed one question .  .  .  . 

how does it work 

if you use this , then how does it get on the other end does the 
other party  ( receiving the phone call mail etc ) have to know some code to 
undo it do i use a different method for calling one party than i would for 
another . if the other party can it , does n't that mean that someone 
else could also i assume that if everyone has a different key , the only use 
would be secure data for later by the same key .  . this seems 
like a fundamental question to me , but i have very little experience with 
, other than des .  . if someone could give me an explanation as 
to how it would be used  ( remember that i have had little experience with 
this sort of thing ) it would be very much appreciated. 

york 


from state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) 
subject re 80 bit machine 
nntp posting host top . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 47 

in article  ( john kelsey ) writes 
in article 
 ( steve simmons ) writes 

normally i 'd be the last to argue with steve . . . but should n't that 
read 3.8 years for all solutions . i mean , if we can imagine the 
machine that does 1 trial , we can imagine the medium 
that could index and archive it. 

hmmmm .  . i think , with really large like this , you need to 
alter the strategy discussed for des .  . attempt of several 
blocks , and check the of the contents .  . i do n't think it 's 
at all to keep 2 80 of a known block on 
any amount of or  . and certainly not 2 128 such 
blocks .  .  ( anyone know a cheap way of converting every atom in the 
system into a one bit device ) 
... 

i do n't claim to be a  .  .  . there is n't a whole lot of good 
literature on the subject , and the best people do n't seem to publish 
their work ) but i rather doubt the approach such folks use is brute 
force  ( sorry to have implied that in my previous  . the history 
of these things is folks find clever ways of limiting the search and 
bang from there. 

i guess my real problem with is i can not believe would 
make publicly available a system they could n't break if they wanted .  .  .  . 
it just is n't in their charter .  . remember des came from ibm , not 
and , when first published , was given a useful life of 20 years .  .  .  . i think 
we are well past that point now ( 

remember , based on the size of the , they spend a lot more 
on the technology of than most computer spend on 
r d. i have to imagine their stuff is real interesting .  .  .  . 

a friend who once worked for them  ( he is dead now ) said he always 
's  ( strategic air command ) traffic ) and i rather 
suspect that stuff is a bit more complex than  ( or was it the 
military got the stuff from the just like we get from them ) 
btw , folks , was n't being given the  . and the walker case 
shows for some of the systems , the did n't need them either. 


information at .  .  .  . for phone finger a a 
the ohio state university state . edu .  ( 0 0 ) 
jim e mail 
support support ( ) 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
lines 9 

i think i should also point out that the mystical des 
are known  ( unless you add a of really smart 
hardware ) 

assume the of smart hardware .  . it does n't really have to be that smart .  . 

g 



from 
subject cryptography faq 05 10 product 
organization the 
lines 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 5 of 10 of the sci . faq , product  . 
theory and security of product  .  . 
des standard. role in des design. des hardware and 
software  . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 5 product 

this is the of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest. 
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in the last part. 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 


contents 

what is a product 
what makes a product secure 
what are some group properties of product 
what can be proven about the security of a product 
how are block used to data longer than the block size 
can block be used for message 
what exactly is des 
what is des 
what is 
how was involved in the design of des 
is des available in software 
is des available in hardware 
can des be used to protect classified information 
what are , , , and 


what is a product 

a product is a block that several weak 
such as , transposition , 
addition , and transformation .  . (a 
  just means a that a block of data 8 , 
say all at once , then goes on to the next block . ) . the notion of 
product is due to . examples of modern 
product include lucifer , des , sp 
, , , , and 
. the so called are a class of product 
which operate on one half of the at each round , 
and then the after each round. lucifer , 
des , , and are examples of  . 

the following table compares the main of several product 


block length key bits number of 
lucifer 128 128 16 
des 64 56 16 
64 64 16 
64 128 2 x , x 5 
64 128 8 

what makes a product secure 

nobody knows how to prove mathematically that a product is 
completely secure .  . so in practice one begins by demonstrating that the 
highly  . for example , the must be 
, and it must produce which depends 
on every bit of the and the key .  . has shown 
that at least 5 of des are required to such a 
 . in this sense a product should act as a   
function which the , key , and in a 
complex fashion .  . 

the fixed per round of the product are 
referred to as s boxes .  . for example , lucifer has 2 s boxes , and des 
has 8 s boxes .  . the of a product reduces to a 
careful design of these s boxes .  . a list of design 
for the s boxes of des , which apply to s boxes in general , may be 
found in brown and et al. . 

what are some group properties of product 

let e be a product that n bit blocks to n bit blocks .  . 
let e  ( k(x ) be the of x under key k. then , for any fixed k , 
the map sending x to e  ( k(x ) is a of the set of n bit 
blocks .  . denote this by p k. the set of all n bit 
is called the group and is written s 2 n . 
the collection of all these p k , where k ranges over all 
possible , is denoted e(s 2 n ) .  . if e were a random mapping from 
to then we would expect e(s 2 n ) to generate 
a large subset of s 2 n . 

and have shown that a very simple 
product can generate the alternating group a 2 n given a 
sufficient number of  .  ( the alternating group is half of the 
group it consists of all   , i.e. , all 
which can be written as an even number of ) . 
even and were able to extend these results to show 
that can generate a 2 n , given a sufficient number 
of  . 

the security of multiple also depends on the 
group properties of a  . multiple is an 
extension over single if for , there does 
not exist a third key such that 

e  ( k2(e  ( k1(x ) e  ( k3)(x ) ( ) 

which indicates that twice with two independent 
, is equal to a single under the third key  . if 
for every , there exists a such that  . ( ) is true then 
we say that e is a group. 

this question of whether des is a group under this definition was 
studied by sherman , , and . in their 
paper they give strong evidence for the hypothesis that des is not a 
group. in fact des is not a group . 

what can be proven about the security of a product 

recall from above that p k is a produced by e under 
some key k. the goal of the designer of e is to ensure that p k 
appears to be a random element of s 2 n , the group. 
let r be an element of s 2 n randomly .  . we will say that p k 
and r are if an observer given p k and r in some 
order cannot distinguish between these two in 
time. that is , with time resources , the observer cannot 
determine which of the is produced by e the 
decision is no better than simply  . 

and have shown that a class of 
are secure in this sense when the round mapping is replaced by 
random functions .  . 

how are block used to data longer than the block size 

there are four standard modes of operation  ( and numerous non standard 
ones as  . the standard modes of operation are defined in the u.s. 
department of commerce federal information standard  ( fips ) , 
published in  . see the question about below for more details. 

although they are defined for the des block , the modes of 
operation can be used with any block  . 

can block be used for message 

one may use a block to prove to himself 
that he did or did not generate a message , and to prove to himself 
whether his message was altered or since generation .  . but one 
cannot prove these things to another without revealing the key , and 
thereafter that key cannot be used to prove anything about any messages 
that were using that key .  . 

see and  ( 1985 ) for a standard method of message 
using des .  . 

what exactly is des 

des is the u.s. government 's data standard a product 
that operates on 64 bit blocks of data , using a 56 bit key .  . 

it is defined in 46 1  ( 1988 ) which supersedes 46  ( 1977 ) . 
are federal information standards published by  . 
des is identical to the standard data  ( dea ) 
defined in  . 

what is des 

des is a product which , like des , operates on 64 bit 
data blocks .  . there are several forms , each of which uses the des 
3 times. some forms use two 56 bit , some use three. 
the des modes of operation may also be used with des .  . 

some people refer to  ( e(k1 ,  ( d(k2 ,  ( e(k1 , x ) as des .  . 

this method is defined in chapter 7 . 2 . of the standard 17 . 1985 
financial institution key and is intended for use in 
des and for key distribution . its 
formal name is and of a single key by a key 
pair , but it is referenced in other standards documents as  . 

that standard says  ( section 7 . 2 . key may be a single 
key or a key pair .  . key pairs shoud be used where additional 
security is needed (e . g .  . , the data protected by the  ( key(s ) has a long 
security  . a key pair shall not be or using a 
single key .  . 

others use the term des for  ( e(k1 ,  ( d(k2 ,  ( e(k3 , x ) or 
 ( e(k1 ,  ( e(k2 ,  ( e(k3 ,  . 

one of us  ( carl ellison ) keeps advocating des use in the form 
 ( e(k1 ,  ( tran  ( e(k2 ,  ( tran  ( e(k3 ,  ( compress x  ) , where each des instance 
has its own key and  ( for mode ) and has been posted on 
sci .  .  ( it is a large block transposition program taking its key 
from the data itself , so that it is not an program on 
its own part . ) . 

what is 

is a statistical attack that can be 
applied to any mapping  . any mapping which is based on 
a repeated round  . the method was recently by 
and , but has that the 
s boxes of des were against this attack some 20 years ago. 
this method has proved effective against several product , 
notably . 

is based on observing a large number of 
y , y  whose x , x  a 
known difference d x x  , where is  . in the 
basic attack , 2 47 such pairs are required 
to determine the key for des .  . pairs are required 
if des is to 6 or 8  . in these cases , the actual key 
can be in a matter of using a few thousand pairs .  . 
for full des this attack is impractical because it requires so many 
known  . 

the work of and on des revealed several 
observations on the  . most importantly , if the key 
was removed from des and a 16 48 bit key was used , 
the key could be in less than 2 64 steps .  . thus 
independent do not add substantial security to des .  . 
further , the s boxes of des are extremely sensitive in that 
changing even single in these significant 
improvement in the attack .  . 

is quoted to say  ( nytimes 13 1991 ) , would say 
that , contrary to what some people believe , there is no evidence 
of with the des so that the basic design was '' . 

how was involved in the design of des 

according to , , a member of the group that 
developed des at ibm is quoted as saying , developed the des 
entirely within ibm using  . the did not 
a single wire ! '' and  ( another of 
des ) spent a year breaking and finding weaknesses in 
lucifer .  . they then spent two years lucifer .  . 
basic approach was to look for strong , , 
and key functions ... ibm has classified the notes 
containing the selection at the request of the  .  .  .  . 
told us we had some of the deep 
it uses to make its own , ' explains '' . 

on the other hand , a document called of the in 
the development of des summary of the united states 
select on intelligence   , printed in the 
communications magazine , 55 , , states the development 
of des , convinced ibm that a reduced was sufficient 
indirectly assisted in the development of the s box structures and 
that the final des was , to the best of their 
knowledge , free from any statistical or mathematical weakness . '' . 

clearly the key size was reduced at the of the  . 
the article further states that the did not with the 
itself , just the , which in some sense 
the apparent conflict in the remarks of and 
presented above. 

is des available in software 

several people have made des code available via ftp  ( see part 10 for 
pathnames ) eric young 
mark . 
a pascal listing of des is also given in . 

46 1 says the in this standard is to be 
implemented ... using hardware  ( not software ) technology. ... 
software in general purpose computers are not in 
with this standard. despite this , software 
abound , and are used by government  . 

is des available in hardware 

the following are quoted from messages sent to the  . 
we do n't for the quality or even existence of the products. 

chip says makes a des 
device for use on standard , digital 
data  . it is capable of data in real time , 
e.g. one frame .  . it is the  . their phone number is 
 . you would probably need to talk with in 
'' . 

christian , de . , says  . 
22 . s according to data , with 32 bit 
interface .  . we use this one , because it was the only one available when 
we started the project .  . no problems ! 2. s 
according to data  . address b . v .  . , 26 , 
, the  . 3. des chip  ( germany ) 
s boxes must be loaded by software .  . so you can the  . 
sorry , i do n't have the data  . please e mail me if you need 
further information . '' . 

 ( marcus j ranum ) says and 
des and for 16 56 bit key 
integrated hardware procedure extended mode with bit 
computer a , , va 
 ( 800)322 ) 

 ( tim hember ) says 
an compatible des chip that operates at , performs a 
round of in 18 , has a three stage , 
supports , , 8 and 1 . further it is very 
reasonable as opposed to other high end des  . call 
, ottawa ,  ( 613 )  . ( .  .  .  . there are no 
import issues with canada and the  . if you require 
des or public key then engineering developed 
's and for other and 
establishments .  . they can be reached at  ( 613 )  . 

can des be used to protect classified information 

des is not intended to protect classified data .  . 46 1 says 
this standard will be used by federal and for 
the protection of computer data when the following 
conditions apply 1. ... protection is required and 
2. the data is not classified according to the national security act 
of 1947 , as , or the atomic energy act of , as  . 

what are , , , and 

these are methods for using block , such as des , to 
messages , files , and blocks of data , known as modes of operation. 
four modes of operation are defined in  ( 1980 december 2 ) , 
and also in  . 

that when 7 bit ascii data is sent in , the 
unused most significant bit is to be set to 1. 
also the for short blocks .  . 

the four des modes of operation are 
electronic code book  ( ecb ) , 
block  ( cbc ) , 
k bit  ( cfb ) , and 
k bit output  . 

these methods are explained below in a c language like  . 

some symbols 

p n the n block of , to , output from 
 . size of block determined by the mode .  . 

c n the n block of , output from , to 
 . size of block determined by the mode .  . 

 ( e(m ) the des function , performed on 64 bit block m , using 
the 16 key derived from some 56 bit key .  . 

 ( d(m ) the des function , performed on 64 bit block m , using 
the same key as in  ( e(m ) , except that the 16 
in the are used in the opposite order as in  . 

a 64 bit , a secret value which , along with 
the key , is shared by both and  . 

i n the n value of a 64 bit , used in some modes .  . 
r n the n value of a 64 bit , used in some modes .  . 

 ( lsb(m , k ) the k least significant  ( right most ) bits of m. 
e.g. m  ( 1 k ) 1 ) 

 ( msb(m , k ) the k most significant  ( left most ) bits of m. 
e.g.  ( m  ( 64 k )  ( 1 k ) 1 ) 

operators as defined in the c  . 


electronic code book  ( ecb ) 

p n and c n are each 64 bits long .  . 


c n  ( e(p n ) p n  ( d(c n ) 


block  ( cbc ) 

p n and c n are each 64 bits long .  . 


c 0  ( e(p 0 iv ) p 0  ( d(c 0 ) 
 ( n 0 ) c n  ( e(p n c n 1 ) p n  ( d(c n ) c n 1 


k bit  ( cfb ) 

p n and c n are each k bits long , 1 k 64 .  . 


i 0 i 0 
 ( n 0 ) i n i n 1 k c n 1 i n i n 1 k c n 1 
 ( all n ) r n  ( msb(e(i n ) , k ) r n  ( msb(e(i n ) , k ) 
 ( all n ) c n p n r n p n c n r n 

note that for k 64 , this reduces to 

i 0 i 0 
 ( n 0 ) i n c n 1 i n c n 1 
 ( all n ) r n  ( e(i n ) r n  ( e(i n ) 
 ( all n ) c n p n r n p n c n r n 

notes since i n depends only on the plain or text from the 
previous operation , the  ( e( ) function can be performed in parallel with 
the of the text with which it is used. 


k bit output  ( ofb ) 

p n and c n are each k bits long , 1 k 64 .  . 


i 0 i 0 
 ( n 0 ) i n i n 1 k r n 1 i n i n 1 k r n 1 
 ( all n ) r n  ( msb(e(i n ) , k ) r n  ( msb(e(i n ) , k ) 
 ( all n ) c n p n r n p n c n r n 

note that for k 64 , this reduces to 

i 0 i 0 
 ( n 0 ) i n r n 1 i n r n 1 
 ( all n ) r n  ( e(i n ) r n  ( e(i n ) 
 ( all n ) c n p n r n p n c n r n 

notes and are identical .  . since i n is 
independent of p and c , the  ( e( ) function can be performed in advance of 
the of the plain text with which it is to be used. 


additional notes on des modes of operation 

and use  ( e( ) to and  ( d( ) to , but the modes 
use  ( e( ) to both and  . this the erroneous claim 
that systems which feature  ( e( ) but not  ( d( ) cannot be used for data 
, and therefore are not subject to  . 

from 
subject re in the world 
reply to 
organization j. institute , , 
lines 25 

in article , 
 ( james r. holthaus ) writes 

what is the status of for private citizens throughout the 
world or , more clearly , is there a listing of countries and their 
policies on citizens electronic data 

i'm curious how the handle this , for instance .  . 


good question. i also wanted to find out and i did a while ago. 

in our former communist times such activity (i . e .  . sending emails ) 
would be prevented sooner ot later , law or no law. but now there is no law 
against it. so we are free to use it. we now have an ec law for 
protection and of personal files. you must remember that the 
situation in small countries is different from the big ones. 

b. , d .  . x . 400 . c a mail p ac o s 
j. institute internet 
university of , phone 1 
, pgp public key available on request 




from  ( gregb ) 
subject looking for paper 
distribution usa 
organization martin , denver 
lines 17 
nntp posting host com . 

looking for or version of a paper called 
public key cryptography 

written by 
james 
security technology group 
national computer systems 
national institute of standards and technology 
, md 

december 1990 

the version i obtained is plain text and all character 
has been lost. 




from  ( ken arromdee ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization johns hopkins university cs dept. 
lines 18 

in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 
yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some 
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in 
the fbi decide they want to you , they 're gonna , and you 're 
gonna hate it. fact is , the fbi does n't want to listen to your phone 
calls , and if they do , and if you 're using des , they 'll just 
get a and point it at your head. 

just because they can do it anyway , somehow , does not mean it is smart to make 
the job easier for them. 

on the first day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . ! 
on the second day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . 
that she made from  . 
days 3 4 deleted ... flaming wings ! ... 
pizza  ( and m a bait ) 

ken arromdee 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 44 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) writes 
if there are many as .  .  .  . , er , people in the usa who reason like the 
above , then it should not be surprising that the current plot has been 
allowed to happen .  .  .  . 

the of the majority of the people to give up their freedom in 
exchange for a sense of safety is hardly limited to the usa , and is an 
problem in any human society of any size. the structure 
of the us government does try to combat this tendency to some extent , but 
fighting entropy is always a battle .  . most people would rather have 
comfort than freedom .  . the paradox is that you ca n't really have the former , 
in the long term , unless you have the latter .  . 

one of the reasons that i probably come across to some people as a 
cross between a libertarian and an tool is that i end up 
taking an utterly pragmatic view of government. i do n't get up in when 
the government fails to protect the interests of the people , because in my 
lifetime it never has therefore , i have no expectation that it will. 

as a result , i protect my own interests rather than expecting the government 
to be fair . i will use strong cryptography when i think it is needed , 
whether or not it is legal at the time. same thing with anything else the 
government would rather not see in private hands that 's their problem. 
what 's important to me is using the right tool for the job. if it 's legal , 
so much the better. if it is not , but does not violate my  ( very strong ) 
sense of personal ethics , i will use it anyway as long i think it is worth 
it. expecting the government to actually protect the interests of its 
citizens , except by accident , is utter folly .  . even jefferson , one of the 
major of the american system of government , that in a 
couple hundred years it would become so corrupt and self serving that it 
would be time it and try again , by revolution if necessary. i 
agree , and while i do n't go around trying to spark one , i 'll certainly 
participate if it happens when i'm around. there is a reason i am such a 
strong supporter of individual rights while being so cynical about politics. 
i 've already written off politics. 

and yes , this may get me in trouble some day. if so , so be it. i drive 
than 55 , too. 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( john dormer ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
summary got us here today 
keywords constitution , , law 
organization 
distribution na 
lines 26 

, though it should be a crime in itself , is what 
united states lawyers use to make their bread and butter .  . 

in manchester , ct a few years ago , a small company wanted to run a 
game system , similar in many aspects to 
 . three lawyers and about a hundred citizens found an ancient law 
in manchester 's books which clearly from context was designed to 
travelling by the features of a 
which they felt at the time made the obvious. among these 
things was shooting , which is what the lawyers for the 
opposition to wanted to upon .  . the judge took the two 
words from this law , completely out of context , and ruled that 
could not operate in manchester .  . 

keep in mind that most travelling use weapons in 
their shooting , and not light  . clearly from context , 
got , but if the two words are applied , their denial 
of operating permission was justified .  . 

if i had the text of the law i 'd post it , but i'm afraid i do n't 
remember it all well enough to even try. that little bit with the two 
words stuck well , though. 

john 



from  ( rick tait ) 
subject re what the clipper sound like to me. 
nntp posting host 47 . 20 . 
organization network systems , bell northern research .  . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 45 

wrote on mon , 19 apr 1993 02 36 36 gmt 
if the gov a cryptography standard that has to be used by 
everyone , and everyone 's personal key is divided into two 
and at two separate , easy to find places , and that key is 
only 80 bits to begin with , we are  ( pardon the to the 
mentioned article ) ! 

the gov , i believe , as do many others probably already have the cracking 
for this clipper chip made. hell , they probably based the on the 
chip that it , that way it 's easier to break the code , but since it is a 
classified , no one knows that they can crack it so easily. 

agreed. no agency such as the  ( or whoever ) would approve the public 
release of a system , if they did n't already have the technical 
means or the know how to everything at their  . surely the whole 
point of all this madness is to make joe public think that his her 
communications will be kept safe , while james bond at the can , if need 
be , have full , access to someone 's communications that 'll be 
quite a , if they can pull it off. 


i thought that the us government were going to release the to a 
of carefully chosen , who would then study it deeply , and 
report their findings exactly who will these people be or 
government sponsored tiny 

i , for one , and quite scared of this kind of thing , and plan to support 
organizations  ( and even disorganizations ) who are fighting against this 
clipper chip in any way that i can. 

i can only hope that the same sort of thing does n't start filtering over 
into the ears of the uk government , and if the european gets 
wind of it , well , we can to any form of democracy in europe 
at all. 

i do not want the government to be able to have access , even with a search 
warrant , to my  .  .  . and i do n't want those to be only 80 bits long 
to begin with ! 

! ) 

m. bell northern research europe 
tel 44 , fax 44 network systems 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request new , london .  . uk 
email 

from  ( ian farquhar ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
organization university , australia 
lines 35 
nntp posting host laurel . edu . au . 

in article  ( ian ameline ) writes 
i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip , 
and of the will likely be fairly widespread .  . any back 
doors or weaknesses would further discredit the scheme , and help grow 
the market demand for a secure alternative .  . 

i must admit that this point has been running through my mind for most of 
the discussion one the dice are out there , it wo n't be long before someone 
it and , after a bit of work , has full details of the clipper 
 . this is n't trivial to do , but then again , it is not 
difficult either. any half way decent design student should be able 
to take a of a technology s he is familiar with , and given a 
description of the , output , control and supply lines , figure out 
the function of various on the die. indeed , this is not an 
exercise performed during training  ( because it makes you think 
about design decisions made by other  . 

i could speculate that these are going to be using 
 ( unlikely such techniques are very expensive 
and this thing is supposed to be relatively cheap to produce ) , or that 
there will be some legal or to prevent publication 
of the  ( unlikely please correct me if i am wrong but are n't these 
supposed to be sold internationally ) .  . i suppose that the most likely 
reason the is remaining secret for the moment is that some idiot 
, by the realities of the situation , decided that 
well , we should keep it a secret because it is supposed to be secret , 
is n't it 

just some random thoughts .  .  .  . 


phone 61 2 
office of computing services fax 61 2 
university also 61 2 
australia email 

from  ( marc thibault ) 
subject re and 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization friends 
lines 34 

in article 
 ( edward vielmetti ) writes 

i would suggest that 50 attractive news messages a day would be 
sufficient to get a few people thinking about adding support to news 
readers , esp if the content is really worth it. 

but that 's just the problem. there is no such thing as 
. by analogy , is a content 
standard for the box , not a for the contents 
themselves. it provides a standard for like minded 
individuals to exchange mail containing an agreed upon data 
format .  . 

you say , i say you say , i say 
 .  .  . 

cheers , 



cis , put another log 
nc on the fire .  . 

begin pgp public key block 
version 2.0 





end pgp public key block 



from  ( rob defriesse ) 
subject can des code be to canada 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization inc. 
lines 13 
nntp posting host 9 . 200 . 19 . 

someone in canada asked me to send him some public domain des file 
code i have. is it legal for me to send it 

thanx .  . 



rob mail 
inc. phone  ( 401 ) 
st. fax  ( 401 ) 
, 

i do n't speak for my employer .  . 

from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject clipper some new thoughts 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 55 

i 'd prefer it if we did n't the same arguments 
that went on ad last time. that 's especially true for 
sci .  . for that matter , i 've created alt . clipper . , since 
the traffic is in many different groups right now. 

i'm going to focus here on some technical aspects of the plan , hence my 
followup to sci .  . frankly , if you 're not an absolutist , your 
feelings may turn on some of these issues. for example with an 
80 bit key , simply it into two 40 bit pieces is much less 
acceptable than other , because it means that if just one 
is , shall we say , overly , a would be 
would need to just 40 more bits of key .  . i need not point out 
in this newsgroup that that 's pretty easy to do by exhaustive search .  . 
a slightly more complex scheme the key with a random number , 
and then with its complement would produce two 80 bit , 
neither of which is useful alone. that variant is much more 
to attack .  . clearly , one can get even more sophisticated , to protect 
the even more. 

other thoughts .  .  .  . some people have noted the size and complexity of 
the necessary. but the id the could be 
their back door key , double with the  
public  . for that matter , they could do that only with 
, and have no back door at all. in that case , the fbi would have 
to bring every to the to be  . this 
would answer many of the objections along the lines of do you 
make sure they  . 

we can even that with a variant of the digital back 
door have the switch do the , but with a signed record 
of the time , phone number , etc , of the call .  . that provides proof to 
the that the was done in with the terms of 
the warrant .  . 

i can suggest other variations , too. suppose each clipper chip had 100 
public key pairs .  . each would be used 10 times , after which you 'd need 
more material.  ( not a bad idea in any event . ) . this could be 
used to enforce time limits , or rather , usage limits , on each warrant 
the the would deliver would n't last for very 
long .  . 

i suspect that the itself is secure .  . apart from 
the obvious why push a weak when you 've already got the 
back door i think that the government is still concerned 
about foreign , especially aimed at targets .  . this 
scheme lets the have their cake and eat it , too. (i 've heard 
, over the years , that some factions within were unhappy with 
des because it was too good. not that they could n't crack it , but it 
was much too expensive to do so as easily as they 'd want . ) . they 're keeping 
the details secret so that others do n't build their own 
without the back door .  . 

the , though , is another matter. i see no valid 
reasons for keeping it secret , and as i hope i 've shown above there 
are a lot of ways to do things that are n't  ( quite ) as bad. 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 

organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 12 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

in article ,  ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 
more than  . what this says to me is no less than that 
government is very interested in the public. this does more 
than me , it me. 

if this is any surprise to you , i'm shocked .  . 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( phil karn ) 
subject the battle is joined 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , 
lines 290 

it looks like 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the 
even sooner than we  . it 's time to make sure they 
hear the other side of the story , and hear it loudly ! 





message 

subject text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 

note this file will also be available via anonymous file 
from gov . in directory pub and 
via the computer security bbs at  . 


the white house 

office of the press 



for immediate release april 16 , 1993 


statement by the press 


the president today a new that will bring 
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary 
program to improve the security and of telephone 
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law 
enforcement .  . 

the will involve the creation of new products to 
the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications and communications links .  . 

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our 
private and the law enforcement community to resolve the 
between economic and the real challenges of 
protecting americans .  . rather than use technology to 
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , and 
law enforcement , previous policies have government against 
industry and the rights of against law enforcement .  . 

sophisticated technology has been used for years to 
protect electronic funds  . it is now being used to 
protect electronic mail and computer files. while 
technology can help americans protect business and the 
release of personal information , it also can be used 
by , drug , and other criminals .  . 

a state of the art called the clipper chip has 
been developed by government  . the chip represents a 
new approach to technology. it can be used in new , 
relatively devices that can be attached to 
an ordinary telephone .  . it telephone communications 
using an that is more powerful than many in 
use today. 

this new technology will help protect 
information , protect the of personal phone 
and prevent release of data 
 . at the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement to 
the phone of criminals .  . 

a key system will be established to ensure that the 
clipper chip is used to protect the of law 
americans .  . each device containing the chip will have two unique 


2 


, numbers that will be needed by government 
to messages by the device. when the 
device is , the two will be 
in two key data bases that will be established by the 
general. access to these will be limited to 
government with legal to conduct a 
 . 

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no 
new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

to demonstrate the of this new technology , the 
general will soon several thousand of the new 
devices .  . in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of 
's dual sword helps to protect the 
of individuals and industry , but it also can 
criminals and  . we need the clipper chip and other 
approaches that can both provide law citizens with access 
to the they need and prevent criminals from using it 
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology 
trends and new approaches  ( like the key system ) , 
the president has directed government to develop a 
comprehensive policy on that 

the of our citizens , including the need to 
voice or data for business purposes 

the ability of to access telephone 
calls and data , under proper court or other legal 
order , when necessary to protect our citizens 

the effective and use of the most modern 
technology to build the national information 
needed to promote economic growth and 
the of american industry in the 
and 

the need of u.s. to manufacture and 
high technology products. 

the president has directed early and frequent with 
affected , the congress and groups that advocate the 
rights of individuals as policy options are developed .  . 



3 

the is committed to working with the private 
to spur the development of a national information 
which will use new telecommunications and computer 
to give americans access to 
information. this of high speed 
( information ) will video , images , 
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone 
system voice .  . 

since technology will play an important 
role in that , the federal government must act 
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding 
its use. the is committed to policies that 
protect all americans  right to while also protecting 
them from those who break the law. 

further information is provided in an accompanying fact  . 
the of the president 's to acquire the new 
technology are also available. 

for additional details , call , national institute of 
standards and technology ,  ( 301 )  . 




questions and answers about the clinton s 
telecommunications 




q does this approach expand the authority of government 
to listen in on phone 

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with 
no new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 
court order , to do the in the first place. they 
would then present documentation of this to 
the two entities responsible for the and 
obtain the for the device being used by the drug 
 . the key is split into two parts , which are 
in order to ensure the security of the key 
system. 

q who will run the key data banks 

a the two key data banks will be run by two independent 
entities .  . at this point , the department of justice and the 
have yet to determine which will 
the key data banks .  . 

q how strong is the security in the device how can i be sure 
how strong the security is 

a this system is more secure than many other voice 
systems readily available today. while the will 
remain classified to protect the security of the key 
system , we are willing to an independent of 
cryptography to the to all 
potential users that there are no 
 . 

q whose decision was it to propose this product 

a the national security council , the justice department , the 
commerce department , and other key were involved in 
this decision. this approach has been by the 
president , the vice president , and appropriate 
 . 

q who was the congress industry 

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on 
issues , and expect those discussions to 
as we carry out our review of policy. we have 
members of congress and industry leaders on the 
decisions related to this  . 

q will the government provide the hardware to 

a the government designed and developed the key access 
, but it is not providing the 
to product  . product 
can acquire the from the chip 
that produces them. 

q who provides the clipper chip 

a programs it at their in , 
california , and will sell the chip to device 
 . the programming function could be 
to other in the future. 

q how do i buy one of these devices 

a we expect several to consider 
the clipper chip into their devices .  . 

q if the were unable to find a 
solution like the one proposed , would the be 
willing to use legal to restrict access to more 
powerful devices 

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be 
considered during the broad policy review .  . the key 
mechanism will provide americans with an product 
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive 
than others readily available today , but it is just one 
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to 
technology , which the is 
developing .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton 
's policy will differ from 
that of the bush 

a it indicates that we understand the importance of 
technology in telecommunications and computing and are 
committed to working with industry and public interest 
groups to find ways to protect americans  
, help to , and ensure that law 
enforcement have the tools they need to fight crime 
and terrorism .  . 

q will the devices be will other devices that use 
the government hardware 

a voice devices are subject to control 
requirements .  . case by case review for each is 
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices .  . the 
same is true for other devices .  . one of the 
of this technology is the protection it can give 
to u.s. operating at home and  . with this 
in mind , we expect will be granted on a 
case by case basis for u.s. seeking to use these 
devices to secure their own communications  . we plan 
to review the possibility of permitting 
of these products. 

from  ( seth finkelstein ) 
subject re the source of that announcement 
organization of technology 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

also note  ( from and ) 

h rs . net . 
trusted information systems , inc.  ( tis dom ) 
washington road , route 
, md 

domain name com . 

administrative contact 
walker , stephen t.  ( stw3 ) 
 ( 301 ) 
technical contact , contact 
, david i.  ( did1 ) 
 ( 301 ) 

record last updated on 02  . 

domain in listed order 

com . 33 . 100 . 
la . com . 5 . 49 . 8 . 

and is an infamous address ... 


seth 
the road to hell is with good intentions 

from  ( mel beckman ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization software engineering 
reply to 
distribution na , world 
x mailer release 1 . 
lines 47 


in article , alt . security . , org . talk . , security . misc . , org . , org . ,  ( brad templeton ) writes 
let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless 
you get both of the key from the two independent 
houses .  . let 's say you even trust the houses one is 
the and the other is the  .  ( and i'm not entirely about 
those two names ) 

the problem with let 's assume reasoning is that , taken to the extreme 
 ( and you 're close ) , you arrive at let 's assume this is perfectly ok. 

the assumptions you make are big ones. if the system is really secure , then 
why does the government have to keep the secret there are plenty 
of that do n't depend upon to be secure , 
so why in the world use one that does there are reasons , of course , but 
i certainly ca n't think of any honest ones. 

next , you assume we can trust the houses .  . but the last time i checked , 
every single branch of government has experienced , 
corruption , and even , of supposedly secure data .  . the govt is 
saying yeah , but now we 're serious , so you can trust us.  . 

and finally , although you did n't state it explicitly , you implicitly assume 
that the warrant mechanism in this country is safe and reasonable .  . the case 
in of a man shot and killed by officers serving a deliberately 
warrant tells me that the govt has a long ways to go on this 
score .  . 

remember that all this is to the drug , right as others 
have pointed out , the current proposal will , if , render truly secure 
much more expensive and than 's brand .  . 
who will be able to afford , and be sufficiently motivated , to this 
expensive , higher protection somebody with lots of extra 
cash .  .  .  . 

the following is more true than ever 

when strong is outlawed , only outlaws will have strong 
 . 



mel internet 
software engineering compuserve , 
, ca voice fax 

you can observe a lot just by watching .  . 

from  ( guy thomas ) 
subject re what is going on ... 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
distribution 
lines 13 

 ( paul repacholi ) writes 

in article ,  ( paul repacholi ) writes 
... 
if you ca n't be bothered reading , get the video manufacturing consent . 


in reply to mail i do n't know if a video is available yet. i asked 
about a month and was told  . 

yes it is. from the national film board of canada .  . 
guy 
ed . ca . 

from  ( peter trei ) 
subject re the battle is joined 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the corporation 
lines 15 

in article  ( eli brandt ) writes 
in article  ( phil karn ) writes 
it looks like 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the 
even sooner than we  . 

i 'd long odds that it was the other way around. clinton did n't 
just pull this plan out of any bodily the has to have 
been working on it for years. 


i first heard of a similar government proposal  ( in risks 
digest ) in 1987 or 1988. 

peter 


from  ( andrew molitor ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization department of mathematical sciences 
lines 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( al donaldson ) writes 
 ( andrew molitor ) writes 
yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some 
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in 
the fbi decide they want to you , they 're gonna , ... 

and if richard nixon had had this kind of , he would n't have had 
to send people into the  . 


this appears to be generic calling upon the name of the anti christ .  . 
just for the hell of it , let 's destroy this remark .  . let us imagine that 
the branch actually could extract from the houses 
without anyone knowing , or telling .  . now what dick has 80 bits of data .  . 
what the hell 's he gonna do with it 

1 ) around to the and say  we 'd like an 
 . uh huh .  . 
2 ) break in to and his own  ( so his people still 
do have to break in , neat , huh ) record some , then get the 
branch phone box  ( huh they 've got one goodness , wait  the 
washington post gets hold of this) and the  . 
3) more likely , at the key , and say  oh , hell it 's not 
worth all this bloody  

truth is , even granted lots of power on the part of 
the branch , this system is more difficult to with than 
gear .  . the fact that it is easier to than some hypothetical 
system neither you nor i am going to place on our is neither 
here nor there. 

the only rational concerns i am seeing raised are 

a ) is the key really just in half , and not some 
arrangement that is , has some technical error been built 
in to the plan 
b ) is this is the first step strict of strong 



but that 's not really the issue. the real issue is whether this 
will be used to justify a ban against individuals  use of private 
(i . e .  . , anything else ) methods .  . 

this is b ) , of course. i suspect not. if the government actually 
wanted to make such , they 'd just do it. a few hundred people on usenet 
about it would n't even slow the machine down. 

besides , who is this  they  who 's going to take away 
all our rights the instant we let our guard down congress that 
of ca n't even their  . the fbi but .  .  . they 
do n't make the laws .  . the  . the white house bill clinton 
is probably still looking for the bathroom .  . it 's a big place , after all. 

andrew 


al 

from  ( matt healy ) 
subject re  ( was rc4 ) 
nntp posting host yale . edu . 
organization yale u. genetics 
lines 30 

in article , 
hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) wrote 

 ( andrew haley ) writes 

coca has always understood it. 

coca is made under in of countries around the 
world. you 're crazy if you think does n't know the recipe .  . 

in all those countries coca is in a form of 
concentrate what the local simply mix with water and other 
simple  . the trick is to know what is in the concentrate .  .  .  . 


i do n't know if this is still true , but at one time coca 
took elaborate measures to keep the secret. for instance , 
several plants in different cities each made one of 
, which were then back and forth and 
in a complicated scheme so that no single plant made the whole 
 . by now , i would guess that 's would have 
reverse engineered it ca n't be all that  . actually i 
prefer anyhow in about 3 i'm gonna put money 
into a machine .  .  .  . 

matt healy 
i pretend to be a network administrator 
the lab net to work 



from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
organization for an america free drug 
lines 32 

 ( john f carr ) writes 
in article 
 ( ian ameline ) writes 

i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip , 
and of the will likely be fairly widespread .  . 

the chip and are classified .  . if you reverse engineer it and 
tell people , you are likely to go to jail .  . 

well , i'm not a lawyer , but from what i can tell this is completely 
and utterly untrue .  . 

you see , this country has this thing called a constitution . 

if you legitimately the device , and you yourself are 
not a government or otherwise , i do n't think they 
can stop you from revealing anything about the device you can 
determine .  . remember the papers precedent the first amendment 
applies here. 

the u.s. does not have an official act. we do have laws that 
will punish you for revealing what classified information you learned 
in your capacity as a government official , , etc , and we 
have laws that such information. however , if they 
sell you the chip , i ca n't see that they can make reverse engineering 
it and revealing the details illegal .  . 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( ted dunning ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization computing research lab 
lines 36 


nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 22 apr 1993 17 59 12 gmt 


in article  ( david 
sternlight ) writes 

at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was 
des and the person that had sent it , went on  . 
rather than wait two weeks i set up a straight frontal attack with 
one key at a time. it only took  ( two(2 ) days to crack the file. 
no , i do n't have any faith in des .  . 


taking this at face value  ( though it seems quite with 
much else that has been published here about brute force des 
cracking , unless russell was lucky with respect to the key ) , i 'd be 
very interested in whether the program russell used is available 

key search is very practical in many real situations since people use 
such stupid on the average .  . know this well. 

depending on his answer , this could be an appalling development 
calling into question both des and des .  . 

not really. in fact , public key based systems very 
often pick automatically which are much better than or 
pass phrases .  . 

if any bright programmer with a little idle machine time can crack 
a single des message in a couple of days  ( assuming no that 
are message specific ) , 

if a person picked the or pass phrase , then the key search is 
pretty straightforward .  . in running english text , the average content 
of a single word is about 8 bits. in pass phrases , this may increase 
to 10 bits or so. searching is semi practical even in 
software and searching is n't outrageous to imagine with 
hardware of moderate size. 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
lines 12 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 

you obviously have n't read the information about the system. the 
put out serial number into the to allow 
themselves to be identified .  . the system does not rely on 
people as particular phone units. 

and probably as a back door to allow re generation of the secret key .  . 

have we determined yet that and do n't ever change 

g 

from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
distribution na 
lines 29 


 ( geoffrey kuenning ) writes 
bullshit .  . the bush and the career gestapo were 
responsible for this , and the presented it to the 
new as a  . that does n't excuse clinton and 
from criticism for being so stupid as to go for it , but let 's 
the body at the proper door to start with. 

the final stages of denial .  .  .  . i can hardly imagine what the result 
would have been if the clinton had actually supported 
this plan , instead of merely with repugnance as they 've so 
obviously doing. i do n't believe the chip originated with the clinton 
either , but the clinton has it 
and brought it to  . 

both of the major parties have what they consider excellent reasons 
for limiting your freedoms and violating your , and even seem 
to feel that they 're doing you a favor. if this is really surprising 
to anyone it means they 've been ignoring quite a bit of 
previous evidence. there 's only one political party  ( not calling 
anarchists a party ) that considers your freedom and goals 
worthy in and of themselves. if you 're voting for the big two , you 're 
supporting a of those rights  ( given their goals and their 
histories ) , regardless of whether you personally support that 
 . to clinton and as tools is really 
things. 


when you have to kill a man it costs nothing to be polite .  . 

from  ( marc anderson ) 
subject sorry folks  ( read this) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 32 

in article  ( marc anderson ) writes 
... 

 ( the date i have for this is 1 26 93 ) 

note clinton 's statements about in the 3rd paragraph .  .  . i guess 
this statement n't contradict what you said , though. 

cut here 

washington  ( upi ) the war on drugs is about to get a 
start , president clinton told to the national 
of police in washington .  . 
in the first speech on the drug issue since his , 
clinton said that his of the drug war make 
everything so far seem so half hearted that for all practical 
... 

i just found out from my source that this article was a joke.  .  . 
it seemed pretty damn convincing to me from the start i just did n't 
notice the at the end of the article , and there were a few other 
hints which i should of caught. 

anyway i guess this  joke  did turn out to clinton 's true 
feelings at least to some extent .  . 

sorry about that .  .  .  . 






from  ( andrew molitor ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization department of mathematics 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article 
 ( steven bellovin ) writes 

responding to claims about cracking 

thousands tens of thousands do some arithmetic , please .  .  .  . 
has 2 80 possible  . let 's assume a brute force engine like that 
for des 1 per trial , 1 million  . that 's 
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials .  . well , 
maybe they can get running at one trial per , and build 
a machine with 10 million  . sure only 3.8 years for each solution .  . 


i think i should also point out that the mystical des 
are known  ( unless you add a of really smart 
hardware ) 

the   is voice , and exists for a very short 
time , probably in a couple of ,  . it 's not 
available your bug in my office can hear my voice , and even 
it , but it 's going to get a different  . 

it is horribly naive to suppose that regular folks can figure 
out how to crack , or clipper based  . i'm certainly 
not a great deal of thought to it. 

andrew 


from  ( paul ducklin ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization , south africa 
lines 27 
nntp posting host co . 
x disclaimer none of the expressed are the official 
x disclaimer opinions of the or any of its  . 
x disclaimer so do n't out at us about anything 


 ( graham toal ) writes 

can someone tell me if hardware is or is not needed to run 
digital speech down 14 . i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets 
say 8 bit samples .  . would raw data at the rate 
be if not , how fancy does the need to be 

it 's all easy with a  . the , for example great 
pc sorry for the plug , folks , but do n't 
seem to be doing a good job it themselves ) includes sound 
hardware they provide for their which produce 
bit rates. there 's one which gives pretty acceptable voice 
quality at , just right for a v .  . 

their can play and record at the same time , too so you would n't 
need to play two way radio . you can also code to the 
, though you 'd need a software development for the in 
question which it is .  .  .  . if you wanted to produce your own 
for , say , v . 32 .  . 

paul 


paul 
computer virus lab box s africa 


from  ( marc vanheyningen ) 
subject frequently noted 
article i.d. usenet . 
expires thu , 20 may 1993 00 00 00 gmt 
organization computer science , university 
lines 
content type text x usenet faq version 1.0 title attacks 
originator 
supersedes 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
version 1.0 

archive name attacks 
last update 31 93 21 00 00 0500 

some possible attacks on 


this is a living list of potential weaknesses to keep your eyes open 
for when using for secure electronic mail .  . it does not go into 
great detail , and is almost certainly not exhaustive .  . obviously , many 
of the weaknesses are weaknesses of mail in 
general , and will to secure mail programs other than  . 
it is by . it 
is posted monthly to a variety of news groups followups 
specifically to should go to alt . security .  . 

attacks 


breaking would allow an to find out your private key , 
in which case he could read any mail to you and sign 
messages with your private key .  . 

is generally believed to be to all standard 
techniques .  . even a standard key  ( about bits with 
ripem ) is long enough to render this impractical , a 
huge investment in hardware or a in  . 

breaking des would allow an to read any given message , 
since the message itself is with des .  . it would not allow 
an to claim to be you. 

des has only 56 bits in its key , and thus could be 
by brute force with sufficient hardware , but few 
have such money to to simply read one message. since each 
message has a different des key , the work for each message would 
remain high. 

key attacks 


your private key would allow the same benefits as breaking 
 . to it , it is with a des key which is derived 
from a you type in. however , if an can get a copy 
of your private and your  ( by network 
, lines , or whatever ) he could break the whole scheme .  . 

the main risk is that of either the or the 
private key file across an link .  . so do n't do that. run 
on a trusted machine , one sitting right in front of 
you. ideally , your own machine in your own home  ( or maybe office ) 
which nobody else has physical access to. 

you into accepting a bogus public key for someone else could 
allow an opponent to you into sending secret messages to him 
rather than to the real  . if the enemy can fool your 
intended as well , he could re the messages with 
the other bogus public key and pass them along. 

it is important to get the proper public of other people. 
the most common mechanism for this is finger assuming the opponent 
has not or or such , finger can be 
given a fair amount of trust .  . the strongest method of key 
is to exchange in person however , this is 
not always practical .  . having other people for you by 
a statement containing your key is possible , although 
does n't have features for doing this as automatically as 
pgp .  . does generate and check of public 
in the key files they may be via a separate channel for 
 . 

attacks 


even if an opponent cannot break the cryptography , an opponent could 
still cause difficulties .  . for example , suppose you send a message 
with only (a mode which does not provide protection ) 
to alice which says ok , let 's do that. your opponent 
it , and now it to bob , who now has a message which is 
as from you telling him to do that. of course , he may 
interpret it in an entirely different context. or your opponent 
could the same message to the same much later , 
it would be seen differently at a later time. or the 
opponent could change the originator name to himself , 
your public key as his , and send a message the 
will send him return mail indicating  ( perhaps even quoting ! ) the 
unknown message. 

to defeat attacks , the of each message should 
include some indication of the sender and , and a unique 
 ( typically the  . a good front end for 
should do this automatically  . as a , you should be 
sure that the originator name and the sender indicated within 
the are the same , that you really are a , and that 
the message is not an old one. some this also can and should be 
 . the author of this faq has made a attempt at 
the process of and checking 
the programs are included in the standard distribution in 
the directory .  . 

local attacks 


clearly , the security of cannot be greater than the security of 
the machine where the is performed .  . for example , under 
unix , a super user could to get at your mail , 
although it would take some planning and effort to do something like 
replace the with a horse or to get a copy of 
the , depending how it 's  . 

in addition , the link between you and the machine running is 
an extension of that. if you with on a remote machine 
which you are connected to via network  ( or , worse yet , modem ) , an 
could see the  ( and probably also your 
) . 

should only be executed on systems you trust , obviously. in 
the extreme case , should only be used on your own machine , 
which you have total control over and which nobody else has access 
to , which has only carefully examined software known to be free of 
viruses , and so on. however , there 's a very real trade off between 
convenience and security here. 

a more user might use on a unix workstation 
where other people have access  ( even root access ) , but increase 
security by keeping private and the  ( statically linked , of 
course) on a  . 

some people will keep on a user system , but when 
in over an line , they will the message to their 
own system and perform the there. however , the 
security provided by such a mechanism is somewhat since 
you presumably type your to log in , you 've just 
given away the , since the can now log in as you and 
in your account to steal your private key next time 
you use it from a less line. this will likely remain the 
situation as long as most systems use the rather mechanism of 
 . 

i find it nice to put a brief statement of how carefully i my 
security arrangement in my  . plan . next to my public key , so that 
potential correspondents can be aware what level of are 
in place. some people use two , a short one which is not 
carefully managed for ordinary use and a longer one which is treated 
with greater care for critical correspondence .  . 

attacks 


's will ensure that only a person with the private key 
to the public key used to the data may read the 
traffic .  . however , once someone with that key gets the message , she 
may always make whatever kind of she wishes .  . there 
exist no to a , say , taking an 
message and converting it to a only message , signed by 
you and by anyone , although does not provide this 
 . indeed , the latest draft i have seen specifically 
states that such should be possible to allow 
functions to work. 

including the in the , as mentioned above , will 
make it possible for of a message to be aware 
of its original nature. naturally , the security of the cryptography 
can never be greater than the security of the people using it. 

from  ( bear giles ) 
subject re why the clipper is secret 
organization systems labs , , boulder , co usa 
lines 25 

in article  ( danny o'bedlam ) writes 
the is classified because a military contract  ( or similar 
government equivalent to military ) has been let for this 
design that the feds say that developed .  . is there a is that 
publicly available my is that that too is classified .  . 

unless there has been a major change in the law , there 's no such 
as a classified  . exist to encourage communications and 
develop the state of the art .  . 

 ( the 17 year lock is a , but historically has been pretty trivial .  . 
it 's only in an industry which every three years  ( or 
18 months , for some hardware ) that 17 years is an  . 

the same thing applies in civilian development you ca n't something 
and declare it a trade secret. however , you can  ( and should ) mark all 
software  ( including code ) so that it 
ever does get exposed you still have some legal protection. 

 ( post this is n't required , since everything is born  . 
but it takes a while for people to learn the new  . 


bear 


from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization communications corp .  . 
lines 41 

in article  ( timothy c. may ) writes 
getting the court order to reveal the key also makes 
all past  ( which may be on , or , or whatver ) , 
as i understand the proposal .  . i could be wrong , but i 've seen no 
mention of being the entities .  . 

true in theory. in practice the technology of will 
probably be spread spectrum and quite difficult to record the 
without the key .  . if the path depends on they key , as i 
understand it to , it could be made effectively impossible to record .  . 

once it land you can record it if you have access. the 
is n't supposed to give that without a warrant .  . that 's the rule 
today. 

but even so , the evidence would not be , i think , unless the 
judge so ordered .  . i think that even of the 
without a warrant would be illegal .  . cops ca n't record today 's plain 
calls and then ask a judge , hey , can we have permission to 
listen to those can they 

worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 

yes , that is a major concern , but i think that they think they can 
win just by having 5 . of the usa use this system. they do n't even 
have to care about the  . 5 . that 's left. they do n't the 
really smart anyway. john , who would have to be 
not to realize he was likely to be , away 
on his phone about murder plans. that 's why he 's in jail now. 
hard to believe , but true. 


this scheme can succeed without laws more , which people would 
fight a lot harder .  . they like this enough that they are dropping the so 
called digital proposal , according to rumours .  . however the 
meaning of that is complex , since they still want to get at the 
on systems , and that requires a bit of work. 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from  ( hal finney ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 45 
distribution na 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

the key question is whether non clipper will be made illegal .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

the clear middle ground implied by these statements is to say that americans 
have the right to clipper , but not to  . 
this implies that , ultimately , non clipper strong must become 
illegal .  . 

 ( as an aside , is n't the language here all this talk about 
when they 're talking about taking away people 's 
right to communications ) 

although the article emphasizes voice , data and mail 
is mentioned as well 

sophisticated technology has been used for years to 
protect electronic funds  . it is now being used to 
protect electronic mail and computer files. 

the of our citizens , including the need to 
voice or data for business purposes 

it looks like the worst raised by 's 
are coming true. if the government continues on this course , i imagine 
that we will see strong cryptography made illegal .  . programs 
for files and email , as well as software to allow for 
voice communications , will be only through the 
. people will have to learn how to hide the fact that 
they are protecting their  . 

it 's and frightening to see that this is actually happening here. 




from graham 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
originator 
nntp posting host demon . co . uk . 
reply to graham 
organization anonymous 
lines 9 

in article  ( steven bellovin ) writes 
thousands tens of thousands do some arithmetic , please .  .  .  . 
has 2 80 possible  . 

we do n't yet know if all 80 bits count. anyway , its looking like the 
and are and to cover the way the 
can the key from the serial number .  . 

g 

from  ( carl shapiro ) 
subject re costs benefits 
summary benefits probably greater than thought 
organization sun 
lines 16 

in article  ( robin hanson ) writes 
a rough estimate suggests that are worth about five million 
dollars per year to u.s. law enforcement  .  ( in 1990 , u.s. 
led to , while total police of 28 
billion led to 11 . 25 . million us statistical  . ) . 
i'm working on this benefit more accurately , but 

you seem to be assuming that all are of equal value , and that 
the use of is spread among them. 

given this tiny number of , and the associated 
difficulty and cost involved  ( judges , , etc ) i expect that 
law enforcement the use of for the most valuable 
cases. since the value of an arrest can vary over an enormous range 
 . mass murder ) i think your 5 million estimate may 
be too low by a couple of orders of magnitude .  . 

from tom van  ( tom van vleck ) 
subject re looking for one way  ( trap door , , etc . ) . 
organization 
distribution usa 
lines 21 

michael wrote 
i am looking for references to which can be used for 
 . i.e. , someone has a clear text word , runs it 
through the , and it becomes some other sequence of symbols .  . 
i want this to have the property that it is a ) next to 
impossible to reverse , and b ) would take too long to try all possible 
words to see which one works  ( even by use of a high speed  . 
please send references or ideas to 

the original one way i put into about  ( as suggested 

by joe weizenbaum ) was  . an air force tiger team demonstrated 
this to me in may  . i then asked an expert  ( who requested anonymity ) 
what i should use instead the expert 's suggestion was to treat the 
8 as both key and data for the lucifer , 
which is similar or identical to des .  . this method or something stronger 
should take care of  . issue  ( b ) is discussed in security . misc . 
longer and quality control on what users can choose as 
are the common  . 

tom 

from  ( shaun p. hughes ) 
subject who should be hearing my views on clipper 
organization san francisco state university 
distribution na 
lines 18 


being a of this group for some time , 
and being very concerned about the clipper chip proposal , 
i am someone with more knowledge can help out. 

who would be the most people to write to , protesting 
the obvious next step at by this proposal 
 ( heads of what , etc . ) . 

what are the major flaws in the plan 
 ( from a standpoint ) 



p. facts are stupid things. 
ronald reagan 
republican national 
finger for pgp 2.2 public key 1988 

from 
subject cryptography faq 07 10 digital 
organization the 
lines 85 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 7 of 10 of the sci . faq , digital and 
functions .  . theory of one way functions , distinctions of 
terms. and  .  . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 7 digital and functions 

this is the seventh of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest. 
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in the last part. 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 


contents 

what is a one way function 
what is the difference between public , private , secret , shared , etc. 
what are and 
what is 


what is a one way function 

a typical one way function takes a length message and 
produces a fixed length  . given the it is 
impossible to find a message with that in fact one ca n't 
determine any information about a message with that , not 
even a single bit. for some one way functions it 's also 
impossible to determine two messages which produce the 
same  . 

a one way function can be private or public , just like an 
function. here 's one application of a public one way 
function , like or  . most public key signature systems are 
relatively slow .  . to sign a long message may take longer than the user 
is willing to wait. solution the one way of the message , 
and sign the , which is short .  . now anyone who wants to verify the 
signature can do the same thing. 

another name for one way function is message digest function. 

what is the difference between public , private , secret , shared , etc. 

there is a of terminology in the literature for a 
very small set of concepts .  . when an depends on a key which 
is n't published , we call it a private otherwise we call it 
a public  . we have functions e and 
functions d , so that  ( d(e(m ) m for any message m. we also have 
functions h and functions v , such that  ( v(m , x ) 1 
if and only if x  . 

a public key has public and private 
 . , such as the application mentioned in the 
previous question , have public and public  . 
digital signature functions have private and public 
only one person can produce the for a message , 
but everyone can verify that the is correct. 

obviously , when an depends on a private key , it 's meant to 
be by anyone who does n't have the key .  . there 's no real 
difference between a   key and a private key a shared key 
is n't published , so it 's private .  . if you data for a friend 
rather than your eyes only   , are you suddenly doing 
key   rather than private key no. 

what are and 

and are message digest functions developed by ron  . 
definitions appear in and  ( see part  . code is 
available from . 

note that a transcription error was found in the original draft 
 . the should be called , though some 
people refer to it as  . 

what is 

is a family of message digest functions developed by ralph 
 . 8 is an 8 round function , the in the family. 
definitions appear in 's paper . code is available from 
. 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
article i.d. 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 66 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 
in article 
 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your 
i would n't .  . 

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon .  . sure. 
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon . 

i am sure you did n't miss the implication that we could have another 
richard nixon type president in the future  ( perhaps not too distant 
future ,  . with that in mind , then i take it you also would 
not object to the gov coming up with a decision  ( not proposal just 
like clinton is a decision , not a proposal ) on us to 
start video with sound in every room of your house , 
which could be without your  . they would be well 
so you would n't know the , to prevent you from covering 
the  . after all , nothing you 're doing would be of the 
slightest interest to a government official , right so , you surely 
should not object to such a proposal .  .  .  . 

not the best , but the principle is pretty close the ability 
to on your activity with little or no effort , without your 
, protected by entirely by government . you can 
still draw your , so you can still have your from everyone 
else  ( except big brother ) ! ! after all we need this for protection from 
drug and and other criminals  ( like  enemies of the 
 .  .  . and you do n't really have a right to 
anyway , sort of as the press release of the clinton decision 
puts it .  .  .  . 

i find it curious they use the word when the term really 
should be difficult to break without proper  ( which the 
government most certainly has at their , right they would n't 
want to be able to break it , would they ) .  .  .  . , not 
for the people clinton .  .  .  .  . 

can you , while my mind is on it , give us one good reason that the 
should be a secret , unless this scheme 
either is a joke , or contains features like a  master key  or other back 
door for if it was really even 
secure , and the government really meant to require the proper court 
order and the that are in the accounts to be able to 
the traffic , what is the need to keep the secret seems i 
hear rather often that if an scheme requires the 
to remain a secret to be effective , it is not a worthwhile scheme .  .  .  . is 
this just idle talk , or is the everyone 

with great skepticism , and many on our intentions .  .  .  . 

and wait ! ! we have n't been told the next gem the has in 
mind for e mail and security .  . the press release does say that 
this is part of a comprehensive thing on data security for us 
citizens .  . perhaps  subjects  would be the better term  citizens  
somehow does not seem appropriate .  .  .  . that implies a free people ,  subjects  
better fits a population who serve at the pleasure of their rulers .  . 
one thing for certain the government no longer regards the citizens 
as their anymore , but the other way around .  .  .  . 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject re  ( new ) reason for clipper m secrecy 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( dwight tuinstra ) writes 
first , note that the will only look at details , and of just 
the 

in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

why not the chip design well , here 's the possiblity in addition to 
, the chip pre processes voice to make them easier 
to analyze  . the chip , once widespread , might 
effectively be part of a parallel computer for voice 
the us phone network  ( or the criminal wrong thinking 
 . 

first of all , the chip does n't do that. it runs at 16 second , 
which is far beyond what you need for voice .  . it 's obviously intended 
for data as well , and on high speed lines at that. 

second what advantage is there to doing the in the phone 
i do n't care how fancy that chip is it 's not as fancy as the 
of at running the program they 'll have 5 years from 
now. they ca n't update every clipper chip that 's out there. 

third if they did do this in the chip , it would probably 
have a serious effect on of the voice patterns .  . if 
nothing else , that would hurt the of the product .  . the 
v . modems are just barely fast enough to do a good job on properly 
voice as is add any more to the mix , and you 're completely out 
of the  . 

from  ( hal finney ) 
subject re how does it really work  ( was re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip encryption ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 41 
distribution na 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

writes 

the main thing i just do n't get is whether this chip 
or techniques .  . anybody know 

i do n't know , but i'm as willing to speculate as anyone. 

several people have suggested that the use public key cryptography .  . 
another possibility is to use key exchange , or some other 
which has a similar effect. allows both ends to agree on 
a key which they use with cryptography  ( something 
like des ) for the  . 

how could the back door work in this system i can see a few 
possibilities .  . one is that the like has the property that 
the key can be deduced by an who knows the back door 
for one  ( or possibly both )  . perhaps the random numbers 
used in the are by the back door key , or some such. 

another possibility , as was suggested here earlier , is that the 
simply the key , with the chip 's own 
internal secret key .  . in this system the back door are secret 
for this key  . actually the chip 's 
secret key does n't need to be a public key in this usage , but can be 
identical to the secret back door key .  .  ( this proposal seems most 
straightforward to me . ) . 

still another possibility is that the used for the 
message itself has a dual key property , that of either of 
two can be used to it. one key would be the key from 
the exchange , and the other would be the back door key for the chip .  . 

it 's worth that one of the raised 
during her amazingly on line discussion last and 
december was a on in which a third party would 
participate in the  . this does n't quite fit into 
what we know of how clipper works but it hints that those who had early 
knowledge of clipper  ( or whose thinking was somehow with 
clipper designers ) may have had on their minds .  . 



from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject re the old key idea .  .  .  . 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( robert lewis glendenning ) writes 
i have been for stating that was intellectually 
dishonest in the debate and in this newsgroup .  . i have previously 
from suggesting that she is arguing on behalf of 
 . 

now , i say that it is clear that has been 
as a , not a computer scientist .  . she has used legal ethics 
 ( truth is what you can convince anyone of ) , not scientific ethics 
 ( truth is understanding the external  . 

maybe we can her membership 8 ) 

i suggest that you from such insults unless and until you can 
produce some evidence to back up that claim .  . given the measures proposed 
or passed in the last year or so , such as s . and the ban , 
her proposal need not be any more than her own attempt at a technical 
solution .  . it 's entirely possible , in fact , that it was the notion of 
the key , which came up in the debate , that this proposal .  . 

from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject idea 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 11 

i am idea block for correctness 
and needs some golden test  . i 've looked through 
the idea chapter but the single example gives me 
zero degrees of freedom .  . i 'll contact the if necessary 
but since we are not paying him money for use of his invention , 
i 'd like to this from him. anybody got 
 ( no disease ,  . 


15 ad ac 3d 01 


from  ( marc vanheyningen ) 
subject frequently asked questions 
article i.d. usenet . 
expires thu , 20 may 1993 00 00 00 gmt 
organization computer science , university 
lines 
content type text x usenet faq version 1.0 title faq 
originator 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
version 1.0 

archive name faq 
last update 31 93 22 00 00 0500 

about this posting 

this is a listing of likely questions and information about , a 
program for public key mail  . it  ( this faq , not ripem ) was 
written and will be by 
. it will be posted to a variety of 
newsgroups on a monthly basis follow up discussion specific to 
is to the group alt . security .  . 

what s new 

i am now running a world wide archive of information. it 
does not contain much of anything that is n't available elsewhere , but 
it has convenient to the most current version of this faq and 
some other stuff. the is cs . edu . . 

this month 's version has a fair amount of new to information 
on and stuff like that. i 've also a few things to 
have a more sensible  . i hope i do n't have to edit this again 
soon. ) 

disclaimer 

nothing in this faq should be considered legal advice , or anything 
other than one 's opinion. if you want real legal advice , 
talk to a real lawyer , one with experience in law , 
, or whatever area of law is in question. 

list of questions 

1 ) what is 
2 ) how can i get 
3) will run on my machine 
4 ) will work with my mailer 
5 ) what is 
6 ) what is des 
7 ) what is a , like 
8 ) what is 
9 ) what 's this about and 
10 ) is n't it a bad idea to use patented in standards like 
11 ) what about 
12 ) why do all public look very similar 
13 ) what is pgp 
14 ) what about 
15 ) what is 
16 ) what is 
17 ) i have this simple way to defeat the security of  .  .  . 

questions and answers 


1 ) what is 

is a  ( not yet complete , but useful ) implementation of 
enhanced mail  . allows your electronic mail to have the 
four security facilities provided by protection 
 ( optional ) , originator authenticity , message measures , and 
non of origin  .  ( see what is ) 

was written primarily by mark . 
most of the code is in the public domain , except for the routines , 
which are a library called from data security inc. 

the current version of is 1 . 0 . 5 . the current version of the 
of is 0 . 7 .  . 

2 ) how can i get 

uses the library of routines , which is 
considered and thus is restricted from distribution 
to persons who are not citizens or permanent residents in the u . s . or 
canada without an license .  . no such license has been obtained 
 ( nor would one likely be granted unless the key exchange were 
to bits and the changed to something 
weaker than des .  . there are some suggestions that this situation may 
change now that clinton is in office . ) . the author requests in the 
file that this law not be violated 

please do not the code in this distribution 
outside of the usa or canada .  . this is a personal request from me , 
the author of , and a condition of your use of  . 

note that is not in the public domain , and a license for it is 
included with the distribution .  . you should read it before using 
 . 

is available via anonymous ftp to citizens and permanent 
residents in the u.s. from com . to and read the 
file for info .  . note that the non portion of is not a 
product of data security , incorporated they merely are helping 
distribute it. 

, as well as some other stuff , has its home site on 
edu . , which is open to non anonymous ftp for users in the 
u.s. and canada who are citizens or permanent residents .  . to find out 
how to obtain access , ftp there , to pub , and read the file 
getting access. for convenience , for many are 
available here in addition to the full source tree. 

3) will run on my machine 

probably .  . it has already been to dos and most flavors of 
unix  ( sunos , next , , aix , , , etc . ) . to 
include a standard unix style and a rather nice 
mac like written by raymond , author of  . more 
are expected , and help of users is invited .  . 

4 ) will work with my mailer 

probably .  . how easy and clean the effective interface is will depend 
on the and of the mailer , though. the users 
guide , included with the distribution , discusses ways to use 
with many popular , including berkeley , , , and  . 
code is also included in to allow easy use of inside 
 . 

if you make a new interface for or create an improvement on one 
in the distribution which you believe is convenient to use , secure , 
and may be useful to others , feel free to post it to alt . security .  . 

5 ) what is 

is a system which is , or public key .  . this means 
that there are two different , related one to and one to 
 . because one cannot  ( reasonably ) be derived from the other , 
you may publish your , or public , key widely and keep your 
, or private , key to yourself. anyone can use your public 
key to a message , but only you hold the private key needed to 
it. note that the message sent with is normally just 
the des key to the real  .  ( see what is des ) 

note that the above only provides for protection. for 
originator authenticity , message , and non of 
origin services to be implemented , the of the message 
 ( see what is a , like ) is with the 
sender 's private key .  . the , or a dispute resolving 
authority , can use the sender 's public key to it and 
that the message must have come from the sender and was not altered .  . 

was named for the three men  ( rivest , and adleman ) who 
invented it. to find out lots more about and modern cryptography 
in general , ftp to com . and look in pub faq . some information 
also may be in sci .  . 

6 ) what is des 

des is the data standard , a widely used , or 
secret key , system. unlike , des uses the same key to 
and messages. however , des is much than  . 

uses both des and it a random key and 
your mail with des using that key .  . it then that key with the 
's public key and includes the result in the letter , 
allowing the to the des key .  . 

des is sometimes considered weak because it is somewhat old and uses a 
key length considered too short by modern standards. however , it 
should be reasonably safe against an opponent smaller than a large 
corporation or government agency .  . it is not likely that the 
standard will incorporate support for other in the 
near future , because there is a strong feeling that should be 
stable so it can become widely without early problems with 
 . 

7 ) what is a , like 

is a message digest produced by data security inc. 
it provides a 128 bit , or secure , 
of the  . it is secure because it is not 
possible  ( in a reasonable amount of computation ) to produce a 
different which produces the same  . thus , 
instead of the entire message with the sender 's private key , 
only the of the message needs to be signed for  . 

can also be directly for for example , 
public include an of the public key in the file , so 
parties wishing to their are authentic via a separate 
channel merely need exchange of and verify their accuracy .  . 

is sometimes used for other purposes for example , it is often 
used to map an of arbitrary length to 128 bits of data , as a 
or  . 

is described in its  ( including an implementation in c ) in 
 . 

there have been some recent suggestions that may not be as strong 
a as was originally believed presumably some other 
function will be used if this is accepted as true. 

8 ) what is 

is enhanced mail , a standard for allowing of 
electronic mail generated over a long period of time by a 
working group of  . it is described in these 
documents have been approved and the old  . 

is not really a complete implementation of , because 
for , which does not 
handle at this time. their addition is  . 

9 ) what 's this about and 

for a remote user to be able to send secure mail to you , she must know 
your public key .  . for you to be able to that the message 
received came from her , you must know her public key .  . it is important 
that this information be accurate if a bad guy her that 
his key is in fact yours , she will send messages which he can read. 

allows for three methods of key a central server , 
the finger , and a flat file. all three are 
described in the users guide which is part of the distribution .  . 
none of them provide perfect security .  . the standard calls for 
key by the addition of this feature to 
is , but egg issues still exist. 

10 ) is n't it a bad idea to use patented in standards like 

this issue has been considered in the standards process. , 
the for internet standards , has a discussion  ( section 
6 ) on what for must be 
met for a patented method to be included in a standard. 
addresses this issue with regard to the covering public key 
cryptography .  . 

this does not , of course , mean that all questions are or that 
everyone is in agreement .  . an interesting exchange on the use of 
patented in standards with regard to public key 
cryptography is in the league for programming freedom archive 
 ( available via ftp ftp . net . doc lpf ) in the files letter . 
and response .  .  ( amusingly , the files on ftp . net . are 
with a patented ) . 

11 ) what about 

data security , inc.  ( rsadsi ) is a california based company 
in  . public key partners is a 
firm which holds exclusive sub rights of the following u.s. 
and all of their foreign 

and method 
( ) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . no. 4 , 200 , 

public key 
and method ( ) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . no. 4 , , 

communications system and 
method ( ) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . no. 4 , , 


and method ( ) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . no. 4 , , 

claims these four cover all known methods of public key 
cryptography .  . the two are rather closely related  ( for 
example , the same person , jim , is president of both of them . ) . 
has this technology to a number of 
 ( ibm , dec , motorola , at t ,  .  . ) . for use in their 
products. has also threatened and filed defending their 
 . 

was originally created with no connection to other than 
its use of the library , and for no reason other than its 
author 's desire to see widespread use of public key cryptography .  . 
however , after the ball started , people at got 
interested .  . decided to carry on its ftp site , and some 
people there started making their own and contributing 
code. even won the best application built on in 1992 
award .  . 

12 ) why do all public look very similar 

public begin with a  ( public key cryptography 
standards ) describing various characteristics about the 
key , so the first bunch of characters in your key may be the same as 
those of lots of other people 's  . this does not mean your 
are similar , but only that they are the same class of key , were 
generated with the same program , are of the same length , etc. 

13 ) what is pgp 

pgp is another mail program called pretty good  . 
pgp has been around longer than , and works somewhat differently. 
pgp is not compatible with in any way , though pgp does also use  . 

a few major differences between pgp and 

pgp has more key features , particularly for users without 
a direct network connection .  . 

to the and thus has a greater probability 
of working with other software .  . pgp makes no attempt to be 
compatible with anything other than itself. 

uses , a library of routines from which 
comes with a license allowing use. pgp uses its own 
implementation of  . claims that it is a violation of its 
to make , use or sell pgp in the u.s. or canada without 
either a license or written permission .  .  ( see disclaimer ) 
 ( see what about ) , the author of 
pgp , stopped it after being threatened with legal 
action he believed that a scheme could be , but 
it has n't happened and there seems little of it happening 
in the future. he in the pgp user 's guide 

in fact , if you live in the usa , and you are not a federal agency , 
you should n't actually run pgp on your computer , because public 
key partners wants to forbid you from running my software .  . pgp is 
 . 

both pgp and are restricted , and cannot be sent outside 
the u.s. and canada without an license .  . however , pgp 
already exists on many ftp sites in europe and other places. 

whether you use pgp or or whatever , the documentation to pgp is 
recommended reading to anyone interested in such issues. 
unfortunately , it 's not from the program , 
which can be difficult to find in the u.s. on ftp sites due to 
concerns .  . 

14 ) what about 

stands for enhanced mail .  . it was similar to , 
but used a public key invented by  ( which is not rsa ) in 
an attempt to avoid the on public key systems. it was 
written by mark , who later wrote  . 

its distribution was halted when , contrary to the beliefs of many 
 ( including rabin ) , claimed that their were broad enough 
to cover the employed .  . this claim is not universally 
accepted , but was not challenged for pragmatic reasons. 

is not really used anymore. it is not compatible with or pgp .  . 

15 ) what is 

stands for internet mail , and is 
described in  . you can find out about it in the newsgroup 
mail . a faq exists on it. how should interact with 
is not yet entirely clear some people use the solution 
of having a type application x in order to send 
messages as ones. i hope some standards will emerge .  . draft 
internet documents exist on the matter. 

16 ) what is 

trusted information systems is working on a version of 
enhanced mail for general  . last i heard , it was 
to be integrated into an existing mail user  ( mh ) 
rather than a stand alone system , and in test. i do n't know 
much more than that. 

17 ) i have this simple way to defeat the security of  .  .  . 

you may wish to check the companion post attacks which 
discusses some of the more obvious attacks on 's security and 
what will minimize the risk. 's main weak area is 
probably key distribution .  . 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
organization dsi 
lines 57 


though some may argue about the nose of the , it 's worth that 
the government proposal is limited to  . if it is only 
used for that purpose , and does not extend to electronic mail or file 
, then it is an improvement over the current mass produced 
standard civilian technology which , with a few exceptions , is limited to 
easy to break  . 

note that the big issue for the feds is the continued ability to  . 
before we go off the deep end with long about secure for 
e mail and files , let 's focus on this. 

one question that was not asked in the release is whether this proposal is 
limited to , or if the government intends to expand it. 

though i share many of the concerns expressed by some , i find the proposal 
less threatening than many others , since right now most americans have no 
secure , and any jerk with a pair of clip leads and a can 
 . this would also plug up the security hole in and 
 . 



reading between the lines , i infer that the system is highly secure 
without access to the  . this would meet the needs of u.s. 
by rich and powerful , including french and japanese 
security services and rich japanese  . it allows the to make 
available some of its better stuff while protecting law enforcement needs. 

most legitimate u.s. trust the , and would be to 
have a high security system by them , even at the price of 
in  . i see no difficulty in creating a reliable 
 . their to every day of the 
week , and that system has worked pretty well. 

from my point of view this is a fair starting point. there are concerns that 
need to be addressed , including the reliability of the  . but in 
return we get access to high security  . many have suggested that des 
and other systems may be by the and hence others similarly 
and  . there is at least a good possibility  ( which should be 
checked ) that the proposed system is not so  . it does n't have to 
be , nor does it have to have , if the government can get the 
to a legitimate court order. thus they can protect legitimate 
communications against economic , while still being able to 
on to a court order. 



in discussing this , let 's try to avoid the , personal attacks and 
of some previous threads .  . this is a substantive and technical issue , 
and personal remarks have no place in such a discussion. 


david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from  ( karl barrus ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization university of houston 
lines 27 
distribution na 

nntp posting host uh . edu . 
in reply to 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 02 41 55 gmt 


david writes 

i 'd trust something from the long before i 'd trust something from 
some or japanese .  . 

what this is an incredible statement ! the tried to suppress 
public key and , and yet they claim to encourage use of 
strong for us citizens .  . 

would you trust a black box from the versus an open system from 
elsewhere 


karl l. 
preferred address 
 ( nextmail ) 






karl l. 
preferred address 
 ( nextmail ) 


from  ( paul crowley ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
reply to  ( paul crowley ) 
organization university 
lines 12 

quoting  ( perry e. metzger ) in article 
the difference between a v . and a v . 

how fast do the modems go 

how far can voice be 

i 've seen various assertions about this , but anyone with the 
straightforward bits per second will be my friend forever .  .  .  . 

o paul crowley 
trust me. i know what i'm doing. x a fish for jesus ! 

from  . detweiler ) 
subject on the internet faq  ( 2 of 3) 
supersedes net 
organization 
lines 
expires 21 may 1993 04 00 06 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary email and account , , file , 
academic computer policies , relevant legislation and references , 
, and other and rights issues associated with use of the 
internet and in general. 
x last updated 1993 03 04 

archive name net 
last modified 1993 3 3 
version 2 . 1 . 


identity , , and on the internet 


 ( c ) 1993 l.  . not for use except by permission 
from author , otherwise may be freely copied .  . not to be altered .  . 
please credit if quoted .  . 

summary 


email and account , , file , academic 
computer policies , relevant legislation and references , , and 
other and rights issues associated with use of the internet 
and in general. 

 ( search for . for exact section .  . search for ' '  ( underline ) for 
next section . ) . 

part 2 
 ( this file ) 

resources 


4 . 1 . what unix programs are related to 
4 . 2 . how can i learn about or use cryptography 
4 . 3 . what is the mailing list 
4 . 4 . what are some related newsgroups faqs 
4 . 5 . what is internet enhanced mail  ( pem ) 
4.6 what are other request for comments  ( rfcs ) related to 
4.7 how can i run an anonymous 
4.8 what are references on in email 
4 . 9 . what are some email , usenet , and internet use policies 
4 . 10 . what is the mit   anonymous message tv program 




5 . 1 . what is cash   
5 . 2 . what is a   or   
5 . 3 . what is a   
5 . 4 . what is  and anonymous pools 
5 . 5 . what is through  
5 . 6 . what are  
5.7 what standards are needed to guard electronic 

issues 


6 . 1 . what is the electronic foundation  ( eff ) 
6 . 2 . who are computer for social responsibility  ( cpsr ) 
6.3 what was sun devil  and the steve game case 
6 . 4 . what is integrated services digital network  ( isdn ) 
6 . 5 . what is the national research and education network  ( nren ) 
6 . 6 . what is the fbi 's proposed digital act 
6 . 7 . what other u.s. legislation is related to on 
6 . 8 . what are references on rights in 
6.9 what is the computers and academic freedom  ( caf ) archive 




7.1 what is the background behind the internet 
7 . 2 . how is internet  like the english language 
7 . 3 . most wanted list 
7 . 4 . change history 





resources 




4 . 1 . what unix programs are related to 

for more information , type ' or ' at the 
unix shell  . 

change 
finger obtain information about a remote user 
change information about yourself by remote 
users  ( sometimes f' ) 
change the rights associated with a file or directory 
 ( shell ) change the default  ( on creation) file access 
rights 
ls list the rights associated with files and 
allow or access control of particular users to an 
server 
last list the latest user on the system and their 

who list other users , idle times , 
w list other users and what they are running 
access control list for x use 
control x server 

 . signature . file in the home directory to usenet posts 
 . forward . file used to forward email to other accounts 
 . file used for x server 
signature used for name in email and usenet postings 

the   packet program is loosely based on 's 
although none of the code remains .  . it was 
originally written by van , lawrence berkeley , 
as part of an research project to investigate and improve 
and internet gateway  . a current version is 
available via anonymous ftp from host ftp . ee . gov .  ( currently at 
address 128 . 3 . file z . (a unix 
 . this program is subject to the  standard  berkeley network 
software  . 


4 . 2 . how can i learn about or use cryptography 

a general introduction to mostly issues , 
especially those frequently discussed in sci . , is available 
in faq form 

compiled by 
 ( carl ellison ) 
 ( doug gwyn ) 
 ( steven bellovin ) 

s .  . national institute for standards and technology ) 
an introductory paper on cryptography , special 
publication 2 key   by james 
 ( april  . available via anonymous ftp from 
gov . 6 . 54 . , file pub 2 . txt .  . 
also via available anonymous ftp from ca . as txt . z . 
in the directory .  . covers technical mathematical aspects 
of such as number theory. 

more general information can be found in a faq by paul of 
via anonymous ftp from com . in pub faq . ps . z .  . see 
the  file for information on the  version. also 
available as for 20 from laboratories , 100 
, city , ca  . send questions to 
faq 

's pgp  ( pretty good privacy ) public domain 
for public key is available at numerous sites , and is 
in widespread use over the internet for general unix based file 
 ( including  . consult the ftp  . 
also see the newsgroup alt . security . pgp .  . mailing list requests 
to info pgp 

from the faq by 
on news.answers 

is a program which performs enhanced mail  ( pem ) 
using the techniques of and des .  . it allows 
your electronic mail to have the properties of 
(i . e .  . who sent it can be confirmed ) and (i . e .  . nobody can 
read it except the intended ) . 

was written primarily by mark 
. most of the code is in the public domain , 
except for the routines , which are a library called 
from data security inc. 

is available via anonymous ftp to citizens and permanent 
residents in the u.s. from com . to and read the 
file for info .  . 

, as well as some other stuff , has its site  on 
edu . , which is open to non anonymous ftp for users in 
the u.s. and canada who are citizens or permanent residents .  . to 
find out how to obtain access , ftp there , to pub , and 
read the file getting access. 

note cryptography is generally not well integrated into email yet 
and some system is required by users to it. 


4 . 3 . what is the mailing list 

eric runs the  mailing list 
dedicated to about for 
in the digital domain . '' . send email to 
to be added or from the 
list. from the charter 

the most important means to the defense of is  . 
to is to indicate the desire for  . but to 
with weak cryptography is to indicate not too much desire for 
 . hope that all people desiring will 
learn how best to defend it. 


4 . 4 . what are some related newsgroups faqs 

newsgroups 


alt . freedom . news . 
alt . freedom . talk . 

moderated and issues related to academic freedom and 
at universities .  . documented examples of violated 
in e.g. email. documented examples of  as 
in e.g. limiting usenet groups local  . 

alt . 

virtual reality ,  ( science ) fiction by william gibson and bruce 
, in the mainstream .  . 

alt . 

usenet network news  ( nntp ) posting mechanisms , 
simple mail  ( smtp ) , hack  reports .  . 

alt . 

general issues involving , , social 
security numbers , etc. 

alt . security . 
security . misc . 

computer related security issues. faq in news.answers below. 

alt . security . pgp . 
alt . security . 

dedicated to discussing public domain software 
pgp , or good   software developed by 
for public key , and by mark 
for public key and des  . 

society . 

issues associated with computer  . examples 
, social security numbers , credit 
applications , mailing lists , etc. moderated .  . 

news . 
talk . 

moderated and groups associated with the electronic 
foundation started by for protecting civil 
and constitutional rights in the electronic realm .  . 

news . admin . 
news . admin . policy . 

concerns of news administrators .  . nntp standards and mechanisms .  . 

news . lists . 

usenet traffic  . most frequent posters , most 
groups , most active sites , etc. 

sci . 

considers scientific and social issues of cryptography .  . 
examples legitimate use of pgp , public key , des , 
security , breaking , etc. 


faqs 


faqs or asked questions   are available in the 
newsgroups  . answers . or via anonymous ftp to mit . edu . 
18 . 172 . 1 . 27 .  ( also rtfm . mit . from the directory 
pub usenet news.answers x where x is the archive name. this 
faq is in the file  . others are 

network info 

sources of information about the internet and how to connect to 
it , through the or  . 

alt security faq 

computer related security issues arising in alt . security . and 
security . misc . , mostly unix related .  . 



issues associated with the use of the u.s. social 
security number  . 



public internet accounts list. 

college email 

how to find email addresses for and graduate 
students , and at various and 
universities .  . 

faq 

information on , a program for public key mail 
by public key partners inc. , the company 
that owns on public key cryptography .  . 

unix faq faq 

frequently asked questions about unix , including information on 
 and terminal  . 



known , university , and network  . 


4 . 5 . what is internet enhanced mail  ( pem ) 

internet on enhanced mail  ( pem ) describe a standard 
under revision for years the official protocols for 
email  . the standard has only recently and 
are being developed .  . 

for internet electronic mail 
part i message and '' . j. 


for internet electronic mail part 
ii based key   s. kent 

for internet electronic mail 
part key and related services   b. 


for internet electronic mail part 
iii , modes , and   d. 


send email to for more information. see 
related to   for information on how to obtain  . 


4.6 what are other requests for comments  ( rfcs ) related to 

, simple mail 
nntp , network news 
standard for of network news messages 
of terms 
answers to internet user   questions 
answers to internet user   questions 
issues in network information center 


is answers to commonly asked internet user   
questions , and includes basic terminology on the internet  ( tcp , 
, ftp ) , internet organizations such as  ( internet 
activities board ) and  ( internet task force ) , and 
a of terms. also from ftp . org . 
pub internet info internet . q .  . 

can be obtained via ftp from , with the 
txt . or ps .  ( where  refers to the 
number of the  . with ftp ,  and 
 . the also provides an automatic mail 
service for those sites which cannot use ftp .  . address the 
request to and in the subject field of the 
message indicate the number , as in   ( or 
for  . 

can also be obtained via ftp from net .  . using ftp , 
with  and  then 
connect to the directory  ( `cd  . the file name is of the 
form txt . 1  ( where  refers to the number of the 
 . the also provides an automatic mail service for those 
sites which cannot use ftp .  . address the request to 
and leave the subject field of the message 
 . the first line of the text of the message must be 
txt . 1  , where is replaced by the number .  . 


4.7 how can i run an anonymous 

source is at soda . berkeley . edu . in the 
pub directory .  . it 's written in , and is 
relatively easy to  ( no administrative rights are  . 
karl has more information and 
 . also , most operators mentioned above are 
to discussing features , problems , and helping new sites 
become  . address all points in the section 
of anonymous use   in this document prior to 
your service .  . you should be committed to the long term 
of the site and avoid running one  . 


4.8 what are references on in email 


brown , bob .  . users to adopt policy on e mail '' . 
network world  ( oct 29 , 1990 ) , 7 . 44 . 2. 

, jeffrey .  . reads your electronic mail '' electronic 
business  ( june 11 , 1990 ) 16  ( 11 )  . 

the uncertainty of keeping e mail private   
scientific american , february 1993 .  . 

ftp . org . 


pub papers email 

article on the rights of email  . by t.  . 

pub academic law email . 

electronic mail and   , an edited version of a 
law school paper by t.  . 

pub papers email 2 

compilation of bibliography on e mail and its issues  ( part 
2 of the  . compiled by b.  ( 12  . 

pub papers email research 

the author at digital research tried to their 
policy on e mail .  . the are divided into two 
groups us constitutional law , and california law. 

pub papers company email 

a company policy on access to and of 
electronic mail on company computer systems by david r. johnson 
and john for the electronic mail 

pub 

information on co .  . , an e mail suit .  . 

pub academic law email . 

email search at berkeley .  . 


4 . 9 . what are some email , usenet , and internet use policies 

the computer policy and critiques archive is a collection of the 
computer policies of many schools and , run by the 
computers and academic freedom group on the electronic 
foundation ftp site. the collection also includes critiques of some 
of the policies .  . 

if you have , the archive is with the command 
p academic policies org . 

the archive is also accessible via anonymous ftp and email. ftp 
to ftp . org . 88 .  . it is in directory 
academic  . for email access , send email to 
archive include the line 

send freedom policies 

where is a list of the files that you want. file 
is a detailed description of the items in the directory .  . 

for more information , to make contributions , or to report typos 
contact j . s .  . directory  
contains additional policies  ( but not  . 


ftp . org . 


pub 

acceptable use policies for various , including compuserve 
 ( file `compuserve' ) ,  ( file `nsfnet' ) with information on 
research and uses .  . see pub index .  . 

pub email 

policies from various about how they handle the issue of 
email , control , and abuse , compiled by t. 
. 

pub schools 

computer use policies of a number of schools .  . see schools index 
for a full list and description. 


commentary 


pub academic faq policy . best . 

opinions on the best academic computer policies .  . 


pub academic faq email . policies . 

do any universities treat email and computer files as private 

pub academic faq netnews . writing . 

policies on what users write on usenet .  . 

pub academic faq netnews . reading . 

policies on what users read on usenet should my university remove 
 ( or restrict ) netnews newsgroups because some people find them 
offensive 

pub academic faq policy 

what is there for creating or evaluating a university 's 
academic computer policy 


4 . 10 . what is the mit   anonymous message tv program 

is an anonymous message system run on mit student 
tv 36 .  . it provides an anonymous medium through which mit 
students can say those things they might otherwise find 
difficult , or impossible to say in person. it 's 
also a way to send fun or totally random messages to your 
friends over the air. it is similar to the anonymous message 
pages found in many college newspapers , except that it 's 
electronic in nature and it 's free. 

messages can be posted to the service via email. for more 
information send email to 






5 . 1 . what is cash   

with digital and , the 
possibility of a widespread digital cash system may someday be 
realized .  . a system utilizing codes sent between users and banks 
 ( similar to today 's checking system except entirely digital ) may 
be one approach. the issues of cryptography , , and 
are closely associated with of cash in an 
economy .  . see the article in scientific american by david 
( dec . 1992) .  . 

an experimental digital bank is run by karl 
based on suggestions by on the 
mailing list. to use the server send mail to 
message with the following text 


command help 



where  is your email address. 



5 . 2 . what is a   or   

these terms arouse strong feelings by many on their meaning , 
especially on the internet .  . in the general news media in the past 
a person who uses computers and to malicious ends  ( such as 
breaking into systems ) has been referred to as a hacker , but most 
internet users prefer the term   for this. instead , a 
  is perceived as a benign but , 
curious , and driven computer user who obscure areas of a 
system , for example something of a proud electronic and 
 . this is the sense intended in this document .  . see also 
the 's dictionary   and the faq security  . 



5 . 3 . what is a   

from the charter of the mailing list 

assume is a good thing and wish there were 
more of it. acknowledge that those who want 
must create it for themselves and not expect governments , 
, or other large , organizations to grant 
them out of  . know that people 
have been creating their own for centuries with , 
, closed doors , and  . do not seek 
to prevent other people from speaking about their experiences or 
their opinions. 

see information on the mailing list below. 

see also the manifesto and the cryptography 
in soda . berkeley . edu . pub  . 


5 . 4 . what is  and anonymous pools 

closely associated with is  or the 
techniques for not only private  ( encrypted ) 
but the very existence of the itself. 
many new possibilities in this area are introduced with the 
of computer technology. for example , it is possible 
to messages in the least significant bits of images , 
typically the most  . in addition , when such an item is 
posted in a public place  ( such as a newsgroup ) , virtually 
can take place between sender and 
receiver .  . for communications in the electronic 
realm one another possibility is setting up a mailing list where 
individual messages get to the entire list and individual 
users particular messages with their unique key .  . an 
anonymous pool has been set up by 
for experiments .  . send email to 
with one of the following 
commands in the subject line 

subscribe 

help 


5 . 5 . what is through  

through  refers to the attempt to gain 
protection from system weaknesses by hiding sensitive information 
or programs to them. for example , a company may not make 
public information on its software 's techniques to 
 based on knowledge of it. another example would be 
data on the existence of security holes or in 
operating systems. or , some may be made on the fact that 
some standard or mechanism with potential problems is serious 
because they are widely known   or widely used . '' . this 
argument is applied to mechanisms for email and usenet 
posting  . through  is regarded as a 
very feeble at best and inappropriate and ineffective at 
worst  ( also called the in the sand  . see the faq 
for alt . security .  . 

some remarks of john perry barlow , of the electronic 
foundation , directed to at the first 
international symposium on national security national 
held in , virginia dec .  . 1 , 1992 

information is very hard to stamp classified or keep 
contained .  . ... this stuff is incredibly and  . it 's 
almost a life form in its ability to self propagate .  . if 
something the net and it 's something which people on there 
find interesting it will spread like a virus of the mind. i 
believe you must simply accept the idea that we are moving into 
an environment where any information which is at all interesting 
to people is going to get out. and there will be very little 
that you can do about it. this is not a bad thing in my view , 
but you may differ .  .  .  . 


5 . 6 . what are  

describes a standard that allows unix programs to 
a remote user 's name after connection to a local 
(a connection of this type is established 
during ftp and , for example) .  . the standard is not 
widely supported , perhaps 10 of internet sites currently implement 
it but the number is increasing .  . the mechanism is detrimental to 
 . regular users cannot it but system 
can it. this standard may represent a 
trend greater mechanisms .  . 


5.7 what new standards are needed to guard electronic 


posting 


stable , secure , protected , and , 
publicly and privately operated anonymous and  . 
official standards for and in mail and usenet 
postings .  . 
truly anonymous protocols with source and information 
or absent and hidden mechanisms  ( chaining , 
addresses , etc . ) . 
standards for anonymous email addressing , files , and 
site  . 

general 


recognition of , cryptography , and related 
as legitimate , useful , desirable , and crucial by the 
general public and their governments .  . 
widespread use and implementation of these 
by systems into 
hardware , software , and standards , implemented , ' 
, ' and  . 
general shift of use , , and to means other than 
and electronic surveillance by law enforcement 
 . 
, , and of laws and government 
opposed to , replaced by structures dedicated to 
and protecting it. 


issues 



6 . 1 . what is the electronic foundation  ( eff ) 

from ftp . org . pub mission statement 

a new world is arising in the vast of digital , electronic 
media which connect us. computer based media like 
electronic mail and computer are becoming the basis 
of new forms of community. these communities without a single , 
fixed geographical the first on an 
electronic  . 

while well established legal principles and cultural norms give 
structure and coherence to uses of conventional media like 
newspapers , books , and , the new digital media do not 
so easily fit into existing  . conflicts come about as 
the law to define its application in a context where 
fundamental notions of speech , property , and place take 
profoundly new forms .  . people sense both the promise and the 
threat inherent in new computer and communications , 
even as they struggle to master or simply with them in the 
and the home. 

the electronic foundation has been established to help 
the electronic to make it truly useful and 
beneficial not just to a technical , but to everyone and to 
do this in a way which is in keeping with our society 's highest 
traditions of the free and open of information and 
 . 

was started by the , founder of 
software , and john barlow , for the dead 
 . a highly of the organization 
involved the legal defense of steve games after an fbi 
and an accompanying civil suit  ( see section on 
 . the foundation news  ( effector 
online ) , send requests to 

in a letter to from the chairman of the 
with primary jurisdiction over telecommunications policy dated 
5 , 1991 , representative edward j. 
on his on the development of a national 
public information   which greatly 
by myself and the members of the    ( complete text in 
ftp . com . pub pub 1991 12 ) 

 .  .  . we . need to pursue policies that encourage the bell to 
work with other of the communications industry to create 
a consumer oriented , public information network. please let me or 
my know what policies you and others in the computer 
industry believe would best serve the public interest in creating 
a reasonably , widely available network in which 
competition is open and rewarded .  . i also want to 
learn what lessons from the computer industry over the past ten 
to years should apply to the current debate on 
the information and communications of the 
future .  .  .  . i . ask your help in from the computer 
industry so that the can shape policies that will 
bring this spirit of and to the 
information services industry .  . 

ftp . org . 


pub about 

a file of basic information about including goals , mission , 
, and current  . contains a membership form. 

pub mission statement 

mission statement. 

pub historical founding announcement 

founding press release .  . 

pub historical history 

john perry barlow 's terribly brief history of the    ( july 
10 ,  . how was conceived and founded , major legal cases , 
and the  . 

pub historical legal case summary 

legal case summary .  . 



6 . 2 . who are computer for social responsibility  ( cpsr ) 

the computer for social responsibility have been 
working to protect and promote electronic civil liberties issues 
since  . the group has three offices  ( palo , cambridge , 
washington , dc ) and 20 chapters .  . it is involved in 
against the fbi , the , , the secret service and other other 
u.s. government to and provide documentation 
on issues such as operation , the fbi proposal , 
's interference in , the of the in 
arlington , va in 1992 .  . members speak frequently in front on 
congress , state and public utility to 
testify on , information policy , computer security , and 
 . 

has created an extensive internet library available 
via ftp , , , and email at org . , currently 
the largest collection of documents on the internet .  . for 
more information , anonymous ftp org . . 


 ( thanks to dave for contributions 
here . ) . 


6.3 what was  and the steve game case 

in the early 1990 's a fear spread among u.s. law enforcement 
on the illicit activities of  and  involved in 
such activities as credit card fraud and long distance call  . 

 ( see ftp . org . pub general information 

, ' the phoenix inspired of may 
8 , 1990 , on telephone code fraud and credit card 
abuse , and followed this plan with some success. 
board systems went down all over america , 
the and them of at least some of 
their criminal  . it also with some 
24 , 000 , and justice department 
with the challenge of a 
hacker show trial involving highly technical issues in of 
 . 

massive trials  never , although isolated 
instances of prosecution were  . the movement reached a 
in texas with the highly case of illegal 
search and involving the steve games company of 
austin texas on march 1 , 1990. from the  lost 
by bruce in fantasy and science 
fiction magazine 

in an early morning with an and 
warrant , of the secret service conducted a search of the 
office. when they left they took a being prepared 
for publication , private electronic mail , and several computers , 
including the hardware and software of the computer 
board system. yet and his business were not only 
innocent of any crime , but never in the first place. 
the had been on the unfounded suspicion that 
somewhere in 's office there be  a document 
compromising the security of the telephone system. 

fbi involved in the were named in a civil suit filed 
on behalf of steve games by the electronic 
foundation .  . see information on below. from an article by joe 
in the houston feb 1 , 1993 

austin an electronic civil rights case against the secret 
service closed thursday with a clear statement by federal 
district judge that the service failed to conduct a 
proper investigation in a notorious computer crime , 
and went too far in of equipment. 

secret service special timothy of chicago , who was in 
charge of three austin computer search and on march 1 , 
1990 , that led to the lawsuit , spark 's 
over the service 's poor investigation and abusive computer 
policies .  . while the service has of 
computers since the began in 1990 , this is the first 
case to challenge the practice. 

grew angry when it was established that the austin 
science fiction magazine and game book was never 
suspected of a crime , and that did not do even marginal 
research to establish a criminal connection between the firm and 
the suspected illegal activities of an , or to determine 
that the company was a  . indeed , that 
they were not even trained in the protection act at the 
special secret service school on computer crime .  . 

how long would it have taken you , mr. , to find out what 
steve games did , what it was asked  . an hour 

was there any reason why , on march 2 , you could not return to 
steve games a copy , in form , of everything 
taken 

did you read the article in business week magazine where it had 
a picture of steve a law , tax paying citizen 
saying he was a computer crime suspect 

did it ever occur to you , mr. , that this material 
could harm steve economically 

replied , no , sir , but the judge offered his own answer. 

you actually did , you just had no idea anybody would actually go 
out and a lawyer and you. 

more than 200 , 000 has been spent by the electronic 
foundation in bringing the case to trial .  . the was founded by 
a civil liberties movement in large 
part by the secret service computer crime  . 


ftp . org . 


pub papers 

a collection of information on operation by the epic 
publishing project .  . everything you wanted to know but 
could never find .  . 

pub papers 

steve 's response to the charges against him. 


6 . 4 . what is integrated services digital network  ( isdn ) 

is a high speed data communications standard that 
existing telephone lines , and is a possible and 
alternative to for phone 
 . the involved may be sufficient for and 
video applications .  . g. v. der in the file 
ftp . org . pub pub 1991 11 

telecommunications in the united states is at a  . with 
the regional bell operating now free to provide 
content , the shape of the information is about to be 
altered .  . but will that network be the open , 
accessible , affordable network that the american public needs 
you can help decide this question. 

the electronic foundation recently presented a plan to 
congress calling for the immediate of a national 
network based on existing technology , accessible to anyone 
with a telephone connection , and like local voice service .  . 
we believe of such a will spur the 
development of new information services , and 
freedom , , and civil liberties throughout the 
nation .  . 

the is before congress and the making 
to public utility from to 
california and meeting with representatives from telephone 
, publishers , consumer advocates , and other 
in the telecommunications policy debate. 

the believes that participants on the internet , as on 
the electronic , need to have their heard at this 
critical moment .  . 

to automatically receive a description of the and details , 
send mail to archive , with the following line 

send documents open overview 

or send mail to see also the introduction to the 
open proposal in ftp . org . pub pub 1991 02 .  . 


references 


data on demand . '' . , 2  ( page  . 

vs. services and products. see comments by j. powers 
in ftp . org . pub pub 1992 02 .  . 

service that of the future . '' . by joshua  . 
, tue , jan 7 1992 .  . 

implications of for the masses , written in popular science 
style .  . john perry barlow  ( cofounder  . regional telephone 
 ( ohio  . as test . '' . 
about 's , bush  . see 
complete text in ftp . org . pub pub 1992 01 .  . 

ftp . org . pub pub 

files 1991 11 through 1992 05 containing email from the public 
group organized by month .  . opinions and facts on 
the pros and cons of , integrated services digital network. 
uses of  ( phone video , , etc . ) . japanese model .  . 
alternatives to  ( hdsl , ,  . technical 
of , implementation details , cost issues , 
political obstacles ,  ( rboc , regional bell operating or 
 , e.g. net , new england  . 
development of future (e . g .  . and , national 
research and education network ) , encouraging competition  ( cable 
tv  . press and news articles .  . letter from  . 
e. j. to m.  . 


6 . 5 . what is the national research and education network  ( nren ) 

the nation research and education network was introduced in 
legislation by  . a. to promote high speed data 
network the internet with up to 50 times 
rates. the bill passed the house on 
20 , 1991 , the senate on 22 , 1991 , and was signed by the 
president on december 9 , 1991. 

ftp . org . 


pub legislation bill text 

the complete text of the house senate compromise version of s. 
272 , the high computing act. 

pub internet info bill . 

congress 1st session. text of high computing 
bill by  . a.  . 


pub legislation bill 

the text of s . , the information and technology 
act of 1992 introduced by to expand federal efforts 
to develop for applications of high 
computing and high speed , and to provide for a 
federal program to development and 
of an advanced information  . 

u.s. said to play in promoting computer network 
by john , n . y .  . times ( 18 dec  . 

president bush 's legislation for computer data 
' . ibm venture as monopoly destructive to fair 
competition and national science foundation  . 
complete text in pub pub 1991 12. 

commentary 


pub academic statements 

for the   statement of 
, washington director computer for social 
responsibility  . 

pub internet info 

the national research and education network two meetings steve 
, scientist apple computer library december 17 , 1990 
summary of meetings issues of by 
members of and industry .  . 

pub internet info 

feb .  . 14 1991 by m. advocating of a private 
national public network , and specific for open 
policies encouraging competition .  . 


pub papers 

an about the proposed setup .  . 


6 . 6 . what is the fbi 's proposed digital act 

of electronic services and private branch 
exchange operators shall provide within the united states 
capability and capacity for the government to wire and 
electronic communications when by law .  .  . '' . 

from watch proposal  by 
s. in magazine , feb .  . 1993 , p. 19 22 

in a move that worried , software and 
telephone , the fbi proposed legislation to amend the 
communications act of to make it easier for the bureau to 
perform electronic  . the proposed legislation , 
entitled  digital , ' would have required communications 
service and hardware to make their 
systems   by providing  back doors  through which law 
enforcement officers could communications .  . furthermore , 
this capability would have been provided , while the 
communications was in progress , exclusive of any communications 
between other parties , regardless of the of the target 
of the fbi 's investigation , and without of service .  . 

 .  .  . under . the proposal , the department of justice  ( doj ) can keep 
communications products off the market if it determines that 
these products do not meet the 's own ...  . this 
could result in increased costs and reduced for 
service and equipment , since they will be 
unlikely to add any features that may result in a rejection 
of their entire product .  .  .  .  . the . fbi proposal suggests that the 
cost of this  service  to the bureau would have to be 
borne by the service itself .  .  .  . 

the electronic foundation organized a broad of 
public interest and industry groups , from computer 
for social  ( cpsr ) and the to at t and sun 
, to oppose the legislation .  . a white paper produced 
by the and ratified by the , entitled , analysis 
of the fbi digital proposal , ' was widely 
throughout the congress .  . ... the justice department hard 
in the final days to get congress to take up the bill before 
congress , but the bill never ... found a congressional 
 ( and was therefore never  . the fbi 
may digital when the congress 
in  . 

ftp . org . 


pub legislation fbi bill 
pub legislation new fbi bill 

a bill to ensure the continuing access of law enforcement to the 
content of wire and electronic communications when by 
law and for other purposes. version 2 of the bill after fbi 
changes in response to public response. 

pub law 

house of bill , telecommunications law. 

commentary 


pub papers fbi analysis 

the sponsored analysis of the fbi 's digital proposal .  . 

pub papers 

the electronic communications act of 1986 a 's view. 

pub papers wire 

of abc 's of may 22 , 1992 , on the fbi , 
, and proposed wire legislation .  . featured are 
of the and william , director of the fbi .  . 

pub papers letter 

a letter from the director of the secret service to us  . 
, d california , in response to questions raised by 
  . this copy came from computer 
for social responsibility in washington , d . c .  . 

pub papers fbi . systems . 

a description of how information is on the fbi 's computer 
systems. 



6 . 7 . what other u.s. legislation is related to 

ftp . org . 


pub law state 

state computer crime laws 
al , , az , ca , co , ct , de , , , 
hi , ia , id , il , in , md , mn , nc , nj , 
, ny , or , tx , vt , va , , wi ,  . 

pub law country 

current computer crime laws for the united states  ( federal 
code ) , canada , , and great britain .  . 

pub law bill . s . 

senate bill , addressing of with 
the government. 

pub law improve 

improvement of information access bill. 

pub law 

senate bill concerning abuses of electronic in the 
 . 

pub law us . e . 

title 18 , to computer crime email  . 

pub academic law electronic . bill . 

the text of simon 's electronic bill , s.  . prevent 
potential abuses of electronic in the '' . 


6 . 8 . what are references on rights in 

ftp . org . 


pub papers in . 

tribe 's address at the first conference on 
computers , freedom ,  . constitution in  

pub papers 

paper presented to l security 
who break into computer systems   by e  . 

pub papers 

vs first and fourth amendment rights   by 
michael s. 

pub papers rights of 

rights of in by r. e. 

pub academic rights . 

bill of rights  meaning in the electronic  . 


6.9 what is the computers and academic freedom  ( caf ) archive 

the archive is an electronic library of information about 
computers and academic freedom .  . run by the computers and academic 
freedom group on the electronic foundation ftp site. 

if you have , the archive is with the command 
p academic org . 

it is available via anonymous ftp to ftp . org . 88 . in 
directory  . it is also available via email. for 
information on email access send email to archive 
in the body of your note include the lines  and  . 

for more information , to make contributions , or to report typos 
contact j . s .  . 

ftp . org . 


pub academic statements statement 

the application of academic freedom to academic 
computers , seven months of on line discussion about 
computers and academic freedom .  . covers free , due 
process , , and user participation .  . 

pub academic books 

directory of book references related to computers and academic 
freedom or mentioned in the discussion. the file books 
is a bibliography .  . 

pub academic faq archive 

list of files available on the computers and academic freedom 
archive .  . 

pub academic news 

directory of all issues of the computers and academic freedom 
news. a full list of is available in file  . 
the special best of the month issues are named with their month , 
for example ,  . 







7.1 what is the background behind the internet 

the article   in fantasy and science fiction by bruce 
contains general and 
introductory notes on origins of the internet , including the role 
of the corporation , the goal of network in face of 
nuclear attack , mit , , , , , , etc. 

itself formally in 1989 , a happy victim of its 
own overwhelming success. its users noticed , for 
's functions not only continued but steadily improved .  . 
the use of standards for computer is now 
 . in 1971 , a mere twenty one years ago , there were only 
four in the network. today there are tens of 
thousands of in the internet , over forty two 
countries , with more coming on line every day. three million , 
possibly four million people use this 
mother of all computer  . 

the internet is especially popular among scientists , and is 
probably the most important scientific instrument of the late 
twentieth century. the powerful , sophisticated access that it 
provides to data and personal has 
up the of scientific research  . 

the internet 's of growth in the early is , 
almost  . it is spreading than , 
than fax machines .  . last year the internet was growing at 
a rate of twenty percent a month .  . the number of  
machines with direct connection to has been 
every year since 1988. the internet is moving out of its 
original base in military and research , into 
elementary and high schools , as well as into public 
and the  . 

references 


, k. , t. , j. , k. , m. , and a. 
, to start a bibliography of general 
information    ( rfc 1175 ) , , u texas , , , , , 
august 1990. 

the whole internet catalog user 's guide by ed  .  ( 1992 ) 
o and , inc. 

a clear , non introduction to the intimidating business 
of network written in style .  . 

, e. , guide to the internet    ( rfc 1118 ) , 
university of illinois urbana , september 1989. 

user 's directory to computer   , by  . 

the computer and systems  . 
by john  . digital press , ma .  .  ( 1990 ) 

massive and highly technical detailing the 
mind and complexity of  . 

! @ a directory of electronic mail addressing and   by 
and adams .  . 

the internet companion , by with c.  ( 1992 ) 
 . 

  etiquette guide to the internet 
tales of life changing internet experiences. 
by al  . 

zen and the art of the internet a 's guide by brendan p. 
 ( 1992 ) hall .  . 

brief but useful internet guide with plenty of good advice on 
useful  . 


see also ftp . com . pub internet info .  ( thanks to bruce 
for contributions here . ) . 


general 


, scott and l. porter .  . a 
dozen ways they 'll change our lives . '' . the 26 , 1 
 ( january february , 1992) 19 22 .  . 

brian , ed .  . , building information  ( new york 
hill , 1992) isbn 0 x 

essays on information  . policy and design issues , 
research and , future visions , information  . see 
table of contents in ftp . org . pub pub 1992 03 .  . 

, jeffrey .  . on cross cultural electronic 
'' . whole earth review  ( winter ) 1990 32 35 .  . 

,  . democracy . '' . technology review 
 ( november december , 1991 ) 43 51 .  . 


7 . 2 . how internet  like the english language 

according to bruce 

the internet 's  may seem strange or even unnatural , but 
it makes a certain deep and basic sense. it 's rather like the 
 of the english language. nobody english , and 
nobody owns english. as an english speaking person , it 's up 
to you to learn how to speak english properly and make whatever 
use you please of it  ( though the government provides certain 
to help you learn to read and write a  . 
otherwise , everybody just sort of in , and somehow the 
thing evolves on its own , and somehow turns out workable .  . and 
interesting. fascinating , even .  . though a lot of people 
their living from using and and teaching english , 
 as an institution is public property , a public good. 
much the same goes for the internet .  . would english be improved 
if the english language , ' . had a board of 
and a chief , or a president and a congress 
there 'd probably be a lot new words in english , and a lot 
new ideas. 



7 . 3 . most wanted list 

you have from this creation , compilation , and 
of information from various sources regarding , 
identity , and on the internet .  . the author is committed 
to keeping this up to date and it , but this can only 
be effective with your  . in particular , the following 
items are sought 

short of documents and other references listed , 
esp. files. 
more data on the specific uses and penetration of  . 
internet traffic statistics .  . how much is email how much 
usenet what are the costs involved 
famous or obscure examples of 
on the internet .  . 
ftp site for the code  ( not the code ) to turn the  . plan . file into a 
named for sensing to remote  . 
knowledge on the  mode of or 
on network cards. 
details on the infamous experiment where a scientist 
previously accepted papers to a prominent journal with new and 
unknown authors that were subsequently rejected .  . 
x , , in news . answers .  . 

use of this document is and is a way for the 
author to from a significant time investment .  . email 
to please note where you saw 
this  ( which newsgroup , etc . ) .  . 


7 . 4 . change history 

3 3 93 1 .  ( current ) 

pointer , new unix mode examples , digital act , 
steve incident , additions to 
section , part 3. note 0 . post to sci . , 
alt . , news.answers , alt . answers . , sci . answers . was cancelled 
by j. because of incorrect subject line. 

2 14 93 0 . 

major revisions .  . new section for x  . some email 
items to network security section .  . new sections for 
email issues , history and  . 
split into three files. many new sources added , particularly 
from and in new  part.  from 
news . admin . policy .  . 21 day posting starts .  . 

2 3 93 v1 . 0 . 

more newsgroups faqs added .  . more  . posted to 
news . answers .  . future monthly posting to sci . , alt .  . 

2 1 93 3 . 

to 72 for quoting etc. , ' 
 sections added with and use 
warnings .  . more unix examples  ( `ls' and  . posted to 
alt . , society .  . 

1 29 93 2 . 

 and  sections added .  .  expanded .  . 
addresses removed due to lack of information and 
 . posted to sci .  . 

1 25 93 1 . 

originally posted to the mailing list on 1 25 93 as a 
call to organize a list of anonymous  . 

email for earlier versions. 




see also 


part 1  ( previous file ) 


1.1 what is  on the internet 
1.2 why is identity  ( un)important ) on the internet 
1 . 3 . how does my email address  ( not ) identify me and my background 
1.4 how can i find out more about somebody from their email address 
1 . 5 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 
1 . 6 . what is the future of on the internet 

2 . 1 . what is  on the internet 
2.2 why is  ( un)important ) on the internet 
2 . 3 . how  ( in)secure ) are internet 
2 . 4 . how  ( in)secure ) is my account 
2.5 how  ( in)secure ) are my files and 
2 . 6 . how  ( in)secure ) is x 
2 . 7 . how  ( in)secure ) is my email 
2 . 8 . how am i  ( not ) liable for my email and postings 
2 . 9 . how do i provide more less information to others on my identity 
2 . 10 . who is my sysadmin what does s he know about me 
2 . 11 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 
2 . 12 . what is the future of on the internet 

3 . 1 . what is  on the internet 
3 . 2 . why is   ( un)important ) on the internet 
3 . 3 . how can be protected on the internet 
3 . 4 . what is mail  
3.5 what is posting  
3 . 6 . why is  ( un)stable ) on the internet 
3 . 7 . what is the future of on the internet 

part 3  ( next file ) 


8.1 what are some known anonymous and posting sites 
8 . 2 . what are the associated with 
8 . 3 . how do i  anonymous postings 
8 . 4 . what is the history behind anonymous posting 
8 . 5 . what is the value of 
8 . 6 . should anonymous posting to all groups be allowed 
8 . 7 . what should system operators do with anonymous postings 
8 . 8 . what is going on with anon . fi . by j. 




this is part 2 of the faq , obtained via anonymous 
ftp to pub usenet news.answers net or 
newsgroups news.answers , sci . answers . , alt . answers . every 21 days. 
written by l. . 
all rights  . 

from  ( rob stampfli ) 
subject re the old key idea .  .  .  . 
organization little to none 
lines 18 

in article  ( peter wayner ) writes 
that leads me to that 
... 
2 ) the system is vulnerable to simple phone attacks 

i seriously doubt that any practical implementation of this proposal would 
place the onus on the individual to  . , the 
clipper chip will probably an id code which will serve as the 
when requesting the key fragments .  . the chip would 
this code vs. key combination when the chip is made and the 
 ( uninitiated ) end user can therefore remain completely outside the loop. 
the chip could be used in a phone , a , or other device 
it really makes no difference when the authorities detect the use of this 
standard during surveillance , they would then capture the id 
and apply for the key in order to the data .  . 

rob the neat thing about standards 
ham radio there are so many to choose from. 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 19 

mathew writes 

 ( ben aveling ) writes 
do n't forget , you are in the country that would n't let the russians 
buy apple ii 's because of security concerns .  . 

that 's nothing. they would n't let the british buy systems 
because of security concerns .  . and we designed the damn things ! 

funny , we had plenty of them in , regardless of the  .  .  . 
) so much for  .  .  . 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( rob boudrie ) 
subject re the old key idea .  .  .  . 
organization center for high  . computing of marlboro ma 
lines 35 

in article  ( peter wayner ) writes 
okay , let 's suppose that the 
key system becomes standard and i'm able to buy such a system 
from my local radio shack .  . every phone comes with a built in 
chip and the government has the key to every phone call .  . 
i go and buy a phone and the key .  . 

what 's to prevent me from with a friend or 
buying a used phone at a sale  . the secret 
just became  . when the government comes 

it 's very possible , even likely , that the serial number of the 
chip is either in a standard 
format , so that all the big brother types need to do is listen to 
the traffic , get a court order  ( generally just by saying that they 
think you may be a crook ) and go to it. 
r 
to listen in , they only receive because the 
secret key under my name is n't the right one. 

that leads me to that 

1 ) the system is n't that secure .  . there are just two master 
that work for all the in the country. the part about 
your is just bogus .  . 

or 

2 ) the system is vulnerable to simple phone attacks 
like this. criminals will quickly figure this out and go to 
town .  . 

in either case , i think we need to look at this a bit deeper .  . 'jbl)mw ) 



from  ( shaen bernhardt ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 103 

in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 
in article 
 ( timothy c. may ) writes 

but is it any worse than the current system it becomes much 
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 


not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this 
kind of the theory when one little country falls , its neighbor 
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all salt 
in for not turning in our secret  . 

i wish i could agree with you. ask yourself this. why would any private 
entity wish to buy a system that was known to be at least 
 ( key in this instance ) why would any 
private entity wish to buy a system that had not been properly 
evaluated (i . e .  . not publically released ) 
the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't .  . there is other hardware out 
there not  . des as an example  ( triple des as a better one . ) . 

my suspicion is that the will drop on these non clipper 
systems. if not we 're in trouble .  . 

given that the clinton is not entirely stupid  ( although we 'd like 
to think so ) i cannot believe that they have failed to realize this. 
they know their will fail , much as crippled des was never taken 
seriously. the only way their can work is by coercion .  . you know 
little about politics if you do n't realize that this is just a first step 
in the next move , it makes no sense otherwise. the next move , banning 
or not using the clipper system is easily 
justified why would anyone want other unless they were trying 
to subvert the government we 've provided you with a very secure alternative 
so use it or go to jail be fined whatever. 
how can you reconcile the self purpose of providing 
law enforcement with access to data without making the clipper system 
the only available in the u . s .  .  .  . you simply ca n't , and the 
knows it. anyone who wanted to keep the govt. out of their hair , be it for 
drug dealing or whatever , would just buy still available non clipper systems. 

do n't sell our clinton types short , they ca n't be that stupid. 
either banning non clipper is the next answer or the 
collective i . q .  . is about that of a  . 

why do you think at t on so fast they know it 's going to be big , 
and not because it 's better. right on the face of it , noone will buy the 
stuff that does n't have to. at t must know this too , think man , why the 
hell would they jump the gun 

my interpretation .  . 

andrew 

tim may , whose sig block may get him in the new regime 


is n't this just a little 

i really wonder .  . 

to wit the letter i just sent to clinton 

the white house 
office of the press c o 
presidential comment line  ( fax ) 
 ( 202 ) 

april 17 , 1993 

sir and or 


i must object most strongly to the evolving position on and 
cryptography .  . i am shocked at the clinton increasing towards a approach with regard to and freedom from government in day to day life. 

it is apparent to me that those who the clipper chip proposal  ( which is , , as the big brother proposal ) are either incredibly ignorant or very indeed. anyone knowledgeable in the of development and research must understand that a key step in the development of a new , especially one for , is the full of the to the private and academic  . the proper evaluation of an 





ends on careful scrutiny by these , and only such scrutiny can provide true public in the security of the  . the assumption that a new will be accepted based on from without full is plain ignorance .  . 

in addition , the assumption that an will be over other technology , such as des , when it is characterized by key is  . it seems an easy step in the logic that probable will prefer to equipment not crippled by government key , no matter how proof the key might be. 

i cannot believe that even the least policy would have failed to realize these flaws .  . i can only assume then that the of the clipper chip proposal knew very well the difficulties of selling a crippled system to the private  . the only way this proposal makes any sense , or has any chance of is in coercion .  . even the language of the proposal makes it clear that the next logical step is the of other devices and hardware that do not 





the big brother chip .  . 

unfortunately the public at large is not enough on the issue to realize what they are  . i expect the big brother proposal to little resistance from the american people who you will have so once again with pretty words like harmony , right to , and voluntary .  . 

it me that the phrase that seems to be used more and more often to characterize the clinton is i ca n't believe it 's happening here. more is a question a of mine posed and the that everyday it becomes more and more relevant when is the fire for 


most concerned , 

signature 
i 



public by finger and or request 
public key archives at pgp public 
is the sign of a brutal past. 
cryptography is not a crime .  . fight the big brother proposal ! 

from 
subject cryptography faq 06 10 public key cryptography 
organization the 
lines 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 6 of 10 of the sci . faq , public key cryptography .  . 
basics of public key cryptography .  . the version , its security , 
speed of  . other approaches .  . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 6 public key cryptography 

this is the sixth of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest. 
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in the last part. 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 


contents 

what is public key cryptography 
what 's 
is secure 
how fast can people factor numbers 
what about other public key 


what is public key cryptography 

in a classic , we have functions e k and 
functions d k such that d  ( k(e  ( k(p ) p for any 
p. in a public key , e k can be easily from some 
key   x which in turn is from k. x is published , so 
that anyone can messages. if d k cannot be easily 
from x , then only the person who generated k can messages. 
that 's the essence of public key cryptography , published by 
and in  . 

in a classic , if you want your friends to be able to 
send secret messages to you , you have to make sure nobody other than 
them sees the key k. in a public key , you just publish x , 
and you do n't have to worry about  . 

this is only the beginning of public key cryptography .  . there is an 
extensive literature on security models for public key cryptography , 
applications of public key cryptography , other applications of the 
mathematical technology behind public key cryptography , and so on. 

what 's 

is a public key defined by , , and 
 . for full details , there is a faq available by ftp at 
com .  . here 's a small example. 

are positive integers up to 2 . are 
 ( p , q , e , d ) , with p a 256 bit prime number , q a bit prime number , 
and d and e large numbers with  ( de 1 ) by  ( p  ( 1)(q )  . we 
define e  ( k(p ) p e , d  ( k(c ) c d  . 

now e k is easily from the pair  ( pq , e) but , as far as 
anyone knows , there is no easy way to d k from the pair 
 ( pq , e) .  . so whoever k can publish  ( pq , e) .  . anyone can send a 
secret message to him he is the only one who can read the messages. 

is secure 

nobody knows. an obvious attack on is to factor into p and q .  . 
see below for comments on how fast state of the art 
run. unfortunately nobody has the slightest idea how to 
prove that or any problem at all , for that 
matter is inherently slow .  . it is easy to what we mean by 
is is n't strong   but , as w. , jr. , says , 
definitions appear to be necessary only when one wishes to 
prove that with certain properties do not exist , and 
computer science is notoriously lacking in such negative 
results . '' . 

how fast can people factor numbers 

it depends on the size of the numbers. in october 1992 
and dan 2 1 into primes , using about three 
weeks of time.  ( the is a processor machine 
each processor can add about integers per second . ) . the 
there is called the field   it is quite a 
bit for special numbers like 2 1 than for general numbers 
n , but it takes time only about  ( exp(o(log 1 3 n log 2 3 log n ) in 
any case. 

an older and more popular method for smaller numbers is the 
  , which takes time  ( exp(o(log 1 2 n 
log 1 2 log n ) than the number field for small n , 
but for large n .  . the point is somewhere between 100 
and 150 , depending on the  . 

is a fast moving field the state of the art just a few 
years ago was nowhere near as good as it is now. if no new methods are 
developed , then bit will always be safe from 
, but one ca n't the future.  ( before the number 
field was found , many people that the 
was asymptotically as fast as any method could be . ) . 

what about other public key 

we 've talked about because it 's well known and easy to describe .  . 
but there are lots of other public key systems around , many of which 
are than or depend on problems more widely believed to be 
difficult. this has been just a brief introduction if you really want 
to learn about the many of public key cryptography , consult the 
books and journal articles listed in part 10. 

subject re how large are 
from  ( peter gutmann ) 
organization computer science dept. university of 
lines 17 

in state . edu . state . edu .  ( dane c. butzer ) writes 

what are the typical sizes for for secret key 
i know des is 56 bits ( des is bits ) and idea is 128 bits. is 
there anything made in the us that has 128 bit anything anywhere 
that has larger i 've heard that can be to arbitrarily 
large , but is this actually implemented anywhere 

my  ( which uses any one way function as a mode 
, the current implementation uses md5 ) uses a key of up to bits 
 ( that is , you can use a 1 bit key if you want and copy it over the entire 
bit range , or you can use the entire  . is 
independant of key size , the system runs slightly than itself. 
i presume and use a similar system  ( or possibly they just an 
arbitrary length key down to n bits , maybe 128 , using something like  . 

peter .  . 

subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
from  ( jason  think ! ' steiner ) 
distribution na 
nntp posting host jupiter . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 23 

douglas craig holland writes 

with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp , they 'll just 
call up one of their and read the 
from your computer or terminal .  . note that measures to 
protect yourself from surveillance are still classified , as 
far as i know. 

are vulnerable to 

if the new regime comes to , make sure you protect your first 
amendment rights by asserting your second amendment rights. 

i 'll second that. 

jason 



i stood up on my van .  . i , me , sir .  . ai n't nothing wrong 
with this country that a few plastic wo n't ! ' 
steve , i blew up the clinic real good 
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` ` , ` , ` , ` 

from 
subject re policy an statement 
x id 
x fri , 16 apr 93 21 47 01 gmt 
nntp posting host harding . org . 
organization electronic foundation 
x v1 . 1 . 
lines 122 





april 16 , 1993 

initial analysis of clinton and security proposal 

the clinton today made a major announcement on 
cryptography policy which will effect the and security of 
millions of americans .  . the first part of the plan is to begin a 
comprehensive inquiry into major communications issues such as 
which have effectively denied most people easy access to 
, and law enforcement issues posed by new technology. 

however , is very concerned that the has already 
reached a conclusion on one critical part of the inquiry , before any 
public comment or discussion has been allowed .  . apparently , the 
is going to use its to get all telephone 
equipment to adopt a voice standard developed by the 
national security agency .  . the so called clipper chip is an 80 bit , 
split key scheme which will be built into 
by a military  . two separate would 
users  , and be required to turn them over law enforcement upon 
of a valid warrant .  . the scheme used is to be 
classified , but the will be available to any for 
into its communications products. 

this proposal raises a number of serious concerns . 

first , the has a solution before conducting an 
inquiry .  . the developed clipper chip may not be the most secure 
product .  . other or may have better  . 
furthermore , we should not rely on the government as the sole source for 
the clipper or any other  . rather , independent chip 
should be able to produce based on open standards. 

second , an cannot be trusted unless it can be tested .  . yet , the 
to keep the chip classified .  . 
believes that any standard ought to be public and open. the 
public will only have in the security of a standard that is 
open to independent , expert scrutiny .  . 

third , while the use of the use of a split key , dual system may 
prove to be a reasonable between and law enforcement 
needs , the details of this scheme must be publicly before it is 
 . what will give people in the safety of their 
does of to a third party an individual 's 
amendment rights in subsequent criminal these are but a few 
of the many questions the proposal raised but fails to 
answer. 

in sum , the has shown great to the importance 
of these issues by planning a comprehensive inquiry into digital 
and security .  . however , the clipper chip solution ought to be 
considered as part of the inquiry , and not be before the 
discussion even begins .  . 

details of the proposal 



the 80 bit key will be divided between two , each of whom 
hold 40 bits of each key .  . the of the communications device 
would be required to all with the two independent 
 . a key is to the device , however , not the person using it. 

upon of a valid court order , the two would 
have to turn the key parts over to law enforcement  . according to 
the presidential just issued , the general will be 
asked to identify appropriate  . some in the 
have suggested that one non law enforcement federal agency  ( perhaps the 
federal reserve ) , and one non organization could be chosen , 
but there is no agreement on the identity of the yet. 

classified and the possibility of back doors 

the claims that there are no back doors means by which 
the government or others could break the code without from 
the and that the president will be told there are no 
back doors to this classified  . in order to prove this , 
sources are interested in for an all star 
team to come in , under a security arrangement , and examine the 
for trap doors. the results of the investigation would then be 
made public. 

the clipper was designed and is being produced and a sole source , 
secret contract between the national security agency and two private 
and  . work on this plan has been for 
about four years. the manufacturing contract was let 14 months ago. 

government as market 

in order to get a market moving , and to show that the government believes 
in the security of this system , the feds will be the first big 
for this product .  . users will include the fbi , secret service , al 
, and maybe even the president .  . at today 's commerce department press 
, a number of people asked this question , though why would any 
private organization or individual adopt a classified standard that had 
no independent of security or freedom from trap doors 

comprehensive policy inquiry 

the has also that it is about to an 
inquiry into all policy issues related to protection , , 
and law enforcement .  . the items to be considered include 
on technology and the fbi 's digital 
proposal .  . it appears that the this inquiry will be conducted by the 
national security council .  . unfortunately , however , the presidential 
describing the inquiry is classified .  . some public involvement 
in the process has been promised , but they terms have yet to be  . 

from more information contact 

jerry , director 
daniel j. , counsel 

full text of the press and fact sheets issued by the 
will be available on 's ftp site. 

counsel , 
1 

from  ( steve johnson ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization systems division , va 
distribution na 
lines 65 

 ( timothy c. may ) writes 

brad wrote 
it occurs to me that if they get a order on you , and the 
houses release your code to the cops , your code is now no longer secure .  . 

it 's in the hands of cops , and while i am sure most of the time they are 
good , their security will not be as good as the houses .  . 

what this effectively means is that if they perform a on you , 
at the end of the , they should be obligated to you that 
a was performed , and replace  ( for free ) the clipper chip in your 
phone so that it is once again a code known only to the 
houses .  . 

getting the court order to reveal the key also makes 
all past  ( which may be on , or , or whatver ) , 
as i understand the proposal .  . i could be wrong , but i 've seen no 
mention of being the entities .  . 

as the noted , this raises further issues about the of one 
to in other areas .  . 

but is it any worse than the current system it becomes much 
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 

and it may also become much worse if the security is 
increased , thus allowing greater access to central office records by 
the government  ( the being , who will object to 
letting the government have access to them , perhaps even automatically 
large  .  . ) .  . this was one of the main objections to 
the s . proposal , that it would force to provide 
easy access for the government. 

one the government has had access to months or years of your 
, now all it takes is one , one violation that 
gets them the paperwork needed to all of them ! 

do we want anyone to have this kind of power 

tim may , whose sig block may get him in the new regime 

a remark i heard the other day is beginning to take on 
frightening significance .  . the comment was made that in other parts 
of the world the note the big d would be known as 


a note the small d who wonders what thomas jefferson , on 
this the of his birth , would have thought of the state 
of affairs between the government and the governed .  . 


any views expressed are those of myself and not my employer .  . 
c. johnson , 

129 . 172 . 90 . 
1 federal systems park drive phone 1 (703) 1000 . 
, virginia u . s . a .  . fax 1 (703) 

any views expressed are those of myself and not my employer .  . 
c. johnson , 

129 . 172 . 90 . 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 45 

in article  ( geoffrey kuenning ) writes 
in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 

without the target 's  . do n't give up the 
right to be safe from that that should be non , and clinton 
and co .  . know it  ( which is probably why they developed this thing , 
if they get it this far , they can it on  . 

it always amazes me how quick people are to blame whatever 
is current for things they could n't possibly have 
initiated .  . this chip had to take years to develop , yet already 
we 're claiming that the clinton it in on us. 
bullshit .  . the bush and the career gestapo were 
responsible for this , and the presented it to the 
new as a  . that does n't excuse clinton and 
from criticism for being so stupid as to go for it , but let 's 
the body at the proper door to start with. 

you are so correct clinton did not it. he just cast it in 
by , not stopping the decision. i also stated in another 
post i do n't give a damn what does it , i still find it 
totally unacceptable , and whoever it or it down our 
ought to be run out of office. 

also , bush was not trying to us of our second amendment rights. 
clinton is his butt in that regard .  . that reveals a total difference 
in philosophy .  . clinton appears to support the idea of total people 
control. whenever they feel like it , no real security 
for the common person , and no ability to defend oneself against illegal 
attack , from whatever source. trust us , we will protect  ( and control ) 
you .  .  .  . if we do n't find it  .  .  . 

clinton has also shown his utter for public and 
accountability , as well. he had plenty of time to change the policy. 

he  . he expanded on it. 

i bet had bush been in office , you would be in there 
than i. 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( brian mcbee ) 
subject how can clipper stay classified 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization cs dept. state university , ,  . 
lines 8 
nntp posting host edu . 

maybe i do n't know enough to know what i am asking , but with millions 
of these things about , how could the possibly stay secret 
could n't some clever just the thing down by , 
and see how it worked 



brian finger me for pgp 2 . 1 . key 

from  ( raymond s. brand ) 
subject clipper chip facts a request 
organization is a nice thing .  .  .  . 
lines 28 

having read the various clipper on the net over the last few 
days and a lot of uninformed speculation about the chip , its uses , 
government , etc , i have the following questions. 

1 ) what does the clipper chip actually implement just the 
or does it also implement a chip to chip 
communications if it does implement a communications 
, can it be used as just a chip also. 

2 ) where can the chip and sheets be obtained 

3) who may them and under what conditions 

4 ) are there restrictions as to how the chip may be used in a system 

5 ) the security of the and the communications does 
not appear to require that the family key be a secret. why is 
it a secret what happens when the family key becomes well known 
if it 's a secret to make traffic analysis more difficult , does 
the law enforcement message contain any random information 
how much and how random is it 

6 ) can the chip be programmed to reveal the key the chip serial 
number any of the programming 


raymond s. brand 


from  ( marc anderson ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 59 

in article  ( ron dippold ) writes 

 ( geoffrey kuenning ) writes 
bullshit .  . the bush and the career gestapo were 
responsible for this , and the presented it to the 
new as a  . that does n't excuse clinton and 
from criticism for being so stupid as to go for it , but let 's 
the body at the proper door to start with. 

the final stages of denial .  .  .  . i can hardly imagine what the result 
would have been if the clinton had actually supported 
this plan , instead of merely with repugnance as they 've so 
obviously doing. i do n't believe the chip originated with the clinton 
either , but the clinton has it 
and brought it to  . 

... 

 ( the date i have for this is 1 26 93 ) 

note clinton 's statements about in the 3rd paragraph .  .  . i guess 
this statement n't contradict what you said , though. 

cut here 

washington  ( upi ) the war on drugs is about to get a 
start , president clinton told to the national 
of police in washington .  . 
in the first speech on the drug issue since his , 
clinton said that his of the drug war make 
everything so far seem so half hearted that for all practical 
purposes this war is only beginning now . '' . he repeatedly emphasized 
his view that of what has been tried , or who has tried 
it , or how long they 've been trying it , this is day one to me . '' . 
the audience at the , whose theme is do we 
relief f o r f e i t u r e , '' clinton frequently 
with  . 
clinton 's program , presented in the speech , follows the 
outline given in his campaign position papers a level drug 
and camps   for first time offenders .  . he did , 
however , cover in more detail his plans for improved enforcement 
methods .  . year 's crime bill will have , not bare , '' 
clinton said. in particular , his will place strict 
on data and protocols , and require the 
of so called , '' in the hope of denying drug 
the ability to communicate in secret. clinton said the 
approach could be used for on other forms of 
economic activity , such as causing tax who 
live in at the expense of our '' . 
clinton expressed that the drug war can be won 
even though not everyone voted for bill clinton last 
, everyone did vote for a candidate who shares my sense of 
about fighting the drug  . the advocates of 
the advocates of surrender may be very good at 
making , '' clinton said. when the american people cast 
their , it only proved what i knew all along that the 
advocates of surrender are nothing more than a fringe . '' . 



from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 66 

in article , graham writes 
in article  ( steven bellovin ) writes 
thousands tens of thousands do some arithmetic , please .  .  .  . 
has 2 80 possible  . 

we do n't yet know if all 80 bits count. 

that does n't worry me at all they 're not going to cheat at something 
they can get caught at. and key size is one of the things that can be 
verified  . feed lots of random key pairs into the 
chip , then try random key bits , and see what happens to the 
output .  . we already know what should happen about half the output 
bits should vary , on average , from a 1 bit key change or change .  . 

if they were out to build a weak , it might be the case that 
some of the bits are much less powerful than others , in the sense that 
they only enter into the very late in the game. by , 
des was designed to use each key bit as early as possible the 50 output 
change rate appears as early as round 5. again , though , i do n't think 
is going to cheat that they 're likely to get caught. 

remember that they 've promised to let a of outside see 
the design. if you assume something des like , a biased 
generation will stick out like a sore  . the 
can and should run lots of , and the output .  . this can be verified 
later against the chip .  . and yes , the civilian community has at least some 
secure facilities that i do n't think even can get into without 
it being noticed , until gets its working again. 
 ( oops i do n't think i was supposed to talk about that .  .  . ) . the 
members can even secure copies of the code in two , which 
you have to together to the program .  .  .  . 

seriously , there are , i think , problems with this whole scheme .  . but the 
people who invented it are n't stupid , and they 've been in the game 
and the and game far longer than most of us. they 're not 
going to lie in ways that can be detected easily , since their credibility 
is the only thing they can use to sell this system. if they 've lied 
about the civilian , no one will believe them about the absence 
of other back doors. if they 've lied about the key size , no one will 
believe that they have n't copied the programming with the u  . 
if they 've lied about obvious aspects of the strength of the , 
no one will believe the are n't in with them. 

that is n't to say that they are n't lying about all those other things 
anyway. and i'm certainly not claiming that ca n't build a 
with a back door that the ca n't find look how long it took 
for folks to believe that the s boxes were n't  . it 's entirely 
possible that the will release an ambiguous report , for just 
such reasons. but that 's a subtle point (i . e .  . , one you ca n't explain to 
a  .  . ) .  . 

anyway , its looking like the 
and are and to cover the way the 
can the key from the serial number .  . 

i do n't like the key generation process any better than you do. 
however and are supposed to be under control of the same 
 . if they ca n't be trusted to keep the seed values secure , 
they ca n't be trusted to keep the half secure .  . 

i still do n't know if or when and change .  . i thought i had seen 
something about them being constant , but i just reread 's technical 
information post , and it does n't say anything , one way or the other. 


steve 

from  ( josh a. goldfoot ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization yale university 
lines 21 
distribution 
reply to 
nntp posting host cis . yale . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

p. wrote 
in article writes 
deletion 
perhaps these only types would defend the if it 
was posted 

these issues are not as as you maintain .  . 


now why would anyone post anything is only of 
use between persons who know how to the data .  . 

and why should i care what other people look at 

i was responding to another person  ( tarl neustaedter ) who held that the 
was n't the best organization to fight for rights since the 
also supports the right to distribute pornography over the internet , 
something some people might object to. in other words , he 's 
implying that there are people who will protect any speech , just as long 
as it is  . 


from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 61 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
i'm a political  . i'm scared of the feds listening in 
on my calls .  . my opinions are the sort that would get me 
disappeared in a slightly less free society and who knows what 
sort of society we will be in in five or ten years i have friends who 
have had their none of this is to me. 

i understand , believe it or not , and there are any number of kinds of 
conversation and i engage in that i would n't even consider 
using this scheme for. on the other hand , i do n't see clipper as providing 
a secure channel it just prevents casual  . this is part of why 
i am not worried about it per  . trying to look at clipper as a serious 
security tool is simply ludicrous .  . it 's a voice , nothing more. 

there is still plenty of market for real  . 

as for its better than the status quo , well , first of all , you can 
get a from like today and they work 
well. 

they cost an and a , though. clipper is obviously aimed at the mass 
market .  . it certainly wo n't put out of business. 

in addition , a number of groups are now working on building 
software to turn any pc into a enhanced phone right now and 
they are all working in mode .  . 

this is old news. i can do this now. 

there are no restrictions .  .  .  . yet. you can use anything you want 
right now. the point is to maintain that right. 

there are restrictions .  . example we 're a software with a 
large share of our market .  . we cannot currently , or even 
simple des , in our products without case by case approval from the department 
of state. presents a material trade to us trying to 
in international information systems  . 

sure , you can use whatever software you want to talk over bbs 's in 
the usa .  . i , on the other hand , want strong  ( pkcs , for example) to be 
the default for electronic mail ,  . i want priests to be able to 
hear over email. i want lawyers to be able to talk to in 
over email , or doctors talk with  . i want to be able to 
order products from my favorite japanese mail order catalog over the net. i 
want to be able to sign contracts , business , and so on 
 . 

this is so far as a result of the current restrictions on 
systems , especially beyond the borders of the usa .  . 

clipper is irrelevant , and if it the authorities into feeling safe , 
all the better. its only danger is if it them into trying to put 
more restrictions into place , on the theory that it is good enough for 
anyone who has nothing to hide .  . that argument is , of course , utter bs , just 
as much as no one needs an assault rifle . 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  . detweiler ) 
subject an open letter to mr. clinton 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university , , co 
lines 123 


i'm quite , shocked , and appalled at this serious frontal 
assault on american freedoms .  . the clinton 
nor any other government agency has any legitimate role whatsoever 
in cryptography .  . to do so is to 
 speech , and is blatantly  . perhaps we 
should this year  in honor of such an 
proposal .  . let the chip live in , and the 
receive great and discredit for this bizarre  . 

i am that my tax money is being used to develop technology 
to restrict my freedoms far beyond reasonable measures .  . the u.s. 
government will have my full and on any 
serious threat to my liberties such as this , and i call on everyone 
with an interest in a sensible government to resist and this 
proposal .  . the does not seem to understand that they 
are merely a instrument to implement the will of the 
public , and hence anyone involved in this proposal in this respect is 
wholly and in their lawful duty .  . 

while 
technology can help americans protect business and the 
release of personal information , it also can be used 
by , drug , and other criminals .  . 

it seems to me that u.s. diplomatic communications should be 
by the u . n .  . whenever any countries produce a warrant to 
the u . n .  . in fact , i think we should stop paying the billions 
of dollars a year to produce codes for this reason. 
these actions violate the of international law. (i hope 
mr. clinton is enough to recognize my sarcasm and here. 
but if he is n't , it 's a and reasonable proposal , so he should 
find merit with it nevertheless . ) . 

cryptography is neutral technology. if everybody has strong 
cryptography  ( including policemen , , , 
, and hoodlums ) , we have a 
 . anything less is an anti 
arrangement , intrinsically to american freedoms , and 
guaranteed to collapse under its own weight of inherent 
 . we do n't need to compromise on issues of freedom .  . 

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our 
private and the law enforcement community to resolve the 
between economic and the real challenges of 
protecting americans .  . 

for too long our government has demonstrated itself to be 
hostile and a serious to economic 
and protecting americans .  . 

since technology will play an important 
role in that , the federal government must act 
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding 
its use. the is committed to policies that 
protect all americans  right to while also protecting 
them from those who break the law. 

it is not possible for the federal government 
to quickly   or develop , comprehensive 
policies   period. and even if by some grandiose miracle such 
a thing were possible , it would only be an efficient way to 
american citizens of fundamental and inalienable rights. 

the has to be committed to leaving private 
alone , esp. on this issue. the government has no 
legitimate role in the content of communications .  . 
law enforcement must be prepared to their 
surveillance they are soon and inevitably to be 
of it. 

q if the were unable to find a 
solution like the one proposed , would the be 
willing to use legal to restrict access to more 
powerful devices 

no such laws can be sound , and this is equivalent 
to a veiled threat , which i do n't appreciate .  . this kind of 
tends to me and others into  . i will 
trade threats for threats , and violation for violation .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) 

if the did say this , it would find itself 
for and outrageous disregard of essential , 
established , entrenched , and explicit constitutional 
 . the would have no legal standing 
whatsoever such an action would be illegal and 
criminal , and wholly and by vast 
of the population .  . 

nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . 

the u.s. , comprised of a vast majority of people 
committed to their in the face of an 
government , is saying just that. 
take your and give them to employees as christmas  . 
we can run any on our computers we damn well please , 
and we will make any we please , and we will send any bit 
pattern over our data we please. and if you try to stop 
us , you will be gradually or abruptly into  . 

vs. law enforcement 
there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . 

this is an outright lie. the two of 
and surveillance are intrinsically and fundamentally 
incompatible , and you have to work for the to think otherwise. 
americans are about to discover ways , through the use of technology , 
to preserve their inalienable but forgotten freedoms that have 
been away by an distant and and 
government. 





from  ( eli brandt ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization college , , ca 
lines 35 

in article  ( amanda walker ) writes 
one thing that clipper is , at a higher degree of 
security than we currently have in non voice systems. 
this means it will be than anyone 's scheme , and easier to 
 . 

i may be an anarchist , but i would n't have 
had the government proposed a secure standard. in fact , 
if the had come up with a chip rather than a 
chip , i would have been happy. they could have done this set 
up an , picked a secure , defined a 
and interface , and said , hey , start building them. 

instead we have a deliberately brain dead version of a 
that has not even been peer  . yes , the owns some smart 
people. but if they a , well , at t is going to be left 
with a lot of on its hands. 

perry said 
someone please tell me what exactly we get in our social contract in 
exchange for giving up our right to strong cryptography 

can you tell me where exactly we have given up that right 

 . the government already gave it up for us. remember in the 
announcement they described this scheme as balancing the two 
of having no and claiming that citizens had a 
constitutional right to 

so much for clinton 's support of the right of . 

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail  ( void when prohibited ) 




from  ( steve kramarsky ) 
subject re amendment and 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 23 

in article  ( kenneth ng ) writes 
in article  ( peter trei ) writes 
judge i grant you from whatever may be learned from the key 
itself 
you the is i confess to deliberately 
the file with this contains illegal of 
 . 

can we use murder instead of violation , just to keep things 
straight the applies only to criminal cases which 
are not  ( they are  . 

steve 

p.s. i'm sorry to waste bandwidth on a quibble , i just do n't want 
anyone to get confused .  . i think a bunch of make 
a better test case than a bunch of and that is criminal 
both in and distribution .  . 


steve , university of chicago law school 
or 
all i did was a girl .  . , the night before his hanging .  . 

from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
lines 42 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( john f carr ) writes 

in most cases information you come by properly is yours to use as you wish , 
but there are certainly exceptions .  . if you write a paper which includes 
sufficiently detailed information on how to build a nuclear weapon , it is 
classified .  . as i understand the law , nuclear weapons design is 
automatically classified even if you do the work yourself. i believe you 
are then not allowed to read your own paper. 

hate to mess up your point , but it is incredibly easy to learn how 
to make a nuclear weapon .  . the hard part is getting the to 
put in it. have you ever read tom 's the sum of all it 
describes in great detail how a terrorist group constructed a 
nuclear bomb using stolen  ( actually found ) , with some help from 
an east german nuclear physicist .  . for some non fiction , read tom 's 
article five till . it shows how a terrorist group could 
construct a nuke using , a low grade waste product 
in waste sites and forgotten about. he also claims information 
on constructing a nuke is easily found in any large library. sounds 
kind of scary , does n't it ( 

a less serious example if you tell drivers about a speed trap they are 
about to run into , you can be fined , even though you might argue that you 
broke no law when you discovered the of the  . the charge 
is interfering with a police , which is quite similar what you would 
be doing by reverse engineering the clipper chip .  . 

do n't tell me that you think this violates the constitution find some 
court cases which have down such laws .  . many people would not be 
by the fact that the government violated their rights when it 
imprisoned them. 


do n't know whether you could get for warning of a  . 

doug holland 



doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom 
of speech will have to it from my 
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead ! ! 

from  ( technopagan priest ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 11 

in article  ( carl m. kadie ) writes 
clipper might be a good way to cover the use of another of 
 . 

true , but will traditional , when further 
by clipper , be more vulnerable to attacks such as known 


thomas 



from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization communications corp .  . 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
lines 21 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) writes 
in article  ( brad templeton ) writes 

... 
the greatest danger of the , if it were kept on , 
would be the chance that a complete copy could somehow leak out. you 
... 
of course then it 's hard to  . however , i think the consequences 
of no the data is not there when a warrant comes are worse 
than the consequences of a secret  . 

if the data is n't there when the warrant comes , you effectively have 
secure  . if secret are kept .  .  . then . you effectively have 
no  . thus , this poster is arguing no is better 
than secure  . 

no , the poster  ( me ) has his brain in the wrong gear .  . as you can infer 
from the first sentence , i meant the consequences of no are better 
than the consequences of an easy to copy  . 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from  ( dwight tuinstra ) 
subject proposal from police point of view 
reply to 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 55 
nntp posting host ece . edu . 

it might pay to start looking at what this proposal might mean to a 
police agency .  . it just might be a bad idea for them , too. 

ok , suppose the ny state police want to a suspect 's phone. they 
need a warrant , just like the old days. but unlike the old days , they 
now need to 

 ( a ) get two federal to give them the two parts of 
the key .  . 

now , what happens if there 's a between the two houses 
release of becomes a political  . state 
and lower level police have to watch the big play politics , 
while good leads disappear , lives and property are lost , 
of run out , etc. not to mention a 
clever person who the police are after her him will be buying 
new than requests can be  . or using stolen 
ones. will the police come and arrest you for 
without a license 

there 's also and security problems within each house , 
how will requests for key be put in enough 
of the kind and feel comfortable with , and 
it might take a long time to get that key .  . even when a request is approved , 
how is the key going to be will it be by a clipper type 
chip for in a the size of the federal 
government , with a of the necessary size , and data traffic of 
the volume , there 's going to be a lot of weak links .  . how many of 
these kinds of problems will be open for public or expert scrutiny 

furthermore , the feds might be of handing around , 
even to state police a trust and security issue. this would be 
an especially issue if some other state 's police had a 
key , resulting in , financial , and political 
 . so , the feds implement it this way 

 ( b ) some federal agency gets the , performs the , and 
turns the results over to the ny state police .  . 

but let 's say 's been causing some problems over a clinton 
aid to areas proposal .  . or there just happens to be a war 
going on between the state cops and the justice department on a case. 
now , not only do we have the as a political , we have an 
extra in the game and we have the 's as another 
 . again , the state police lose .  . 

i understand that  ( legal ) are quite expensive to maintain .  . in 
scenario  ( b ) , who the bill 


best 


... news at 


from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization dsi 
distribution na 
lines 43 

in article  ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 


i wish i could agree with you. ask yourself this. why would any private 
entity wish to buy a system that was known to be at least 
 ( key in this instance ) why would any 
private entity wish to buy a system that had not been properly 
evaluated (i . e .  . not publically released ) 
the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't .  . there is other hardware out 
there not  . des as an example  ( triple des as a better one . ) . 

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no 
flames , please. it comes out of a background of 20 years as a 
in two 50  . 

i 'd be happy to use a system by the for business , if 
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular to 
attempts by japanese , french , and other and 
governments to break .  . 

i 'd be happy to do so even with , provided i was happy about 
the of the  ( the federal reserve would certainly 
me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting  . 

i 'd trust the or the president if they stated there were no trap 
doors i 'd be even if a of independent examined 
the thing under of secrecy and reported back that it was secure .  . 

i 'd trust something from the long before i 'd trust something from some 
or anybody japanese .  . 

this may seem surprising to some here , but i suggest most would 
feel the same way. most many some  ( pick one) have an attitude 
that the is part of our government and we support our government , as 
one very famous put it to me one day. 

just some perspective from another point of view. 


david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



subject re keeping your mouth shut  ( was hard drive security ) 
from  ( vince kub ) 
reply to 
organization the university of south dakota computer science dept. 
nntp posting host charlie 
lines 

in article ,  ( eric holtman ) writes 
in article  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 

i'm not a lawyer , so correct me if i'm wrong , but doing that could be 
considered of justice , which could land you in prison for 
quite a while. 

the thing that 's great about the secret key is it is idea , so 
even if the fbi do get the key , they 're unless they know the magic 
word. if they try to force you to give them your pass phrase , just say 
oops , i forgot .  . since the burden of proof is still on the prosecution 
in this country , if you keep your mouth shut , how can they prove that you 
did n't forget your pass phrase .  . 


well , i'm no lawyer , but i 'll supply some evidence which may 
change your mind. note i do not agree at all with what went on in 
this case , and neither will most of you. that t change the fact 
that it did happen. right here in america even .  .  .  .  .  . 

about three or four years ago , there was a rather nasty case in 
or around washington d . c .  . the was , an ex husband was for 
rights , which were granted .  . the woman believed that the man 
had been her children.  ( much like allen , but 
not as  . , she away the kids and refuses to tell the 
court where they are , and denies him rights. 

she keeps her mouth shut , and what happens she in jail for almost 
a year , on of court , until the passes a special law 
limiting the time a person can be held .  . if they had n't passed the law , she 'd 
most likely still be there. the kids were in new , i  . 

now  ( story finished ,  .  .  .  . imho , the only reason the 
moved was because there was an of public sympathy 
for this woman .  .  .  . most people believed she was right , and were  . 
not likely to happen for joe random drug , child or perfectly 
innocent lover , who might have something 
to hide .  . innocent until proven guilty does n't mean you get to walk out 
of court a happy tune because the fbi ca n't read your  . just 
ask those held for , those who ca n't make , etc , etc. 

again .  .  .  .  . i disagree totally with the concept of holding someone based 
on suspicion , but people who keep thinking that it wo n't happen are bound 
to get a rude when it does .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


also not a lawyer , etc. but if i remember correctly the of court 
business is used in order to with what is  ( perhaps 
, different issue ) the legitimate business of that court. quite 
literally the party is found guilty of holding the court in . now , 
the original scheme as suggested here would be to have the key disappear if 
certain threatening conditions are met .  . once the key is gone there is no 
question of of court as there is nothing to , the key is no 
longer there to be produced .  . 

of justice would be a different issue but if the suspect in 
question would have some reason to protect his data from eyes 
 ( however extenuated ) i think that this charge would be a hard to make. 

perhaps it is time for a lawyer to step in and clear this all up 




a. , should always be judged 
guilty until they are proven 
innocent .  .  . 

14 w . st. 2 it is good to die before one has 
, s . dakota . done anything of death. 
phone or fax to  ( 605 ) 
king of 


begin pgp public key block 
version 2.2 




end pgp public key block 


from  ( mark earle ) 
subject pgp 2.0 vs 2.2 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution na 
lines 10 


i 've seen pgp 2.2 mentioned for the mac  . i use 2.0 on dos .  . 
is there a 2.2 for dos if so , a site or two that has it available 
(i 'd need , although source would be nice to  . 
what was fixed or changed from 2.0 2.2 

thanks , 

finger for 0 . public key 


from  ( robert lewis glendenning ) 
subject do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it ! 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution na 
lines 35 

clipper chip is a response to the fact that there is no business 
or body in a position to establish a standard and 
provide to implement it for or 
systems. 

might be in position to do it , if they had active of 
a couple of of or  . 

large in the voice data business are out , because they 
all have contracts with the gov which would be used to pressure them. 

if we , as in organizations , , etc. were to 
put our collective minds and interests establishing a 
standard for , and getting our to 
implement it , we might avoid government control. 

otherwise , i think it will happen to us by default. gov is n't probably 
strong enough or foolish enough to prevent strong  . they 
are strong enough , and we may be foolish enough , to push through 
the clipper chip .  . 

is of the gov enough to this i , for one , 
would pay via secure  . 

if not this , we should provide an which can be implemented 
in either sw or and publish it , then push to make it the 
standard in the way that pgp and are becoming such. 

we are , charging the bunker .  . we should be and clever .  . 
the gov is strong , not clever .  . 




perspective is worth 80 points.  ( or somebody like  . 

from  ( mel beckman ) 
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton 
organization software engineering 
reply to 
distribution world 
x mailer release 1 . 
lines 38 


in article ,  ( david sternlight ) writes 
here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an 
one make it voluntary .  . 

that is you get high quality secure classified technology if you agree 
to your key .  . otherwise you are on your own. 


david , 

as an , i'm sure you can see the flaws in this logic .  . if the  ( naive ) 
market is flooded with , but weak , , then truly strong 
will be unable to  . suppose the govt had a secret tv 
standard , and then sold below cost .  . private industry has a better standard , 
but it 's not as widespread due to the govt early of the market 
with cheap sets .  . even though the industry 's technology is better , 
the programming is being to the govt 's standard. 
who could 

the other flaw , of course , is that making something voluntary today 
that it will be voluntary in the future. i went to my ca drivers license 
last week and was required not only to give my , but to produce an 
card to the number ! note that a federal law once said that no state 
or local govt could ever require the use of for drivers license 
 ( specifically ! ) .  . 

i do not trust the govt that says trust me on this even though we could 
have an arrangement that does n't require your trust .  . something is big 
time  . if you look more carefully , you 'll see it. 

mel 


mel internet 
software engineering compuserve , 
, ca voice fax 

you can observe a lot just by watching .  . 

from  ( steve simmons ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization sea 
lines 17 

 ( steven bellovin ) writes 

thousands tens of thousands do some arithmetic , please .  .  .  . 
has 2 80 possible  . let 's assume a brute force engine like that 
for des 1 per trial , 1 million  . that 's 
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials .  . well , 
maybe they can get running at one trial per , and build 
a machine with 10 million  . sure only 3.8 years for each solution .  . 

normally i 'd be the last to argue with steve . . . but should n't that 
read 3.8 years for all solutions . i mean , if we can imagine the 
machine that does 1 trial , we can imagine the medium 
that could index and archive it. 

all and , by inference , was standing at the 
north  . 
good , by neil and 

from  ( jim gillogly ) 
subject secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
organization institute 
lines 19 
nntp posting host org . 

may as well look at one piece of this at a time. this paragraph 

to demonstrate the of this new technology , the 
general will soon several thousand of the new 
devices .  . in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

means they are n't planning to make it public , as was done with des .  . as it 
says in both sci . faqs , there 's no way we are going to achieve the 
same level of comfort with clipper that we finally have with des if we 
ca n't actually get our hands on the bits and watch them around. even 
the best are n't going to think of everything look how long it 
took and to get a handle on just how good des is .  .  .  . and for 
all we know there 's still more to learn .  . 

jim 
, 25 s . r .  . 1993 , 17 10 

from  ( john f carr ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
organization institute of technology 
lines 37 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article 
 ( perry e. metzger ) writes 

i wrote 
the chip and are classified .  . if you reverse engineer it and 
tell people , you are likely to go to jail .  . 

well , i'm not a lawyer , but from what i can tell this is completely 
and utterly untrue .  . 

the u.s. does not have an official act. we do have laws that 
will punish you for revealing what classified information you learned 
in your capacity as a government official , , etc , and we 
have laws that such information. however , if they 
sell you the chip , i ca n't see that they can make reverse engineering 
it and revealing the details illegal .  . 

in most cases information you come by properly is yours to use as you wish , 
but there are certainly exceptions .  . if you write a paper which includes 
sufficiently detailed information on how to build a nuclear weapon , it is 
classified .  . as i understand the law , nuclear weapons design is 
automatically classified even if you do the work yourself. i believe you 
are then not allowed to read your own paper. 

a less serious example if you tell drivers about a speed trap they are 
about to run into , you can be fined , even though you might argue that you 
broke no law when you discovered the of the  . the charge 
is interfering with a police , which is quite similar what you would 
be doing by reverse engineering the clipper chip .  . 

do n't tell me that you think this violates the constitution find some 
court cases which have down such laws .  . many people would not be 
by the fact that the government violated their rights when it 
imprisoned them. 


john 

from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 28 

in article state . edu . , state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) writes 
now why is that i doubt there is a in  .  ( but we will 
never know) .  . and i doubt the would promote a mass market chip they 
could n't compromise .  . ergo , is now capable of compromising  ( probably 
with brute force keysearch ) of the complexity of  . look 
at the  . why , i bet they have thousands of little 
away in their  .  .  . maybe even tens of thousands .  . complexity 
not much more than a  . how many such machines will fit into 

i think 3 . should have 256 bit idea  .  .  . 

thousands tens of thousands do some arithmetic , please .  .  .  . 
has 2 80 possible  . let 's assume a brute force engine like that 
for des 1 per trial , 1 million  . that 's 
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials .  . well , 
maybe they can get running at one trial per , and build 
a machine with 10 million  . sure only 3.8 years for each solution .  . 

idea uses 128 bit  . shall i bother doing the calculations for you 
hint multiply 3.8 years by 2  ( 128  . and you ca n't do idea at that 
speed key setup takes much too long .  . i would n't be surprised if that 
were the case for , too , though there 's no way of knowing just 
yet. des used only because that 's what was with mid 70 's 
technology. modern can do a lot more. 

may or may not know how to crack and idea (i doubt it for 
the former i have no idea for the latter , though it does seem to be a 
strong  . but it ai n't gonna be by exhaustive search .  . 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re proposal from police point of view 
organization dsi 
lines 18 


posts a very interesting message in which he comments on the 
effects of the clipper chip on state and local police .  . actually , reading 
between the lines , it could be a very good thing for civil liberties in one 
respect , since it will at least prevent cops and state and 
local from reading your traffic if they it  . 

there has been extensive discussion in the forum , for example , about 
being used to develop information that could then lead to 
evidence. this might put a stop to such things , which must from 
time to time be simple  . 

david 

david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from  ( john dilley ) 
subject des e k 
distribution sci 
lines 12 
organization networked systems 


i have a bunch of questions about the scheme 
referenced in the subject of this message. what is the relative data 
provided by the above sequence as compared with straight des 
does the addition of then make the 
harder to crack using current methods than straight des 
would running after des provide greater data is it 
important to remove the  ( constant ) before 
thank you , net , for your wisdom .  . 


john a. 

from  ( robert lewis glendenning ) 
subject re costs benefits 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 13 

i am most that my , post is still 
 . 

i have been by for my behavior. i now agree with 
all of them , although some were no more in their 
speech than i was 8 ) 

i have to  . 




perspective is worth 80 points.  ( or somebody like  . 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
lines 16 

at the company i worked for previously , i received a file that was des 
and the person that had sent it , went on  . rather than wait two weeks 
i set up a straight frontal attack with one key at a time. it only took  ( two(2 ) 
days to crack the file. no , i do n't have any faith in des .  . 

a . g .  . 

fun ! three questions 

1 ) what hardware did you use 
2 ) when you found the key , was there anything about it that was special 
that meant you had been lucky to find it early  ( like the first 30 bits 
all being 0 ) 
3) ... or did you mean a dictionary attack rather than a key attack 

g 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization dsi 
lines 23 


suggests using a common but restricted distribution private 
key to allow public key system postings .  . in theory that will work 
fine as long as the key remains secure .  . 

in practice it would be a good idea to check to see if that would be a 
violation of some net rule , practice , , etc. i do n't say it would be , 
just that it would be a good idea to check .  . this is not like where 
everybody can have the key trivially .  . 

it would also be a good idea to check to see if such posts would be 
by the sites needed to make the work. 

of course there 'd be no problem with a discussion group travelling over 
facilities entirely under the control of the members .  . probably there would 
also be no problem with a mailing list approach. it might even be fun for 
some. 


david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re clipper 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 26 
distribution 
nntp posting host sw . stratus . com . 
keywords , 

i sent a response to the white house at 

 ( white house ) 

and received a nice , automatic reply from , in passing , that 
if i had included a address , i would get a reply in due course. 

for those who care , my reply was 

1. yes , let 's protect the voice network 

2. privately developed has always been available and 
always will be so let 's think about how to do law 
enforcement given that fact not about how to hope to 
legislate against it 

3. my needs for as a system designer are not met by the 
clipper chip .  . i want freely to uses of 
 ( like des rsa ) which are already freely available in the 
country 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 

stratus computer inc. 2 tel  ( 508)460 ) 
55 ma fax  ( 508)624 ) 

from edu .  ( kirill shklovsky ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization university 
distribution na 
lines 36 

in article  ( jerry han ) writes 
as one of the happily sleeping people , i would just like to ask this 
are n't people just slightly to this or are we all of a 
sudden going to draw to nazi germany and communist russia 

the point of the matter is that yes this is a serious problem. but it is 
not the end of the world. guess what we 're doing something now you 
ca n't do in a communist country or nazi germany .  . we 're complaining about 
it ,  ( or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us. 

 ( or , rather , if they 're shooting at me , they have real bad aim .  . ( ) ) 

guess what people you live in one of the few countries in the world 
where a person can complain without getting shot at. 

people are always complaining that somebody did this wrong , or somebody 
did that wrong , or whatever. sit down and figure out two things 

1 ) what have they done right 
2 ) how much worse can it get 

and you 'll find that you and i , are pretty damn lucky .  . 

so let 's talk about it , get some action going , decide what 's going on. 
but let 's not ! 

us having the liberties to talk about this does n't make the problem go 
away. it does n't make it right. rather the opposite , if we do not do 
anything about it , you can bet it 's going to get worse. 

edu . 
btw these are my opinions , and not that of any other entity 

my god , its full of stars ! dave 
i do n't know about you , but we 've got company ! 


from state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host bottom . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution na 
lines 29 

in article a  ( arthur rubin ) writes 
in  ( david sternlight ) writes 

... 
i 'd be happy to use a system by the for business , if 
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular to 
attempts by japanese , french , and other and 
governments to break .  . 

 ( it 's , not  . is not supposed to have anything to do with this . ) . 

with all the activity in sci . these past few days , i am not 
you missed it .  .  .  . got from the ) 

... 
i 'd trust the or the president if they stated there were no trap 
doors i 'd be even if a of independent examined 
the thing under of secrecy and reported back that it was secure .  . 

i would n't trust the  . i think i would trust the president on this , but 
i'm not certain he would be told .  . 

i am not a  . president richard m. nixon 


information at .  .  .  . for phone finger a a 
the ohio state university state . edu .  ( 0 0 ) 
jim e mail 
support support ( ) 

from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject source to pgp 2.2 in c available 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 

source code to pgp 2.2 now available via anonymous ftp 

ftp netcom . com . 
pub 
sea . 


convert to a pro self archive with 4 . 0 .  . 

if appropriate , check the digital signature of the  . file with 
your copy of pgp .  .  ( non users wishing to check the digital 
signature please note that   denotes the end of line on a , 
not   or ) . 

for the purposes of the act , this  technical 
documentation  is hereby released into the public domain .  .  ( however 
no representation is made as to or other rights 
that may exist in this ) . 

full source code , think c 5 . 0 . 4 . and full user 
documentation is included for both and versions of pretty 
good , a strong public key and digital signature 
application using the patented in the united states 
and the idea patented in  . 

no are included. 

are available via anonymous ftp from 

 ( sweden ) 
night . ac .  ( japan ) 
van ca .  ( canada ) 
soda . berkeley . edu . r .  . of berkeley ) 
doc . ic . ac . uk .  ( united kingdom ) 
ghost . dsi . it .  ( italy ) 
edu . au .  ( australia ) 
fi .  ( finland ) 


other 's public are available from anonymous server sites 
 ( send message subject help for more information . ) . 

internet sites 
pgp public 
michael 

ftp cc . edu . public pgp . 
pgp public 
atkins 

ftp mit . edu . pub public pgp . 
pgp public 
john perry 

ftp edu . pub pgp public pgp . 
pgp public 
mark turner 

ftp ftp . demon . co . uk . pub pgp pgp . 

uucp site 
pgp public 
john perry 


the application built from these sources has not been 
by data security , inc. nor has the public key 
or the idea block been approved by 
the national security agency .  . 

this technical documentation is made available for 
use only , distribution , or use of an 
built from this source may be a civil or criminal 
offense .  . 

suggested , , or comments should be directly posted 
to alt . security . pgp . or to the principal listed among 
the source documents .  . general questions and comments about public 
key cryptography or the idea may be posted to alt . security . pgp . 
or to the sci . usenet groups. 


15 ad ac 3d 01 


subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it ! 
from  ( jason  think ! ' steiner ) 
distribution na 
nntp posting host jupiter . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 25 

writes 
 ( the jester ) writes 

proof is a virus it is very widespread , it eats up your 
space , it down your computer , it takes control over your 
computer , it performs access at random times , it silly 
messages on your , it randomly the computer 

this sounds like a version unix .  . 

as someone who just lived through a switch from x . x .  . to 
, i 'll agree with this. 

one of my main with is its , 
which is almost enough like mail to get you , but 
horribly when you try to do anything useful with it.  ( like use pgp 
capable replacements . ) . 

jason 


i stood up on my van .  . i , me , sir .  . ai n't nothing wrong 
with this country that a few plastic wo n't ! ' 
steve , i blew up the clinic real good 
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` ` , ` , ` , ` 

from  ( philip zimmermann ) 
subject fighting the clipper 
summary ways to fight it 
organization and division , boulder , co 
lines 

here are some ideas for those of you who want to oppose the white 
house clipper chip  . i think this is going to be a 
tough measure to fight , since the government has a lot of 
resources in developing this high  . they are 
serious about it now. it wo n't be as easy as it was senate 
bill in 1991. 

possible actions to take in response 

1 ) your friends to to all the things on this list , and 
more. 

2 ) work the press. talk with your local newspaper 's science and 
technology reporter .  . write to your favorite trade  . better yet , 
write some articles yourself for your favorite or 
newspapers. explain why the clipper chip is a bad idea. 
remember to it to your audience .  . the general public may be 
slow to grasp why it 's a bad idea , since it seems so technical and 
and innocent sounding .  . try not to come across as a flaming 
libertarian , even if you are one. 

3) lobby congress .  . write letters and make phone calls to your 
member of congress in your own district , as well as your two us 
 . many members of congress have that them of 
technology issues. talk to those  . 

4 ) involve your local political parties .  . the libertarian party 
would certainly be interested .  . there are also libertarian wings of 
the and republican parties .  . the right to has a 
surprisingly broad appeal , all parts of the political 
spectrum .  . we have many natural allies .  . the  . the  . other 
groups that may someday find themselves facing a government 
that can suppress them much more if these trends play 
themselves out. but you must our arguments well if you 
want to draw in people who are not familiar with these issues. 

4 ) contribute money to the electronic foundation  ( eff ) and 
computer for social responsibility  ( cpsr ) , assuming 
these groups will fight this  . they need money for legal 
and lobbying .  . 

5 ) opposition in industry .  . that will presumably 
develop products that will incorporate the clipper chip should be 
against it , from within and from without .  . if you work for a 
telecommunications equipment , first the aid of your 
and fellow against this , and then 
present your company 's with a united front of engineering 
talent against this  . write persuasive to your 
, with your name and your colleagues  names on it. hold 
meetings on it. 

6 ) , and as much 
as you can. that means pgp , 
anonymous mail systems based on pgp , pgp key , 
etc. the widespread of this kind of technology might 
also be used as an argument that it ca n't be effectively suppressed 
by government action. i will also be working to develop new useful 
tools for these purposes. 

7 ) be prepared to engage in an public policy debate on 
this topic. we do n't know yet how tough this fight will be , so we 
may have to compromise to get most of what we want. if we ca n't 
outright defeat it , we may have to live with a modified version of 
this clipper chip plan in the end. so we 'd better be prepared to 
analyze the government 's plan , and how we want it 
modified .  . 


philip 



from  ( david ) 
subject clipper serial number 
distribution usa 
organization computers 
lines 35 

secrecy in clipper chip 

the serial number of the clipper chip is with the system key and 
as one part of a three part message. 

presumably the can be  ( if by nothing else , 
 . 

postulate if you will , a chip  ( or logic ) sitting between the clipper chip 
and its communications channel .  . the purpose of this chip is 

1 ) channel 

the chip the 30 bit serial number with 
a secondary  . this the serial number 
with just the system key 

2 ) channel 

the chip the serial number 
with a secondary  ( assuming the serial number 
is necessary for local  . 

this has the net result of hiding the serial number .  . this gets more 
interesting when the number of serial numbers issued becomes large , 
making it difficult to distinguish between valid serial numbers and 
a serial number .  . without knowing the system key , you could 
lie about the serial number , but risk of the lie. 

if you had the system key and the you could 
successfully lie with a lower probability of by the 
format of your own serial number .  . 

makes you wonder being hidden here seems like the secrecy is 
to prevent you from lying about who you are. 

from  ( kenneth ng ) 
subject re amendment and 
organization private computer , , nj 
lines 21 

in article  ( peter trei ) writes 
judge i grant you from whatever may be learned from the key 
itself 
you the is i confess to deliberately 
the file with this contains illegal of 
 . 
judge and oh. 
how will they get you now i'm not saying that they wo n't , or 
ca n't  ( or even that they should n't ) , but what legal mechanism will 
they use should we be this to misc . legal . 

, could another court try you via a of the double amendment 
like they are doing in the trial ie your judge is a state judge , and 
then a federal judge you under the justification that its not the 
same trail .  . 



please reply to for now. 
all this might be an elaborate running in a little device sitting 
on someone 's table j . l .  . 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization for an america free drug 
lines 53 

 ( amanda walker ) writes 
the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't .  . there is other hardware 
out there not  . des as an example  ( triple des as a better 
one . ) . 

so , where can i buy a des phone how much does it cost 
personally , stuff is out of my for personal use ) .  .  .  . 

if the clipper chip can do cheap for the masses , obviously one 
could do the same thing without building in back doors. 

indeed , even without special engineering , you can construct a good 
system right now. a standard chip , a chip to do , a des 
chip , a integrated , and a small processor to do 
glue work , are all you need to have a secure phone. you can dump one 
or more of the above if you have a fast processor .  . with , 
you could put all of them onto a single chip and in the future they 
can be. 

yes , cheap is good but we do n't need it from the government. 
you can do everything the clipper chip can do without it to be 
 . when the white house stuff saying this is good 
because it gives people , note that we did n't need them to 
give us , the capability is available using hardware 
right now. 

indeed , were it not for the government doing everything possible to 
stop them , would have designed strong right in to 
the phone system they are  . were it not for 
the and company , cheap systems would be everywhere. as 
it is , they try every trick in the book to stop it. had it not been 
for them , i'm sure cheap secure would be out right now. 

they are n't the ones making cheap available. they are the ones 
keeping cheap out of people 's hands. when they hand you a 
clipper chip , what you are getting is a mess of your prize 
for having in your  . 

and what did we buy with our did we get safety from 
no. they can read conference papers as well as anyone else 
and are using strong cryptography .  . did we get safety from 
i suspect that they can get themselves on 
the open market that work just fine most of them ca n't be idiots 
like the guys that bombed the trade center .  . are we getting 
for ourselves no , because the market would have provided that 
on its own had they not deliberately it. 

someone please tell me what exactly we get in our social contract in 
exchange for giving up our right to strong cryptography 

perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( anthony francisco ) 
subject re clipper and 
organization corp .  . 
keywords clipper clinton rant 
distribution usa 
lines 11 

just a little  . was n't it the government that required 
a standard did n't that improve things 

please do n't misunderstand .  . i'm utter suspicious of this clipper 
chip .  . why hold the design top secret was this a work around the 
law that says that any made by people working for the 
government is public domain .  . ( e.g. class library , etc. ) 
des has its designs published all over the place and it is considered 
fairly strong ( although could be stronger ) .  . 

ants 

from  ( tarl neustaedter ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 17 
distribution 
nntp posting host sw . stratus . com . 

in article  ( carl m kadie ) writes 
... 
the has been associated with efforts to prevent the banning of sex 
and pictures newsgroups at various universities .  . 
... 

so what justices william , marshall , john paul 
, and white are associated with ... 

it means that the 's public stance is complicated with issues irrelevant 
to the issue per  . there may well be people who care about 
the issue who do n't care to associate themselves with the 
network issue  ( or may even disagree with the 's  . 

ending up with of baggage to around is a frequent 
problem with permanent organizations .  . is no exception. 


from  ( graham toal ) 
subject let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
lines 

well , after a lot of through archives , i found the post 
i reproduce in full below. is it time to get together to develop 
a standard for voice that we could then on 
point to point slip as the free standard for voice like 
pgp is for mail 

 ( ps note the date of this post. appropriate , huh ) ) 


from thu 9 11 50 11 1992 
from  ( joe campbell ) 
newsgroups research . 
subject re sound 
date 4 14 46 04 gmt 
organization the great beyond 

in article  ( lou fernandez ) writes 
the techniques for systems around code 
prediction  ( celp ) which capture 20 or so of speech and 
attempt to match the speech with a combination of from a 
, choosing the combination which the error .  .  .  .  . 

in case you 'd like to experiment with , you can obtain a software 
implementation of the fed for free 

the u.s. 's federal standard based code 
prediction voice version 3 . 2 .  ( celp 3 . and c source 
codes are now available for distribution at no charge  ( on dos 
, but to on sun stations ) from 

bob 
national communications system 
washington , d . c .  . 
1 
1  ( fax ) 

in addition to the source codes , example and speech files 
are included along with a technical information to assist in 
implementation of  .  ( an anonymous ftp site is being considered 
for future ) . 

copies of the actual standard federal standard , telecommunications 
to digital conversion of radio voice by 4 , bit second code 
prediction  ( celp ) are available for 2 . 50 . each from 


7th d sw 
washington , d . c .  . 
1 

the following articles describe the federal standard 4.8 
 ( it 's unnecessary to read more than one) 

campbell , joseph p. jr. , thomas e. and c. welch , 
the federal standard voice , digital signal 
, academic press , 1991 , vol. 1 , no. 3 , p. 145  . 

campbell , joseph p. jr. , thomas e. and c. welch , 
the 4.8 standard  ( proposed federal standard 1016 ) , 
in advances in speech coding , ed .  . atal , and , 
academic publishers , 1991 , chapter 12 , p.  . 

campbell , joseph p. jr. , thomas e. and c. welch , the 
proposed federal standard voice , speech 
technology magazine , april may 1990 , p. 64 .  . 

for u.s. fed  ( 4800 celp ) code 
and information about products using this code , contact 

john 
software engineering 
, 
, ma 
1 
1  ( fax ) 


software engineering 's code can run on a research 's tiger 30 board 
(a pc board with a and interface suited to development work ) 
or on 's based 3 by 2.5 card .  . 

research 
e.  . p.o. box 
, ca , va 
 ( 408)773 )  ( 703)442 ) 
 ( 408)736 )  ( fax )  ( 703)442 )  ( fax ) 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
joe campbell 
my opinions are mine ! happiness reality expectations , click 



from ( paul l. allen ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
reply to 
organization chaos 
lines 70 
x newsreader 

begin pgp signed message 

in message you write 

the cops feds do not need to be able to get hold of your private key to 
listen in to  . is not end to end , but 
to base station 
... 

that was true for the uk paul , but i'm fairly sure they 're talking about 
building end to end out of this chip .  . it 's not for 
 ( though it certainly could be used there in the way you suggest ) 

i 'd lost the white house 's when i posted  ( that 's what happens 
when you read news at home when you 're rat arsed ) , but i did have a bunch 
of follow going on about  . the original article 
has , so 

the president today a new that will bring 
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary 
program to improve the security and of telephone 
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law 
enforcement .  . 

hmm , telephone communications could indeed include end to end on 
ordinary  . 

the will involve the creation of new products to 
the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications and communications links .  . 

but the next paragraph says and communications 
links .  . 

ok , it 's far from clear exactly what  ( what an anagram ) will 
be applied to , but the reason joe public wants secure is to stop 
people listening in to his or  ( and he would n't 
even be bothered about that were it not for and 's 
 . 

yes , might be for end to end , dropping to clear 
when the other end does n't have  . but then a to ordinary 
conversation would be in clear leaving the end just as vulnerable 
as at present. nope , i suspect that will only be used on radio 
links .  . 

ok , it 's possible  could mean phone 
lines  , but i'm it means the links used by the  . 

my apologies if i'm wrong , particularly if the press release makes it 
clear that i'm wrong and i missed it , but as far as i can see it was full of 
, and anyone expecting end to end is in for a surprise 
 . 


btw , graham , i 've posted questions to alt . security . pgp . and not seen any 
replies followups from outside europe how about you have i made it into 
everyone 's kill file , or is there some problem 

paul 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 






end pgp signature 


from  ( william smythe ) 
subject re how to detect use of an illegal 
nntp posting host its . edu . 
organization polytechnic institute , , ny 
lines 47 

in article  ( robert crawford ) writes 
writes 

how can the government tell which method one is using without 
being able to the traffic i.e. , in order to accuse me of using an 
strong they would have to take both 
out of , run them against my and draw a . 

i was thinking about this , also. it 's quite possible the 
system , in clear , the serial number of the device being 
used. that way they can start a , get the serial number , and use 
the warrant for the first to get the key .  . 

if they someone who 's apparently using , but 
do n't find that , then they 'll assume it 's an un 
scheme .  . 

from the limited details released so far , it seems that the clipper chip 
system must some sort of public key cryptography .  . otherwise , the key 
problems inherent to would make the system 
 . it probably has some sort of public key exchange that takes place 
at the start of each call .  . how they would identify the private key in 
their data base 

this means that either the has developed some non public key 
or the feds have decided to  . the former is 
rather an since keeping the secret while making 
chip widely will be hard. if the feds 
are forced to make it in order to gain public acceptance than that 
could break 's on public key in the u.s. 

as for my of the whole scheme it seems that instead of trying to 
ban strong , they are trying to co opt it. their contention that they 
need to keep the secret to protect the security of the key 
suggests possible inherent weakness to the  . more likely 
is that they dont want anyone constructing black market devices which dont 
have the  . anyone else notice that in their q a , they 
talk about the only to people with proper but 
carefully dance around stating that the will simply have to be  . 
they seem to be trying to keep open the of obtaining without 
court order even though a phone line requires one. also pick up on 
their threat of accept this or we 'll ban strong outright 
i dont trust this plan at all and plan to oppose it in all  ( legal ) ways 
possible. 

bill 


from  ( rob stampfli ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization little to none 
distribution na 
lines 13 

with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp , they 'll just 
call up one of their and read the 
from your computer or terminal .  . note that measures to protect yourself from 

2. i could independently invent about half a dozen right off 
the top of my head. if i had studied advanced e m a little better , 
i could probably come up with a very good system. 

would n't a a second of similar type and 
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to attacks 

rob the neat thing about standards 
ham radio there are so many to choose from. 

from 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
lines 59 

from  ( ken shirriff ) 
message id 
it seems likely to me that that a large subset of communications 
would be to so they could be read if sometime in the future 
probable cause and a warrant is obtained .  . 

i think it is unlikely that data like this could be used in court. 
currently can on large numbers of , record 
calls without listening to them , and then post facto obtain warrants 
and listen to calls after probable cause is established .  . but this 
strategy would n't get the stuff admitted in court.  ( at least , not 
in the near term . ) . 

in other words , near as i can tell , the thing that makes such evidence 
is the without a warrant , not the attempt to 
interpret what was without a warrant .  . i 'd be surprised 
that data without consent would be interpreted as anything 
but analogous to a by the courts .  . 

note that that does n't mean i think it wo n't be done if technically 
 . just as i'm sure many are done now without 
warrants , just to fish for to investigate .  . so in the future , 
start , start data , up some probable cause , 
post facto after the warrant is in hand , and the investigation 
gets a boost from data that , sadly , wo n't ever be presented to a jury .  . 

while i'm posting .  .  .  . for an interesting cautionary tale this 
scenario to , read and his friends , a 
collection of sf stories by david  . the us starts down the 
slippery slope by . but do n't worry folks , it 's 
in a secure where nobody but with warrants can 
get to it. and by the way , we 'll be on all major 
streets. hey , this is nothing new , we already have in banks and 
machines , do n't we 

and then we 'll pass laws requiring covering all public 
places. then in some private places. then we 'll make it a crime ever 
to be out of range of a camera , except in legally 
 . only alone. and with a body search before and 
after. but , see , there 's still a right to  . we have n't 
any rights , not really. and just think how much easier it 'd 
be to solve crimes in such a situation just obtain a warrant , put on a 
and take a walk down memory  . 

and hey , nobody 'll be you or me , no need to be self conscious .  . 

after all , if you 're not doing anything illegal .  .  .  . 

funny , though. while speeding and the industry became 
pretty much a thing of the past , somehow all this did n't all 
crime in the story. and somehow , politicians got on grounds 
of national security , and rich got for their 
on grounds of industrial and the preservation of 
competition .  . and not everybody was exactly happy with the system. 
i ca n't imagine why. 


wayne 


from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re the  . 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 41 

perry e. wrote 
here is a thought. 
 .  .  .  . good . stuff  .  .  .  . 
do n't pretend that no one will ever get their hands on 
the  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
secret. the are n't the sorts of that our 
teachers told us about , but they are the sort of big they 
would into this category .  . imagine trying to replace 100 million 
clipper  . 

sounds to me like a great for a replacement market .  .  . every . 
so often issue a clipper alert that some key 
are missing , that some drug got 'em , whatever. then the owners 
of these 1200 have to down to their local key 
agency and buy new and have them programmed .  . 

, the clipper , will make a killing .  .  . maybe . this was 
the real idea.  ( anybody know if janet has stock in , 
technology , or at t ) 

could be a good opportunity to this with some 
that the key has been stolen .  . 
all the need replacing .  . it people , 
even more , and kills sales .  . 

after the massacre and the big brother chip , any tactic 
is fair .  . 

tim may 



 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may anarchy , digital money , 
anonymous , digital , zero 
408 knowledge , , information , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . , ca black , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from  ( john kelsey ) 
subject acceptance of the chip 
nntp posting host missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 60 


 ( david sternlight ) writes 

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no 
flames , please. it comes out of a background of 20 years as a 
in two 50  . 

i 'd be happy to use a system by the for business , if 
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular to 
attempts by japanese , french , and other and 
governments to break .  . 

i 'd be happy to do so even with , provided i was happy about 
the of the  ( the federal reserve would certainly 
me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting  . 

i do n't doubt that this will be the attitude of many leaders .  . 
it 's understandable most do n't know much about , 
and it 's easy to get taken in by someone snake oil .  . and , the 
proposed scheme is a major improvement in telephone security to what 
exists now. 

the problem is that , with any security scheme of this kind , you have to 
concern yourself with the link in the  . i suspect that 
has put a fairly strong in this chip of theirs , 
probably at least as strong as  ( say ) des in mode .  . unfortunately , the 
existence of the key system seems to make possible all kinds of 
possible attacks at a small of the expense of trying to build  ( say ) 
a des machine .  . 

as originally described , it like any police court combination 
could acquire the key for a given chip .  . i hope that 's not the case , since 
it would imply a hole .  .  ( how much does it cost to find one 
and one cop especially for a foreign intelligence agency 
or organized crime boss ) however , even if more intelligent are used 
to allow access to the phone , there will be weak 
 . they may be very expensive , and very difficult. but who would 
trust his her information to an scheme that , for 
 ( say ) 100 , 000 could by one time in a hundred  ( des , for all the 
about a 56 bit key , would probably cost several million dollars 
to build a machine for . ) . 

how many million dollars would the phone messages of 
the be worth to , , or how about 
home of major and important and 
gee , mr jones , i understand you 've had some financial problems lately. 
maybe i can help .  .  .  . 

i 'd trust something from the long before i 'd trust something from some 
or anybody japanese .  . 

indeed , if really designed the to be secure , it 's very likely 
as secure as idea or 2 key des .  . however , the system as a whole is n't 
to practical  . in the puzzle , describes how 
several employees were turned by foreign  ( presumably kgb ) , despite 
security measures that i doubt any big 8 accounting firm could match .  . and 
data was not subject to being requested by thousands of 
police organizations and courts across the land. 

john kelsey , 

from  ( lynn r grant ) 
subject another key body the  ( imho ) 
organization yale cs mail news gateway 
lines 46 

one of the that has been suggested for a key 
body is the  . i think this is poor choice. the is 
essentially a group of they how people 's civil 
liberties are  . traditionally , do not like to get 
involved in the design or aspects of things , and with good 
reason. 

when i was a systems programmer , it always me that the 
would come in and tell us our implementation from a 
security point of view , but would n't tell us how to fix it. i always 
they just liked to , without doing the work to help fix 
the problem. 

then i took a as an , and i found out the real reason. 
do n't like to recommend solutions , because it puts them in a 
bad position if they have to criticize the implementation later. the 
can say , well , you told us this way would be ok. it 
the independence that is a necessary part of the 's 
job. 

taking the case at hand , suppose becomes a key half  . 
suppose that , perhaps through some error on 's part , a key half gets 
away that should n't , and is used to someone of her civil 
liberties .  . the gets wind of this , and wants to take it to court. 
but they end up being at the same time on the side of the 
and of the , which is not an easy position to be in. 

there are exceptions to the complete independence of at one 
place where i worked , when were printed , they were signed 
automatically by a signature on the machine .  . this 
was kept by the  ( who also kept the check stock ) , and 
was brought down to data when it was time to do the  . 

i believe the difference between this situation and the key 
situation is that it is fairly obvious when it is time to do the 
if they were done yesterday , and someone wants to do them again 
today , he better be able to produce yesterday 's so that they can 
be  . determining which of the many requests for key are 
is a process , one much more prone to mistakes that could 
put the in a protecting the versus protecting the 
conflict of interest .  . 

as always , my opinions are my own. 

lynn grant 


from  ( jim hart ) 
subject the people , is for hard core only 
organization open communications forum 
lines 37 

since the at t chip is scheduled to be 
internationally , allowing the u.s. government to on foreign 
governments , and people as as well as to domestic 
citizens , this is a world wide issue. thus distribution world. 

 ( the jester ) writes 

however assuming that i can still things as i please , who 
cares about the clipper chip 

why do we care about the clipper chip do we give a shit 
about anybody 's accept our own and perhaps not even our 
own are we so smart that we always know when we 're talking to 
somebody who has a on their phone 

i find the call thru your computer ideas may reflect this attitude. 
ideas that are of , by , and for , and do n't help anybody in the 
real world , are n't going to do anybody much good , including ourselves 
where voice are concerned. 

we do need an alternative to , but 
we 're talking here , including hand 
, that need strong , real  . make shift 
computer hacker that require living by your computer to 
talk privately over the phone are just a that does n't 
do anything for anybody 's in the real world. 

what we need is a true chip . for example , a real time 
voice , silicon it and out  . 
put this chip on the market as a de facto standard for international 
business , , and private communications .  . if the u.s. 
it , we make it somewhere else and import it. the japanese , german , 
, , , etc. do n't want the 
on them. u.s. workers lose more jobs to government 
stupidity .  . 



from 
subject cryptography faq 01 10 overview 
organization the 
lines 138 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 1 of 10 of the sci . faq , overview .  . a table of 
contents for subsequent sections .  . contributors , , archives , 
 . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 1 overview 

this is the first of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read this part before the rest. we 
do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in the last part. 

disclaimer this document is the product of the , a secret 
society which serves the national uh , no. seriously , we 're the 
good guys , and we 've done what we can to ensure the and 
accuracy of this document , but in a field of military and 
importance like cryptography you have to expect that some people and 
organizations consider their interests more important than open 
scientific discussion. trust only what you can verify  . 
and do n't us. 

many people have contributed to this faq .  . in order 
eric , steve , dan , , , 
jim , mike , doug , luke o'connor , tony , 
william  . we apologize for any  . 

if you have suggestions , comments , or criticism , please let the current 
know by sending e mail to we do n't 
assume that this faq is at all complete at this point. 

archives sci . has been since october 1991 on 
edu . , though these archives are available only to u.s. and 
canadian users. please contact if you know of 
other archives .  . 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 


table of contents 

1 overview 

2 net etiquette 
what groups are around what 's a faq who am i why am i here 
do political discussions belong in sci . 
how do i present a new scheme in sci . 

3 basic 
what is cryptography key 
what references can i start with to learn 
how does one go about 
what is a brute force search and what is its relevance 
what are some properties satisfied by every strong 
if a is theoretically , then is it 
guaranteed analysis proof in practice 
why are many people still using that are 
relatively easy to break 

4 mathematical 
in mathematical terms , what is a private key 
what is an attack 
what 's the advantage of all this mathematically 
why is the one time secure 
what 's a only attack 
what 's a known attack 
what 's a chosen attack 
in mathematical terms , what can you say about brute force attacks 
what 's a key attack what 's entropy 

5 product 
what is a product 
what makes a product secure 
what are some group properties of product 
what can be proven about the security of a product 
how are block used to data longer than the block size 
can block be used for message 
what exactly is des 
what is des 
what is 
how was involved in the design of des 
is des available in software 
is des available in hardware 
can des be used to protect classified information 
what are , , , and 

6 public key cryptography 
what is public key cryptography 
what 's 
is secure 
how fast can people factor numbers 
what about other public key 

7 digital and functions 
what is a one way function 
what is the difference between public , private , secret , shared , etc. 
what are and 
what is 

8 technical 
how do i from lost in 
how do i break a  ( repeated key ) 
how do i send mail under unix pgp , , , ... 
is the unix command secure 
how do i use with 
is there an 
what does   mean in cryptography 
what is the point (a . k . a .  . distance ) 
what is key and why is it important 
can i use pseudo random or numbers as a key 
what is the correct list for english letters 
what is the 
how do i cards 
can i s w by my 
can you do automatic of simple 
what is the coding system used by 

9 other 
what is the national security agency  ( nsa ) 
what are the us 
what is 
what are the , and are they a hoax 
what is the american association , and how do i get in touch 
is patented 
what about the 

10 references 
books on history and classical methods 
books on modern methods 
survey articles 
reference articles 
, conference 
other 
how may one obtain copies of and standards cited 
electronic sources 
 ( available from ) 
related newsgroups 

from  ( robin hanson ) 
subject costs benefits 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
organization nasa information sciences division 
lines 38 

i'm attempting to write a serious policy paper examining whether the 
proposed  ( or clipper ) chip is a cost effective tool for 
police investigation .  . that is , ignoring concerns about government 
intrusions into individual , is the value of easy to 
greater than the cost to the communications industry , 
and their , to support this technology 

a rough estimate suggests that are worth about five million 
dollars per year to u.s. law enforcement  .  ( in 1990 , u.s. 
led to , while total police of 28 
billion led to 11 . 25 . million us statistical  . ) . 
i'm working on this benefit more accurately , but 
i 'd like to ask hardware out there to help me with 
the costs of the new proposed technology. 

please send me estimates for 

how many which would need to be made per year to keep all 
with 
how much would it cost to make each chip 
how much did it cost to develop this technology in the first place 
how much more would supporting hardware , people , etc. cost , per chip 
what percentage would and support have been 
if private could to meet customer needs 
what percentage of phone traffic would be taken up by the proposed 
law enforcement blocks 
what is the total cost of handling all phone traffic per year 

put another way , the question i'm asking is , what if each police 
agency that wanted a particular had to pay for it , being 
charged their share of the full social cost of forcing 
to be compatible would they choose to buy such , or 
would they find it more cost effective to instead investigate crimes 
in other ways 


2 , nasa ames research center , field , ca 
male , , ca 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
organization dsi 
lines 39 

in article 
 ( derek atkins ) writes 



the point here is not the specific instance of the chip .  . 
rather , it is like having the government telling you that they want a 
copy of your house key , safe deposit box , etc. , and telling you 
that they wont use them unless its totally  . i sure 
would n't want that. why should be any different 

actually the is telling you that if you want to use their 
product the  ( actually better yet , some trusted pair 
of agencies ) has to have the key .  . 

most of us already are in this situation our car makers have to our 
cars  ( or can get them quickly from the number ) , and i have no doubt 
that if presented with a court order , they 'd surrender copies to the 
government. 

chances are that many have the code numbers for house 
they 've , and in an emergency can cut thus they 'd also 
provide such to the government to a court order. 

the state has no difficulty access to your safe deposit box if they 
have a court order. 

bad analogy .  . 

this is not to argue for or against the proposal , but rather better 
distinctions are required in thinking about it than house key , safe deposit 
, etc. . 

david 

david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from ( paul l. allen ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
reply to 
organization chaos 
lines 76 
x newsreader 

begin pgp signed message 

in article  ( perry e. metzger ) writes 

in article  ( amanda walker ) writes 

from  ( amanda walker ) 

 ( john hesse ) writes 
oh great .  . wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds .  . 

hey , it 's better than the status quo .  . 

i am far less worried about the feds my phone than high school 
who get their kicks out of on and 
phone calls .  . 

i'm a political  . i'm scared of the feds listening 
in on my calls .  . my opinions are the sort that would get me 
disappeared in a slightly less free society and who knows what 
sort of society we will be in in five or ten years i have friends who 
have had their none of this is to me. 

as for its better than the status quo , well , first of all , you can 
get a from like today and they work 
well. in addition , a number of groups are now working on building 
software to turn any pc into a enhanced phone right now and 
they are all working in mode .  . 

and yes , i 'd rather just see all restrictions lifted , but this is at 
least an improvement for certain applications .  .  .  . 

there are no restrictions .  .  .  . yet. you can use anything you want 
right now. the point is to maintain that right. 

the point you all seem to have missed was covered when the uk 
system was discussed .  . , my has responded to 
my questions on that issue , and it appears that the uk and other  
countries will get the secure , and  countries will 
get  . existing equipment will drop to clear mode when used with 
systems , but newer equipment will use clear depending on the 
capabilities of the base station .  . 

the cops feds do not need to be able to get hold of your private key to 
listen in to  . is not end to end , but 
to base station it has to be this way so that users 
and fixed can talk to each other. for to 
calls , the is at the base station , passed to another 
base station and re  . the cops feds can listen to the 
call provided they get a warrant to into the 's 
equipment. the only reason for wanting a system is so they can 
listen without having to obtain a warrant .  . 

but , maybe the clipper system is secure , and they really do need a warrant 
to get the key out of before they can listen in using a  ( see 
above they do n't have to go down this route  . i have my , 
but even if true once they have the key they will never again need a 
warrant to into that particular phone whenever they want. , judge , 
it appears he was n't a drug after all , so naturally we 'll stop 
listening  .  .  . 

you have every reason to be scared  . take a look at the records 
of , (j .  . edgar , not the though they both at 
sucking ) and nixon .  . 

paul 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 






end pgp signature 


from  ( john hesse ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution na 
lines 21 


stupid me. i believed the stood for principles of personal 
while it was the that wanted into every 
aspect of our lives. 

clinton is just more clever than the other guy. looks like gun control for 
technology. one small step at a time. 

wait a minute .  .  .  .  . let me think about this. 

hmmm , i feel better now. i believe the white house when they tell us 
this first step is , in fact , the final step. all is ok. we 've nothing to fear. 
they 're here to help us. 

god bless america .  . 


john a man , 
a plan , 
beach , a , bob .  . 


from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
organization dsi 
lines 17 

in article  ( carl m. kadie ) writes 


so , do n't just think of replacements for clipper , also think of front 
ends. 

this only makes sense if the government prohibits alternative non 
 . otherwise , why not just use the front end without 
clipper 

david 


david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from  ( andy latto ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 13 23 18 gmt 
nntp posting host harlequin . com . 
organization harlequin limited , cambridge , england 
state . edu . 


lines 42 


in article  ( steven bellovin ) writes 

in article , graham writes 
in article  ( steven bellovin ) writes 
thousands tens of thousands do some arithmetic , please .  .  .  . 
has 2 80 possible  . 

we do n't yet know if all 80 bits count. 

that does n't worry me at all they 're not going to cheat at something 
they can get caught at. and key size is one of the things that can be 
verified  . feed lots of random key pairs into the 
chip , then try random key bits , and see what happens to the 
output .  . we already know what should happen about half the output 
bits should vary , on average , from a 1 bit key change or change .  . 

if they were out to build a weak , it might be the case that 
some of the bits are much less powerful than others , in the sense that 
they only enter into the very late in the game. by , 
des was designed to use each key bit as early as possible the 50 output 
change rate appears as early as round 5. again , though , i do n't think 
is going to cheat that they 're likely to get caught. 

consider a that starts out by bits 23 and 47 , and 
not using either of these bits except through this  . this system 
makes early use of every bit. but an exhaustive key search would now 
only have 2 to search .  . your test by single key bits 
would n't turn up anything interesting. 

remember that they 've promised to let a of outside see 
the design. if you assume something des like , a biased 
generation will stick out like a sore  . 

the i suggest above would stick out like a sore , but 
i'm sure i could design a system with a more subtle key 
which was well hidden , but would still make an exhaustive key search 
take far less than 2 80  . i do n't believe your claim that 
the real can be verified  . 

andy 


from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 48 

in article hamburg . de . writes 
 ( david sternlight ) writes 

here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an 
one make it voluntary .  . 

as usually , you are not reading. the proposal does say that it is a 
voluntary program . this does n't make it more desirable , though .  .  .  . 

that is you get high quality secure classified technology if you agree 
to your key .  . otherwise you are on your own. 

secure how do you know because is trying to make you believe it 
trust us. yeah , right. 

otherwise you are on your own how do you know that tomorrow they 
will not outlaw devices that do n't use their technology 
because they are promising you gee , they are not doing even that 
read the proposal again. 

one minor it is not a proposal .  . it is a decision ... from their 
point of view it is a done deal. the are being , it 
obviously has been , the whole thing. that is what is so upsetting .  . 
this was all done in secret. because they t want the people to know 
what was going on until it is too late. 

otherwise , i agree with you 100 percent .  . 

how come it always takes someone who has lived under the eastern bloc to 
us about how precious and our liberties are 

please , keep up the good work. you will wake someone up .  .  .  . 


regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 



without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( dave ihnat ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
summary but , for all its flaws , the theory was right .  .  .  . 
organization public access unix 
distribution na 
lines 8 

in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 
not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this 
kind of the theory when one little country falls , its neighbor 
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all salt 
in for not turning in our secret  . 

but , for all the of our attempt to correct it  ( vietnam , et .  . al . ) . , 
the theory was n't disproved at all. 

subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
a state . edu . 
distribution na 
organization , inc. 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 15 

in state . edu . state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) writes 

in article a  ( arthur rubin ) writes 

i would n't trust the  . i think i would trust the president on this , but 
i'm not certain he would be told .  . 

i am not a  . president richard m. nixon 


this president .  .  ( and i could easily be wrong . ) . 

l. a  ( work ) 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( jonathan k saville ) 
subject re freely public key cryptography c code where 
organization university , , uk 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 26 

d. wrote 

do you know of any freely c  ( or c ) code for public 
key cryptography  ( such as rsa ) 

i 've tried various searches to no avail. 

have you heard of pgp i assume from your post that you have not. pgp 2.2 
is a program which includes digital and 
comprehensive key facilities .  . most sites also keep the source code. 
a growing number of people are using this excellent software to  ( to 
a very high standard ) their email and data .  . get it before clinton outlaws it. 

two of the many sites are 
com . pub pgp 
soda . berkeley . edu . pub pgp 

hope this helps , 

jon 


jon who alive can say ,  thou art no 
poet , may  not tell thy dreams ' 
, 
pgp 2.2 public key available upon request or by finger 

from  ( robert lewis glendenning ) 
subject re costs benefits 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 61 

in article  ( robin hanson ) writes 
i'm attempting to write a serious policy paper examining whether the 
proposed  ( or clipper ) chip is a cost effective tool for 
police investigation .  . that is , ignoring concerns about government 
intrusions into individual , is the value of easy to 
greater than the cost to the communications industry , 
and their , to support this technology 

a rough estimate suggests that are worth about five million 
dollars per year to u.s. law enforcement  .  ( in 1990 , u.s. 
led to , while total police of 28 
billion led to 11 . 25 . million us statistical  . ) . 
i'm working on this benefit more accurately , but 
i 'd like to ask hardware out there to help me with 
the costs of the new proposed technology. 

please send me estimates for 

how many which would need to be made per year to keep all 
with 
how much would it cost to make each chip 
how much did it cost to develop this technology in the first place 
how much more would supporting hardware , people , etc. cost , per chip 
what percentage would and support have been 
if private could to meet customer needs 
what percentage of phone traffic would be taken up by the proposed 
law enforcement blocks 
what is the total cost of handling all phone traffic per year 

put another way , the question i'm asking is , what if each police 
agency that wanted a particular had to pay for it , being 
charged their share of the full social cost of forcing 
to be compatible would they choose to buy such , or 
would they find it more cost effective to instead investigate crimes 
in other ways 


2 , nasa ames research center , field , ca 
male , , ca 

first , what the fuck is nasa doing wasting my tax dollars doing 
policy papers on stuff far outside of their mission 

second , this is n't a problem of economics .  . this is a problem of 
the of police state powers by our government. 

how , exactly , do you put a price on the loss of freedom of a society 
maybe use the dollars life lost calculations for the extra people 
killed by the gov .  . the pain and suffering cases for those tortured .  . 
the dollars life lost caused by the inevitable collapse of the economy , 
and all the secondary effects of diseases , diet , etc. plus , the 
inevitable collapse of the economy as the gov it , becomes 
corrupt , etc. 

do us a favor. rather than right this paper for nasa .  . go 
do useful work for the society. 




perspective is worth 80 points.  ( or somebody like  . 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
lines 19 

even more interesting the server at gov . no longer 
the   and   commands .  .  .  . 

gov . 
trying 129 . 6 . 54 . 11 .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
first . org . 4 . 1 . ready at tue , 20 apr 93 17 01 34 edt 
clipper 
command 

seems like did n't like your around ,  . 

or mine. or the dozen or so other people who probably had the same idea ) 

so does this rush to shut it down imply that some of the names on that 
list are heavy duty  ) 

g 

from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution 
lines 

andrew wrote 

1 ) my  . 
2 ) usenet .  . 
3) provide only they can easily crack .  . 
4 ) etc etc. 

this is not to say that they do n't , they might .  . but you do n't 
know that they do , and you have no evidence that they do , for almost 
all values of you. it follows , therefore , that for most values of  you  , 
your claims about the border on paranoia .  . 

andrew 

now i would n't be the one to claim that you are some 
into the net , andrew , but  paranoia  refers to 
or excessive suspicions or fear , not those that 
have reasonable roots .  . 

let 's start with looking at the , the itself. 
its birth was by secret order by s 
in  . until even not even one word of this 
order the was  . paranoia , right 

on the outside of the complex is a ten foot 
with multiple of wire , with high , complete with signs 
prohibiting even making under penalty of the internal 
security act. the area is completely by closed 
television .  . more paranoia .  . 

these are , maybe they know something we do n't , eh 

do you think it would have helped if the japanese 
had been a little more   of their 

or maybe the germans should have been a little more   about 
their with respect to and the british .  . 

how about the cracking of the would a little 
more paranoia have helped the germans here 

maybe the should have been a little more   about 
, or joseph , jr. , or ... 

maybe you want to talk about publishers 
with the and to suppress 's japanese diplomatic 
or even 's the  .  . paranoia , right 

the most popular systems in captured soviet was 
the one time , even with the necessity of keeping 
evidence about , is known to be the only proven system. 
soviet paranoia , right 

and what do you think the does with its and 
huge pointed row and their sites near 
and sites  . 

when i worked in a classified communications lab at one time 
even with a secret i had to be to the toilet 
and the entire site was built into a type with very 
thick bomb proof door .  . paranoia 

i could cite probably a hundred more facts which all support , as 
best hypothesis , the notion that the is grabbing as much as 
it can , as fast as it can. one would be a fool to ignore the 
pattern of facts and conclude that they were random .  .  .  . 

and we know the government is violent even against children as 
recent events prove .  . judge william is a 
but a warning to those who ignore the of evidence 
that our government have in their for our 
civil rights. 

and of course we have to err somewhat on the excessive side of 
because that does much less harm than on the 
side. as member of the of the liberty might  . 

i might suggest , andrew , that you read 's and 
's puzzle and come back with some more facts to 
support your to authority .  . 


15 ad ac 3d 01 


from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization at t bell laboratories 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( graham toal ) writes 
try reading between the lines david there are strong hints in there 
that they 're for next , and the only conceivable meaning of 
applying this particular technology to a computer network is that they 
intend it to be used in exclusion to any other means of  . 

umm .  .  .  . i beg to differ with the phrase conceivable  . 
the protocols , for example , make explicit for multiple 
systems , as does  .  ( and i 'd love to see how they 'd 
this new system for without it .  .  .  . ) . 

mind you , i'm not saying that multiple will actually be 
used but the relevant certainly provide for them , which 
certainly casts doubt on your choice of words. 

from  ( robert i. eachus ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 1993 21 28 13 gmt 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the corp .  . , , ma .  . 


lines 19 


do n't get by 2 80  ( possible keys ) is not in the 
same league with 10 80  ( particles in the  . 2 80 10 25 .  . 
remember 's number there are about that many elementary 
particles  ( not molecules ) in one  . pretty small universe ! or if 
you can put 5 on one , you would need about 10 
 ( allowing several per  . still more than all of the 
existing magnetic media on the planet , but wait a few years.  ( i'm 
including existing and video in the total .  . ten 
is about 2 , 000 per person  .  .  . gives new meaning to 
the suspicions of messages . ) . 



robert i. 

with standard disclaimer 
use standard disclaimer 
function message  ( text in clever ideas ) return better ideas is .  .  .  . 

from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
article i.d. 
organization communications corp .  . 
lines 21 

interestingly enough , in the , we may want to use some 
rather unusual technology , such as boxes of paper , or 
destructive read memory , rather than typical computer , which 
is fun for a of hundreds of millions of  . 

the greatest danger of the , if it were kept on , 
would be the chance that a complete copy could somehow leak out. you 
can design lots of protection , but with enough corruption a complete 
copy is always possible. it on paper or something very hard 
to copy at once may actually make sense. or a medium that ca n't be 
copied for example , something with very slow access times or which 
leaves a destructive trail if it is even read. 

of course then it 's hard to  . however , i think the consequences 
of no the data is not there when a warrant comes are worse 
than the consequences of a secret  . 

an trail that reveals when data has been access , that ca n't be 
by the humans involved , is also necessary. 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from  ( bill 1 0705 ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization mary ellen 
distribution na 
in reply to 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 01 36 41 gmt 
keywords big is watching ! 

nntp posting host ho . com . 
lines 25 

in article  ( john hesse ) writes 
stupid me. i believed the stood for principles of personal 
while it was the that wanted into every 
aspect of our lives. 
clinton is just more clever than the other guy. looks like gun control for 
technology. one small step at a time. 

remember defend defeat , followed by bush 's soon after 
election support for gun control this is the  version 
defend free speech reject followed by speech control. 

wait a minute .  .  .  .  . let me think about this. 

hmmm , i feel better now. i believe the white house when they tell us 
this first step is , in fact , the final step. all is ok. we 've nothing to fear. 
they 're here to help us. god bless america .  . 

hey , like the j . r .  . bob says , you 've got to pull the 
over your own eyes ! 


pray for peace bill 
bill 1 at t bell labs nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 fax 1 

from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re clipper chip bush did it 
originator 
keywords big is watching ! 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
distribution na 
lines 13 

 ( john gilbert ) writes 
this must have been in the works for some time. the bush must 
have been working on it for quite a while. clinton simply took the credit  ( or 
blame , depending on how you look at it) .  . 

and the for actual implementation .  . clinton is not just an 
innocent here they did n't just his name on it without 
him. what exactly is his extensive history of individual 
rights that people are assuming he really has nothing to do 
with this he just went back on his pledge to cut the 
, and is now asking for more money than even bush wanted .  . 

i 've left my body to science and science is the will. 

from  ( john hesse ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 21 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 


though i share many of the concerns expressed by some , i find the proposal 
less threatening than many others , since right now most americans have no 
secure , and any jerk with a pair of clip leads and a can 
 . this would also plug up the security hole in and 
 . 


oh great .  . wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds .  . you 
believe that the feds offer the least threat to liberty of anyone , and i'm 
sure i do too. 

glad that jerk wo n't be my phone anymore. 


john a man , 
a plan , 
beach , a , bob .  . 


from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 36 

 ( graham toal ) writes 
can someone tell me if hardware is or is not needed to run 
digital speech down 14 . i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets 
say 8 bit samples .  . would raw data at the rate 
be if not , how fancy does the need to be 

a good like ours will give you bits per second locked at 
full rate  ( it 's a rate voice activity  . if you want 
less quality , cut that to  ( half  . at full rate 
you could put two full on a v .  . this 
requires a or , though. an rs 6000 has a that could 
probably do it in real time , because it has the add and multiply 
and a few other things. 

if you want to do speech in real time you need about samples a 
second  ( for not very good voice ) with your 8 bit samples  ( isdn is 
8 bit samples a second ) , which is 32  . you could do a fast 2 1 
on that to get it down to 16 , which is just about 
v .  . the quality at this point is very , but it should work. 
now add in the time for your method. you 're going to need 
hardware , which is no problem on a new mac , an  . or a 
pc with a card  ( just because they 're so popular and cheap 
you could also build a simple  . the problem with the 
is that it does n't seem to be full you ca n't 
and play at the same time , making a two way conversation 
a bit tough. the special hardware or a more capable sound card may be 
required. 

the only thing that me is that 2 1 the 
can do it automatically in hardware , but other than that 
i do n't have a good feel for how processor it is , so i ca n't 
estimate how fast a pc you 'd need. 



not all men who drink are  . some of us drink because we are not  . 

from  ( james r. holthaus ) 
subject in the world 
keywords international restrictions 
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa 
lines 10 

what is the status of for private citizens throughout the 
world or , more clearly , is there a listing of countries and their 
policies on citizens electronic data 

i'm curious how the handle this , for instance .  . 

james james 
government is an association of men who do violence to the rest of us. 

pgp 2.2 public key available on request or from key server 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject re clipper some new thoughts 
lines 7 

the must be kept secret , or 
private individuals could make with 
which they could messages which the feds would not have 
ready access to. this is clearly unacceptable .  . 

i hope somebody starts doing this soon after the first 
ones are released .  .  .  . 

from  ( nicol c so ) 
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization penn state computer science 
lines 19 

in article  ( bennett @ brothers inc. , ny ) writes 
this came up because i decided to up mit magic 1 security 
for  . for this to work you need to stick some bits that an 
ca n't guess in a file  ( readable only by you) which x applications 
read. they pass the bits back to the server when they want to establish a 
connection .  . 

... 
what i on was grabbing a bunch of traffic off the network. 
basically , i 

u x greater 0 

and over of output , then my bits. as best i can tell , 
these are bits that can be expected to be reasonably , 
and quite by an  . 

for your application , what you can do is to the real time 
value with a secret key .  . 

from jon c. r. bennett 
subject ideas on clipper 
organization institute , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 
nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 


i have an idea as to why the needs to be keep secret , 
and some things that i think it implies .  .  ( of course these could all be 
wrong .  .  .  .  . ) . 

from 

the clipper chip a technical summary 

revised , april 21 , 1993 

. 
. 
. 

the clipper chip contains a classified single key 64 bit block 
called  . the uses 80 bit 
 ( compared with 56 for the des ) and has 32 of 
 ( compared with 16 for the  . it supports all 4 des modes of 
operation. the takes 32 , and in electronic 
 ( ecb ) mode runs at 12 per second .  . 

each chip includes the following components 

the 
f , an 80 bit family key that is common to all 
n , a 30 bit serial number  ( this length is subject to change ) 
u , an 80 bit secret key that all messages with the chip 

. 
. 
. 

with the chip 

to see how the chip is used , imagine that it is embedded in the at t 
telephone security device  ( as it will  . suppose i call someone and 
we both have such a device. after pushing a to start a secure 
conversation , my security device will negotiate an 80 bit key k 
with the device at the other end. this key takes place 
without the clipper chip .  . in general , any method of key exchange can 
be used such as the public key distribution method. 

once the key k is established , the clipper chip is used to 
the conversation or message m  ( digitized  . the 
telephone security device k and m into the chip to produce two 
values 

e m k , the message , and 
e e k u n f , a law enforcement field , 

which are over the telephone line. the law enforcement 
field thus contains the key k under the key u 
with the serial number n , all under the family 
key f. the law enforcement field is by law enforcement after 
an has been  . 



suppose i knew how the worked and knew the n for my chip , but 
did not know f , then by i might be able to determine f from 
if law enforcement field 
e e k u n f 
not knowing n would might make this much harder .  . 

now suppose that i know f ,  ( either legitimately or not ) , 
if i know k  ( either because i am involved in the conversation , or i know u 
for a party in the conversation ) , i may now be able to determine u for the 
other party. 

if i know f i can also defeat the law enforcement field , since i could 
make my own , with a different k then the one i am using .  . knowing f also 
allows traffic analysis to be performed .  . so i might not know what you are 
saying but i could know who you are saying it too. 

now i admit that someone trying to u will not have lots of 
messages to work from , but since we have no way of knowing that the key 
generation method does not  ( deliberately ) generate weak , or for that 
matter that the published method is in fact used , perhaps the u 's will be 
chosen from know weak for the system. 

obviously the compromise of f would be a disaster , both to law enforcement 
for whom this whole thing is designed , and for the people who believe that 
it is giving them security .  . f is but one number , and i sure that alot of 
people  ( more then 1 ) know what it is  ( and if some of is 
going to check it over for flaws then many more will know f , forget 
, and blackmail work just fine. 

so , am i wrong or are these problems. 

jon 


from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject are we being no ! 
in reply to 's message of 17 apr 1993 17 54 23 gmt 
reply to 
organization brothers 

distribution na 
lines 80 


in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 

in article 
 ( timothy c. may ) writes 

but is it any worse than the current system it becomes much 
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 


not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this 
kind of the theory 

as john has pointed out repeatedly , if you produce the 
that would a police state to function , all that 
is required to suddenly find yourself living in one is a change of 
attitude on the part of the government. 

our constitution was built by men who had to risk their lives to 
ensure freedom in our country. they designed the system to make it 
difficult for tyranny to arise .  . for instance , one of the reasons the 
fourth amendment was put there was to make it harder for the 
government to try to make a crime .  . think i john 
made all his money , which is , after all , a drug .  . 

think about it. the government has in , and the 
fbi gets their pet without leaving the office scheme .  . there 
is a coup , which happens every day all around the world. within hours , 
everyone in the country who might oppose the tyrants is being 
more closely than ever before possible. 

without the tools being in place , a tyranny cannot stand. with tools 
like this in place , a tyrannical dictatorship could actually be 
successfully imposed .  . 

why give the government tools with which to enslave you maybe you can 
trust bill clinton , but are you willing to tell me that you can trust 
every government that will ever arise in the u.s. i am not 
willing to make that leap of faith. 

tim may , whose sig block may get him in the new regime 

is n't this just a little 

i'm a political  . as such , i am aware of what happens 
to political dissidents in most of the world. in most of the world , i 
could be killed for my beliefs .  . call amnesty international some time 
to find out what happens to dissidents in most of the world. 

all that the u.s. from most of those places is a thin piece 
of in the national archives being constantly more and 
more by such as the war on drugs .  . have happened in 
countries that have had stable democracies for over a hundred years. 
governments throughout history have fallen .  . no government has lasted 
for more than a few hundred years. often , they are replaced by 
 . do you really believe so that it could never 
ever ever happen here that you are willing to bet your own life and 
the lives of your children and other loved ones on it 

if we construct the tools with which tyranny could be enforced , we 
make it orders of magnitude more likely that it could happen , because 
if it happened with the tools already in place it could actually 
stick. 

naive fools such as our leadership believe they can protect us where 
hundreds that have gone before have failed .  . democracies led 
by men far more than bill clinton have fallen to 
dictatorship .  . rome had a run by 
men before they became a tyranny .  . 

i , for one , am unwilling to trust that it could never happen here. 
only would allow us to believe we are immune to what has 
happened elsewhere. 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re opinions of  . 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 18 

writes 

it is interesting to note in this regard that permission to 
's scheme has twice been denied by  . draw you own 
conclusions .  . 

uh , i'm afraid that your information is slightly out of date .  .  .  . 
has obtained a license to their program to the whole world , 
except a very limited list of countries .  .  .  . draw your own conclusions 
about the strength of the  .  .  . ) 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re fighting the clipper 
organization dsi 
lines 32 

in article steve  ( steve 
brinich ) writes 



1. american with a secret 
whose are held by people with a history of 
, or 


er , excuse me but since the are n't yet chosen , how can you 
say they have a history of sic 

i'm sure each of us can think of without such a history. price 
has kept the secret of the for many years , even in 
the face of an aggressive press. the federal reserve open market 
has successfully kept decisions from for the period until 
publication .  . even the department of has successfully kept 
from  . 

frankly , i 'd trust the above  ( not the d of a , of course since they might be 
subject to political pressure ) far sooner than the , , or which , 
though not exactly government apologists , have no particular track record 
for internal security that i know of. 

david 


david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re pgp ideas for ibm systems 
lines 7 

i 've been thinking about how difficult it would be to make pgp available 
in some form on machines .  . 

do n't encourage them. let machines die an honorable death ) 

g 


from state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
summary has lots of power .  .  . more . than anywhere else. 
nntp posting host bottom . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 43 

in article  ( david lewis ) writes 
in article  ( john kelsey ) writes 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

 .  . stuff . deleted 
but who would 
trust his her information to an scheme that , for 
 ( say ) 100 , 000 could by one time in a hundred  ( des , for all the 
about a 56 bit key , would probably cost several million dollars 
to build a machine for . ) . 


i can buy a des machine off the shelf now for , but 
it is not sold by that name. go buy a machine  . quickturn ) 
containing a bunch of ,  ( say to 1000 's ) , and program each 
to be a des search engine. lets say , running at  . 
time is 23 weeks , 12 weeks average .  . ca n't wait that long 
buy a bigger machine .  . 

oh , but can big brother afford such things in these times of 


i do n't know how many folks noticed it , but trust me gave 
a real clue to the current state of the art at on machines when 
she said the told her they did n't even want to be the of any 
part of the key .  . 

now why is that i doubt there is a in  .  ( but we will 
never know) .  . and i doubt the would promote a mass market chip they 
could n't compromise .  . ergo , is now capable of compromising  ( probably 
with brute force keysearch ) of the complexity of  . look 
at the  . why , i bet they have thousands of little 
away in their  .  .  . maybe even tens of thousands .  . complexity 
not much more than a  . how many such machines will fit into 

i think 3 . should have 256 bit idea  .  .  . 


information at .  .  .  . for phone finger a a 
the ohio state university state . edu .  ( 0 0 ) 
jim e mail 
support support ( ) 

subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
from  ( tal kubo ) 
distribution 
organization dept. of math , univ .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 27 

in article  ( paul crowley ) writes 

perhaps these only types would defend the if it 
was posted 

these issues are not as as you maintain .  . 

in fact , since effective makes censorship impossible , they 
are almost the same issue and they certainly fall into the brief of the 
 . 


it also falls within the of the , but that does n't mean 
the  ( or the eff ) would be the most effective instrument to 
win the hearts and minds in favor of access to cryptography .  . 

it 's precisely like cryptography makes censorship impossible 
which stand to any attempt to generate a broad consensus in favor 
of  . it is not true , and in the context of a public debate it 
would be a dangerous red herring .  . advocates of strong had better 
prepare themselves to answer such charges in pragmatic terms that 
and politicians can with. the usual about 
constitutional are not enough. 





from  ( mark c. henderson ) 
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation 
organization information services 
lines 42 

in article  ( mark riordan ) writes 
a few more sources are statistics on your  ( easily 
and quickly obtained ) and the output from the system 
call .  . 

you can also a finger to one or more favorite used 
systems , though this can take several seconds .  . 

 . the source code to on edu .  . 

mark r. 

other alternatives include output of , , and friends 
with various , or even better crash .  . 

e.g. on an rs 6000  ( aix 3 . you can get lots of relatively 
data out of crash .  .  ( the output from the following 
usually gives about of on a busy system . ) . 

! 
crash ! 


stack 
pcb 






file 
mst 


! 


mark 

key available by key server finger e mail 


from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 54 

i am eager to hear the legal theory behind exchange of 
data and messages , given the first 
the theory behind the personal of one 's personal 
thoughts and feelings seems even less  . 

perhaps if we make a treaty with , say , , to restrict 
paraphernalia can a good end run around the constitution happen .  .  .  . 
 ( treaties as someone pointed out has the force of any other law of 
the land . like the bill of rights . ) . 


amendment 1 

congress shall make no law respecting an of religion , or 
prohibiting the free exercise thereof or the freedom of speech , 
or of the press or the right of the people to , and to 
the government for a of  . 

amendment 2 

a well , being necessary to the security of a free state , 
the right of the people to keep and bear , shall not be  . 

amendment 3 

no shall , in time of peace be in any house , without the 
consent of the owner , nor in time of war , but in a manner to be prescribed 
by law. 

amendment 4 

the right of the people to be secure in their persons , houses , papers , and 
effects , against unreasonable searches and , shall not be violated , 
and no warrants shall issue , but upon probable cause , supported by oath or 
affirmation , and particularly describing the place to be searched , and the 
persons or things to be  . 

amendment 5 

no person shall be held to answer for a capital , or otherwise infamous 
crime , unless on a or indictment of a grand jury , except in 
cases arising in the land or forces , or in the , when in 
actual service in time of war or public danger nor shall any person be 
subject for the same to be twice put in of life or limb 
nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against 
himself , nor be deprived of life , liberty , or property , without due process 
of law nor shall private property be taken for public use , without just 
 . 


well at least for a few we had some  .  .  . 

15 ad ac 3d 01 


from  ( eli brandt ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization college , , ca 
lines 12 

in article miller writes 
 ( jurgen botz ) writes 
seems like did n't like your around ,  . 

or , the more likely explanation is that is  . 

while i did n't try the personally , i know of at least two 
other people who did and got the same results. your is 
incorrect at best. 

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail 


from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re clipper chip technical details 
lines 8 

the key description published so far is either 
incomplete or incorrect .  . it leaves me with no idea of how the system 
would actually work . i hope the request so that 
we get full details. 

would n't it be easier just to ask ) 

g 

from 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization medical college of virginia 
lines 29 

in article ,  ( tal kubo ) writes 

having mentioned the possible of political , 
i would be not to suggest something in the opposite direction 
the support of the by the side of the 
issue as well as the first amendment side. 




hmmm , this gave me an interesting idea. how about this argument 

1 ) second amendment gives us the right to keep and bear  . 

2 ) strong cryptography is , according to the u.s. government  ( that 's 
why it 's so hard to  . 

therefore , we have a right to strong cryptography ! 
q . e . d .  . 

however , it 's likely to be as hard or harder to exercise this right as it 
is getting to exercise the other rights that the government is 
 . maybe the would be the best existing organization 
 ( although i think a new one might be better , but perhaps would take too long 
to start up. i would certainly join . ) . 

from the electronic of bob health sciences computing 
 ( fax 9807 ) virginia commonwealth university 
e mail or  ( for bitnet ) 

from  ( rob boudrie ) 
subject re white house public fact 
organization center for high  . computing of marlboro ma 
distribution na 
lines 10 


security of the key system. in making this decision , i do 
not intend to prevent the private from developing , or the 
government from , other or that 
are equally effective in both and a secure key 
system. 

yeah , but does he intend to prevent the private from 
developing other applications that are equally effective in 
, but do not have a key system 

subject text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
from  ( oleg kibirev ) 
distribution na 
organization computer science of california state university 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 15 17 33 gmt 
lines 

in article  ( clipper chip announcement ) writes 


here is an article i found today in security . misc .  . i 'll send my reply in 
a separate post to off . org . so you guys can get original text. 
have fun ! ( 



relay version vms news 17 9 vax vms 5 . 2 site net . 
path net . ! edu . ! netcom . com . ! ! ! uunet ! ! gov . ! clipper 
newsgroups security . misc . 
from  ( clipper chip announcement ) 
date fri , 16 apr 1993 15 17 33 gmt 
sender 
distribution na 
organization national institute of standards technology 
lines 

note this file will also be available via anonymous file 
from gov . in directory pub and 
via the computer security bbs at  . 


the white house 

office of the press 



for immediate release april 16 , 1993 


statement by the press 


the president today a new that will bring 
the federal government together with industry in a voluntary 
program to improve the security and of telephone 
communications while meeting the legitimate needs of law 
enforcement .  . 

the will involve the creation of new products to 
the development and use of advanced and secure 
telecommunications and communications links .  . 

for too long there has been little or no dialogue between our 
private and the law enforcement community to resolve the 
between economic and the real challenges of 
protecting americans .  . rather than use technology to 
the sometimes competing interests of economic growth , and 
law enforcement , previous policies have government against 
industry and the rights of against law enforcement .  . 

sophisticated technology has been used for years to 
protect electronic funds  . it is now being used to 
protect electronic mail and computer files. while 
technology can help americans protect business and the 
release of personal information , it also can be used 
by , drug , and other criminals .  . 

a state of the art called the clipper chip has 
been developed by government  . the chip represents a 
new approach to technology. it can be used in new , 
relatively devices that can be attached to 
an ordinary telephone .  . it telephone communications 
using an that is more powerful than many in 
use today. 

this new technology will help protect 
information , protect the of personal phone 
and prevent release of data 
 . at the same time this technology preserves the 
ability of federal , state and local law enforcement to 
the phone of criminals .  . 

a key system will be established to ensure that the 
clipper chip is used to protect the of law 
americans .  . each device containing the chip will have two unique 


2 


, numbers that will be needed by government 
to messages by the device. when the 
device is , the two will be 
in two key data bases that will be established by the 
general. access to these will be limited to 
government with legal to conduct a 
 . 

the clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with no 
new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

to demonstrate the of this new technology , the 
general will soon several thousand of the new 
devices .  . in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

the chip is an important step in addressing the problem of 
's dual sword helps to protect the 
of individuals and industry , but it also can 
criminals and  . we need the clipper chip and other 
approaches that can both provide law citizens with access 
to the they need and prevent criminals from using it 
to hide their illegal activities. in order to assess technology 
trends and new approaches  ( like the key system ) , 
the president has directed government to develop a 
comprehensive policy on that 

the of our citizens , including the need to 
voice or data for business purposes 

the ability of to access telephone 
calls and data , under proper court or other legal 
order , when necessary to protect our citizens 

the effective and use of the most modern 
technology to build the national information 
needed to promote economic growth and 
the of american industry in the 
and 

the need of u.s. to manufacture and 
high technology products. 

the president has directed early and frequent with 
affected , the congress and groups that advocate the 
rights of individuals as policy options are developed .  . 



3 

the is committed to working with the private 
to spur the development of a national information 
which will use new telecommunications and computer 
to give americans access to 
information. this of high speed 
( information ) will video , images , 
programming , and huge data files as easily as today 's telephone 
system voice .  . 

since technology will play an important 
role in that , the federal government must act 
quickly to develop consistent , comprehensive policies regarding 
its use. the is committed to policies that 
protect all americans  right to while also protecting 
them from those who break the law. 

further information is provided in an accompanying fact  . 
the of the president 's to acquire the new 
technology are also available. 

for additional details , call , national institute of 
standards and technology ,  ( 301 )  . 




questions and answers about the clinton s 
telecommunications 




q does this approach expand the authority of government 
to listen in on phone 

a no. clipper chip technology provides law enforcement with 
no new authorities to access the content of the private 
of americans .  . 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 
court order , to do the in the first place. they 
would then present documentation of this to 
the two entities responsible for the and 
obtain the for the device being used by the drug 
 . the key is split into two parts , which are 
in order to ensure the security of the key 
system. 

q who will run the key data banks 

a the two key data banks will be run by two independent 
entities .  . at this point , the department of justice and the 
have yet to determine which will 
the key data banks .  . 

q how strong is the security in the device how can i be sure 
how strong the security is 

a this system is more secure than many other voice 
systems readily available today. while the will 
remain classified to protect the security of the key 
system , we are willing to an independent of 
cryptography to the to all 
potential users that there are no 
 . 

q whose decision was it to propose this product 

a the national security council , the justice department , the 
commerce department , and other key were involved in 
this decision. this approach has been by the 
president , the vice president , and appropriate 
 . 

q who was the congress industry 

a we have on going discussions with congress and industry on 
issues , and expect those discussions to 
as we carry out our review of policy. we have 
members of congress and industry leaders on the 
decisions related to this  . 

q will the government provide the hardware to 

a the government designed and developed the key access 
, but it is not providing the 
to product  . product 
can acquire the from the chip 
that produces them. 

q who provides the clipper chip 

a programs it at their in , 
california , and will sell the chip to device 
 . the programming function could be 
to other in the future. 

q how do i buy one of these devices 

a we expect several to consider 
the clipper chip into their devices .  . 

q if the were unable to find a 
solution like the one proposed , would the be 
willing to use legal to restrict access to more 
powerful devices 

a this is a fundamental policy question which will be 
considered during the broad policy review .  . the key 
mechanism will provide americans with an product 
that is more secure , more convenient , and less expensive 
than others readily available today , but it is just one 
piece of what must be the comprehensive approach to 
technology , which the is 
developing .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

q what does this decision indicate about how the clinton 
's policy will differ from 
that of the bush 

a it indicates that we understand the importance of 
technology in telecommunications and computing and are 
committed to working with industry and public interest 
groups to find ways to protect americans  
, help to , and ensure that law 
enforcement have the tools they need to fight crime 
and terrorism .  . 

q will the devices be will other devices that use 
the government hardware 

a voice devices are subject to control 
requirements .  . case by case review for each is 
required to ensure appropriate use of these devices .  . the 
same is true for other devices .  . one of the 
of this technology is the protection it can give 
to u.s. operating at home and  . with this 
in mind , we expect will be granted on a 
case by case basis for u.s. seeking to use these 
devices to secure their own communications  . we plan 
to review the possibility of permitting 
of these products. 



from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
lines 50 

in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 
in article 
 ( timothy c. may ) writes 

but is it any worse than the current system it becomes much 
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 


not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this 
kind of the theory when one little country falls , its neighbor 
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all salt 
in for not turning in our secret  . 

surely the hypothesis relying on the least wild assumptions is 
to take this at face value. our at the were asked to up 
something that 's pretty secure , with a key that can be , 
and they did. the government plans to sell this thing , for the reasons 
they state. yes , those evil guys in the fbi can probably , with some 
effort , abuse the system. i got news for you , if the evil guys in 
the fbi decide they want to you , they 're gonna , and you 're 
gonna hate it. fact is , the fbi does n't want to listen to your phone 
calls , and if they do , and if you 're using des , they 'll just 
get a and point it at your head. 

with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp , they 'll just 
call up one of their and read the 
from your computer or terminal .  . note that measures to protect yourself from 
surveillance are still classified , as far as i know. 

this is pretty clearly an effort by the government to do exactly 
what they 're saying they 're doing. as is typical with governments , 
it 's , and full of holes and  . as is typical 
with our government , it 's not too bad , could be worse. 

my interpretation .  . 

andrew 

tim may , whose sig block may get him in the new regime 


is n't this just a little 

if the new regime comes to , make sure you protect your first 
amendment rights by asserting your second amendment rights. 

doug holland 


from  ( peter trei ) 
subject re amendment and 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the corporation 
lines 33 

in article  ( kenneth ng ) writes 
in article  ( peter trei ) writes 
judge i grant you from whatever may be learned from the key 
itself 
you the is i confess to deliberately 
the file with this contains illegal of 
 . 
judge and oh. 
how will they get you now i'm not saying that they wo n't , or 
ca n't  ( or even that they should n't ) , but what legal mechanism will 
they use should we be this to misc . legal . 

, could another court try you via a of the double amendment 
like they are doing in the trial ie your judge is a state judge , and 
then a federal judge you under the justification that its not the 
same trail .  . 

no. the officers were tried first by the state of california 
on charges of police , and secondly by the federal government 
on rk of his civil rights a different crime .  . 

the scenario i outline is more similar to the north trial .  . 
to treason  ( aiding an enemy of the us ) during senate 
, under  . the team which was later to prosecute him on 
criminal charges had to itself from all reports of on 's 
testimony .  . on 's lawyer brought up the probability that at 
least someone on the team had heard about the senate testimony , and it 
was a strong factor against the prosecution , which is one of the 
reasons this on is still walking around free today. 

peter 



from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject re clipper will corrupt cops  ( was proposal from police point of view ) 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 65 

in article ,  ( dwight tuinstra ) writes 
the clear implication is that there are legal other 
than a court order. just how are these 

i do n't have the  . but here 's what the law says 
on pen  . this is all from title 18 of the u.s. code. note 
how vague s.  ( 3125(a)(1)(b ) is .  .  .  .  . i have n't had a chance to check 
out 50 u . s . c .  . yet. 



18 usc s. pen  ( as of 4 93 ) 


s.  . general on pen and trap and trace device 
use exception 

 ( a ) in general. except as provided in this section , no person may 
or use a pen or a trap and trace device without first 
obtaining a court order under section of this title or under the 
foreign intelligence surveillance act of  ( 50 u . s . c .  . et ) .  . 

..... 

s.  . emergency pen and trap and trace device 


 ( a ) any other of this chapter , any 
or law enforcement , by the 
general , the general , the associate 
general , any assistant general , any acting assistant 
general , or any assistant general , or by the principal 
of any state or thereof acting 
to a of that state , who reasonably determines that 

(1) an emergency situation exists that involves 

 ( a ) immediate danger of death or serious bodily injury to any person 
or 

 ( b ) activities characteristic of organized crime , 

that requires the and use of a pen or a trap 
and trace device before an order such and use 
can , with due , be obtained , and 

(2) there are grounds upon which an order could be entered under this 
chapter to such and use may have and 
use a pen or trap and trace device if , within forty eight 
hours after the has occurred , or begins to occur , an order 
the or use is issued in accordance with section 
of this title .  . 

 ( b ) in the absence of an order , such use shall 
immediately terminate when the information sought is obtained , when the 
application for the order is denied or when forty eight hours have 
since the of the pen or trap and trace 
device , is earlier. 

 ( c ) the knowing or use by any or law 
enforcement of a pen or trap and trace device 
to  ( a ) without application for the order 
within forty eight hours of the shall constitute a 
violation of this chapter .  . 


from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re fighting the clipper 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 24 
nntp posting host access . net . 

as a flaming libertarian ( ) , i at a loss for 
specific objections that do n't sound technical .  . 

the idea that foisting the chip standard on us would 
result in saying to yet another high tech market is n't technical , 
is n't in the least difficult to understand , and plays on a concern lots of 
people are worried about already .  .  .  .  . 

could you expand on this .  .  .  . 


simple if you have a choice between 

1. american with a secret 
whose are held by people with a history of 
, or 

2. japanese  ( to pick the obvious example) 
with an that has public scrutiny and under 
the control of the user , 

which would you choose at most , the american government can deny this 
choice to american citizens  ( and probably not that , if the glorious success 
of the war on drugs is any example) it ca n't do much about the market .  . 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re how large are 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 15 

state . edu .  ( dane c. butzer ) writes 

finally , can anyone even of a time place where 128 bit are n't 
sufficient 

it depends on the used. 128 bit secret for are 
not secure enough. 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( paul repacholi ) 
subject re how do they know what to ask for  ( re clipper ) 
lines 19 
organization university of technology 

in article ,  ( steve johnson ) writes 
 ( brad templeton ) writes 
and of course you have to identify yourself to the phone company , and 
since the phone company with court orders , they will know the 
magic number of your chip when they sign out a warrant on you , and 
then can present the warrant to the key house. 


lets hope. years ago a tech refused to a line unless he saw the 
warrant .  . the type who told him to do it fired him. the appeal 
against the was lost. 

who makes them forget and destroy all copies of the key once they 've 
decided you 're not a criminal today just curious. 

good luck. 

paul 


from  ( andrew richard conway ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization society for the of 
distribution na 
lines 65 

in article  ( jerry han ) writes 
in article 

as one of the happily sleeping people , i would just like to ask this 
are n't people just slightly to this or are we all of a 
sudden going to draw to nazi germany and communist russia 

yes. reasonable  .  ( though i do n't think russia ever claimed to be 
communist ) 

the point of the matter is that yes this is a serious problem. but it is 
not the end of the world. guess what we 're doing something now you 
ca n't do in a communist country or nazi germany .  . we 're complaining about 

i must your  .  .  . in . a communist country . how do you know 
there have n't been any , and are unlikely to ever be any. in some 
, you ca n't , whilst in some democracies 
 ( such as france or australia ) 
you can. of course , some people may disagree about france australia being 
 .  .  . 

it ,  ( or rather , you 're complaining about it) and nobody is shooting at us. 

yet. 

 ( or , rather , if they 're shooting at me , they have real bad aim .  . ( ) ) 

guess what people you live in one of the few countries in the world 
where a person can complain without getting shot at. 

in some circumstances .  . i was at a public meeting last night  ( in the usa) , where 
a , who was very nice and calm , and just said before the 
speaker started to beware of his opinions , was forced out of the meeting by 
two armed policemen .  . 

there are a lot of things that one cannot do in the usa .  . you may not 
notice them , but as an australian , i notice them. 

people are always complaining that somebody did this wrong , or somebody 
did that wrong , or whatever. sit down and figure out two things 

1 ) what have they done right 
2 ) how much worse can it get 

and you 'll find that you and i , are pretty damn lucky .  . 

yes , we are lucky at the moment .  . i hope that is still true in 
a few years time. because it did n't just happen .  .  . it . required 
effort .  . 

so let 's talk about it , get some action going , decide what 's going on. 
but let 's not ! 

of course do n't over react but do n't under react .  . 

andrew .  . 
disclaimer all my opinions are my own , and do not represent the society 
for the of or any other group. i hope i do n't lose 
my student as a result of these opinions .  .  . 




andrew conway phone usa 


from  ( james davenport ) 
subject re based 
organization school of mathematical sciences , university of , uk 
lines 27 

i tried to mail peter , who posted the question , but my e mail 
, so , apologies to who are not interested .  . 
are all of the form x a x b 1 , where a 
have you read 
, a. , 
on of type x n m 1. 
math .  .  .  ( 49(1981 ) pp. 145  . 
 . 458 .  . 
mr  . 

, w. , 
on the of certain and  . 
math .  .  .  ( 8(1960 ) pp. 65 70 .  . 
. 

, h. , 
on the of the 
x n x m 1. 
math .  .  .  ( 8(1960 ) pp.  . 

, h. , 
on factors of certain  . 
math .  .  .  ( 53(1983 ) pp.  . 
 .  . 

james 


subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
from  ( peter gutmann ) 
organization computer science dept. university of 
lines 48 

in  ( marc anderson ) writes 

 ( the date i have for this is 1 26 93 ) 

note clinton 's statements about in the 3rd paragraph .  .  . i guess 
this statement n't contradict what you said , though. 

cut here 

washington  ( upi ) the war on drugs is about to get a 
start , president clinton told to the national 
of police in washington .  . 
in the first speech on the drug issue since his , 
clinton said that his of the drug war make 
everything so far seem so half hearted that for all practical 
purposes this war is only beginning now . '' . he repeatedly emphasized 
his view that of what has been tried , or who has tried 
it , or how long they 've been trying it , this is day one to me . '' . 
the audience at the , whose theme is do we 
relief f o r f e i t u r e , '' clinton frequently 
with  . 
clinton 's program , presented in the speech , follows the 
outline given in his campaign position papers a level drug 
and camps   for first time offenders .  . he did , 
however , cover in more detail his plans for improved enforcement 
methods .  . year 's crime bill will have , not bare , '' 
clinton said. in particular , his will place strict 
on data and protocols , and require the 
of so called , '' in the hope of denying drug 
the ability to communicate in secret. clinton said the 
approach could be used for on other forms of 
economic activity , such as causing tax who 
live in at the expense of our '' . 
clinton expressed that the drug war can be won 
even though not everyone voted for bill clinton last 
, everyone did vote for a candidate who shares my sense of 
about fighting the drug  . the advocates of 
the advocates of surrender may be very good at 
making , '' clinton said. when the american people cast 
their , it only proved what i knew all along that the 
advocates of surrender are nothing more than a fringe . '' . 

just doing a quick reality check here is this for real or did someone 
invent it to a reaction from people it sounds more like the 
sort of thing you 'd have heard , suitably rephrased , from the leader of a 
certain german political party in the 's .  .  .  .  . 

peter .  . 

from  ( joe keane ) 
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets 
summary data looks random .  . 
keywords entropy 
reply to joe 
organization object technology 
lines 47 
mostly , high 64 , low 49 
moon  ( 99 of full ) 

in article 
 ( tim cuffel ) writes 
how about this. i create a bunch of sets of random data , and it. i 
keep only one of the sets of random data around , to show that i random 
data for kicks .  . the rest , i delete with their  . i tell all my friends. 
i think this reasonable doubt about the contents of any 
files , and my ability to provides  . since anyone could do this , any law 
that forces a user to provide on demand is worthless .  . 

the law is much worse than worthless .  . it gives police the power to put 
innocent people in jail because they  ( the police ) find something they do n't 
understand. most police do n't know what the return key does , never mind the 
difference between a core file and classified military  . 

there are plenty of where the user would have no idea what something 
is either. it could be junk .  . the burden of proof is on the 
user to show that it 's something a normal citizen should have. no 
one should ever be put in that situation , especially in america .  . 

what 's disgusting about this is how easily most people go along with it , to 
provide a chip against some hypothetical alleged child 
or drug , or whatever bad thing is in style at the time. basically most 
people do n't have a clear distinction between criminals and  . 

as an analogy , it 's like they find a loose in your house , and they 
insist that you 're building a bomb or machine gun. they ask you where it came 
from  ( like you 'd know) , and ask you to prove your claim .  . when you explain it 
in such simple terms , people may start to get the idea. 

as a matter of fact , i do keep random files on my  . the reason is , 
without special purpose hardware , it takes a long time to generate good random 
bits. i have programs that crank out a couple bits per minute , which is 
pretty conservative , but over time that 's more than i need. 

if you think about it , there 's no point in actually random data , 
because it just gives you different random data .  . if you want some data to 
look like an file , you just put an appropriate on it. if 
enough people do this , some of them will be put in jail .  . 

when you get and the police ask for your , you can tell them it 's 
just random junk , although of course they wo n't believe you. while you 're 
sitting in jail , you can take consolation in the fact that the government will 
burn a few years trying to find something that 's not there. 


joe , amateur 
 ( uunet ! ! ! jgk ) 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 

organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 11 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( graham toal ) writes 
whatever happens though , the effect of this new chip will be to make 
private stand out like a sore  . 

it already does. 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re is key enough 
lines 24 

the points raised about checking what is actually in the chip , as 
opposed to what is allegedly programmed , raise yet another trust 
issue. even if we assume that these trusted are really entering 
a wide range of and seeds  ( rather than using the same one all the 
time to reduce the key search space to 30 bits ) , i assume they are not 
doing so by picking up an iron filing and it into the 
at carefully points to data .  . they would presumably be 
numbers into a computer , which for all they know could program 
the in a manner completely independent of the and values they 
are feeding into the system. 

and are clearly the we should assume they are all 
 . if they 're not , why the hell not use a 
hardware true random number source. there is n't a random number 
source anywhere in this proposal .  . the whole thing is 
from the day the serial number is on the chip .  . 

nope , it ca n't be trusted .  . this is all about two levels of access 
the  ( possibly honest ) key that police forces have to use , and 
the fbi and the back door that lets the everything 
on the and maybe some back to the fbi when they want a 
tab in exchange for  . 

g 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re acceptance of the chip 
lines 13 

indeed , if really designed the to be secure , it 's very likely 
as secure as idea or 2 key des .  . however , the system as a whole is n't 
to practical  . in the puzzle , describes how 
several employees were turned by foreign  ( presumably kgb ) , despite 
security measures that i doubt any big 8 accounting firm could match .  . and 
data was not subject to being requested by thousands of 
police organizations and courts across the land. 

ah yes , do n't anyone mention ronald william ,  . how 
embarrassing .  . 

g 
, 1985 

from  ( bear giles ) 
subject re amendment and 
organization systems labs , , boulder , co usa 
lines 37 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( andrew s hall ) writes 
i am someone will correct me if i am wrong , but does n't the 
also cover not being forced to do actions that are self 
e.g. the police could n't demand that you silently take them to where the 
body is buried or where the money is hidden .  . 

but they can make you in a , and possibly provide dna , , 
and hair samples or to for on your hand. 

 ( btw , that was why the chemical engineer in the wtc 
thrust his hands into a toilet filled with as the cops were breaking 
down the door the in the would any from 
 . i found it interesting the news reported his acts , but not 
his  . 

somewhere , perhaps a group , they discussed the legal ramifications 
of using a like 

i shot jimmy and his body is in a in 

a while back .  . the impression i got was that real judges would dismiss 
arguments that this is self as first year law 
school the fact that you use a statement for a has 
no bearing on the veracity of that phrase .  . 

you are not being asked to yourself (e . g .  . , where did you 
bury the body ) you are being asked to provide information necessary 
to execute a legal search warrant .  . refusing to provide the is 
akin to refusing to provide a key to a  .  .  . except that they 
could always force their way into the  . 

of course , that does n't mean you have to help them understand what 
they find , or point out things they in their search ! 


bear 


from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 

in article hamburg . de . writes 
 ( robert ward ) writes 

and since the us constitutions the right to every american 
to bear , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of 

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in 
context 

yes. btw , the appropriate were posted here some time ago. 

if not , please do so before posting this again. 
it refers to the right of the people to organize a , not for individual 
to carry , , and assault  . 

it 's ok , it 's ok .  .  .  . just a month ago i expressed my belief that the 
right to have a means to shoot your neighbor is not that much 
necessary to ensure a people 's right to be free and got flamed by lots 
of american gun  . so i thought that .  .  .  . 

never mind. the new chip is a purely american problem , so deal 
with the mess yourselves .  . i just wanted to share with you a bit of my 
experience of living 30 years under a regime  ( i'm 
bulgarian ) because i thought that it might be useful to you. oh 
well. 

i think your experiences under the regime are highly relevant .  . 
we have too many people with their heads in the sand saying it cannot 
happen here , as our constitutional rights are being trashed every day 
because the government doing some end run around the 
by a  crisis  requiring   . it is most likely that in the 
future of secure tools will be regarded as 
of  terrorist and drug tools  , and be some serious  . 
just like common tools are  tools  if the police say so , common 
computer programs  ( even computers themselves ) are now  tools  , 
and will become  terrorist  . bet on it. 

the insights of someone who has lived this are very important. 
if the us goes the way of the old soviet union and its states 
as far as individual rights , and overall freedom are concerned , 
the rest of the world  ( remember  new world order  ) will not be far 
behind only a few years. 

please keep posting anything you find that is deficient or that threatens 
ones rights in this thing. 

for example , a conversation between a suspect and a lawyer will no longer 
be private from big brother  . political 
is very dangerous in this country , all it takes is the government to 
decide that enough people will take one seriously , then one becomes 
guilty of  to the government by illegal  . the 
phrase  illegal means  is defined as whatever the government wants it 
to be defined as .  . 

couple this with clinton 's for a  smart  national id card  ( an 
 internal  ) , with the added that anything about you and 
your past can be put on it , and you can only take the government 's 
word as to what is really on it  ( since they will be the only ones 
with the means to completely read and the  . is n't 
that nice 

while the feds can into one 's safe without the , the owner 
knows his safe has been broken into. when they break into your  secure  
phone  ( or other data in the near future ) 
you have no way of knowing , so accountability as to the legalities has 
gone out the  . just like a safe , if they have a legal cause , they 
can get the from the suspect , just like they can get the to 
a safe or the combination from the suspect .  . same with 
record everything , get the warrants , then it with the 
obtained from the suspect .  . 

this clinton , along with its natural , will make any 
communications between and lawyer , and any meaningful 
political virtually impossible. which is the general idea. 
any about its being secure , and the , and all 
of that are just that to people so they will 
by into this  . t be  . 

big brother is listening ! ! ! 


regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 



without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( matt healy ) 
subject re illegal  ( was 
nntp posting host yale . edu . 
organization yale u. genetics 
lines 33 

in article , dick .  ( dick 
zeitlin ) wrote 

 . perhaps . we need the equivalent of an anonymous for 
 . the . telephone network back in days  ( alcohol , that is) i 
 . understand . a device called the was a popular means to 
 . the . of telephone calls .  . it connected two phone lines in the back 
 . room . of an otherwise business. it was the 
 . of . today 's anonymous email  . 

the old was the pre version of the call 
 . after the decision there were several 
that sold call  . i 've got a couple in my that 
were used to my office phone to my home number when i 
did n't feel like going into the office. 

it 'd be quite easy to generate an anonymous version of the 
call  . 


about 18 months ago , i heard a report on about a number 
1 or some such , for calls .  . 
you call them , and on tone the number you want to 
call they told the that nothing short of a 
court order  ( which they 'd fight ) would make them release their 
records .  . 


matt healy 
i pretend to be a network administrator 
the lab net to work 



from  ( tim cuffel ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 29 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 
in article 
 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your 
i would n't .  . 

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon .  . sure. 
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon . 

david 



david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



ergo , if your life is sufficiently , you have no need for 

 ( this is not meant to be personal , just the logical conclusion of your 
statement . ) . 

tim finger for pgp 2 . 1 . the has admitted that the assassination 
of saddam hussien was one of their goals. 
they failed , of course. seems as though that through 
trick only works once. 

from  ( john gilbert ) 
subject clipper chip bush did it 
organization motorola , land products 
distribution na 
keywords big is watching ! 
nntp posting host 145 . 1 . 59 . 
lines 10 

in article  ( bill 1 0705 ) writes 
... this is the  version 
defend free speech reject followed by speech control. 

this must have been in the works for some time. the bush must 
have been working on it for quite a while. clinton simply took the credit  ( or 
blame , depending on how you look at it) .  . 


john 

from  ( net owner ) 
subject re facts 30 bit serial number , possibly fixed and 
organization university of illinois @ urbana champaign 
lines 32 

the only way to view this method of is as a back door .  . 
what else can you call a key generated from the serial 
number 


to generate the key for a serial number n , the 30 bit value n is 
first padded with a fixed 34 bit block to produce a 64 bit block n1 .  . 
and are then used as to n1 , producing a 
64 bit block 

e d e n1 . 

similarly , n is padded with two other 34 bit blocks to produce and 
, and two additional 64 bit blocks and are 

e d e 
e d e . 

, , and are then together , giving bits. the 
first 80 bits are to and the second 80 bits to  . the 
rest are discarded .  . the key u is the of and  . and 
are the key parts that are with the two 
 . 


what happens is that the need for the houses is completely eliminated .  . 
or should i say , the need to access the houses to the data .  . 
the houses will still serve a real purpose as far as the illusion 
of protection , and small town cops wo n't be let in on the secret , so they 
will still go through the motions of going to the houses , but the fact 
is the federal government can and will build a chip which the 
from the serial number !  said. 

from  ( shaun p. hughes ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization san francisco state university 
distribution 
lines 27 

in article writes 
wrote 

it means that the 's public stance is complicated with issues irrelevant 
to the issue per  . there may well be people who care about 
the issue who do n't care to associate themselves with the 
network issue  ( or may even disagree with the 's  . 

perhaps these only types would defend the if it 
was posted 

these issues are not as as you maintain .  . 


now why would anyone post anything is only of 
use between persons who know how to the data .  . 

and why should i care what other people look at 

what does concern me is the continued of my constitutional 
rights. ( i , ii , , and v to note a few. ) 


p. facts are stupid things. 
ronald reagan 
republican national 
finger for pgp 2.2 public key 1988 

from  ( alan barrett ) 
subject re white house public fact 
organization  . eng .  . , univ .  . , , s. africa 
lines 19 
distribution 
nntp posting host ee . und . ac . 

in article , 
 ( clipper chip announcement ) writes 
distribution na 

no thanks. this topic is of interest to a much audience .  . 

in making this decision , i do 
not intend to prevent the private from developing , or the 
government from , other or that 
are equally effective in both and a secure key 
system. 

in making this decision , i intend to prevent the private from 
developing , except with the government 's approval , other 
or that are more effective in  . 


, dept. of electronic eng .  . , univ .  . of , , south africa 


from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject more technical details 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 

here are some corrections and additions to 's note , courtesy of 
 . again , this is reposted with permission .  . 

two requests first , note the roles of and  . it appears to me 
and others that anyone who knows those values can construct the 
key .  . and the nature of the generation process for and is such 
that neither can be produced alone. thus , the scheme cannot be 
implemented such that one the first half key , and 
another the second .  . that is  . 

second these postings are not revealed scripture , nor are they 
carefully spook postings .  . do n't attempt to draw out hidden 
meanings  ( as opposed to , say , the official of  . 
leave out of this given 's record of opposition to des , 
which goes back before some folks on this newsgroup knew how to read , i 
do n't think you can his  . 

oh yeah the folks who invented clipper are n't stupid. if you think 
something does n't make sense , it 's almost certainly because you do n't 
understand their goals. 

steve 



date sun , 18 apr 93 07 56 39 edt 
from  ( dorothy denning ) 
subject re clipper chip 
to (a long list of folks ) 

i was also by the and fbi , so let me add a few comments to 
's message 

the clipper chip will have a secret embedded in 

the operates on 64 bit blocks  ( like des ) and the chip supports 
all 4 des modes of operation. the uses 32 of 
compared with 16 in des .  . 

in addition to the system key , each user will get to choose his 
or her own key and change it as often as desired .  . call this key 
plain old k. when a message is to be sent it will first be 

k is the key shared by the sender and receiver .  . any method 
(e . g .  . , public key ) can be used to establish the key .  . in the 
at t telephone security devices , which will have the new chip , the key 
is using a public key  . 

under k , then k will be under the key uk , 
and the serial number of the added to produce a three part 
message which will then be under the system key 
producing 

e e m k , e k uk , serial number 

my understanding is that e m k is not under  ( called the 
family key ) and that the key to is held by 
law enforcement .  . does anyone have first hand knowledge on this i 
will also check it out , but this is sunday so i did not want to wait. 

the key 
will be generated as the of two 80 bit random numbers 
and  ( uk k2 ) which will be kept by the two 

the key , also called the chip key , is generated from the 
serial number n as follows .  . let n1 , , and be 64 bit blocks 
derived from n , and let and be two 80 bit seeds used as  . 
the 64 bit block 

e d e n1 

 ( note that this is like using the des in mode with 
two ) . similarly blocks and starting with and  . 
 ( i'm about whether the and change .  . the fact that 
they 're called seeds suggests they might . ) . then , , and are 
together giving bits. the first 80 bits form and 
the next 80 bits form  . the remaining bits are discarded .  . 

authorities .  . who these authorities will be is still to be 
decided by the general , but it was stressed to me that 
they will not be or law enforcement , that they 
must be parties acceptable to the users of the system as unbiased .  . 

is right on this and the fbi has asked me for suggestions .  . 
please pass them to me along with your reasons. in addition to 's 
, i would add that the must have an established record 
of being able to highly sensitive information. some suggestions 
i 've received so far include , , , the national labs  ( sandia , 
, los alamos ) , treasury ,  . 

when a court order obtains and , and k , the law 
enforcement agency will use to all information 
on the suspected link aside it is my guess that 
they may do this constantly on all links , with or without a 
court order , since it is almost impossible to tell which links 
over which a message will flow. 

my understanding is that there will be only one box and that it 
will be operated by the fbi .  . the service will the 
communications and pass it to the fbi where it will pass through 
the box , which will have been with k. 

for the  . when asked for 
the details so he could review the cases as required by 
law , the told him that his just turned 
over 40 50 , signed forms every time. did not 
comply and changed the system , but the lesson is clear 
no single person or authority should have the power to 


no single person does , at least for fbi  . after a 
of paperwork , an must get the approval of several people on a 
that includes fbi legal counsel before the request is even taken to the 
general for final approval .  . 



from  ( derek atkins ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
organization institute of technology 
lines 42 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 06 39 11 gmt 

begin pgp signed message 

why do we care about the clipper chip do we give a shit 
about anybody 's accept our own and perhaps not even our 
own are we so smart that we always know when we 're talking to 
somebody who has a on their phone 

i find this a very view ! yes , we do care about everyone 's 
 .  .  . even if they do n't know it. what happens if the gov t 
starts creating legislation such that the clipper and such 
become the only legal forms what happens 
when the clipper is the only type of available to 
the masses 

sure , you might have your own method of , but if you do n't 
have anyone else to talk to , what use is it you ca n't assume that 
everyone will be as open as you appear to be about  . 

the point here is not the specific instance of the chip .  . 
rather , it is like having the government telling you that they want a 
copy of your house key , safe deposit box , etc. , and telling you 
that they wont use them unless its totally  . i sure 
would n't want that. why should be any different 



pgp 2 key available upon request on the key server 
pgp public 

begin pgp signature 
version 2.2 





end pgp signature 

atkins , mit  93 , electrical engineering and computer science 
, mit student information board  ( sipb ) 
mit media , speech research group 


from  ( john ioannidis ) 
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation 
organization university department of computer science 
lines 32 

in article  ( bennett @ brothers inc. , ny ) writes 

i heard about this solution , and it good. then i heard that folks 
were experiencing times of 30 60 seconds to run this , on 
reasonably workstations .  . i'm not willing to add that much delay 
to someone 's process. my approach  ( etherfind , 10k ) takes 
a second or two to run. i'm considering writing the be all and end all of 
solutions , that the , and simultaneously tries to bits off 
the net , and if the net should be sitting so idle that it ca n't get 
after before , use the  . this way i could have 
guaranteed good bits , and a bound on time , and 
still have the common case of take only a couple of extra seconds .  . 


53 seconds to of core (i bet i know who the source of your 
information is ! ) .  . no , it 's not acceptable if it 's part of your 
process. but if you are going to use network traffic as the source of 
pseudo random information , do the right thing and pass it through a 
function , not a  . aside from the fact 
that it will run , it will give better results  ( think of a 
as a function that  . 
something along the lines of 
t x n bs count 10 2 null 
should do the trick. t gives you , and the lack of u makes 
sure that does not get ten lines as opposed to ten k. the above 
takes a couple of seconds on a lightly loaded  . 

bennett 





from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 11 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( paul crowley ) writes 
as for the , i 'll stick with my and damn the 
 . 

nah .  . nothing like a vax ) .  .  .  . 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( stan ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization the temple of stan world , mass , usa 

 ( brad templeton ) writes 
let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless 
you get both of the key from the two independent 
houses .  . let 's say you even trust the houses one is 
the and the other is the  .  ( and i'm not entirely about 
those two names ) 

hi , i'm new to internet , so this is a bit of a test message , so even a 
reply would be very appreciated. 

anyways , reading this i 'd figure this would be as excellent a method of 
the and the as could be wished for. who the 
guardians , etc .  .  .  . 

from  ( william w. hughes ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of texas at san 
distribution na 
lines 32 

in article 
 ( ross anderson ) writes 
 ( rob stampfli ) writes 
would n't a a second of similar type and 
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to attacks 
we 've got a receiver in the lab here , and there 's no difficulty in 
picking up individual  . their engineering are slack enough 
that they tend to on different  . even where they , you 
can discriminate because they have different line you can 
lock in on one and average the others out. 

the are in any case , with and all sorts 
of interactions with the building .  . just moving a around is also 
highly effective as a  ( randomised ) means of switching from one to 
another , 

hell , just set up a spark , or some other very 
device. or build an active cage around the room , with a 
signal into it. while these measures will not totally the 
of your equipment , they will provide sufficient interference to 
make remote a proposition , at best. there is , of course , 
the consideration that these measures may  ( and almost will ) 
cause a certain amount of interference in your own systems. it 's a matter 
of balancing security versus convenience .  . 

btw , i'm an ex air force telecommunications systems control and 
telecommunications equipment  . 


remember ! 
who will the government decide to murder next maybe you 
opinions are mine i do n't care if you blame the university or the state. 

from de .  ( stephan  ( hiwi mattern ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
nntp posting host uni . de . 
organization university of , germany 
lines 39 

 ( graham toal ) writes 

can someone tell me if hardware is or is not needed to run 
digital speech down 14 . i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets 
say 8 bit samples .  . would raw data at the rate 
be if not , how fancy does the need to be 

note i am not a , so i might have completely 
misunderstood what you said. also , my math is frequently noted for 
being wrong , so you 'll better check the calculations yourself. 

i assume that 14 . means 14 . bits. so if we assume one start and 
one , and no , the effective number of 
per second is 1 .  . 

let 's also assume that you do not want to your speech in 
stereo , so that you can send 1 , samples  . this corresponds to a 
of , which should be too low , especially if 
you think about the 8 bit low quality sound. furthermore , your d a 
will probably not present you with a signal that has been 
cut off at , but will instead in all the higher 
 .  ( although you can definitely build a filter to overcome 
that problem . ) . 

on the other hand , speech should be easily  . for example , 
you could form power , or you could simply pass filter and 
then the  . it wo n't be quality sound , 
but it 'll be  . the power spectrum method is very good in 
that respect. i have once programmed such a software , and 
of 90 with relative errors due to of 
less than 5 were common .  . although i must say that these were 
sounds , not speech. 

have fun. 


de . 
sig closed for  . please leave your outside .  . 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. note the date. 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re white house public fact 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 52 

in article  ( paul olson ) writes 
in article ,  ( carl ellison ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( clipper chip announcement ) writes 

further , the general 

... good post describing what is in for us deleted ... 

it 's also interesting to note that two months ago rush said that 
clinton would have the out in force shortly .  . clinton and his 
firmly believe in strong ubiquitous government control. anytime a 
leader believes in that , the leader will use every means possible to 
that control and take more. 

we have to take our government back .  . otherwise we will end up living in the 
equivalent of a high tech third world dictatorship .  . we have to take 
responsibility for ourselves , our personal welfare , and our actions .  . 

i totally agree. but how do you propose we take government back they 
obviously do n't listen to the people or want the people to know who is 
for what (a person the site of the clipper chip 
release , to see what the entity  clipper  was , and got a few lists .  . 
but when another person tried a bit later , the commands were disabled ) 
does not sound like an that wants to have any accountability 
or information they do n't control given to the people. the secret 
development and of the clipper chip decision further 
backs that up. you can bet methods and software 
will be considered  terrorist tools  and also subject to civil , 
along with the systems that are running it. you watch , see if i am wrong. 

the government is not going to be very cooperative about the people taking 
it back .  . and they have all the resources , unlimited access to the media 
for , and almost all the guns  ( soon to be all the guns if 
clinton 's  .  .  . those that do not play ball 
might be a good example of what to expect .  .  .  . the warrant  ( just released ) 
stated the reason for the was the spent a very large sum 
for weapons , over an amount of time. i do n't recall 
spending a lot of money on guns , etc being illegal ... yet , that is. 

clinton might go down in history as the worst thing to ever happen to 
the us of a. ... now to be known as the  peoples democratic 
of america   . 

big brother is listening ! ! ! 

big brother .  .  .  .  ( and sister .  .  .  . ) only ten years late ! ! ! 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( brad threatt ) 
subject remote file system security 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 20 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

in light of my recent paranoia concerning government , i 'd love to 
see a unix based scheme that 

1 ) kept some files on the host machine  ( say , all the files in your 
home directory ) 
2 ) used a key system that could not be by over a 
line. 

it seems that this would require to a shell program and a 
way of telling whether a file was or not , among other things. 

i 'd love to know about potential security holes in such a system. 

does such a system exist if it were made easy to use and readily 
available , i think it would be a good  . i realize that this 
would probably just involve putting a nice front end on a readily available 
and very secure scheme , but it should be done. 

thanks for the ear , 
brad 

from  ( jim dailey ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization design  . , texas , inc. 
lines 36 

 ( andrew molitor ) writes 
not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this 
kind of the theory when one little country falls , its neighbor 
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all salt 
in for not turning in our secret  . 

there was an interesting on the page of the 
morning news on saturday by walter , who i believe is a 
professor at (i wonder if he knows of you 're not in 
kansas anymore  . the article was titled government 
our liberties , and in it he tells a story attributed to the 
late leonard read who 

explained that if you wanted to take liberty away from 
americans , you had to know how to a  . mr. read 
said you ca n't a by a pot of water and 
then throwing the in. his are so quick that 
as soon as his feet touch the water , he will leap away. 
you must put the in a pot of cold water and it 
up bit by bit. by the time the he 's being 
, it is too late. it is the same with americans .  . 
if anyone tried to take our freedoms all at once , we 
would naturally rebel and suppress the tyrant .  . but as 
with successful , our liberties can be taken 
a little bit at a time. 

the last line of the article says , it 's not too late for us , but the 
water is getting pretty warm .  . i 'd have that it 's warm and the 
clipper is keeping the on an upward course. 

note followups to alt . clipper . 


jim 
absolutely no attention to me or my opinions therefore , 
the foregoing information cannot possibly represent 's viewpoint .  . 

from 
subject cryptography faq 08 10 technical 
organization the 
lines 
expires 22 may 1993 04 00 07 gmt 
reply to 
nntp posting host com . 
summary part 8 of 10 of the sci . faq , technical  . 
word perfect  . breaking  . 
unix files email. security of unix  command. 
and  . key  . letter  . 
the german code. card  . s w  . 
x last updated 1993 04 16 

archive name cryptography faq 
last modified 1993 4 15 


faq for sci . , part 8 technical 

this is the of ten parts of the sci . faq .  . the parts are 
mostly independent , but you should read the first part before the rest. 
we do n't have the time to send out missing parts by mail , so do n't ask. 
notes such as '' refer to the reference list in the last part. 

the sections of this faq are available via anonymous ftp to rtfm.mit.edu 
as pub usenet news.answers cryptography faq part xx . the cryptography 
faq is posted to the newsgroups sci . , sci . answers . , and news.answers 
every 21 days. 


contents 

how do i from lost in 
how do i break a  ( repeated key ) 
how do i send mail under unix pgp , , , ... 
is the unix command secure 
how do i use with 
is there an 
what does   mean in cryptography 
what is the point (a . k . a .  . distance ) 
what is key and why is it important 
can i use pseudo random or numbers as a key 
what is the correct list for english letters 
what is the 
how do i cards 
can i s w by my 
can you do automatic of simple 
what is the coding system used by 


how do i from lost in 

has been shown to be very easy to break .  . 
the method uses with two repeating key a typed 
and a wide counter to 1 the length . full 
descriptions are given in bennett and and 
. 

chris writes back was looking for a way to 
document files and i think i have a solution .  . 
there is a software company named  ( 87 east 600 south , 
, 84058 ) , 1 that has a software that will 
any , 1 2 3 , pro , and paradox 
files. the cost of the is  . , but if you 
think your key is less than 10 characters ,  ( or 10 char ) give them a 
call and ask for the free  . the will files 
that have a 10 or less key . '' . 

how do i break a  ( repeated key ) 

a repeated key , where the is something like the 
 ( and so on ) , is called a  . 
if the key is not too long and the is in english , do the 
following 

1. discover the length of the key by counting  . 
 ( see ,  . ) . trying each of 
the against itself , count those which are equal .  . 
if the two portions have used the same key , something 
over 6 of the will be equal .  . if they have used different 
key , then less than 0 . 4 . will be equal  ( assuming random 8 bit 
of key covering normal ascii  . the smallest which 
indicates an equal key is the length of the repeated key .  . 

2. shift the text by that length and it with itself. this 
removes the key and leaves you with text with itself. since 
english has about 1 bit of real information per , 2 of 
text together has 2 bits of info per 8 bit , providing 
plenty of for choosing a unique  .  ( and in fact 
one of text with itself has just 1 bit per ) . 

if the key is short , it might be even easier to treat this as a 
standard  . all the old 
texts show how to break those .  . it 's possible with those methods , in 
the hands of an expert , if there 's only ten times as much text as key .  . 
see , for example , , . 

how do i send mail under unix pgp , , , ... 

here 's one popular method , using the des command 

cat file des private key mail 

, there is a de jure internet standard in the works called 
 ( privacy enhanced  . it is described in through 
 . to join the mailing list , contact 
there is a version of being tested at the time of this 
writing. 

there are also two programs available in the public domain for 
mail pgp and  . both are available by ftp .  . each has its own 
newsgroup alt . security . pgp . and alt . security .  . each has its own faq 
as well. 

pgp is most commonly used outside the usa since it uses the 
without a license and 's is valid only  ( or at least primarily ) 
in the usa .  . 

is most commonly used inside the usa since it uses the which 
is freely available within the usa but not available for outside 
the usa .  . 

since both programs use a secret key for the body of 
the message  ( pgp used idea uses des ) and for the 
message key , they should be able to freely .  . although there 
have been repeated calls for each to understand the other 's and 
choices , no is available at this time  ( as far as 
we know) .  . 

is the unix command secure 

no. see . there is a program available called  ( crypt 
's workbench ) which can be used to do only attacks 
on files with  . one source for is . 

how do i use with 

a number of people have proposed doing perfect followed by 
some simple method (e . g .  . , with a repeated  . 

unfortunately , you can only perfectly if you know the exact 
distribution of possible  . for all practical purposes it 's 
impossible to describe typical english text   beyond 
characteristics such as single letter  . you can build up 
more and more sophisticated models of your , but if the enemy 
has a slightly more accurate model , he 'll be able to find some 
in your output .  . 

note that nearly all practical , unless they 
have been designed with cryptography in mind , produce output that 
actually starts off with high  . for example , the output of 
unix begins with a well known three number   
that can serve as an entering for  . 

this is not to say that before is inherently a 
bad idea it just has to be done very , very carefully , and by no means 
removes the need for strong  . 

after is silly. 

is there an 

yes. the one time is see part 4. unfortunately the 
one time requires secure distribution of as much key material as 
 . 

of course , a need not be utterly to be 
useful. rather , it needs to be strong enough to resist attacks by 
likely enemies for whatever length of time the data it is 
expected to remain valid .  . 

what does   mean in cryptography 

applications demand much more out of a 
number than most applications .  . for a source of bits to be 
random , it must be impossible to 
what the random bit will be given complete knowledge of 
the or hardware the and the sequence of 
through n 1st bits , for all n up to the lifetime of the source. 

a software  ( also known as pseudo random ) has the function 
of expanding a truly random seed to a longer string of apparently 
random bits. this seed must be large enough not to be guessed by 
the opponent .  . ideally , it should also be truly random  ( perhaps 
generated by a hardware random number  . 

those who have 1 workstations could , for example , 
generate random numbers using the device as a source of 
entropy , by not connecting anything to it. for example , 

cat 

gives a file of high entropy  ( not random but with much randomness in 
it) .  . one can then that file using part of itself as a key , 
for example , to convert that seed entropy into a pseudo random 
string .  . 

when looking for hardware devices to provide this entropy , it is 
important really to measure the entropy rather than just assume that 
because it looks complicated to a human , it must be random . for 
example , operation completion times sound like they might be 
 ( to many people ) but a is much like a 
and its output completion times are relatively low in entropy .  . 

what is the point (a . k . a .  . distance ) 

see . the distance is an approximation to that amount 
of such that the sum of the real information  ( entropy ) in 
the source text and key equals the number 
of bits used. longer than this 
can be shown probably to have a unique  . this is used to 
back up a claim of the validity of a only  . 
than this are likely to have 
multiple , equally valid and therefore to gain security 
from the opponent 's difficulty choosing the correct one. 

distance , like all statistical or information 
measures , does not make predictions but rather gives 
probabilistic results namely , the minimum amount of 
for which it is likely that there is only a single 
to the , when all possible 
are tried for the  . working do n't normally 
deal with distance as such. instead they directly determine 
the likelihood of events of interest .  . 

let the distance of a be d characters. if than 
d characters have been , then there is not 
enough information to distinguish the real key from a set of 
possible  . des has a distance of 17 . 5 . characters , 
which is less than 3 blocks  ( each block corresponds to 
8 ascii  . this may seem low at first , but 
the distance gives no indication of the work 
required to find the key after approximately d characters have been 
 . 

in fact , actual seldom proceeds along the lines used 
in discussing distance .  .  ( like other measures such as key 
size , distance is something that if 
it 's too small , but does n't security if it 's high . ) . few 
practical are absolutely to analysis all 
manner of characteristics might serve as entering   to crack 
some messages. however , similar information 
are useful , for example , to determine a 
recommended key change for a particular  . 
also a variety of statistical and 
information to help guide the analysis in the most 
promising  . 

unfortunately , most literature on the application of information 
statistics to remains classified , even the 
work of  ( see ) .  . for some insight into the 
possibilities , see and . 

what is key and why is it important 

one of the fundamental axioms of cryptography is that the enemy is in 
full of the details of the general system , 
and lacks only the specific key data employed in the  .  ( of 
course , one would assume that the does not make a habit of telling 
about its , but probably finds out anyway . ) . 
repeated use of a finite amount of key provides that can 
eventually facilitate progress. thus , especially in 
modern systems where vast of information are 
transferred , both parties must have not only a sound but 
also enough key material to cover the traffic .  . 

key refers to the distribution , , and 
handling of  . 

a publicly accessible example of modern key technology 
is the iii secure telephone , which for classified use 
employs individual   and a central key 
center operated by  . there is a in that 
certain are used by control 
to validate the issuance of individual traffic and 
to perform functions , such as the 
reporting of lost  . 

this should give an of the extent of the key 
problem. for public key systems , there are several related issues , 
many having to do with do you trust '' 

can i use pseudo random or numbers as a key 

and produce an apparent randomness from 
relatively  . perhaps the simplest example is a 
sequence , one of the most popular types of random 
number , where there is no obvious between seeds 
and  . unfortunately the of any such sequence will , in a 
high enough dimension , show up as a regular  . mathematically 
this corresponds to structure which is notoriously easy for 
to  . more complicated have more 
complicated structure , which is why they make interesting pictures 
but a strong sequence will have no 
structure at all. 

see , exercise 3.5 7 and . 

what is the correct list for english letters 

there are three answers to this question , each slightly deeper than 
the one before. you can find the first answer in various books 
namely , a list directly from a certain of 
english text. of course any such list will be   , 
but exactly which list you get depends on which was taken .  . 

the second answer is that the question does n't make sense. what do 
you mean by letters   the language   is not a 
fixed , finite , closed object that can be exactly characterized .  . it 
has changed over time it is different between different authors .  . 
any particular message will have different statistics from those of 
the language as a whole .  . 

the third answer is that yes , no particular message is going to have 
exactly the same characteristics as english in general , but for all 
reasonable statistical uses these slight wo n't matter. 
in fact there 's an entire field called statistics    ( other 
are entropy methods   and likelihood 
estimation'' ) which studies questions like 's the chance that a 
text with these letter is in english '' and comes up with 
reasonably answers. 

so make your own list from your own samples of english text. it will 
be good enough for practical work , if you use it properly. 

what is the 

a project in data security we are looking for sources of 
information about the german code and how it was broken by 
the british during wwii . '' . 

see , , , , . 

how do i cards 

card is a special case of the of an of 
values , using a random or pseudo random function. all possible output 
of this process should be equally likely. to do this , you 
need a random function  ( modran(x ) which will produce a 
random integer in the 0 .  . x . 1 . given that 
function , you can with the following c code  ( assuming 
is the length of and  ( swap( ) values at the two 
addresses given ) 

for ( n 1 n 0 n )  ( swap  ( modran n 1 ) , n ) 

 ( modran(x ) can not be achieved exactly with a simple  ( ranno( ) x ) since 
 ( ranno( ) 's may not be by x , although in most cases the 
error will be very small .  . to cover this case , one can take  ( ranno( ) 's 
x , call that number y , and if  ( ranno( ) returns a value less 
than y , go back and get another  ( ranno( ) value. 


can i s w by my 

someone will frequently express the desire to publish a with 
possibly multiple pieces of software , perhaps with each 
, and will want to use different for each user  ( perhaps 
even good for only a limited period of time) in order to avoid  . 

as far as we know , this is impossible , since there is nothing in standard 
pc or workstation hardware which identifies the user at the 
keyboard .  . if there were such an , then the could be 
with a key based in part on the one sold to the user and in 
part on the unique  . however , in this case the is one 
of a kind and that the intended purpose. 

if the is to be once and then mass produced , there must 
be a key  ( or set of keys ) for that produced at some stage in 
the process. that key is with any copy of the 's data .  . 
the needs only to that key and sell it along with the 
illegal copy. 


can you do automatic of simple 

 ( bruce schneier ) says of , 
utah products that break the scheme of a number of 
popular and pc software  . their telephone number 
is  ( 801 ) 

no software has been cited but there are many papers on the 
subject .  .  .  .  . 

, s. and , a. breaking using a 
 . vol.  ( 22(11 )  . 1979 ) 

, michael , a for the 
of simple , advances in 
'88 , springer lecture notes in computer 
science , vol.  ( the paper also contains references to earlier 
work on the subject . ) . 

john and steve martin , the of 
, , x number 4 , 86  . 

john and robbins , of 
, , xi number 4 , 87 


martin , a survey of data , 
, xi number 1 , jan 87 15 

martin , another data , , 
number 3 , 88 ,  . 

number 4 1989  . 

king and , probabilistic in the of 
simple  ( 16(3 ) 215  . 

king and , an solution of 
. , april 93  ( in  . 

r. et . al .  . , use of genetic in of 
simple , , number 1 , jan 93 
44 .  . 


what is the coding system used by 

one very frequently asked question in sci . is about how the codes 
work. the following article attempts to describe it. 

k. , c. welch , a. , a code , 
,  ( 16(3 ) , 1992 ,  . 


from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re amendment and 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 00 03 59 gmt 
reply to 
organization brothers 



lines 21 


in article  ( germano caronni ) writes 


just a question. 
as a of a public bbs service are n't you bound by law to 
access to the data of the users on the bbs , if police comes 
with i guessed this would be a basic condition 
for such systems. (i did run a bbs some time ago , but that was in switzerland ) 

you are to let the police search the equipment if they have a 
proper court order. you are under no legal to keep the data 
 . if you wish to run your bbs entirely with all data 
such that if the police show up they cannot read anything , 
well , their problem. there are no legal restrictions on domestic 
use of cryptography in the united states yet. 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from miller former spook 
subject alternate legal  . 
organization just me. 
lines 43 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 2 . 33 . 
summary nothing , it 's an order. 

writes 
... 
it would be a strong incentive , as points out , for more 
police to go and try to get through more efficient 
 ( but less constitutional ) means. notice what the release said 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 

court order , to do the in the first place. 


the clear implication is that there are legal other 
than a court order. just how are these  ( and who 
knows what 's in those 7 pages that the ) .  . there 
... 

i was a tech in the us navy  ( ctrsn , nothing  . all   
in the navy are required to know the of 18 , the navy way of 
a particular presidential order . it what 
can and ca n't do with respect to the of us  . 

the following information is  ( of course)  . 

the whole issue about what you mean by . if the signal can 
be detected by non means  ( like radio listening ) , then it may be 
recorded and it may be . means that it may be either 
and or radio may be used to the  . 

the is this any and all record of the signal and its 
may only be kept for a of 90 days , after which they are 
unless permission is obtained from the us general to keep them. 

did n't you ever wonder how coast guard find those drug 
in all those tens of thousands of square of sea , even in the dark ! 

miller 
send a , get one back ! ! 
miller woods ,  . usa 

from  ( mark riordan ) 
subject re source of random bits on a unix workstation 
organization michigan state university 
lines 18 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

bennett @ brothers inc. , ny wrote 
however , unless i 
missed something , the only source they suggested  ( aside from a hardware rng ) 
that seems available , and by an , when a unix is 
, is i o related to network traffic .  . i believe my 
solution basically uses that strategy , without requiring me to reach into 
the  . 

a few more sources are statistics on your  ( easily 
and quickly obtained ) and the output from the system 
call .  . 

you can also a finger to one or more favorite used 
systems , though this can take several seconds .  . 

 . the source code to on edu .  . 

mark r. 

from  ( germano caronni ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , , 
lines 19 

in article  ( graham toal ) writes 
can someone tell me if hardware is or is not needed to run 
digital speech down 14 . i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets 
say 8 bit samples .  . would raw data at the rate 
be if not , how fancy does the need to be 

as far as i know  ( call it here , and it 's being in ) it 's 
8 bit  ( gives you one channel of sec ) i guess you should not go 
below a rate of 6000 if you want to have same quality as on an 
line. anybody knows factors for voice 

, 



only through things they 're designed to  . 
space still contains infinite  . 
pgp key id 


from  ( kenneth ng ) 
subject re files 
organization private computer , , nj 
lines 23 

in article  ( robert mashlan ) writes 
 ( todd w. arnold ) said in article 
it 's ok as long as you trust the end user to stay out of your application 
program or as long as it runs in a system where the user ca n't get to it. 
otherwise , you ca n't stop him from finding the load a code in your 
program , and simply the check for a valid  . the devious user 
can either the object code before running the program , or he can run 
the program under a and change the instructions in memory. 
there is a way to , by clearing the single step 
interrupt , on which a depends , every few instructions in 
the sensitive areas of the code. 

this assumes the person is using the hardware of an 
type processor .  . it can be by the clear , 
or by running the code on a machine , like one i wrote as a 
project in college. it can and trace practically anything one could 
write in software .  . kind of like being on a star ) .  . 



please reply to for now. 
all this might be an elaborate running in a little device sitting 
on someone 's table j . l .  . 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 52 

in article  ( felix gallo ) writes 
 ( pat myrto ) writes 

if the clinton clipper is so very good , ... 

please note that bill clinton probably has little if anything to do 
with the design , implementation or reasoning behind this chip or behind 
any being made using this chip as a  . 

uh , i notice he has not either asked for or allowed public , and he damn 
sure has not stopped it .  .  .  . 

remember , when you elect a president of the united states , it 's not 
the case that all the , etc. in the and fbi and 
immediately pack their and get replaced by a team of young 
 . most of the government say , is or 
rather than elected .  . since this clipper device has been in 
for over months , it probably has little or no 
foundation in the currently elected democratic body. 

again , if it was something clinton did n't like , how come he did not 
stop it , or get public before the decision he 
sure has asserted his authority on other things he did not agree with 
from the bush , i notice. he is the president , therefore 
he is responsible for the actions of the branch .  . i have 
not the slightest bit of doubt you would be holding bush or reagan 
to that standard had they been in office when this thing was cast into 
 .  .  . 

btw those who suggest that this is just an attack on clinton , believe 
this i would be going who seriously proposed 
this thing. it is just another step in a gradual of our rights 
under the constitution or bill of rights. the last couple of decades 
have been a non stop series of end runs around the of the 
constitution .  . it has to stop .  . now is as good a time as any , if it 
is n't too late  . 

could be. however , the sky has n't fallen yet , little. 

thanks for the name calling .  . that really makes your position 
credible .  . lenin had a term for folks with your  . do you really 
have that much faith in the and honesty of the government 
that is primarily concerned with people control i suspect you will 
be in for an unpleasant surprise .  . i would just as soon see this 
in the bud while if it still can be done , instead of waiting for yet 
more of our bill of rights , thank you .  .  .  . 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( peter trei ) 
subject re amendment and 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the corporation 
lines 67 

in article  ( carl m kadie ) writes 
state . edu .  ( andrew s hall ) writes 

i am someone will correct me if i am wrong , but does n't the 
also cover not being forced to do actions that are self 
from mike , posted with permission 

no , but they could you to produce the key to a safe where , as it 
happens , evidence that will convict you is  . 

the key issue has n't come up yet , but current law 
suggests that it 's a for the he 'll be compelled to turn 
over the key .  . 

the test for compelled self is whether the material to 
be in itself tends to the  . in the example 
i gave above , the safe key itself has no testimonial value ergo , it can 
be under compulsion (e . g .  . ,  . 

moreover , the government can always the of a 
key compelling you to the key at the price of not using the fact 
of your as evidence in the case against you. of course , they 
can use whatever they discover as a result of this against 
you. 
mike 

lets carry this one step further. suppose the text of the key is 
in itself conclusive evidence of the same crime for which the 
material is further evidence. i find myself a 
scenario like this 

you have made some of  . you them. the key 
is a phrase .  . 

the police you in. they your system. they find the 
file. 

that file 

you i take the  . 

what 's the to that file 

you i take the  . 

judge you have to reveal the i disagree , but i'm not a judge. 

you your honor , revealing the , in it 's own right , would 
tend to me of breaking laws , independent of what 
may or may not be in the file. 

judge i grant you from whatever may be learned from the key 
itself 

you the is i confess to deliberately 
the file with this contains illegal of 
 . 

judge and oh. 

how will they get you now i'm not saying that they wo n't , or 
ca n't  ( or even that they should n't ) , but what legal mechanism will 
they use should we be this to misc . legal . 

peter 



from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
lines 22 

bred wrote 
and this means that the fbi will want to track the customer lists of 
better , because the only reason a person would want 
one is to the police .  . 

they do n't have to track customer lists they merely have to 
listen to any phone line and eliminate any that do n't have the clipper 
signature .  .  ( no one has said how it will be want a bet 
it 's a non standard and hence easily ) 

devices to and detect modems etc already exist. i 've seen 
them in the trade press. 

once you eliminate crippled devices and ordinary data modems , what 's 
left is worth looking more closely at. i guess any scheme 
will have to be or v . fast . to it , though then they just start 
looking at the data too .  .  .  . 

whatever happens though , the effect of this new chip will be to make private 
stand out like a sore  . 

g 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 14 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( ken shirriff ) writes 
since would be such a powerful tool and so easy to do , why 
would n't it happen 

not enough  . 

seriously , do you have any idea how much traffic through the us phone 
system in a single day 


walker 
systems corporation 



from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject fear , uncertainty , doubt 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 10 
nntp posting host access . net . 

i suspect that the decisive element in the political battle will be the 
 ( fear , uncertainty , doubt ) factor .  . 
if the people who would be end users of the chip hear of the whole 
debate only the government says it 's solid other people in the 
field say it 's cheese the of doubt could shift against the 
feds .  . any attempt to limit other forms of could then be presented 
as the government covering its own butt by protecting its poor product from 
superior competition .  . 
comments 


from  ( ken shirriff ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 12 
distribution na 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

in article  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 
with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp , they 'll just 
call up one of their and read the 
from your computer or terminal .  . note that measures to protect yourself from 
surveillance are still classified , as far as i know. 

note that is the name of the standard. is not 
the name of the surveillance  . 

ken 
disclaimer this is what i 've heard and it 's in the sci . faq , so it 's 
probably true but i ca n't it. i 'd like to know if i'm wrong. 

from  ( paul repacholi ) 
subject what is going on ... 
lines 26 
organization university of technology 
distribution 

in article ,  ( carl ellison ) writes 
in article  ( russell webb ) writes 
... 
call me , but this is the same kind of story which 
was while calling for the of cryptography .  . 

i doubt that is behind this 

but i suspect that the fbi  ( and maybe nsa ) are behind and those 
could easily be a campaign  ( with our tax dollars ) to 
build up public against digital especially against 
,  . 


what 's going on here 


have n't you read any of noam chomsky 's works a widely used information net 
outside the control of the  right people  is  . hundreds of billions 
of dollars will be spent to wipe it out , sorry ,  and order it  once 
the major media and powers wake up to the it can have. 

if you ca n't be bothered reading , get the video manufacturing consent . 

paul 


from  ( jonathan eifrig ) 
subject re pgp , , and 's  ( was cryptography patents ) 
organization the johns hopkins university cs department 
lines 70 

in article 
 ( bob cain ) writes 

check your facts first and grow up. 
why is there such a strong correlation between interest in cryptography 
and i wonder .  . 

hmmm .  . check your facts .  . good advice. let 's check mr. cain 's 
facts a bit , shall we 

charles wrote 

some  . let me guess do n't use the code in any way or 
does n't like .  .  .  . such . as .  .  . providing . secure communications for the 
average citizen .  . 

that was exactly its purpose if you know anything about it. there is 
nothing at all preventing the average citizen using it , only selling 
it. 

fact it is to distribute code without a license 
to do so from , whether or not one is charging for it. furthermore , 
any use of , other than for research purposes allowed under us 
law , is similarly  . therefore , the average citizen cannot use 
to message traffic in the us without a license from  . 

there is no , freely available product in the us that uses 
other than  ( and hence ripem ) , at least as far as i am 
aware .  . if you know of another , please post it here. 

all i have to say is .  .  . yeah . , right. if you 're willing to pay them 
big and or use the routines they tell you to do. 
does n't sound very reasonable to me. 

all i have to say is this is full of shit. i have a license 
and the are incredibly reasonable with an charge on a 
scale depending on your  . if you are a 
and ca n't afford it you ca n't afford to start up in the first place. 
why do people insist on making statements about that which 
they know nothing. 

fact the last contact i had with data security , was with some 
guy trying to sell me a license  ( unsolicited , i might add ) for  . 
cost plus 2 5 percent  . 

i suppose it is a matter of opinion as to whether or not these terms count 
as or incredibly reasonable .  . either way , however , this 
definitely falls into the routines they tell you to  ( use ) . 

but i do n't guess and are interested in big  . maybe 
they have some other secure communications only for 
government , perhaps 

have you considered treatment for paranoia the government is the 
single biggest thorn in 's side. 

fact there are no restrictions  ( yet ! ) on the use of cryptography under 
us law , although this is beginning to look like it will change .  . the only 
to widespread use of cryptography in the us are 's 
 . 

mr. cain , please shut up until you get your facts straight .  . 


better than the whole world be and to than 
a free man deny one of his desires .  . 
mussolini , italian anarchist and poet .  . 

jack the johns hopkins university , c.s. dept. 


subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
from  ( shaen bernhardt ) 
distribution na 
organization boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 51 

in article  ( hal finney ) writes 
the key question is whether non clipper will be made illegal .  . 

the is not saying , since 
threatens the public safety and effective law enforcement , 
we will it outright  ( as some countries have 
effectively done ) nor is the u.s. saying that every 
american , as a matter of right , is entitled to an 
product .  . there is a 
false created in the that this issue is 
an either or proposition .  . rather , both concerns can be , 
and in fact are , balanced through a reasoned , 
balanced approach such as is proposed with the clipper 
chip and similar techniques .  . 

the clear middle ground implied by these statements is to say that americans 
have the right to clipper , but not to  . 
this implies that , ultimately , non clipper strong must become 
illegal .  . 

text deleted , no value judgement implied 

it 's and frightening to see that this is actually happening here. 




more than  . what this says to me is no less than that government 
is very interested in the public. this does more than me , 
it me. 

pgp and must become widespread enough to resist what mr. has 
imho correctly identified as the next logical step. what was once an 
academic discussion with regard to , has now become 
a real consideration .  . 

the rhetoric that the clinton seems with , harmony , 
either or propositions , , tells me that they know how difficult 
it will be to sell this proposition .  . 

the phrase i hear more and more is i ca n't believe this is actually happening 
here. call me , clinton was a huge mistake that we 'll all be 
paying for and many years from now. 

have we approached the age of public key 

uni  ( dark ) 

public by finger and or request 
public key archives at pgp public 
is the sign of a brutal past. 

from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
distribution na 
organization communications corp .  . 
lines 29 

in article  ( marcus j ranum ) writes 
when you 've got prince of saying stupid things over 
, it 's not hard to imagine that drug , child 
, , lisp , and other threats to the 
civilized world might business over 
 . 


let 's assume , for the moment , that the system really is secure unless 
you get both of the key from the two independent 
houses .  . let 's say you even trust the houses one is 
the and the other is the  .  ( and i'm not entirely about 
those two names ) 

in that case the prince of has nothing to worry about on this 
system. indeed , as pointed out , since the current systems , even the 
current digital systems , are very easy to right now anybody 
with an old tv can hear them for most people , this will be viewed 
as an oh step  . 

and look at how tolerant the public is. they 're willing to let the 
with the hear right now. 

it was suggested by one person that a lot of non 
is going on right now without warrants , because anybody can do it and it 's 
just an violation .  . this would stop that. all would need 
a warrant , or a of security at the houses .  . 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from  ( clipper chip announcement ) 
subject white house public fact 
organization national institute of standards technology 
distribution na 
lines 94 



note the following was released by the white house today in 
with the announcement of the clipper chip 
technology. 

fact 

public 

the president has approved a on public 
 . the provides for the following 

advanced telecommunications and available 
are part of a wave of new computer and communications technology. 
products information to protect the of 
communications and data by preventing access. 
advanced telecommunications systems use digital technology to 
rapidly and precisely handle a high volume of communications .  . 
these advanced telecommunications systems are integral to the 
needed to ensure economic in the 
information age. 

despite its benefits , new communications technology can also 
lawful government electronic surveillance .  . sophisticated 
can have this effect in the united states. when 
, it can be used to foreign intelligence 
activities critical to our national interests .  . in the past , it has 
been possible to preserve a government capability to conduct 
electronic surveillance in of legitimate law 
enforcement and national security interests , while at the same time 
protecting the and civil liberties of all citizens .  . as 
technology , doing so will require new , 
approaches .  . 

in the area of communications , the u. s. government has 
developed a that not only provides through 
that is more than the current 
government standard , but also of the needed 
to the  . the system for the of 
will allow the government to gain access to information 
only with appropriate legal  . 

to assist law enforcement and other government to 
and , under legal authority , 
information , i hereby direct the following action to be taken 

of government developed 

the general of the united states , or her representative , 
shall request of communications hardware which 
to the u.s. government developed 
key in their products. the fact of law 
enforcement access to the will not be from 
the american public. all appropriate steps shall be taken to 
ensure that any existing or future versions of the key 
are made widely available to u.s. communications 
hardware , consistent with the need to ensure the 
security of the key system. in making this decision , i do 
not intend to prevent the private from developing , or the 
government from , other or that 
are equally effective in both and a secure key 
system. 

key 

the general shall make all with appropriate 
entities to hold the for the key 
in communications equipment. in each case , the key 
must agree to strict security to prevent 
release of the  . the shall be released only 
to government that have established their authority to 
acquire the content of those communications that have been 
by devices containing the  . the 
general shall review for legal the by which 
an agency its authority to acquire the content of such 
communications .  . 

and use of devices 

the of commerce , in with other appropriate 
u.s. , shall a process to write standards to 
facilitate the and use of devices 
with key in federal communications systems 
that process sensitive but information. i expect this 
process to proceed on a that will of 
a final standard within months of this  . 

the general will and devices to 
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct 
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure 
law enforcement communications .  . further , the general 
shall funds from the department of justice 
super to effect this  . 

from  ( michael t. palmer ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization nasa research center , , va 
lines 52 
distribution 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 


in article  ( rob boudrie ) writes 
in article graham writes 
in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 
if the clinton clipper is so very good , why not make its public 
so many people can exchange ideas and examine it , rather than a few 
isolated  respected   ( respected by whom for what perhaps a 

one more time .  .  .  . 

if they released the , it would be possible for someone 
to come up with an implementation which was identical , but 
lacking an key .  . 

note that the press announcement mentioned that the was 
being kept secret for security of the key system. in this 
case security means an key for every clipper chip . 


assuming you believed all that is said about the effective of 
the , and the system , which would you buy 

 ( a ) chip from firm a with the key 
 ( b ) second source chip from firm b with no key 
in government  . 

there would obviously be powerful economic for a second 
source , non ,  . 

but what about second sources for pin compatible non clipper 
that also have if a firm produces a 
chip  ( with key ) that is a pop in replacement for the clipper 
chip in my phone , and uses an that is widely known and evaluated 
and trusted , then what 's the problem 

the clipper is going to be reverse engineered anyway by any organization 
with sufficient resources  ( can you say billions of cocaine dollars ) so 
those drug they 're so worried about will be through the 
 . we law  ( non incredibly wealthy ) citizens , naturally , will 
not have this recourse .  . but claiming that the ca n't be 
released to prevent people from using non key is plain 
 .  .  . analysis of the chip output will provide information on 
the necessary and whatnot , so the bad guys could build 
using a different and still not their  . 

or , they could just buy of cheap at k every week , 
and play the clipper chip with their phone every day. 


michael t. a man is crazy who writes a secret in any 
other way than one which will conceal it 
key on server from the  . roger , 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 15 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( amanda walker ) writes 
i do n't get up in when 
the government fails to protect the interests of the people , because in 
my lifetime it never has therefore , i have no expectation that it will. 

just to make sure everyone is clear on this it never has refers to 
, not fails to protect i.e. , in my lifetime i have never seen 
the u.s. government protect the interest of u.s. citizens , 
except by accident. 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( red sonja ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization utter chaos in , long island , new york  ( we think) 
lines 26 

in article  ( bill campbell ) writes 
in  ( david sternlight ) writes 

in article 
 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 

note that measures to protect yourself from 
surveillance are still classified , as far as i know. 

i think this to be  . one can buy equipment  . 
even  . 

sure you can buy a approved mac if you have enough 
money. i have n't had any reason to look at this type of 
for about 10 years , but a in would raise the 
price of a 2 , 00 . radio shack model iii to something around 
15 , 000 . 00 .  . 

or just dig a deep enough hole in the ground. 50 feet should do it. 



rs self is 9 10 of the law. 
alien we control the laws of nature ! how come when it 's human , it 's an 
joel and you still dress that way abortion , but when it 's a , 
 ( mst3k 17 vs guiron ) it 's an george 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
distribution na 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 

in article  ( robert ward ) writes 
in article hamburg . de . writes 
and since the us constitutions the right to every american 
to bear , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of 

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in 
context if not , please do so before posting this again. 
it refers to the right of the people to organize a , not for individuals 
to carry , , and assault  . 

read it again yourself , then re apply the you gave to the 
previous poster to yourself , as well. the first clause is not a condition , 
it is a reason for explicitly supporting the right which exists , 
or not , that the people have a right to keep and bear  . this is 
not a right granted by the constitution , it is a right to exist 
by default. the constitution mentioning a right is to prevent the 
government from removing that right by stating very clearly the government 
shall not  ( mess with , block , limit ) that right. remember the 
constitution is a bunch of negative things things the government cannot 
do. all rights , etc not given to the government go to the 
states and the people  ( the same people the other 9 in the 
bill of rights talk  . 

since i am sure you will reject my interpretation , i am 
a analysis by one far more expert than myself  ( and 
you , i  . i am sure you will find his adequate .  . 
if that is n't enough i can send you the senate to the 
on the constitution report on the same thing .  .  .  . there are 
some things in there that big brother types , like , etc must have 
really had to swallow hard to admit .  . 

i think you will find that people that seriously study the constitution 
and state what it means will say the same thing. those who come up 
with  new improved meanings  are those who are trying to subvert the 
constitution for a given  . like clinton and his clinton , 
gun control , people control , and control control , and the whole nasty 
mess. 

please tell us how this person is in error , wo n't you  ( and please back it 
up with some proof , since i am backing my assertion up with independent 
proof , and have a bunch more i can provide .  .  . ) .  . 

note followups set to talk . politics . guns . 

begin included article 

the second amendment 

by j. neil 

if you wanted to know all about the big bang , you 'd up , 
right and if you wanted to know about desert warfare , the man to call 
would be norman , no question about it. but who would you call 
if you wanted the top expert on american usage , to tell you the meaning 
of the second amendment to the united states constitution 

that was the question i asked a . c .  . , of the los 
school district and editor at 
publishers who himself had been recommended to me as the 
foremost expert on english usage in the los school system. mr. 
told me to get in touch with roy , a professor 
at the university of southern california and the author of 
american usage and style the consensus .  . 

a little research support to 's opinion of professor 's 
expertise .  . 

roy was a newspaper writer on major for over three decades 
before on a a 17 year career teaching at 
usc .  . since , has been writing a dealing with the 
aspects of for editor and , a weekly 
magazine focusing on the field .  . 

he 's on the usage of the american dictionary , and 
webster 's usage dictionary frequently cites him as an expert .  . 's 
book on usage , american usage and style the consensus , has been in 
continuous print from van since , and is the winner 
of the association of american 's award .  . 

that sounds like an expert to me. 

after a brief telephone call to professor in which i introduced 
myself but did not give him any indication of why i was interested , i sent 
the following letter 

i am writing you to ask you for your opinion as an expert in 
english usage , to analyze the text of the second amendment to the united 
states constitution , and extract the intent from the text. 

the text of the second amendment is ,  a well , being 
necessary for the security of a free state , the right of the people to keep 
and bear , shall not be ' . 

the debate over this amendment has been whether the first part of the 
sentence ,  a well , being necessary to the security of a 
free state  , is a restrictive clause or a clause , with respect 
to the independent clause containing the subject of the sentence ,  the 
right of the people to keep and bear , shall not be ' . 

i would request that your analysis of this sentence not take into 
consideration issues of political impact or public policy , but be restricted 
entirely to a analysis of its meaning and intent .  . further , 
since your analysis will likely become part of 
regarding the consequences of the second amendment , i ask that whatever 
analysis you make be a opinion that you would be willing to 
stand behind with your reputation , and even be willing to testify under 
oath to support , if necessary. 

my letter several questions about the test of the second amendment , 
then concluded 

i realize that i am asking you to take on a major responsibility and task 
with this letter. i am doing so because , as a citizen , i believe it is 
important to extract the actual meaning of the second amendment .  . 
while i ask that your analysis not be affected by the political importance of 
its results , i ask that you do this because of that importance .  . 

after several more letters and phone calls , in which we discussed terms for 
his doing such an analysis , but in which we never discussed either of our 
opinions regarding the second amendment , gun control , or any other political 
subject , professor sent me the follow analysis  ( into which i have 
inserted my questions for the sake of clarity ) 

the words  a well , being necessary to the 
security of a free state , ' contrary to the interpretation cited in your 
letter of 26 , 1991 , constitutes a present , rather than a 
clause .  . it is used as an ,  , ' which is 
followed by the main clause of the sentence  ( subject  the right  , verb 
 . the to keep and bear is asserted as an essential for 
maintaining a  . 

in reply to your questions 

(1) can the sentence be interpreted to grant the right to keep 
and bear solely to  a well  

(1) the sentence does not restrict the right to keep and bear 
, nor does it state or imply of the right elsewhere or by 
others than the people it simply makes a positive statement with respect 
to a right of the people. 

(2) is  the right of the people to keep and bear  granted 
by the words of the second amendment , or does the second amendment assume a 
right of the people to keep and bear , and merely state 
that such right  shall not be  

(2) the right is not granted by the amendment its existence 
is assumed .  . the thrust of the sentence is that the right shall be 
preserved inviolate for the sake of a  . 

 ( 3 ) is the right of the people to keep and bear 
conditioned upon whether or not a well , is , in fact 
necessary to the security of a free state , and if that condition is not 
existing , is the statement  the right of the people to keep and bear , 
shall not be  null and 

 ( 3 ) no such condition is expressed or implied .  . the right to 
keep and bear is not said by the amendment to depend on the existence 
of a  . no condition is stated or implied as to the relation of the 
right to keep and bear and to the necessity of a well 
as a to the security of a free state. the right to keep 
and bear is deemed by the entire sentence. 

 ( 4 ) does the clause  a well , being necessary 
to the security of a free state , ' grant a right to the government to place 
conditions on the  right of the people to keep and bear , ' or is such 
right deemed by the meaning of the entire sentence 

 ( 4 ) the right is assumed to exist and to be , as 
previously stated .  . it is invoked here specifically for the sake of the 
 . 

 ( 5 ) which of the following does the phrase  well 
 mean  well  ,  well organized , '  well drilled , ' 
 well , ' or  subject to of a superior authority  

 ( 5 ) the phrase means  subject to of a superior 
authority ' this with the desire of the writers for civilian 
control over the military .  . 

 ( 6 )  ( if at all possible , i would ask you to take account the 
changed meanings of words , or usage , since that sentence was written 200 
years ago , but not take into account historical interpretations of the 
of the authors , unless those issues can be clearly separated .  . 

to the best of my knowledge , there has been no change in the 
meaning of words or in usage that would affect the meaning of the 
amendment .  . if it were written today , it might be put since a 
well is necessary he security of a free state , the 
right of the people to keep and bear shall not be ' . 

as a  scientific control  on this analysis , i would also 
appreciate it if you could compare your analysis of the text of the second 
amendment to the following sentence , 

a well , being necessary to the security of a free 
state , the right of the people to keep and read books , shall not be 
' . 

my questions for the usage analysis of this sentence would be , 

(1) is the structure and usage of this sentence and the way 
the words each other , identical to the second amendment 's sentence 
and 

(2) could this sentence be interpreted to restrict  the right of the people 
to keep and read books  only to  a well  for 
example , voters with a high school 

(1) your  scientific control  sentence precisely the 
amendment in structure .  . 

(2) there is nothing in your sentence that either indicates or implies the 
possibility of a restricted interpretation .  . 

professor had only one additional comment , which he placed in his 
cover letter with well known human curiosity , i made some 
efforts to decide how the material might be used , but was unable to reach 
any conclusion .  . 

so now we have been told by one of the top on american usage what 
many knew all along the constitution of the united states 
the people 's right to keep and bear , all 
governments formed under the constitution from that right. 

as i write this , the attempted coup against constitutional government in the 
soviet union has failed , apparently because the will of the people in that 
part of the world to be free from tyranny is stronger than the 
old guard 's desire to maintain a monopoly on power. 

and here in the united states , elected lawmakers , judges , and 
who are to defend the constitution of the united states 
ignore , , or about the second amendment routinely .  . 
american citizens are put in american for carrying , 
of forbidden sorts , or failing to requirements 
regarding the and carrying of all of which is an 
of the right of the people to keep and bear , 
guaranteed by the constitution .  . 

and even the american civil liberties union  ( aclu ) , of the 
rest of the bill of rights , stands by and does nothing. 

it seems it is up to those who believe in the right to keep and bear to 
preserve that right. no one else will. no one else can. will we beg our 
elected representatives not to take away our rights , and continue regarding 
them as us if they do will we continue obeying judges who 
decide that the second amendment does n't mean what it says it means but 
means whatever they say it means in their doublespeak 

or will be simply keep and bear the of our choice , as the constitution 
of the united states promises us we can , and pledge that we will defend 
that promise with our lives , our , and our sacred honor 

 ( c ) 1991 by the new gun week and second amendment foundation .  . 
reproduction of the entire article is hereby 
provided the author , the new gun week and second amendment foundation are 
 . all other rights  . 

about the author 

j. neil is the award author of novels by anthony 
and , and writer of the cbs 
in which a time historian prevents the jfk 
assassination .  . he 's also the founder and president of publishing , 
the first publishing company to distribute books via personal 
computers and modems .  . 

most recently , has founded the to enforce the second 
amendment  ( cesa ) , through which he intends to see the individual 's right to 
keep and bear recognized as a constitutional protection equal to those 
in the first , fourth , , ninth and  . 

end included article 

can you still honestly say the second is a  state run only right  


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( daniel robinson ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
nntp posting host eng . com . 
organization communications network systems corp .  . , , ca 
distribution na 
lines 20 

in article  ( robert ward ) writes 
in article hamburg . de . writes 
and since the us constitutions the right to every american 
to bear , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of 

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in 
context if not , please do so before posting this again. 
it refers to the right of the people to organize a , not for individuals 
to carry , , and assault  . 

hmmm , this could become a flame war very quickly .  . the text is  .  .  . well . 
 .  .  . when that amendment was written and approved , 
armed . remember all of those where bounty 
were called this is now an usage of the 
word , but the original intent of the amendment was about weapons , not 
control. 

my 0 . 02 .  . 

dan 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
distribution na 
lines 25 

 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 


with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp , they 'll just 
call up one of their and read the 
from your computer or terminal .  . note that measures to protect yourself from 
surveillance are still classified , as far as i know. 

1. i do n't think they are classified .  . 

2. i could independently invent about half a dozen right off 
the top of my head. if i had studied advanced e m a little better , 
i could probably come up with a very good system. 

... 
if the new regime comes to , make sure you protect your first 
amendment rights by asserting your second amendment rights. 

doug holland 


seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from  ( ze'ev wurman ) 
subject is there any security in the clipper 
organization corp .  . , ca 
lines 26 
nntp posting host key . com . 

it seems to me that all discussions about clipper security are almost 
irrelevant if i cannot choose the key , but have to use a key chosen for 
me by the , the security of the whole universe of users is as good 
 ( or as bad ) as the security of inc. 

it is a trivial effort to run any all the ever 
after all we are talking about 1 to 100 million that 
will ever be  . the key can be as secure and 
as they wish to be , nobody cares anyway .  .  .  . ( 

now if someone would convince me that the of , and 
others are  ( remember the have to with the key 
you or the are going to submit it to the authorities eventually ) 
i 'd be a bit  . but do we really believe that the various governments 
 ( including ours ) wo n't have the full lists of all the ever 

did i miss something here 

my own opinions , quite obviously .  .  .  . 


from .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
email .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . or 
organization corp .  . landing  ( m s 581 ) , ca 
phone .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ( 510 )  ( office ) 
fax .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ( 510 )  ( attn wurman ) 

from  ( paul repacholi ) 
subject re what is going on ... 
lines 27 
organization university of technology 
distribution 

in article ,  ( guy thomas ) writes 
 ( paul repacholi ) writes 

in article ,  ( paul repacholi ) writes 
... 
if you ca n't be bothered reading , get the video manufacturing consent . 


in reply to mail i do n't know if a video is available yet. i asked 
about a month and was told  . 

yes it is. from the national film board of canada .  . 

ah , not in the usa .  . a relief , thought  reality  must be for a 
second .  . ) 

noam was on the radio , he has just published a new book years . 
published by south end i guess. could some please 

i would love to hear what he thinks of the clipper  . 

paul 

ps the first posting i saw i thought was a joke in very bad taste. my 
to the person who broke the news. 



from  ( steve hollasch ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
summary of blood from peoples  heads ! 
organization computer , inc. 
lines 46 

 ( brad yearwood ) writes 
if clipper comes to along with legal against 
using other systems on these , a new and dangerous 
class of crime is created. 

criminals who very want tactical communications 
 ( specifically the and drug who of key 
cite as threats ) will be highly motivated to steal the phone of a 
legitimate user , and to kill this person or hold them so 
of compromise of the device will be  . 

get some sleep brad ! you mean that people (i . e .  . life is cheap 
drug dealing warlords ) who want to communicate in will 
prefer to break into my house , kill or me , and steal my telephone , 
rather than 

spending 15 at k to buy a new phone. 

a load of from the black market market 
super market .  . 

talking ( ) face to face. 

walking down to any one of millions of pay  . 

using  . 

going to effort to think of code phrases like i had 
a on the today . 

look , this system does nothing to threaten folks who know they 're 
being , since it 's trivial to find other of 
they 'd have no reason to resort to extreme measures , since a of 
simple alternatives are easily available to them. 

among all the legitimate reasons to damn the proposed system , i do n't 
think we need to worry about terrorist drug 
murdering our families , kicking the dog and leaving the toilet up just 
to steal a 15 telephone .  . the system is more like it 
some small number of very stupid people , has no effect on the bad 
guys with at least three neurons working in who wish to subvert it , 
and most those who have no cause to be subject to it. 


steve computer , inc. 
santa , california 

from  ( dwight tuinstra ) 
subject  ( new ) reason for clipper m secrecy 
reply to 
organization sun , inc. 
lines 38 
nntp posting host signal . ece . edu . 

apologies for not posting to alt . clipper . , or whatever , but it seems it 
may not be in the here. 

there may be another reason  ( good from 's point of view , horrible 
from everyone else 's ) why the chip design might be secret. 

first , note that the will only look at details , and of just 
the 

in addition , respected from outside the 
government will be offered access to the details of 
the to assess its capabilities and publicly report 
their findings .  . 

why not the chip design well , here 's the possiblity in addition to 
, the chip pre processes voice to make them easier 
to analyze  . the chip , once widespread , might 
effectively be part of a parallel computer for voice 
the us phone network  ( or the criminal wrong thinking 
 . 

i would n't put it past the  . think how much easier it would make life 
for them. 

and if this is indeed the case , think of the possible public should 
it become widely known. thus the secrecy .  . 

it might be a good idea to have in , voice recognition , and 
ai conversation understanding to be on that , and insist they be 
given  ( authenticatable ) design and implementation documentation .  . 


best 


look out , kid , it 's something that you did. 
god knows when , but you 're  it again ... 


from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re of public key 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 23 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

i will provide one hint it is reported that expressed  ( at 
their conference ) that nobody has asked for permission to use to 
write a pgp compatible program .  . 

this actually supports bill 's speculation if there is a in 
and if is supported secretly by the , then it is more 
than natural that they will welcome any public key implementation that 
uses and will strongly oppose themselves against any 
implementation that does n't .  . 

i personally cannot see how one could put a in a 
long precision arithmetic library that comes in source , but , 
of course , the fact that i cannot see it means nothing .  .  .  . 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from graham 
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets 
originator 
keywords entropy 
nntp posting host demon . co . uk . 
reply to graham 
organization anonymous 
lines 9 

in article joe writes 
as a matter of fact , i do keep random files on my  . the reason is , 
without special purpose hardware , it takes a long time to generate good random 
bits. i have programs that crank out a couple bits per minute , which is 
pretty conservative , but over time that 's more than i need. 

sounds like a useful program interested in posting it to alt . sources . 

g 

subject re amendment and 
from  ( peter gutmann ) 
organization computer science dept. university of 
lines 19 

in  ( carl m kadie ) writes 

the key issue has n't come up yet , but current law 
suggests that it 's a for the he 'll be compelled to turn 
over the key .  . 

it has actually come up  ( or it will in a week or two ) in  . i 'll post the 
outcome when the trial  ( which could take months btw) .  . overall it 
looks like you ca n't be forced to reveal a , if anyone can provide 
a convincing legal argument to the contrary  ( ie an actual court case ) i 'd 
be most interested .  .  .  . 

peter .  . 

p 

 ( in order of preference one of 'em 's bound to work ) 
think !  ( or thwim ) 


from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject media 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 

there are many legends  ( maybe this ought to be in the 
faq ) about what is actually sufficient to clear or 
magnetic media when used for classified data .  . here is some 
information from the horse 's mouth . 

 ( regarding the sufficient of media ( clearing ) meant to 
be within the controlled environment , or 
the material to be outside the controlled environment , ) 

from national telecommunications and information systems 
security  ( ntiss ) on office 
security  ( ntissam 1 87 ) 



7 . 6 . 2 . 1 . clearing of magnetic media 

certain types of media (e . g .  . , magnetic , , 
, and magnetic cards ) may be cleared by the 
entire media one time with any one character. may be 
cleared by applying a 's program that 
each with a given character. 

fixed media (e . g .  . , disks ) should be cleared by 
at least one time with any one character. one way to do this is by 
applying a program that each 
on the with a given character , if it can be shown that 
this program actually works as  . the user should beware 
some programs that to all do not 
actually do this. 

cleared media may be within the controlled or 
released for destruction however , they should be and 
controlled at the level of the most restrictive of 
information ever recorded .  . 

7 . 6 . 2 . 2 . of magnetic media 

certain types of media can be using a 
device that has been approved for media of 
that type .  . (a list of approved devices is by the ) . 

if a fixed medium  ( for example , a hard , or , disk ) is 
, an approved method of the pack is to 
an procedure which must all 
at least three times by writing any character , 
then its complement (e . g .  . , ones and zeros ) 
 . 

when fixed media become , it is impossible to 
the media by the method. in this case , there are two 
alternate that may be used (1) the 
pack , and each with the appropriate approved 
equipment and (2) the media to the 
's , have the magnetic media (e . g .  . , platter ) 
removed in sight of the and returned to the for 
destruction at the secure site. the can then new 
and any other problems with the  . 

7 . 6 . 3 . destruction of magnetic media 

see computer security center , department of defense magnetic 
security , 85 for official use 
only 



this and many other interesting documents  ( many that are more 
than probably intended ) on computer security 
can be obtained  ( free ) from 


national telecommunications and 
systems security 
national security agency 
george g. , md 6000 

write them ! it 's fun to be on the 's mailing list .  .  .  . 


15 ad ac 3d 01 


from  ( eli brandt ) 
subject re the battle is joined 
organization college , , ca 
lines 13 

in article  ( phil karn ) writes 
it looks like 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the 
even sooner than we  . 

i 'd long odds that it was the other way around. clinton did n't 
just pull this plan out of any bodily the has to have 
been working on it for years. while it 's possible that  ( and 
other prominent people ) just happened to start arguing for such a 
system , it seems more likely that there was a suggestion involved. 
if this guess is wrong , i apologize .  . 

pgp 2 key by finger or e mail 


from  ( tim cuffel ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 11 

i change every couple of months. i sure would if i had 
to get a new station i wanted to do this. it seems that this 
is what they expect you to do if you want to routinely change your 
on your phone. i'm sure the government does n't mind , but a system 
where you can change  ( des ) has inherent security , 
regardless of the involved. 

tim finger for pgp 2 . 1 . the has admitted that the assassination 
of saddam hussien was one of their goals. 
they failed , of course. seems as though that through 
trick only works once. 

from  ( jeff w. hyche ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
reply to ! 

distribution na 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 16 
organization i'm just me. 

in article , al writes 

unrelated question .  .  . is . n't the term clipper , as neat as it is , 
already taken by 


yes , clipper is a of  . its the risc chip used 
in some of thier workstations .  . 

i wonder what is going to do to this on thier 
name sake 


jeff 
there can be only one ! 
x 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re proposal from police point of view 
in reply to 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993 05 46 03 gmt 
reply to 
organization brothers 
lines 16 


in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 

there has been extensive discussion in the forum , for example , about 
being used to develop information that could then lead to 
evidence. this might put a stop to such things , which must from 
time to time be simple  . 

far more likely , these things will continue to be done no matter what 
we are given. key is likely going to prove to be a 
joke. 


perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
organization dsi 
lines 18 

in article 
 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 


let me ask you this. would you trust richard nixon with your 
i would n't .  . 

i take it you mean president nixon , not private citizen nixon .  . sure. 
nothing i'm doing would be of the slightest interest to president nixon . 

david 



david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
distribution na 
lines 25 

dave wrote 
in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 
not to pick on mr. may in particular , of course , but is n't this 
kind of the theory when one little country falls , its neighbor 
will surely follow , and before you know it , we 're all salt 
in for not turning in our secret  . 

but , for all the of our attempt to correct it  ( vietnam , et .  . al . ) . , 
the theory was n't disproved at all. 

, the theory in fact was a reasonable metaphor for 
the collapse of communism , from the in poland and 
to the border in the summer of  89 to the fall of 
the later that year .  .  .  . and . then to the ultimate collapse of the 
ussr .  . 

tim may 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may anarchy , digital money , 
anonymous , digital , zero 
408 knowledge , , information , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . , ca black , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( perry e. metzger ) writes 
if the clipper chip can do cheap for the masses , obviously one 
could do the same thing without building in back doors. 

i agree. so why is the only  ( and expensive ) game in town 

note i think is great , and if my boss would double my , i 'd buy 
a bunch of their stuff ) .  . 

one thing that clipper is , at a higher degree of 
security than we currently have in non voice systems. 
this means it will be than anyone 's scheme , and easier to 
 . this is , of course , either a bug or a feature depending on how you 
look at it ) .  . 

indeed , even without special engineering , you can construct a good 
system right now. a standard chip , a chip to do , a des 
chip , a integrated , and a small processor to do 
glue work , are all you need to have a secure phone. 

great ! where can i buy it 

another note if clipper increases the incentive to bring stronger 
to the mass market , all the better. it 's far at 
the moment .  . 

yes , cheap is good but we do n't need it from the government. 

i do n't care where we need to get it from , i care where we can get it 
from , and whether it will with everyone else. 

indeed , were it not for the government doing everything possible to 
stop them , would have designed strong right in to 
the phone system they are  . were it not for the 
and company , cheap systems would be everywhere. as it 
is , they try every trick in the book to stop it. had it not been for 
them , i'm sure cheap secure would be out right now. 

you can build them right now as long as you do n't want to (a 
i firmly  . the only thing stopping people from making 
cheap is greed they want a lock on the market .  . 

they are n't the ones making cheap available. they are the ones 
keeping cheap out of people 's hands. when they hand you a 
clipper chip , what you are getting is a mess of your prize 
for having in your  . 

oh , come on. only if you trust it than it deserves .  . a clipper phone 
is not a for a phone , or a iii .  . it 's a 
for the voice in the back of radio  . 

are we getting 
for ourselves no , because the market would have provided that on its 
own had they not deliberately it. 

i disagree. , it 's not the government that has the 
market .  . 

someone please tell me what exactly we get in our social contract in 
exchange for giving up our right to strong cryptography 

can you tell me where exactly we have given up that right 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( bruce schneier ) 
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton 
organization public access unix 
lines 13 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 

here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an 
one make it voluntary .  . 

that is you get high quality secure classified technology if you agree 
to your key .  . otherwise you are on your own. 


as long as you are on your own means that you can use your own , 
i'm sold .  . 

bruce 

from  ( robert i. eachus ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 93 00 12 30 gmt 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the corp .  . , , ma .  . 

state . edu . 

lines 32 


 ( steven bellovin ) writes 

thousands tens of thousands do some arithmetic , please .  .  .  . 
has 2 80 possible  . let 's assume a brute force engine like that 
for des 1 per trial , 1 million  . that 's 
10 12 trials per second , or about 38 , 000 years for 2 80 trials .  . well , 
maybe they can get running at one trial per , and build 
a machine with 10 million  . sure only 3.8 years for each solution .  . 

but there is a much more problem with the scheme as 
proposed .  . building a brute force machine to test 2 40 possible 
if you have the other half from one is easy .  .  ( one chip , 
one test per gives you one break every two weeks , and that 
break gives you all messages involving that phone . ) . 

the scheme so that the files from one gives you 
nothing is an improvement , but notice that with  ( truely random ) 
bit allows for an arbitrary number of  . using 
for , for the key , and a and b for two random bit 
, hand a b , a , and b to three  . it is 
possible to come with an scheme to match any pattern , 
for example 3 of 4 , such that gives 
the cracking agency no benefit .  . 



robert i. 

with standard disclaimer 
use standard disclaimer 
function message  ( text in clever ideas ) return better ideas is .  .  .  . 

from  ( karl denninger ) 
subject re do we need the clipper for cheap security 
organization , chicago , il 
lines 39 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( graham toal ) writes 
 ( graham toal ) writes 

in the uk , it 's impossible to get approval to any device 
to the phone network.  ( anything that in to our phone 
must be approved for some reason devices just never are .  .  . ) . 


the difference between a v . and a v . 

i'm not being entirely silly here what i'm pointing out is that the 
modems that they have already approved for data will work 
just fine to voice .  . 

absolutely .  . i just meant that no secure dedicated device has 
ever been given approval .  . devices should be well 
possible with today 's high speed modems  ( not that i can think of many 
modems that are approved either mind you just the couriers ) 

can someone tell me if hardware is or is not needed to run 
digital speech down 14 . i think it is i 've heard it 's not. lets 
say 8 bit samples .  . would raw data at the rate 
be if not , how fancy does the need to be 

reasonably fancy .  . 

standard voice circuits run at inter exchange in the us. 
therefore , you need to achieve 4 1 to get standard voice quality .  . 

if you 're willing to give up some quality , you need only 2 1. this is still 
acceptable from a speech standpoint it will be a little less faithful to 
the original , but certainly  . that 's all you really need for 
this application .  . 


karl you can never please everyone except 
data line 1 by yourself. 
live internet in chicago an first ! 


from  ( nathaniel sammons ) 
subject re what the clipper sound like to me. 
distribution na 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state u. engineering college 
lines 39 

... a bunch of well meaning  ( maybe ) text about thread 
sizes , the rights of people to have their own standards , 
and the non right of the gov .  . to threads .  .  .  . 

well , as funny as your little comment may seem , it has very little to 
do with your personal as a citizen , and about the 
being able to look at everything you have ever typed into a computer 
at one point or another. 

this clipper chip stuff is the seeds for to make the 
on cheese on look like 
of mr. roger 's neighborhood .  . 

if the gov a cryptography standard that has to be used by 
everyone , and everyone 's personal key is divided into two 
and at two separate , easy to find places , and that key is 
only 80 bits to begin with , we are  ( pardon the to the 
mentioned article ) ! 

the gov , i believe , as do many others probably already have the cracking 
for this clipper chip made. hell , they probably based the on the 
chip that it , that way it 's easier to break the code , but since it is a 
classified , no one knows that they can crack it so easily. 

i , for one , and quite scared of this kind of thing , and plan to support 
organizations  ( and even disorganizations ) who are fighting against this 
clipper chip in any way that i can. 

i do not want the government to be able to have access , even with a search 
warrant , to my  .  .  . and i do n't want those to be only 80 bits long 
to begin with ! 



o o 
i hate quotations .  . this message brought you by 
tell me what you know. , and the number 42 .  . 
ralph 
o o 

from  ( nathaniel sammons ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state u. engineering college 
lines 33 

in article a. charles gross writes 
certainly , with our way cool internet powers of 
organization , we can act in the same way , if such action is appropriate. 

as long as we are kept informed of events , anyone on this can make 
a call to action. , we 're a strong enough community to act on 
those calls .  . i realize this is a little , and i'm glad is 
working in the loop on these issues , but do n't the 
potential of the net for political action. 

adam 
i speak for myself 

i second the motion. 

all in favor 

btw a few days ago , charles fee posted the names , 
addresses , and phone numbers  ( voice and fax ) of almost all the 
congress 's members .  . this info , along great number of men , etc .  .  .  . 
i captured it , as did many others , i am sure. 

we should single out a few of the people on the list , and them 
with lobbying against the clipper chip , et al. 




o o 
i hate quotations .  . this message brought you by 
tell me what you know. , and the number 42 .  . 
ralph 
o o 

from  ( hal murray ) 
subject re how do they know what to ask for  ( re clipper ) 
organization dec systems research center 
lines 8 

in article ,  ( brad templeton ) writes 
the actual is classified , however , their main thrust here is 
for , and is only over the radio end , not 
end to end , i think. end to end will come later. 

just the radio link does n't make sense to me. that means the 
has to do the , and hence they need the  . how are they going to be 
kept secure 

from  ( stephen r. tate ) 
subject re more technical details 
organization duke university computer science dept. , n . c .  . 
lines 23 

in article  ( germano caronni )  ( actually denning ) writes 
the seeds and do not change .  . 

let me see if i have this straight if a person knows and , 
and the serial number of the , it 's easy to uk .  . 
of course , if they know , the family key , they can easily get the 
serial number of any that has made a  . so with and 
being used for a while of the , the number of 
used pairs will probably be fairly low. of course , you have to 
believe that the fbi name your favorite government agency will 
know so all it needs is the pairs , and , nasty details 
like court orders for wire are no longer necessary. 

now , i'm not one of the people who the government at every 
turn , but taking someone 's word for it that the pairs are not kept 
around is pushing what i'm willing to believe just a little bit too far. 



steve the reason why mathematics enjoys special , 
dept. of computer science above all other sciences , is that its laws are 
duke university absolutely certain and , while those of all 
, nc other sciences are to some extent  .  ( einstein ) 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets 
lines 18 

from  ( rob stampfli ) 

separate to gain credibility .  . if they are and you are 
compelled to it , you simply explain that you are an amateur 
playing around with one time , and that the first 
file is the for the second .  . they the two files , and sure 
enough , out pops a copy of war and peace . 

so , judging from recent history , at this point they drop the original 
charges , find you guilty of , and 
your computer , your home , and your financial under federal 
laws .  . 

ah no what really happens is that they turn up at the court with 
another file which when with your document gives up the famous 
document ) and i tell you , some judges would fall for it .  .  .  . 

g 

from  ( free radical ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization college of cs , u 
distribution alt 
lines 21 

in article 
 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 
... 
with e mail , if they ca n't break your pgp , they 'll just 
call up one of their and read the 
from your computer or terminal .  . note that measures to protect yourself from 
surveillance are still classified , as far as i know. 

i do n't know about classified , but i do seem to remember that unless 
you 're by the govt , it 's illegal to your 
equipment. besides , effective is much more 
difficult than you might think  ( hi jim ! ) .  . 



 ( rogue sod ! ) 

the is now funding research not only in cryptography , but in all areas 
of advanced mathematics .  . if you 'd like a circular describing these new 
research opportunities , just pick up your phone , call your mother , and 
ask for one. 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re safety measure 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 23 

 ( tim cuffel ) writes 

there is no that the deleted space would be during 
 . likely , but no  . a quicker and more secure method 
would be a file that all of your free space .  . for example 
fill . 
1 out 
fill . 
 ( this is off the top of my head. include disclaimer . h . ) 

it is much easier , , and probably even more secure to use 
6 . 0 .  ( i'm talking ibm pc here ) and to tell to  ( a ) 
clean the free space and  ( b ) clean the slack space at the end of 
the files. use to government standard option for more careful 
 .  .  . 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from state . edu .  ( james r ebright ) 
subject re proposal from police point of view 
nntp posting host bottom . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 34 

in article writes 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 

there has been extensive discussion in the forum , for example , about 
being used to develop information that could then lead to 
evidence. this might put a stop to such things , which must from 
time to time be simple  . 

far more likely , these things will continue to be done no matter what 
we are given. key is likely going to prove to be a 
joke. 

i feel like in 1941 (  .  .  .  .  .  .  . but , 
the clipper will , to the extent key is legitimate , stop 
most of the abuse of by local cops , company cops , angry husbands 
wives , etc .  .  .  . it is going to be hard for the cops , the 
cops , etc. to even a product as flawed as the  . 

now i admit , i am hard pressed to find anything else good to say about it 
except that , if it actually takes off , someone will certainly come up with 
a real chip  ( pin ! ) that we can buy .  .  .  . unless , of course , 
big brother makes it illegal to have real  cause good honest law 
citizens will be happy to let the government listen to their 
every word .  .  .  .  . me did i say that 

i am not a  . president richard m. nixon 



information at .  .  .  . for phone finger a a 
the ohio state university state . edu .  ( 0 0 ) 
jim e mail 
( ) 

from  ( robert i. eachus ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 03 26 23 gmt 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the corp .  . , , ma .  . 
lines 52 

in article  ( carl m. kadie ) writes 

clipper might be a good way to cover the use of another of 
 . 

but , if you are making equipment in any case , why not just 
roll your own clipper implementation and report the wrong to the 
agency  ( tells us who is going to be in the chip business if 
this thing goes through , and those with something to hide from 
) . 

if anyone can verify that your phone is not using the key 
to that serial number , either 

1 ) they have a court ordered  . but what are they going to 
do tell the judge that this individual really does have 
all they know is that the are not enough , but not why. 

2 ) they have a court ordered on a phone in this series .  . 
 ( this part is really scary .  . since the expectation is that all 
in a particular will uses seeds based on the same and 
and the serial number , getting the for one of a may give 
access to all . ) . 

3) there is a which allows all messages to be 
without the  . i find this one especially threatening since the 
scheme seems very open to known attacks .  .  ( what i need to 
is the data in the  . if i talk to someone who has one 
of these , presumably there will be an automatically 
key generated .  . i'm not trying to the record of the 
conversation to know what was said , i use it as a known to 
the represented by the , but i know what the 
says for i participate in. even worse , if the 
in a series have related , i can buy a phone chip from the 
same lot. then i can its , either by 
talking to myself , or by brute force analysis of the actual chip , then 
apply the key generation process with those seeds to find the target 
) . 

hmmm ! i do n't think i want to ever come close to these  . 
even des is starting to look good. two and a string will provide 
much better security .  . 





robert i. 

with standard disclaimer 
use standard disclaimer 
function message  ( text in clever ideas ) return better ideas is .  .  .  . 

from  ( alan barrett ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
organization  . eng .  . , univ .  . , , s. africa 
lines 18 
nntp posting host ee . und . ac . 

in article , 
 ( jim hart ) writes 
since the chip is being internationally , 
allowing the u.s. government to on foreign governments , 
and people as as well as to domestic citizens , 
this is a world wide issue. please put distribution world on the 
line. thank you. 

no ! distribution keywords are case sensitive .  . what you want 
is 

distribution world 

or no distribution line at all. world in capital letters is wrong. 


, dept. of electronic eng .  . , univ .  . of , , south africa 


from  ( germano caronni ) 
subject re amendment and 
organization federal institute of technology  ( eth ) , , 
lines 28 

in article  ( jim mccoy ) writes 
i set up a bbs that uses public key and of 
files on  . the general setup is designed so that when users 
connect they send a private key using the system public 
key and the user 's public private is used to the 
one time used for the files on  . the 
result of this is that even if i reveal the system private key it 
is impossible for anyone to gain access to the files on the 
machine .  . what is possible is for someone to use the revealed 
system private key to users into revealing thier personal 
private during the sequence .  . 

any answers or general on the subject would be  .  .  . 


just a question. 
as a of a public bbs service are n't you bound by law to 
access to the data of the users on the bbs , if police comes 
with i guessed this would be a basic condition 
for such systems. (i did run a bbs some time ago , but that was in switzerland ) 

friendly , 


only through things they 're designed to  . 
space still contains infinite  . 
pgp key id 


from  ( tom horsley ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization harris computer systems division 
lines 27 
state . edu . 


nntp posting host harris . com . 
in reply to 's message of wed , 21 apr 1993 13 23 18 gmt 

i do n't like the key generation process any better than you do. 
however and are supposed to be under control of the same 
 . if they ca n't be trusted to keep the seed values secure , 
they ca n't be trusted to keep the half secure .  . 

i hope there is something i do n't understand about this system , but can 
someone tell me how these are going to be while maintaining 
each half key under total control of the separate do n't 
both of the key have to come together  ( in some form ) at the time 
the chip is constructed 

or is it built like a , with the chip being sent to the 1st 
agency to program its 1 2 key , then the 2nd agency to program its 
1 2 key  ( but who the that prevent the 2nd agency from 
reading the information already programmed by the 1st ) 

this is n't intended to be a flame or anything , i am just really curious 
how to manufacture these things while still maintaining the key 
security without simply saying trust the , they wo n't look . 


domain tom 
uucp ... ! uunet ! ! circle 
beach , 
censorship is the only form of 
 ( wait , i forgot government  .  . ) . 


from  ( tim russell ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
distribution na 
lines 18 

 ( geoffrey kuenning ) writes 

it always amazes me how quick people are to blame whatever 
is current for things they could n't possibly have 
initiated .  . this chip had to take years to develop , yet already 
we 're claiming that the clinton it in on us. 

no kidding. the most recent post i saw in alt . clipper .  ( and i 
hope anyone interested in this topic ends up there ) states that clipper 
has been in development for over four years. 

i am , however , more than a little po 'd that clinton put his name on 
this , or even allowed it to get out the door , for that matter. 
he 's already heard from me , and i hope you 'll all take the time to voice 
your extreme as well. 


tim russell omaha , 

from  ( ian ameline ) 
subject the people , is for hard core only 
organization c set 2 development , ibm canada lab .  . 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not those of ibm 
lines 33 

i suspect that this clipper thing could on the gov in a 
big  . i expect that products using these will them 
rather than them , since once the are handed over by the 
, the chip is so much garbage , and will need to be 
replaced .  . i expect that someone will come along with a pin compatible 
chip that uses secure possibly even disguised so that it 's 
not possible to tell it from the clipper chip until you try to use the 
2  . 

if i were to manufacture such a chip , as part of my 
strategy , i would try to subvert one or both either 
through or industrial and then the fact. 
 ( doing my best not to be connected with such activities which would 
likely not be legal ) publicly the would 
go quite far towards creating a market for a secure alternative .  . 

i also believe that someone will reverse engineer the clipper chip , 
and of the will likely be fairly widespread .  . any back 
doors or weaknesses would further discredit the scheme , and help grow 
the market demand for a secure alternative .  . 

i believe that the company that provides such an alternative will make 
few friends in the community , but lots of money. i also believe that 
the government will do it 's best to make such plug replacements illegal .  . 
i expect that they will see the same success in limiting the 
of such alternatives as they have seen in limiting the of 
certain illicit drugs ie .  . little to none. 

regards , 
 . 
 ( of course the above have nothing to do with my employer , nor 
do i necessarily advocate doing any of the things described here i 
just believe that the events above are likely to take place ) 

from  ( mel beckman ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization software engineering 
reply to 
distribution world 
x mailer release 1 . 
lines 35 


in article ,  ( brad templeton ) writes 
interestingly enough , in the , we may want to use some 
rather unusual technology , such as boxes of paper , or 
destructive read memory , rather than typical computer , which 
is fun for a of hundreds of millions of  . 


to me , a larger problem is that once , your could be used 
to any previously recorded  . i gather that from this 
proposal a warrant would be required to get the , but not to 
! consider the scenario where an agency 
all for certain people likely to be targets  ( and 
not necessarily legitimate targets ) , then for some unrelated 
incident that can a warrant 

your honor , we know that the suspect has received calls from noted 
crime figure said calls by the agency and we must 
therefore have this warrant to determine whether this suspect , in a 
sensitive govt post , is corrupt .  . 

i suppose that it is conceivable that there are involved 
somewhere , but that does n't seem likely if there are , why would n't the 
technical overview mention them when it goes to such details as the number 
of bits held by each authority 

this scheme is full of holes , and to high heaven. 

mel 


mel internet 
software engineering compuserve , 
, ca voice fax 

you can observe a lot just by watching .  . 

from  ( 1016 2ef221 ) 
subject powerful similarity too 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 

a unix tool of significance is available 
for anonymous ftp .  . 

2 . 0 . 4 . a fast approximate pattern matching tool 

source code project available from 

cs . arizona . edu . 

in directory 

is a very fast fuzzy search tool with a 
number of powerful search options .  . the one most obviously 
applicable to cryptography  ( key selection ) is to be able to 
the similarity of in the data .  . 

for example say you make up a phrase of . 
of course you suspect that this key itself is not 
in any dictionary or word list. but how close is it to 
en entry that could be by some crack program to 
brute force search for it 

you use to find out. looking with argument for none , 
one or two errors , no  . good so far. but 

3 

finds that the pattern is too close to the 
pattern  ( part of himself and a host of others ) , 
to be of any value as a key .  . 

an error of level two corresponds to a simple transposition of 
letters like teh for the . a acceptable 
would have to pass as least level 3 in order not immediately 
ruled out as even a remote possibility of being a good  . 
 ( in real use , my personal clear at 
least level 8 on my rather large 80 word and phrase lists . ) . 


and for searching for key words in human typed data  ( lots o  
typos ) the tool is  . for example , for example , 
say i want to find out what people think about gibson 's 
sf book in the huge sf lover 's archives .  . 
even with an error distance as small as 
of 1 i will find all those people who think the title 
was or other common typos .  . why miss anything 

also , the program can look for up to 30 , 000 patterns in parallel 
at  ( sublinear )  . great for a 
to look for your name , names , special or 
religious words , etc. in the news or e mail  . 

you can even search for by using , say , 30 , 000 
random three combinations and eliminate all texts that 
do n't score the x square  birthday  on message size y .  . 

you think some terrorist is try to you by changing 
the pattern on you no problem. try p to find 
, national security agency , , no such agency , 
national scrabble association , n s a , etc. 

you can also fixed areas looking for license 
when you know that the letters are correct , 
you might say 

2 123 

will find all plates starting with with up to two errors 
 ( addition , , deletion ) in the number area. you can 
also weight the relative cost for , additions , 
or deletion errors. for example , when searching dna patterns 
for a particular protein combination , you might know that 
some kinds of damage cause the a to drop out more 
than other errors .  .  .  . you could for this bias by setting 
where you set the deletion cost to count as c errors. 

a use (i even used 2 e 
just now to find the correct ! ) would be to intentionally 
introduce errors of a certain type and magnitude into a 
and then later the it via an  . lots of 
possibilities here when only outlaws can have  .  .  . 

also with 's powerful options it makes it easy 
to abstract the into a useful form. for example , 

d from  pgp  ( passphrase nsa)' ) 

says output the entire mail record , by  from  
that contains  pgp  and contains either   , 
  , or  . 

and has been measured an order of magnitude 
than the second best similarity tool publicly available. 

as usual , i will be glad to e mail the source and 
to those who them by e mail if they cannot do 
an anonymous ftp .  . 

get this now. 
it is too powerful to stay in the hands of the  . 


ward , to the  ( and proud of it) 


15 ad ac 3d 01 


from  ( thomas grant edwards ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park 
lines 25 
distribution na 
nntp posting host umd . edu . 

in article  ( andrew molitor ) writes 
in article graham writes 
actually , i am completely baffled by why has chosen 
to away her academic like this. 

actually , i 've been following her remarks for some time , with 
interest .  . i'm also a member of , and her remarks have nothing 
but her in my eyes. it remains to be seen whether 
you are the radical fringe , or i. 

it is generally an error to assume that your beliefs are held by 
the majority , or even a minority .  . especially when you 're seeing 
tens , , of people on usenet with you. 

the people on usenet are clearly a special bunch .  . we live the net , which 
is the future of our culture .  . have electronic access to 
information. society in general must depend on  . 

i can only hope we can make this information by the public before 
the radical fringe , which is the majority , destroys the fabric of 
this country. freedom is never easily won .  . 

thomas 



from  ( carl ellison ) 
subject re white house public fact 
organization stratus computer , software engineering 
lines 25 
distribution na 
nntp posting host sw . stratus . com . 

in article  ( clipper chip announcement ) writes 

and use of devices 

... 

the general will and devices to 
the extent needed to preserve the government 's ability to conduct 
lawful electronic surveillance and to fulfill the need for secure 
law enforcement communications .  . further , the general 
shall funds from the department of justice 
super to effect this  . 


talk about adding insult to injury ... 

i , for one , believe that the use of civil should be abolished by 
a decent , not continued .  . instead , it looks like that 
ill gotten gain will be used to help pay for equipment. 


disclaimer all opinions expressed are my own , of course. 

stratus computer inc. 2 tel  ( 508)460 ) 
55 ma fax  ( 508)624 ) 

from  ( perry e. metzger ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
in reply to 's message of 17 apr 1993 13 10 00 gmt 
reply to 
organization brothers 

distribution na 
lines 24 


in article  ( louis a. mamakos ) writes 

in article  ( timothy c. may ) writes 

but is it any worse than the current system it becomes much 
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 

excuse me this has already happened. there 's a couple of in 
the already. ask the folks at what became of the 
non trivial scheme they proposed for use in their 
phone standard there already are restrictions in 
place. 

you have it slightly wrong. they the system because 
they could not it not because they could not produce it for 
u.s. use. there are no legal on citizen use of strong 
cryptography yet. 

perry 

,  . va de meme .  . 

from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject re off the shelf cheap des machine 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 16 

in article ,  . j. bernstein ) writes 
in article  ( steven bellovin ) writes 
and key size is one of the things that can be 
verified  . 

gee .  . say they feed the 80 bit key through 8 and take the first 60 
bits of the result , then use those 60 bits as the real key .  . how do you 
figure out that each key is one of 2 20   you can try a 
birthday attack , but if the key can be changed only once a second then 
you will need several lifetimes to get reliable statistics .  . 

you 're right , and i retract the suggestion .  . still , i wonder .  . that 
there are only 60 bits of key information should , in principle , be 
detectable .  . maybe some variant of the et al. did to 
demonstrate that des was probably not a group it should make an 
interesting paper a black box analysis of a  . 

from  ( steven bellovin ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
distribution 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( ken shirriff ) writes 
imagine all pay phone , so if someone turns out 
to be a drug , you can listen to all their past drug deals .  . and 
archive calls to from suspected members , potential , 
, etc. imagine the convenience for the police of being able to 
get a warrant now and listening to all the calls the world trade center 
bombers made in the past year .  . 

since would be such a powerful tool and so easy to do , why 
would n't it happen 

apart from the and search requirements , because the evidence 
is require a warrant .  . and as soon as one 
such case comes to light , all previous cases are likely to be discovered , 
and thrown out. there was an article in the ny times a few months ago 
about how many convictions in the state might be because 
they relied on pen and the court of appeals ruled that 
pen were equivalent to , and hence required warrants 
under new york law. 

from 
subject non word 
organization department of computer science , university of york , england 
lines 10 

does anyone know of a non word program 
for pc 's i.e. it will produce a nonsense word but still 
be  . e.g. 

wanted to force users to adopt more secure , 
but still be memorable ! 

thanks george 

p.s. please email me as well if possible 

subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
distribution na 
organization , inc. 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 60 

in  ( david sternlight ) writes 

in article  ( shaen bernhardt ) writes 


i wish i could agree with you. ask yourself this. why would any private 
entity wish to buy a system that was known to be at least 
 ( key in this instance ) why would any 
private entity wish to buy a system that had not been properly 
evaluated (i . e .  . not publically released ) 
the answer seems obvious to me , they would n't .  . there is other hardware out 
there not  . des as an example  ( triple des as a better one . ) . 

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no 
flames , please. it comes out of a background of 20 years as a 
in two 50  . 

no wonder american are going down the ! 

i 'd be happy to use a system by the for business , if 
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular to 
attempts by japanese , french , and other and 
governments to break .  . 

 ( it 's , not  . is not supposed to have anything to do with this . ) . 
they did n't say that. they said is was better than some grade 
 . i , for one , would n't trust them if they did , unless they 
release the for investigation .  . 

i 'd be happy to do so even with , provided i was happy about 
the of the  ( the federal reserve would certainly 
me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting  . 

maybe the and  .  ( it would have to be a non profit , so the big 8 
would be out . ) . 

i 'd trust the or the president if they stated there were no trap 
doors i 'd be even if a of independent examined 
the thing under of secrecy and reported back that it was secure .  . 

i would n't trust the  . i think i would trust the president on this , but 
i'm not certain he would be told .  . 

i 'd trust something from the long before i 'd trust something from some 
or anybody japanese .  . 

that 's your problem. 

this may seem surprising to some here , but i suggest most would 
feel the same way. most many some  ( pick one) have an attitude 
that the is part of our government and we support our government , as 
one very famous put it to me one day. 

i want to the i am not speaking for at this 
point. however , we are an international company , and i would like to think 
that our come first , ahead of our government 's  . 

l. a  ( work ) 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( jim hart ) 
subject the people , is for hard core only 
summary  ( we need for , not computer bound station ) 
article i.d. 
organization open communications forum 
lines 48 

since the chip is being internationally , 
allowing the u.s. government to on foreign governments , 
and people as as well as to domestic citizens , 
this is a world wide issue. please put distribution world on the 
line. thank you. 

 ( the jester ) writes 

however assuming that i can still things as i please , who 
cares about the clipper chip 

you do n't care that people are being lied to , into believing 
the chip gives when it fact it allows you 
do n't give a shit about anybody 's except your own  ( and 
not even your own are you so smart that you know when you 're talking to 
somebody who has a chip on their phone instead of a 
chip with private ) 

attitude that everyone else should have. instead of worrying about a 
clipper chip , simply connect your to your computer and feed 
the voice single through , process , , and over the 
phone. the guy on the other hand then does the same in reverse .  . 

simply everyone should have this attitude the only people 
who can have this attitude are the most hard core 
computer , who never make phone calls away from their 
computer , who apparently never call anybody except another computer 
hacker , or perhaps another spook s .  . classified refuse to use 
their own system , only civilian get that dubious  . 
only and hard core need , huh 

we do need an alternative to , but 
we 're talking here , including hand 
, that need strong , real  . make shift 
computer hacker that require living by your computer to 
talk privately over the phone are just a that does n't 
do anything for anybody 's in the real world. 

what we need is a true chip . for example , a real time 
voice , put it into a silicon and out  . 
put this chip on the market as a de facto standard for international 
business , , and private communications .  . if the u.s. 
it , we make it somewhere else and import it. the japanese , german , 
, , , etc. do n't want the 
on them. u.s. workers lose more jobs to government 
stupidity .  . 



from  ( harry shapiro ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization public access unix , 
lines 65 

in  ( jurgen botz ) 
writes 

even more interesting the server at gov . no longer 
the   and   commands .  .  .  . 

gov . 
trying 129 . 6 . 54 . 11 .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
first . org . 4 . 1 . ready at tue , 20 apr 93 17 01 34 edt 
clipper 
command 

seems like did n't like your around ,  . 

then it is a good thing we already have this 

the mailing list gov . , and address on 
the clipper mailing list , seems to contain basically the members of 
the security board. 

in addition to the names already posted , their true names are as 
follows 

james a director of 's national computer 
systems 

f. lynn an associate director for computer 
security at the national institute of standards and technology 's 
computer systems 

is director of the 
secure systems program at wang laboratories inc. he wrote computer 
security basics by russell and g. t. ,  . 1991 , 
o and 

is vice president of 
information security at , n . a .  . 

is corp .  . 's director of information 
systems. 

patrick , director of the 
national security agency 's national computer security center and a 
security board member 

stephen walker a computer security expert and 
president of trusted information systems , inc. in , md 

h. a the corp .  . who 
the security board. 

william is a security board 
member and director of ibm corp .  . 's data security programs. 



list administrator of the institute mailing list 
private for the community since 1991 



list administrator of the institute mailing list 
private for the community since 1991 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
lines 29 

 ( pat myrto ) writes 

can you , while my mind is on it , give us one good reason that the 
should be a secret , unless this scheme 
either is a joke , or contains features like a  master key  or other back 
door for 

hmm , here are a couple 

1 ) if the becomes known , it will be easy to produce 
pin compatible non crippled that provide real and 
, because their are only in their users  hands. 

2 ) since is a key , it needs some way to 
agree on a key .  . the released information says that any 
may be used (e . g .  . ,  . from a point of view , 
this is probably true. however , from a practical point of view , those 
must have some kind of key exchange built in. what if 
it is good old this will mean that the will have to pay 
lots of to  . by keeping the details secret this can be 
avoided .  .  .  . 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( steve kramarsky ) 
subject re keeping your mouth shut  ( was hard drive security ) 
keywords 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 43 

in article  ( phil karn ) writes 


i say in theory because in another case , a woman was held in 
for refusing to reveal the of her child even after 
taking the  . in this case , the woman was suspected of having 
murdered the kid , so taking the was n't surprising .  . sure , so she 
was probably guilty , but that 's not good enough. in our system you 're 
not supposed to be able to force a suspect to confess to a crime , no 
matter how strongly you think they 're guilty .  . you have to develop 
your evidence independently .  . doing otherwise might a few more 
, but only at the cost of turning the back to the middle 
ages , when were routinely tortured out of both 
guilty and innocent .  . 

ok , i should have read the thread before posting my own 0 . 02 .  . i would 
just add to 's very discussion the following the 
amendment applies only in cases. (  .  .  . nor . shall any person . 
. . be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself .  .  .  . ) .  . 
thus if the father for of the children , the case would be 
civil and the mother would not have amendment protection. 
enough , her refusal to give information in a civil case can lead to 
criminal charges  ( thus landing her in jail . ) . the interesting part 
of all this is that in a murder trial , the woman can the as 
to the of the child this is  . a computer crime 
prosecution thus would seem to be ground for this kind of defense , 
where a suit by a party injured by would not. if i am accused , 
for example , of sending over the the should 
protect my key .  . if i am accused of sending material , however , 
it will not  ( copyright not being a crime in the 
technical sense . ) . the really tricky question is , say i do both  ( naughty 
boy that i am ) can the government use the information gained in the civil 
trial  . my key ) to gain access to my files for use in the criminal 
prosecution .  . the answer should certainly be no , but lord only knows how 
this would work out. 

steve .  . 



steve , university of chicago law school 
or 
all i did was a girl .  . , the night before his hanging .  . 

from  ( steve wu ) 
subject 93 final call 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 
nntp posting host edu . 


 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 93 conference announcement final call for papers 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

the conference , sponsored by the international 
association for research  ( iacr ) , in with 
the computer society technical on security and , 
the computer science department of the university of california , santa 
, and bell northern research (a of northern telecom ) , 
will be held on the campus of the university of california , santa , 
on august 22 26 , 1993 .  . original research papers and technical talks 
are on all practical and aspects of  . it is 
that some talks may also be presented by special invitation of the 
program  . 

instructions for authors authors are requested to send 12 copies of a 
detailed abstract  ( not a full paper ) by april 26 , 1993 , to the program chair 
at the address given below. a limit of 10 pages of type  ( not counting 
the bibliography or the title page ) is placed on all  . 
must arrive on time or be no later than april 21 , 1993 and sent by 
in order to receive consideration by the program  . it is 
required that start with a statement of the problem 
addressed , the solution proposed , and its significance to , 
appropriate for a non reader .  . technical development directed to 
the should follow as needed .  . 

that have been to other that have 
are not for submission .  . 

must be anonymous .  . this means that names and of 
authors should only appear on the title page of the submission it should 
be possible to remove this page and send the papers to program 
members .  . a style file that produces output in this format is available by email from the program chair .  . 

authors will be informed of acceptance or rejection in a letter on 
or before june 21 , 1993 .  . a compilation of all accepted will be 
available at the conference in the form of pre  . authors of 
accepted will be allowed to submit revised versions for the 
pre  . a revised abstract should contain only minor changes and 
corrections to the originally abstract .  . all revised must 
be received by the program chair by 16 , 1993 .  . the 10 page limit will be 
strictly enforced for the pre  . 

complete conference are expected to be published in springer 
's lecture notes in computer science series at a later date , pending 
 . 

the program consists of 

d.  ( chair , nebraska ) 
m.  ( ibm t. j. watson ) e.  ( technion , israel ) 
e.  ( sandia national labs ) j.  ( at t bell labs ) 
r.  ( ucsd ) a.  ( at t bell labs ) 
t.  ( ntt , japan ) b.  ( hildesheim , germany ) 
r.  ( r3 , switzerland ) s.  ( waterloo , canada ) 

send to the program chair 

douglas r. ,  93 
computer science and engineering department 
115 hall , university of nebraska 
lincoln , usa 
telephone  ( 402 ) 
fax  ( 402 ) 
internet 

for other information , contact the general chair 

paul c. van ,  93 
bell northern research  ( mail stop 000 ) 
 . 
, ontario canada 
telephone  ( 613 ) 
fax  ( 613 ) 
internet 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 93 general information  ( august 22 26 , 1993 ) 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

the program 93 is the in a series of on 
held at santa , and is sponsored by the international 
association for research , in with the 
computer society technical on security and , the computer 
science department of the university of california , santa , and 
bell northern research (a of northern  . the program 
for the will cover all aspects of  . extended of 
the papers presented at the conference will be to all 
at the conference , and formal will be published at a later date. 

in addition to the regular program of papers or invited by the 
program , there will be a on tuesday evening for 
informal  . facilities will also be provided for to 
demonstrate hardware , software and other items of interest .  . 
if you wish to demonstrate such items , you are to contact the general 
chair so that your needs will be attended to. the social program will include 
parties on sunday and monday .  . in addition , there will be a 
beach on evening. the price of the is included 
in the room and board charge , and extra may be purchased .  . 

about the conference facilities the will be held on the campus of 
the university of california , santa  . the campus is 
to the santa airport and the  . are 
available in the university at relatively low cost for conference 
participants .  . children under the age of 13 are not allowed to stay in the 
, so those bringing small children will need to make separate 
in one of several nearby  . more information on is 
 . on campus is available at no cost to the participants .  . 
however , participants must indicate on the form if they desire 
a  . 

travel information the campus is approximately 2 from the 
santa airport , which is served by several airlines , including 
american , america west , delta , united , and us air. free service 
will be provided between the santa airport and the campus on sunday 
and thursday  . all major car are also represented 
in santa , and has to san francisco from the 
north and los from the south .  . santa is approximately 100 
north of los airport , and south of san francisco .  . 

participation is invited by interested parties , but 
at the is limited , and pre is strongly advised .  . late 
, subject to a late fee , may be accepted if space 
is available , but there are no  . to , fill out the attached 
form and return to the address on the form along with in 
full before 9 , 1993 .  . campus will be available on a first 
come , first serve basis for who by 9 , 1993 .  . the 
conference include participation in the program and all social functions , 
as well as membership to the and a to the journal of 
 . the room and board charges include and 
from on sunday to lunch on thursday .  . technical will run 
from monday morning to thursday at noon .  . a very limited number of 
are available to those unable to obtain funding .  . applications for 
should be sent to the general chair before june 4 , 1993 .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 93  93 form 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
9 , 1993 

last name 

first name sex  ( m )  ( f ) 



mailing address 







phone fax 

electronic mail 

of the conference fee you to membership in the international 
association for research for one year at no extra charge , 
including a to the journal of , published by springer 
, at no extra charge .  . do you wish to be an member yes no 

the conference fee also includes the conference when they become 
available , containing final versions of conference papers .  . the book of 
extended at the conference will contain only 
preliminary versions of these papers  ( maximum 10  . 

conference fee regular ( 280 ) us 
attended 93 , norway ( 230 ) 
full time student ( 190 ) 
50 if you do not wish 
total conference fee us 

room and board  ( 4 nights ) non 
single room ( per person ) 
double room ( per person ) 
's name 

extra ( 20 each one is included in room and board ) 
40 late fee for after 9 
not guaranteed after 9 

total funds s .  . dollars ) us 

must be by check in u.s. funds , by money order in u.s. funds , 
or by u.s. bank draft , to  . should be to the 
general chair 
paul c. van , 93 
bell northern research  ( mail stop 000 ) 
 . 
, ontario canada 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
 93 information 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

for those who choose not to stay in the , the following is a 
list of in the area. those who choose to stay off campus are 
responsible for making their own , and early are 
advised since august is a popular in santa  . note that 
is closer to than santa , but that a car will probably be 
required to travel between any and the campus .  . all are subject 
to change should be confirmed by calling the individual 
directly .  . however , mention 93 when you are making your and 
in several of the listed you will be for the university rate 
which can be less than the normal rates. we are not able to 
block in these , so please make as early as 
possible. the quality of the range from rather expensive beach front 
resorts to basic  . for further information , try 
the santa and center ,  ( 805 )  . 

south coast real , , ca  . regular single 89 , 
double 94 call for university rates. contact at 
 ( 805 ) or free at  ( 800 )  . 

cathedral real , santa ,  . single not 
available , double start at including no university rates. 
call tom at  ( 805 ) or free at  ( 800 )  . 

6 real , , ca  . single 33 . , double 39 . , 
no university rate available. call  ( 505 ) 891  . 

the state st. , santa , ca  . regular 
single or double , 94 for king size , university rate 65 .  . call jean 
at  ( 805 ) or free at  ( 800 )  . 

 ( beachfront ) 3 south of santa on u.s. at 
san  . regular 70  . no university rates. call 
 ( 805 )  . 

pepper tree state st. , santa , ca  . regular 
for two people , university 102 for two people. call 
at  ( 805 ) or free at  ( 800 )  . 

street , santa , ca  . regular 
for two people , no university rates. call at 
 ( 805 ) or free at  ( 800 )  . 

quality , santa , ca  ( close to  . 
regular single , double 145 , university double 
 ( must mention you are a  . call michael at 
 ( 805 )  . 

 ( bed and breakfast ) de la road , santa , 
ca  . university rate 85  ( mention you are from  . call 
at  ( 805 )  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 





... on the water , fire in 
the sky .  .  .  . on the water .  . 
 ( 36 guitar solo ) 
deep , the best 

from  ( ben aveling ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization computer science , monash university , australia 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 12 

andrew richard conway wrote 

p.s. i ca n't work out why the us government does n't want to sell 
them  . after all , they are rather easy for us interests to , 
so make a perfect tool for industrial military  .  . 
anyone stupid enough to buy it into a false sense of security .  . you will 
notice that there is no mention anywhere about safety for non americans .  . 

do n't forget , you are in the country that would n't let the russians 
buy apple ii 's because of security concerns .  . 

ben ( ) 

from  ( jeff makey ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization laboratories , inc. , san diego , california 
lines 15 

in article graham writes 
i am completely baffled by why has chosen 
to away her academic like this. 

she has n't .  . has spent many years the 
respect of her colleagues , and something won in this 
manner is not easily lost. her support of the clipper no matter 
how unpopular that position may be serves far more to enhance the 
clipper 's than to her own. 

jeff 

department of and department 
disclaimer all opinions are strictly those of the author. 
domain uucp ! ! 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 17 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( timothy c. may ) writes 
but is it any worse than the current system it becomes much 
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper to 
argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 

i agree. this is the danger i see , not the system itself. that is to say , 
this is a political issue , not a technical one. 


walker 
systems corporation 






from  ( peter ilieve ) 
subject re clipper chip and key 
organization information systems ltd , east , scotland 
lines 70 

excerpts from the clipper announcement , with some questions 

the ability of to access telephone 
calls and data , under proper court or other legal 
order , when necessary to protect our citizens 

q suppose a law enforcement agency is conducting a on 
a drug and a conversation 
using the device. what would they have to do to 
the message 

a they would have to obtain legal , normally a 
court order , to do the in the first place. they 
would then present documentation of this to 
the two entities responsible for the and 
obtain the for the device being used by the drug 
 . the key is split into two parts , which are 
in order to ensure the security of the key 
system. 

in these two sections the phrases other legal order  and a 
court order  imply there is some other way or ways of doing a legal 
 . what is are these how do they affect the way people who trust the 
system of court orders to protect them feel about this system 

the second section shows the sequence of events. 
the law , armed with his warrant , his to the 
line with his  ( remember , these are the folk who could n't 
with digital telephony ) and hears a load of like  ( we are 
talking  . 
what next what scheme do these clipper boxes use 
is it possible to record the for use after the are obtained 
i thought it was quite difficult to record a at some 
point on the line. maybe they have taken a crash course 
in data and have a that the and stores the 
digital for later. this would still suffer from the 
same problems as trying to record the as the would not 
be at one end of the line. if calls ca n't be recorded for later 
it would be quite easy to the system by buying lots of clipper units 
 ( these are supposed to be cheap mass market items ) and using them in turn. 

how tolerant is the scheme to errors these things are proposed 
for use by us to secure their foreign offices , where phone 
line quality may well be poor. it seems hard enough to me to get 
speech of any quality into something a can handle without having to 
add lots of error correction to keep the in  . 

q will the devices be will other devices that use 
the government hardware 

a voice devices are subject to control 
requirements .  . ... one of the 
of this technology is the protection it can give 
to u.s. operating at home and  . with this 
in mind , we expect will be granted on a 
case by case basis for u.s. seeking to use these 
devices to secure their own communications  . 
... 

this raises an question in the uk .  . here it is illegal to connect 
anything to a public network without it being approved by a body 
called  . it has been stated , either here or in the uk . group , 
that they will not approve equipment that does  . i do n't know 
if this is true or not , but this would make a good test case. 
perhaps  countries , and the uk may still qualify , will get 
to fish in the key pool as well. 


peter 


from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re let 's build software for over the internet .  .  .  . 
lines 27 

i an old posting about speech 

in case you 'd like to experiment with , you can obtain a software 
implementation of the fed for free 

the u.s. 's federal standard based code 
prediction voice version 3 . 2 .  ( celp 3 . and c source 
codes are now available for distribution at no charge  ( on dos 
, but to on sun stations ) from 

i 've since been told that the source of this is on com . 
in pub speech . z . 

i'm not in a position to any sun out there who think they 
can marry this with by the end of the week ) seriously. i 
think someone with real net access and two could have this running 
by the end of the week. then we ask the pgp guys to add a 
filter .  . two weeks at the most. damn , i wish i had my 
back .  .  .  . i'm stuck on a 


share and enjoy ! 

g 
ps you 'll have to use to find i have a copy but no note 
of where it 's from author in the is and he 
appears to be in france 

from  ( rita rouvalis ) 
subject re sorry folks  ( read this) 
originator 
nntp posting host org . 
organization 
distribution na 
lines 15 

in article  ( marc anderson ) writes 

i just found out from my source that this article was a joke.  .  . 
it seemed pretty damn convincing to me from the start i just did n't 
notice the at the end of the article , and there were a few other 
hints which i should of caught. 

people took this article seriously i mean , i know it 's the 
net and all , but the did n't even have clinton 's sound 
right. 






from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re fighting the clipper 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 9 
nntp posting host access . net . 

as a flaming libertarian ( ) , i at a loss for 
specific objections that do n't sound technical .  . 

the idea that foisting the chip standard on us would 
result in saying to yet another high tech market is n't technical , 
is n't in the least difficult to understand , and plays on a concern lots of 
people are worried about already .  .  .  .  . 



subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
distribution na 
organization , inc. 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 33 

in  ( david sternlight ) writes 

in article 
 ( karl barrus ) writes 


would you trust a black box from the versus an open system from 
elsewhere 

absolutely , if i were assured by someone i trusted that the black box was 
more secure .  . i have nothing to conceal from the government , but i would like 
to be sure that any , japanese , french , or other for my 
services ca n't read my traffic .  . i 'd like to be sure that 
information was safe from and foreign governments 
which would aid them. 

i believe the has identical motivations with respect to my activities. 
the president and many other government have made it very 
clear that they share these motivations .  . thus i 'd trust them on the 
coincidence of interests argument as well as on a basic trust in their 
and a high in their skills. 

david 

david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 

nothing but errors and here ! 


l. a  ( work ) 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re would clipper make a good cover for other method 
lines 22 

from  ( brad yearwood ) 

assume in this case the usual adversary of  . they 
probably have more cash than the did , and they 're probably more generous 
at handing it out. it will be easier than ever to find or 
and for the , and it will be easy enough to find someone to 
reverse engineer the chip  ( unless the is damned clever and 
 . 

if the really believes big time drug are the threat 
 ( personally i thought it was the and the air force that did all the real 
drug ) ) then they ought to take this seriously unlike the 
, drug can make a most convincing argument for help 
us and we 'll be nice and give you some money , do n't help us and we 'll start 
cutting off your favourite body parts 

after all , it was probably an argument like that that persuaded jack to 
shoot in full view of the police .  . life in jail probably seems much 
more preferable to most people than several weeks of something nasty 
followed by no life at all .  .  .  . 

g 

from  ( arthur melnick ) 
subject big brother  ( clipper ) chip 
summary some thoughts on the use of the big brother  ( clipper ) chip 
keywords clipper 
nntp posting host well . sf . ca . us . 
organization the whole earth  link , , ca 
lines 57 


there are some issues which come to mind when one considers 
the law enforcement aspects of the use of the big brother 
 ( clipper ) chip .  . 
the drug and are n't going to let 
themselves be caught by using this type of  . in 1985 
the new york times reported that government broke 
up a that was operating highly sophisticated 
equipment capable of allowing the leaders of the to 
on the law enforcement who were trying to arrest 
them. 
a mr. , an official , said there are a lot of 
medium countries that would have been proud to have the 
intelligence operation of this group. 
for every john there are probably many more people who 
have the to know what the risks of 
communications are. the press given to the big brother chip will 
only increase their numbers. 
even if there is some benefit to law enforcement through the 
use of big brother , it must be weighed against the constitutional 
and civil liberties questions involved. 
for example , in some areas of the world torture is used as 
an tool by the local law enforcement people. i 
suspect it is an effective means of obtaining information and 
many  . it probably also helps keep the 
conviction rate high. 
the fact that the torture tool is not used in this country 
 ( even with a court order obtained by showing probable cause ) is 
because we have balanced the questions of and 
what is and morally right. 
i think that the same question of versus morality 
should come into play when considering the use of big brother .  . i 
vote for morality .  . 
i am quite by what i interpret as a veiled threat 
to the use of all if this big brother chip is 
not put into wide spread use. after a quick reading of the white 
house press release i came away with that impression .  . 
to most of the american public , the word hacker has 
or wrongly come to mean high tech . 
it has me that most of the people posting to sci . 
regarding this issue are intelligent , individuals who 
have genuine concerns about the and constitutional issues 
surrounding big brother .  . i hope that the use of big brother does 
not become mandatory and other become illegal .  . i 
would hate to see this become some kind of high tech 
act. 
the high speed digital communications revolution is coming 
at us with the speed of an  . the times they are a changing , 
and just as ibm is learning that they ca n't do business the same 
way they have done it for the past 40 years , maybe should 
another approach. 
, who have correctly questioned the 
strength of big brother , may need to send a stronger message out 
regarding the constitutional issues involved. 
al may want to think this one through a little more. 
and as for en 
, 

from  ( john kelsey ) 
subject competing standard 
nntp posting host missouri . edu . 
organization university of missouri 
lines 22 

perhaps one way of getting away from this chip that the u.s. 
government seems to be pushing would be to come up with a good alternative .  . 
for example , how about a scheme using , and some of des and 
another strong  ( maybe idea cfb ) this could be 
the same as the chip , except that instead of key , the 
police could demand that you give up your secret key to them  ( with a court 
issued  . then , they could read the last few months of 
messages you 've sent , and assuming you 've committed no crimes , you could 
generate a new key pair and go about your business. i find that i 'd be 
willing to pay for the right to use such a system , especially given the 
alternative .  . if you were unwilling to give up your secret key , then you 'd 
probably stay in jail  ( has anyone got a real legal precedent for this ) .  . 
this would allow court issued warrants to be used to gather information 
on suspected criminals , but it could n't be done in secrecy , and there 
would be less likelihood of corruption or theft of  . 
 ( maybe someone from the law enforcement or intelligent community will correct 
me , but this does n't seem like such a big loss in terms of law enforcement 
capabilities . ) . 

any comments 

john kelsey 

from  ( edward bertsch ) 
subject re i have seen the lobby , and it is us 
organization minnesota center , , mn 
lines 18 

i agree that your elected of your feelings on this 
 ( and any other , for that matter ) issue is the way to go. and by the 
way , the phone s on the list posted the other day were all in washington 
d . c .  . for most of you , your elected will also maintain 
a local office in your area code. 

when i   my elected , i use their local office 's 
exclusively , and my fax and print capture software are 
my tool of choice. they see my words as i have stated them , rather 
than a summary as they would if i called in voice and left a 
comment with the office  . 



edward a. minnesota center , inc. 
user services 1200 washington avenue south 
 ( 612 ) work , minnesota 
 ( 612 ) voice mail disclaimer my opinions not s 

from  ( louis a. mamakos ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
organization the university of maryland , college park 
lines 14 
nntp posting host umd . edu . 

in article  ( timothy c. may ) writes 

but is it any worse than the current system it becomes much 
worse , of course , if the government then uses this clinton clipper 
to argue for restrictions on  .  ( this is the main 
concern of most of us , i think. the 's nose in the , etc . ) . 

excuse me this has already happened. there 's a couple of in 
the already. ask the folks at what became of the 
non trivial scheme they proposed for use in their 
phone standard there already are restrictions in 
place. 



from  ( the jester ) 
subject re do n't fight clipper chip , subvert or replace it ! 
distribution na 
lines 44 

the clipper chip is just the of et all. 
but lets ignore that for the moment .  . 

the fundamental question is can the government stop me from using 


ignoring for the moment the question of patented processes  ( such as 
public keys ) , can the government stop me from using an 
process 

if the answer is yes then what freedom we have in this country is 
truly gone and its time to get out the guns or the lawyers 
 ( depending upon which causes more damage and to  . 

however assuming that i can still things as i please , who 
cares about the clipper chip as far as i'm concerned a phone line 
is period. i do n't care if they it 10 ways from 
sunday , if i did n't do the , i do n't trust it. this is the 
attitude that everyone else should have. instead of worrying about a 
clipper chip , simply connect your to your computer and feed 
the voice single through , process , , and over the 
phone. the guy on the other hand then does the same in reverse .  . 

ca n't work you say no standard you say obviously you have never 
uses pgp .  . 

anyone who expects the government to protect their freedoms is 
kidding themselves. only you can protect your own freedoms .  . 

one final thought addressed to 
1 . do . you support the implementation of any form of 
where the key must be revealed 
2 . if . you do , why if not , why 
3 . what . specific actions are you planning to take to either 
support or stop this proposal 
4 . if . you do not support this proposal , what alternatives do 
you offer 

the 

proof is a virus it is very widespread , it eats up your 
space , it down your computer , it takes control over your 
computer , it performs access at random times , it silly 
messages on your , it randomly the computer 

from  ( ron dippold ) 
subject re the battle is joined 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , inc. , san diego , ca 
lines 19 

in article  ( phil karn ) writes 
it looks like 's wrong headed ideas have gotten to the 
even sooner than we  . 

if the is this far along , is it possible that the 
government been working on it for a while and has been using the 
to prime the , so to speak , or as the judas 
whether paid off , just gullible , or what , does n't really matter. 

it might also be possible that the whoever has had the idea for 
this for quite a while , has been promoting it  ( denning , et al ) and 
the new opportunity a new who wants to spend 
more money on than bush did. 

whatever , i'm not so sure that the cause effect order is totally 
obvious. 

you will lose your drug free and proud  . two days later , you will 
a neighborhood kid it. 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re clipper considered harmful 
lines 10 

does read this group if not , is someone on the group 
questions like these to her , or martin , or anyone else 
who 's seen more details about the chip 

of course she does it 's just she 's been so often for being 
an that she 's keeping her head down. you can always mail 
her directly as , 
or 

g 

from  ( hal finney ) 
subject re clipper chip technical details 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 19 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 . j. bernstein ) writes 

summary 
the system as described here ca n't possibly work. what happens when 
someone the above into a receiving chip to get m 
the receiving chip needs k p to get k p the receiving chip needs u c. 
the only information it can work with is c. if u c can be 
from c then the system is useless and the 
  is bullshit .  . otherwise how is a message 

the description of the chip 's operation evidently leaves out some of the 
key aspects .  . either the k p is the secret key 
to a public key which is at message , or it is the 
result of a key exchange or something similar. either 
way there must be some protocols beyond those described here. it is n't 
clear whether they are implemented in the clipper chip or must 
be provided by other system components .  . 



from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re an open letter to mr. clinton 
organization dsi 
lines 14 


here 's a simple way to convert the clipper proposal to an 
one make it voluntary .  . 

that is you get high quality secure classified technology if you agree 
to your key .  . otherwise you are on your own. 

david 


david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
reply to 
distribution 
organization j. institute , , 
lines 61 

in article , 
 ( 1016 2ef221 ) writes 
andrew wrote 

1 ) my  . 
2 ) usenet .  . 
3) provide only they can easily crack .  . 
4 ) etc etc. 

this is not to say that they do n't , they might .  . but you do n't 
know that they do , and you have no evidence that they do , for almost 
all values of you. it follows , therefore , that for most values of  you  , 
your claims about the border on paranoia .  . 

andrew 

..... 
..... 
..... 


or maybe the germans should have been a little more   about 
their with respect to and the british .  . 

how about the cracking of the would a little 
more paranoia have helped the germans here 

maybe the should have been a little more   about 
, or joseph , jr. , or ... 

maybe you want to talk about publishers 
with the and to suppress 's japanese diplomatic 
or even 's the  .  . paranoia , right 

the most popular systems in captured soviet was 
the one time , even with the necessity of keeping 
evidence about , is known to be the only proven system. 
soviet paranoia , right 

and what do you think the does with its and 
huge pointed row and their sites near 
and sites  . 

..... 

15 ad ac 3d 01 


one case of paranoia .  . 

once upon a time a tried to walk over the  ( famous ) field , not far away 
from  . i could not do that mostly the field is now a huge 
farm .  . probably a greek , would you agree 

b. , d .  . x . 400 . c a mail p ac o s 
j. institute internet 
university of , phone 1 
, pgp public key available on request 




from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 5 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . net . 

agreed. this is like the bay of  ( planned by the 
but given the final green light by  . 
to be sure , it all went down , was at least man enough to take 
full responsibility , which is not what i expect from slick clinton .  .  .  .  . 


from  ( hilarie orman ) 
subject re of public key 
organization u of arizona , cs dept , tucson 
lines 6 

with regard to your speculations on involvement in the creation of 
, i find that it fails the test of occam 's knife .  . never 
attribute to conspiracy what can be explained by greed .  . 




from  ( andy hooper ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization queen 's university , 
distribution na 
lines 3 

is n't clipper a of 

andy 

from  ( david lewis ) 
subject off the shelf cheap des machine  ( was re acceptance of the chip ) 
organization , university of 
lines 31 

in article  ( john kelsey ) writes 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

 .  . stuff . deleted 
existence of the key system seems to make possible all kinds of 
possible attacks at a small of the expense of trying to build  ( say ) 
a des machine .  . 

as originally described , it like any police court combination 
could acquire the key for a given chip .  . i hope that 's not the case , since 
it would imply a hole .  .  ( how much does it cost to find one 
and one cop especially for a foreign intelligence agency 
or organized crime boss ) however , even if more intelligent are used 
to allow access to the phone , there will be weak 
 . they may be very expensive , and very difficult. but who would 
trust his her information to an scheme that , for 
 ( say ) 100 , 000 could by one time in a hundred  ( des , for all the 
about a 56 bit key , would probably cost several million dollars 
to build a machine for . ) . 


i can buy a des machine off the shelf now for , but 
it is not sold by that name. go buy a machine  . quickturn ) 
containing a bunch of ,  ( say to 1000 's ) , and program each 
to be a des search engine. lets say , running at  . 
time is 23 weeks , 12 weeks average .  . ca n't wait that long 
buy a bigger machine .  . 


david lewis 

from  ( george mitchell ) 
subject re organized lobbying for cryptography 
organization test systems , inc. , beaverton , 
lines 25 

writes 

in article ,  ( tal kubo ) writes 
having mentioned the possible of political , 
i would be not to suggest something in the opposite direction 
the support of the by the side of the 
issue as well as the first amendment side. 

hmmm , this gave me an interesting idea. how about this argument 
1 ) second amendment gives us the right to keep and bear  . 
2 ) strong cryptography is , according to the u.s. government  ( that 's 
why it 's so hard to  . 
therefore , we have a right to strong cryptography ! 
q . e . d .  . 

. . . maybe the would be the best existing organization 

i think a new organization would be a much better idea , as the 
carries as much baggage for me as the and do 
for others. 

are any hot shot , reading this message if an 
effective group comes into existence , it can count on me up. 

george 

subject re pgp , , and 's  ( was cryptography patents ) 
from a  ( arthur rubin ) 
organization , inc. 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 22 

in  ( jonathan eifrig ) writes 

fact it is to distribute code without a license 
to do so from , whether or not one is charging for it. furthermore , 
any use of , other than for research purposes allowed under us 
law , is similarly  . therefore , the average citizen cannot use 
to message traffic in the us without a license from  . 

wrong i do n't think even claims this one. it is not to 
distribute code  . it appears to be to use it , so 
i agree with your last sentence. 

fact there are no restrictions  ( yet ! ) on the use of cryptography under 
us law , although this is beginning to look like it will change .  . the only 
to widespread use of cryptography in the us are 's 
 . 

yes , that 's correct. 

l. a  ( work ) 
216  ( personal ) 
my opinions are my own , and do not represent those of my employer .  . 

from  ( brad templeton ) 
subject re how to detect use of an illegal 
organization communications corp .  . 
lines 30 

in article  ( marcus j ranum ) writes 
traffic .  . that way your traffic looks normal and perhaps anyone 
desiring to listen in wo n't even bother , since they know nobody 's 
going to really trust that has classified for 
important stuff. 


nice to think , but naive .  . the fact is that millions of people today 
are sending highly information over , easy to 
receive  . they figure the chances of being heard are 
small , so they risk it. 

and 9 . of people do n't understand the way the least of the 
sci . does. if clinton tells them it 's good , 
they 'll believe him , and send important stuff over it , and be 
that they 're no longer using clear voice  . 

only a tiny of people will want more  . worse , in the 
eyes of the government , which up and down the is 
spook level secure  ( and it may indeed be ) the only reason you could 
possibly want this extra level is to avoid police .  . 

by using it , you 'll attract attention as a likely  . 

your honour , the suspect suddenly started using another level of 
cryptography and we ca n't his phone calls any more. he must 
have something to hide .  . please sign the warrant to search his 
house .  .  .  . 

brad , communications corp .  . , ca 408 

from  ( bill 1 0705 ) 
subject re amendment and 
organization brought to you by the numbers 2 , 3 , and 7 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 11 21 34 gmt 




nntp posting host ho . com . 
lines 42 

in article  ( germano caronni ) writes 
just a question. 
as a of a public bbs service are n't you bound by law to 
access to the data of the users on the bbs , if police comes 
with i guessed this would be a basic condition 
for such systems. (i did run a bbs some time ago , but that was in switzerland ) 

the us does n't yet have many laws covering they 're not common , 
they 're not phone , they 're just private machines or services 
operated by  . there 's no to keep records .  . 
as perry points out , if the police come with a search warrant , 
you have to let them see what the warrant demands , if it exists , 
and they generally can the equipment as evidence 
 ( which is not valid , but we 're only beginning to 
develop court cases supporting  . a court may be able to 
you to tell them information you know , such as the 
for the there are n't any definitive cases yet , since it 's a new 
situation , and there probably are n't laws specifically covering it. 
but the court ca n't force you to know the , and there are no 
laws preventing you from allowing your users to have their own 
for their own files without giving them to you. 

even in areas that do have established law , there is uncertainty .  . 
there was a guy in a few years ago who had his business records 
as evidence for taxes or some other business law , 
so he gave the court the records .  . which were in hebrew .  . 
the us does n't have laws forcing you to keep your records in english , 
and these were the originals of the records .  . he did n't speak hebrew , 
and neither did anybody in the court organization .  . do n't think they 
were able to do much about it. 

it might be illegal for your bbs to deny access to potential 
based on race , religion , national origin , , or sexual preference 
it probably has n't been tested in court , but it seems like a plausible 
extension of anti discrimination laws affecting other  . 



pray for peace bill 
bill 1 at t bell labs nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 fax 1 

from  ( graham toal ) 
subject re clipper chip 
lines 30 

from dan 

i have here a bit lately , and though some of the math is 
unknown to me , found it interesting. i thought i would post an article i 
found in the saturday , april 17 , 1993 star 

 clipper chip  to protect 

politics is of course pool , old man , and here we have a classic 
example the and the have been working on this for 
a long time , and in parallel with the announcement to us , we 
see they 're hitting the press with propoganda .  . 

it 's my bet the big , scientific american , et all will 
be ready to run with a pre written government slanted story on this in 
the next issue.  ( 'just keep us some pages spare , we 'll give you 
the copy in time for the presses' ) 

we must get big names in the industry to write well argued pieces against 
this proposal  ( can you call it that when it 's a de facto announcement ) and 
get them into the big before too much damage is done. 

it would be well worth folks all the discussions from here since 
the day of the announcement to keep all the arguments at our  . i 
think between us we could write quite a good piece .  . 

now , who among us carries enough to publication 


g 

from  ( vernon schryver ) 
subject re fighting the clipper 
organization silicon , inc. view , ca 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( david sternlight ) writes 
... 
the federal reserve open market 
has successfully kept decisions from for the period until 
publication .  . 

how are you sure of that were n't there some recent studies that 
found between not yet decisions and market changes 

are n't there continuing early of their 


even the department of has successfully kept 
from  . 

! remember the big a year or two  ( or 3 ) ago about 
exactly such 


, 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re the  . 
organization dsi 
lines 17 

in article  ( timothy c. may ) writes 


after the massacre and the big brother chip , any tactic 
is fair .  . 

this is nonsense ! 

david 




david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from  ( timothy c. may ) 
subject clipper an on 's name 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 28 

besides being an on our civil liberties  ( not the subject 
in this post ) , the name clipper chip seems very with the 
clipper chip of  . 

originally designed by a team at , clipper was 
a 32 bit risc  . it is still used in some workstations , 
notably those from , the of tools .  . 
acquired the clipper product line when was sold to national 
several years back .  . 

when i first saw clipper chip in the announcement , i immediately 
thought the article was referring to the clipper chip i know. 

this seems to be grounds for to , but then i'm not a 
lawyer .  . i 'd say i'm a , but i do n't want to 
myself under the laws of the new regime .  . 

tim may 



 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
timothy c. may anarchy , digital money , 
anonymous , digital , zero 
408 knowledge , , information , 
w . a . s . t . e .  . , ca black , collapse of governments .  . 
higher power 2 public key pgp and available. 


from  ( ross anderson ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge computer lab , uk 
distribution na 
lines 19 


 ( rob stampfli ) writes 

would n't a a second of similar type and 
to the one being used provide reasonable resistance to attacks 

we 've got a receiver in the lab here , and there 's no difficulty in 
picking up individual  . their engineering are slack enough 
that they tend to on different  . even where they , you 
can discriminate because they have different line you can 
lock in on one and average the others out. 

the are in any case , with and all sorts 
of interactions with the building .  . just moving a around is also 
highly effective as a  ( randomised ) means of switching from one to 
another , 




from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
distribution na 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
lines 40 

in article hamburg . de . writes 
 ( marc anderson ) writes 

methods .  . year 's crime bill will have , not bare , '' 
clinton said. in particular , his will place strict 
on data and protocols , and require the 
of so called , '' in the hope of denying drug 
the ability to communicate in secret. clinton said the 
approach could be used for on other forms of 
economic activity , such as causing tax who 
live in at the expense of our '' . 

and some people thought that i am when claiming that the 
chip is just a first step in a plot against the 
civil liberties in the usa .  .  .  . it seems that i 've even been an 
the things are happening even than i expected .  .  .  .  . that 's 
another of the they used to apply on us under the 
communist regime do something secret , then tell the people about is 
 ( after the fact , when nothing can be done any more ) , and of course , 
explaining them how much better the situation is now .  .  .  . 

in my previous messages i wrote that the americans should wake up and 
fight against the new proposal .  . now it seems to me that it is already 
too late it has already happened , the civil liberties have been 
violated , no , from the american people , while the most part of 
this people has been sleeping happily .  .  .  .  (  too sad .  .  .  . 


i'm definitely going to write my , and nobody 's ever 
going to make me respect a law that violates my freedom of speech , and 
if the feds try to enforce this law on me , i will protect my freedoms , with 
force if it ever comes to that.  ( hopefully , it wo n't ) 

doug holland 



doug holland anyone who tries to take away my freedom 
of speech will have to it from my 
pgp key available by e mail cold , dead ! ! 

from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
distribution na 
lines 32 

 ( robert ward ) writes 

and since the us constitutions the right to every american 
to bear , why is not every american entitled , as a matter of 

have you read the applicable part of the constitution and interpreted it in 
context 

yes. btw , the appropriate were posted here some time ago. 

if not , please do so before posting this again. 
it refers to the right of the people to organize a , not for individual 
to carry , , and assault  . 

it 's ok , it 's ok .  .  .  . just a month ago i expressed my belief that the 
right to have a means to shoot your neighbor is not that much 
necessary to ensure a people 's right to be free and got flamed by lots 
of american gun  . so i thought that .  .  .  . 

never mind. the new chip is a purely american problem , so deal 
with the mess yourselves .  . i just wanted to share with you a bit of my 
experience of living 30 years under a regime  ( i'm 
bulgarian ) because i thought that it might be useful to you. oh 
well. 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( phil g. fraering ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
organization univ .  . of louisiana 
lines 52 

 ( david sternlight ) writes 

what follows is my opinion. it is not asserted to be the truth so no 
flames , please. it comes out of a background of 20 years as a 
in two 50  . 

i 'd be happy to use a system by the for business , if 
they told me it was more secure than des , and in particular to 
attempts by japanese , french , and other and 
governments to break .  . 

i 'd be happy to do so even with , provided i was happy about 
the of the  ( the federal reserve would certainly 
me , as would something set up by one of the big 8 accounting  . 

i 'd trust the or the president if they stated there were no trap 
doors i 'd be even if a of independent examined 
the thing under of secrecy and reported back that it was secure .  . 

i 'd trust something from the long before i 'd trust something from some 
or anybody japanese .  . 

a lot of us out here in the will trust the japanese 
before we 'll trust the , the president , or those stupid 
50 you 're so proud of. 

this may seem surprising to some here , but i suggest most would 
feel the same way. most many some  ( pick one) have an attitude 
that the is part of our government and we support our government , as 
one very famous put it to me one day. 

just some perspective from another point of view. 

and since the japanese corps are n't part of our government 
they may be more trusted out than you are. 


people are getting tired of this be patriotic , do whatever we say 
without question , and pay more taxes attitude that comes from 
america 's political party .  .  .  . 
or should that be caste 


david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



seems like every day we find out all sorts of stuff. 
like how the ancient had  . man 



from  ( mark riordan ) 
subject dos 6 . 0 . answer 
organization michigan state university 
lines 21 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

for those of you looking for information on dos 6 . 0 . 's 
file system 

today i called 's dos 6 . 0 . at  ( 800)228 )  . 
they told me that the dos 6 . 0 . resource had the 
for the interface .  . the resource costs 19 . , 
plus tax and 5  . 

i ordered a copy and will post further when i get it and know more 
about it. i am posting now because the order is 15 
working days. 

if anyone knows for sure where 's there 's a good 
source of info on this , please speak up. i am 
slightly skeptical about the resource 's likelihood 
of having detailed programming info .  . 

mark r. 

 ( posted also to sci . , since the could presumably also 
be used for file system ) . 

from  ( amanda walker ) 
subject re secret re clipper chip and key 
organization systems corporation , va usa 
lines 30 
distribution world 
reply to  ( amanda walker ) 
nntp posting host chaos . com . 
keywords , , clipper , key , 
x newsreader connect ii 1.1 

 ( john hesse ) writes 
oh great .  . wonderful news. nobody can listen in except the feds .  . 

hey , it 's better than the status quo .  . 

i am far less worried about the feds my phone than high school 
who get their kicks out of on and 
phone calls .  . 

it would be stupid to rely on even a channel for truly 
sensitive material , but it does seem to finally offer a reasonable way to 
guard against casual  . for example , even with my strong right 
to bear view of the private right to and use strong 
, the system as described provides enough security that i would 
actually buy a phone , and would be much less wary of using 
, , and so on. as long as it 's only used for mass market 
voice , i actually do n't see a problem with it. 

if you want more security than it , use something different. use 
for electronic mail , over des or des with key 
exchange for your voice traffic , or whatever. 

and yes , i 'd rather just see all restrictions lifted , but this is at 
least an improvement for certain applications .  .  .  . 


walker 
systems corporation 



from  ( bill 1 0705 ) 
subject re why the clipper is secret 
organization brought to you by the numbers 2 , 3 , and 7 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 01 41 35 gmt 


nntp posting host ho . com . 
lines 38 

in article  ( bear giles ) writes 
in article  ( danny o'bedlam ) writes 
the is classified because a military contract  ( or similar 
government equivalent to military ) has been let for this 
design that the feds say that developed .  . is there a is that 
publicly available my is that that too is classified .  . 

unless there has been a major change in the law , there 's no such 
as a classified  . exist to encourage communications and 
develop the state of the art .  . 

while there are n't classified , there are secrecy orders . 

suppose you invent a voice for radio , and apply for a  . 
the office decides the might be interested , gives them a copy 
of your application , and you get a nice note back saying your 
application has now been classified for national security reasons and 
you 're no longer allowed to make and sell it. 
i'm picking this example because it happened in the late  . 
it was probably some , and would have probably 
violated rules anyway , but it did get classified .  . 

or suppose you publish a paper on your really and 
then file a application .  . since it 's been published , 
they ca n't gain anything by it , though you ca n't get 
in most countries other than the us , where laws are different. 

obviously a system of classified would be highly bogus 
you ca n't sell that , because there 's a classified on it. 
you 're not allowed to see the , or know who owns the design , 
so just give us all your money and work in progress and maybe we wo n't 
you in jail for  . some countries might have that kind of 
system ( , but we do n't have that here. quite .  . yet. 

pray for peace bill 
bill 1 at t bell labs nj 
no , i'm from new jersey , i only work in  .  .  .  . 
white house line 1 fax 1 

from steve  ( steve brinich ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 11 
distribution na 
nntp posting host access . net . 

the dead is the repeated that the new plan is aimed 
at criminals , drug , , etc. you 'd think the tactic 
would be too obvious to out yet again after a of and the 
rest of the bunch using it to destroy the second amendment , but evidently 
the control nuts feel it will serve them one more time. 

as far as the needs of american are concerned , i could 
almost believe that the plan to the us industry with a hidden 
was invented by a of japanese  . 



from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re the people , is for hard core only 
organization dsi 
lines 25 

in article  ( jim hart ) writes 


what we need is a true chip . for example , a real time 
voice , silicon it and out  . 
put this chip on the market as a de facto standard for international 
business , , and private communications .  . if the u.s. 
it , we make it somewhere else and import it. the japanese , german , 
, , , etc. do n't want the 
on them. u.s. workers lose more jobs to government 
stupidity .  . 


some countries have laws about gear i believe the u.s. 
does. without a license the above scheme wo n't work  ( at least not legally ) 
in such countries , including at least france and the u.s. 

david 



david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from hamburg . de .  ( vesselin bontchev ) 
subject re once , your code is no good any more. 
reply to hamburg . de . 
organization virus test center , university of hamburg 
distribution na 
lines 33 

 ( marc anderson ) writes 

methods .  . year 's crime bill will have , not bare , '' 
clinton said. in particular , his will place strict 
on data and protocols , and require the 
of so called , '' in the hope of denying drug 
the ability to communicate in secret. clinton said the 
approach could be used for on other forms of 
economic activity , such as causing tax who 
live in at the expense of our '' . 

and some people thought that i am when claiming that the 
chip is just a first step in a plot against the 
civil liberties in the usa .  .  .  . it seems that i 've even been an 
the things are happening even than i expected .  .  .  .  . that 's 
another of the they used to apply on us under the 
communist regime do something secret , then tell the people about is 
 ( after the fact , when nothing can be done any more ) , and of course , 
explaining them how much better the situation is now .  .  .  . 

in my previous messages i wrote that the americans should wake up and 
fight against the new proposal .  . now it seems to me that it is already 
too late it has already happened , the civil liberties have been 
violated , no , from the american people , while the most part of 
this people has been sleeping happily .  .  .  .  (  too sad .  .  .  . 

regards , 


virus test center , university of hamburg 
tel .  . 49 40 , fax 49 40 226 
pgp 2.2 public key available on request. 30 ,  . c 
e mail hamburg . de . d 2000 hamburg 54 , germany 

from  ( marc n1nzu ) 
subject the source of that announcement 
organization institute of technology 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

the message from the about the clipper chip comes from the 
following address 

 ( clipper chip announcement ) 

just who is that , i asked myself , or rather , i asked the computer .  . 

gov . 25 
trying .  .  .  . 
connected to gov .  . 
escape character is ' ' .  . 
first . org . 4 . 1 . ready at sat , 17 apr 93 20 42 56 edt 
clipper 
250 gov . 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
250 
quit 
first . org . connection 
connection closed. 

well , is n't that interesting. , , 
, ron , jim , and others. the government , , 
, , and the are all represented .  . i do n't suppose anybody 
within any of these organizations would care to comment or is this 
just the white house 's idea of a cruel joke on these peoples  





from  . wigglesworth ) 
subject freely public key cryptography c code where 
summary do you know 
organization public access 
lines 8 


do you know of any freely c  ( or c ) code for public 
key cryptography  ( such as rsa ) 

i 've tried various searches to no avail. 

thanks , 
dan 

from  ( robert crawford ) 
subject re how to detect use of an illegal 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
lines 20 

writes 

how can the government tell which method one is using without 
being able to the traffic i.e. , in order to accuse me of using an 
strong they would have to take both 
out of , run them against my and draw a . 

i was thinking about this , also. it 's quite possible the 
system , in clear , the serial number of the device being 
used. that way they can start a , get the serial number , and use 
the warrant for the first to get the key .  . 

if they someone who 's apparently using , but 
do n't find that , then they 'll assume it 's an un 
scheme .  . 


may the be generous to you. 

robert 

from  ( ross anderson ) 
subject re clipper chip technical details 
nntp posting host ac . uk . 
organization u of cambridge computer lab , uk 
lines 13 

in article  ( steven 
bellovin ) writes 

nothing was said about where k p comes from. 

if you 've got a secure device , you do n't need public  . 

if the secret key which all share is , you can just use 
e  ( myname , , date ) . 

maybe that 's why jim was reported as being off. 



from next . stanford . edu .  ( joshua purinton ) 
subject re the secret source of that announcement 
organization stanford university 
lines 22 

in article miller writes 
 ( jurgen botz ) writes 
 ( marc n1nzu ) writes 


seems like did n't like your around ,  . 

or , the more likely explanation is that is  . 

i sincerely doubt that and are enough to react that 
quickly , and i doubt they 'd want to their server  . 


is not  . try it yourself. at least , the commands work 
exactly as he described (i . e .  . they do not work . ) . 

 . 



no pattern , content or thing is the being who looks out from each pair of eyes. 
and only that is important. e. t. 

from  ( marc thibault ) 
subject re hard drive security for fbi targets 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization friends 
lines 45 


1. do a straight of your and put the 
results with names somewhere they wo n't be noticed 
 . in the directory nobody knows what half those 
files  . 

2. do a straight of a  . file that will 
the to and will set to point at it. 

3. set up another  . file to and execute the first 
 ( again on  . have it take the name of the target file 
as an argument so that there is no link between this file and 
the  ( non existent ) file referred to by the rest of the 
system. comment it so it looks like a test for 
around with pgp .  . set to the pgp directory .  . 

4. leave the original that came with pgp in the 
directory with pgp a good indication that you are playing 
with , but have n't made serious use of pgp .  . add a set of 
with your name and a really simple  . never use it , 
or use it as your widely published key for low security 
e mail .  . 

5. when needed , run the second  . file. make sure all 
and are generated on  . 

6. when you hear the , hit the power switch .  . 

cheers , 



cis , put another log 
nc on the fire .  . 

begin pgp public key block 
version 2.0 





end pgp public key block 



from  ( red sonja ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
distribution na 
organization long island long may it ! 
lines 60 

in article  ( hal finney ) writes 
the key question is whether non clipper will be made illegal .  . 

it seems pretty obvious that it will be made illegal if very loud is 
not made about this immediately to congress and the house ! 

it looks like the worst raised by 's 
are coming true. if the government continues on this course , i imagine 
that we will see strong cryptography made illegal .  . programs 
for files and email , as well as software to allow for 
voice communications , will be only through the 
. people will have to learn how to hide the fact that 
they are protecting their  . 

i do n't know what 's worse the waste of money , or the fact that  ( in spite 
of all clinton 's rhetoric to the contrary ) this is a feeble attempt by 
a large group of bored intelligence to justify their currently 
useless jobs .  . clinton said he was going to trim the fat from the government. 
this does n't look very to me ! 

as i said before in this group drug dealing and terrorism both tend to 
be international crimes which are not going to cease if the us starts to 
 . the drug and will simply go to 
other countries to communicate their plans , and will still carry them out 
here and or wherever else. this is not the solution to the problem. 

they try to invent a new problem by saying we need  . i guess 
it 's a good thing bill is n't a 4 star general or we would all need 
our own copies of dos too , right 

und out you are doctor dos ! ! 

it 's and frightening to see that this is actually happening here. 

our health care and education systems are in the toilet and they come up 
with this  . if this government does n't get a clue real quick 
and start trying to the of the country rather than 
someone to blame , germany and japan are going to eat the us alive , 
and we will it. it 's not like there 's any of real problems 
to solve , guys ! 

a clipper chip is really going to help the homeless ! a clipper chip is 
really going to help the children in the of our cities ! 
just think of the generation gap that can be developed when they 
engineer to work on clipper that will be used to 
slightly hacker son 's files ! i can see 
the already. 

if that was n't a post or a sick joke , i'm that dead 
into the car stereo and tearing ass to canada .  . clinton on white horse 
is near .  . it 's the secret police ! they have come for your 
! do n't worry it 's only a phone .  .  . shit . , i knew i should have gotten 
some of those consent to stickers they keep on 
when i had the chance. i should have known i 'd need them in civilian life. 


rs self is 9 10 of the law. 
alien we control the laws of nature ! how come when it 's human , it 's an 
joel and you still dress that way abortion , but when it 's a , 
 ( mst3k 17 vs guiron ) it 's an george 

from  ( haywood j. blowme ) 
subject new 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 120 

as promised , i spoke today with the company mentioned in a washington 
times article about the clipper chip announcement .  . the name of the company 
is secure technology  ( information will be given at the end 
of this message on how to contact them) .  . 

basically they are about the announcement for many reasons that 
we are. more specifically however , mr. of secure communications 
brought to light many points that might interest most of the readers .  . 

his belief is that at t was made known of the clipper well before the 
rest of the industry .  . this is for several reasons , several of which are 

a company of at t 's size could never be able to make a decision to use 
the new chip on the same day it was  . 

months ago they proposed using their own chip for at t 's secure telephone 
devices .  . at t basically blew them off as being not interested at all. 
this stuck them as strange , until now .  .  .  . 


also i spoke with art , their , he expressed several 
concerns over the new clipper chip 

the obvious will be able to let many people the code. 

once the key is released to authorities the security of the 
system is lost forever. these can end up in the hands of any agency 
of the government. 

the fact that the never change means that the 
is vulnerable over time to an  . 

the classified may hide another  . but he that 
it is probably to keep people from fake serial numbers , or 
changing the themselves. 

he that the has probably spent enough time and 
money in working on a way to keep this chip from being reversed 
engineered , that he that reverse engineering it will be very 
difficult to do. he that they have developed a suitable 
to protect the chip from this attack .  . also he that the chip is 
hardware with the and not onto the chip .  . 

i spoke with mr. about their  . he could n't tell 
me much about their new because it has n't been patented yet. 
however he told me a little 

the will be released for public review after have been 
granted for it. this is so the community can see that it is 
secure .  . 

the is called for new  . 
the details were because now it is held as a trade secret 
until the was issued , but i was told that it will incorporate 
the following 

it will have fast of data  ( exact not given , but 
mr. stated much than what an rs 232 can put out. ) 

it is a , just like idea and des .  . 

it will use 64 bit data blocks for  ( like des and  . 

the key length was not given to me , but mr. states that 
it is and is more than adequate for security .  . 

the is written in c and assembler in software form , and 
can be to many  ( unlike the the clipper chip which 
is hardware only and cannot be made into software ) this i 
consider a definite plus for the for widespread use. 

the will public key distribution techniques 
such as or  . this will also be supported in the 
hardware chip .  . 

right now the cost of the chip will be about 10 dollars 
for each ! !  ( clipper will run 25 each chip that is if it is produced 
enough , which probably wo n't happen ) .  . 

they currently sell a program called c com that uses the 
and a special that does not divide the 
data into blocks .  . this could prevent attacks if you know 
what the block is. this program operates at all supported 
rs 232 and uses the software implementation of the  . 

most importantly it does not have a ! ! 



right now the company is afraid that the new clipper chip will put them out 
of business. this is a very real possibility .  . so they really need help in 
stopping the clipper chip from becoming a standard. if you want to contact 
them , they can be reached at .  .  . 

secure communications technology 
 . 
silver spring , md 

 ( 301 ) 

i talked to mr. who represents the company .  . he can answer any 
questions you have. 




any factual errors in this write up are my own and i apologize for 
them ahead of time. 




fight the chip ! ! ask me how ! 
c craig h. 
pgp key available those who would give up liberty for 
1200 by request. security neither .  . 

