from  ( shahrokh mortazavi ) 
subject re news from 
organization central 
lines 18 

in article state . edu . state . edu . writes 


1 e 's member have many times been 
and tortured and as we speak some of them are still in prison .  . 

2 the above item the long standing suspicion that 
the only reason this regime has not e 
completely is just to show off and about the 
freedom of in iran in its propaganda paper. 

get serious ! if this regime had its way , there would be 
absolutely no freedom of anywhere , not even in sci .  . 


there really , as seen by the heavy usage of anonymous posting. 
if around in sci , anon poster would 
get used only  ( as in the good old  . 

from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re was go ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 

in article 
 ( brad hernlem ) writes 

in article , 
 ( tim clock ) writes 

assuming also come on , brad .  . if we are going to get anywhere in 
this  ( or any) discussion , it does n't help to bring up elements i never 
addressed , nor commented on in any way . i made no comment on who is 
right or who is wrong , only that civilians are being used as cover 
and that , having been placed in between the and the , 
they will be injured as both parties continue their fight. 

pardon me tim , but i do not see how it can be possible for the to fail 
to detect the presence of those responsible for the bomb which 
killed the three troops and then later know the exact number and 
of all of them. several were  . how could the 
possibly have known that there were in each of the 
you see , it was an arbitrary act of . 

i will again repeat my statement 1 ) i do not these 
israeli acts  ( nor have i ever , 2 ) if the do not know who these are  ( which you stated earlier ) , how do you expect the 
to know it is very difficult to identify who they are  ( this 
is why the prefer to lose themselves in the general population 
by the same , acting the same , etc . ) .  . 

the host arab state did little nothing to try and stop these attacks 
from its side of the border with israel 

the problem , tim , is that the original reason for the invasion was 
attacks on israel , not attacks .  . 

i agree but , because was either unwilling or unable to stop these 
attacks from its territory should israel simply sit and accept its 
situation israel asked the government over and over to control 
this third party state within territory and the attacks kept 
 . at what point does israel  ( or any state ) have the right to do 
something itself to stop such attacks never 

while the major  ( those allowing people to civil wars ) 
have been removed , the weapons needed to cross border attacks still 
remain to some extent .  . rocket attacks still continue , and 
raids only require a few easily weapons and a refined disregard 
for human life  ( yours of that of  . such attacks also continue. 

yes , i am afraid that what you say is true but that still does not justify 
your neighbor 's land. israel must resolve its with the 
native palestinians if it wants peace from such attacks .  . 

it is also the responsibility of any state to not allow any outside 
party to use its territory for attacks on a state. if 1 ) 
had the power , and 2 ) south africa refused  ( or could n't ) stop anti 
based on sa from attacking , and 3) south africa 
refused to have un troops on its territory between it and , 
would be justified in entering sa if not , are you saying that 
had to accept the situation , do nothing and absorb the attacks 

 . the situation you call for existed in the and attacks 
were  . 

not true. were not attacking israel in the  . with a strong 
government  ( free from and israeli interference ) i believe 
that the border could be adequately  . the heavy 
weapons have been in past years and i do not see as significant a 
threat as once existed .  . 

i refered above at all times to the attacks on israel from 
, not to attacks on israel .  . 

one hopes that a government will be strong enough to its 
border but there is no reason to believe it will be any stronger .  . what has 
changed is that the was largely driven out of  ( not by the 
, not by syria ) and that is by far the most important making it 
easier to control future attacks from  . that 
change was brought about by israeli action the would never 
have been by , arab state or un actions .  . 

please , tim , do n't fall into the trap of treating and palestinians 
as all part of the same group. there are too many who think all or all 
muslims are the same. too many times i have seen people support the bombing 
of camps in for an death at the hands of the 
resistance or the of in for 
a attack .  . 

i fully recognize that the do not want to be used by either side , 
and have been  ( and continue to  . but the most fundamental issue is that 
if a state cannot control its borders and make real efforts to do so , it 
should expect others to do it for them. that other will be 
the un but it is  ( as we see in its regarding bosnia ) weak. 

tim 


from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 56 

in article  ( ilyess bdira ) writes 
in article  ( gideon ehrlich ) writes 

what are the borders the islamic world dreams about 

the islamic world dreams of being the whole planet , but not by kicking 
the current inhabitant out , we rather of the day everybody converts .  . 
if jews had the same dream , i would not feel threatened a bit. 

there certainly are muslims who do not believe that their dream of 
a islamic community should be achieved through force. there are , 
however , others  ( and , they are often far more vocal than the 
former ) who do accept the of islam through force. 
i would not feel threatened by those only accepting or 
through peaceful means , nor by jews advocating the same 
approach. those advocating force as a means of expanding their side 's 
power are certainly a threat .  . 

to palestinians , israel is doing just that maintaining its dominance 
of those outside its own group . if i am told that i am not one of 
you but you then impose your control on me , damn right you are a threat .  . 
if i am a member of a non muslim minority inside the islamic 
world and actively did not accept my minority status , i would also 
certainly see islam 's as having been acheived , and , 
through the powerful force all over minorities 
within their ranks .  . 

islamic readers , i am waiting to your honest answer. 

i want also a honest answer from for the following questions 

i am not a zionist , but do feel that both jewish and 
desires need , at this , to be accepted in some way. 

1)why ) do jews who do n't even believe in god  ( as is the case with many 
of the of secular zionism ) have a right in more 
than the of , just because god gave you the land 

for the same reason that some muslims believe it is proper and righteous 
for islam to be spread by force upon those who do not want that. 

2)why ) do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of 
the are not jews and do not want to be part of israel 

i refer to the most you also refer to 
because they are scared , and feel very threatened , as well feeling that 
this area is to some degree part of their belief religion 
identity etc. 

i too strongly object to those that justify israeli rule 
of those who do not want that. the territories are not 
israel 's to control , to keep , or to dominate .  . 

tim 



from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject re nazi theories by  ( unconventional peace ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 20 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


first this man promotes the of the jews through an 
process , and then says that it will be just a bunch 
of  fundamentalist  jews who will object. this clown even called 
for  buying  the of the jewish people. 

does this idiot mean to suggest that any jew who objects to an 
notion like this is fundamentalist or does he simply 
mean to insult the orthodox by using the word  fundamentalist ' 

i am not orthodox .  . i am not fundamentalist .  . i would desire a 
genuine peace in the more than this can 
ever understand. but when he shows his to dismiss an 
entire culture , he proves that the only thing more brain 
than his stupidity is his to display his stupidity in 
this newsgroup .  . 

please take your hatred for the essence of judaism and shove it 
up your ass. remember to pull your head out first. 


from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 18 48 15 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 34 



from myths and facts , by leonard j. davis , near east research inc. , 
1989 

pp. 109 

unlike the 's almost exclusive focus on civilian targets , the 
100 from the and stern group that at 
on april 10 , , targeted the for its military importance .  . 
was on the road to jerusalem , which the had 
, and it iraqi and  . 
based in were a constant threat to jewish citizens 
in jerusalem .  . 

arab civilians were killed at , but that attack does 
not conform to the propaganda picture that the have tried to 
 . the number of killed was generally reported to be about 
250 .  . in , however , eric silver of the guardian  ( britain ) 
a , , who that out 
of a population of 1000 were killed.  about three days after the 
massacre , ' explained ,  representatives of each of the five 
in met at the moslem offices in jerusalem and made a 
list of the people who had not been found  . we went through the 
names. nothing has since to make me think this figure 
was wrong . ' . 

unlike the 's deliberate attacks on civilians , the killing of 
civilians at was not  . the left open 
an escape from the and more than 200 residents left 
 . after the remaining surrender and then fired 
on the jewish troops , some of the killed arab soldiers and 
civilians  . independent observers told the guardian 
that among the bodies they found arab men disguised as women. 

from  ( red herring ) 
subject re peace proposal 
nntp posting host com . 
organization company , , ma 
lines 33 

in article center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 
subject peace proposal 


a proposal for peace in the middle east .  . 
by 



having stated my assumptions , i will now state my proposal .  . 

1. a should be established which would grants 
for each child born to a couple where one is israeli jew 
and the other arab .  . 
... 
5. the emergence of a number of   
marriages in israel , all of whom would have relatives on 
 both sides  of the divide , would make the conflict lose its 
ethnical and core and the emergence of a 
truly civil society. the existence of a strong   stock of 
people would also help the of israeli society into the 

sounds just like a racial theory that hitler in mein kampf .  . 

post box , 




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 


from  ( anas omran ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
reply to  ( anas omran ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 18 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( adam shostack ) says 

in article  ( tim clock ) writes 
in article  ( amos shapira ) writes 
 ( anas omran ) writes 

eh could you please give me details about an event where a neutral 
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli 


there are many cases , but i do not names. the shot and killed 
a un observer in gaza in the first half of  . 

i believe that most of the world has seen pictures of israeli soldiers who 
were breaking the of the reporters , kicking reporters out , 
, and showing reporters orders preventing them from going 
to hot areas to pick pictures and make reports .  . 

from  ( center for policy research ) 
subject re investment in and 
lines 16 
id r 000 733 
from uucp . ! apr 16 17 02 00 1993 


who do not base their reasoning on nazi ideology are  .  .  . 

thus spoke an american citizen in the name of judaism .  . if this is judaism , 
i think judaism should be as any and dangerous 
philosophy .  . 

i suspect however that martin , albert einstein and other jewish 
scholars would have rather converted to christianity than stay jews , if 
they would have perceived judaism as such a philosophy .  . 

those who wish to learn something about the perversion of judaism , 
should consult the work by , who was many 
years the head of israeli intelligence and an opponent of the  . his 
latest book was published in english and includes a very detailed analysis 
of nazism .  . 

from bill 
subject 
organization 4th dimension bbs 
lines 7 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

you a good case for rights to abortion .  . 


system com . phone 
quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry 



from  ( fogbound child ) 
subject re news you will miss , apr 15 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 46 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

 ( jack schmidling ) writes 

in article  ( fogbound child ) writes 
 ( jack schmidling ) writes 



et al , 


why do you title this news you will miss 

there have been at least three front page stories on it in the l . a .  . times. 

i would n't exactly call that a media cover up. 

this may come as a surprise to you but there are a few americans who do not 
read the la times. 

is this the same monolithic , controlled media that you 're always 
talking about do you mean to tell me that the la times is the only major 
paper to the media division 's activities 


the league has done a first class job of damage control .  . in . what 
little is left of the world outside of la .  . 


assumption when one major newspaper three or more articles on the front 
page regarding subject matter that is not strictly local , this is likely 
to be considered an open story , and not a  . 

let 's hear a roll call here. anyone outside of the la area seen articles on 
this 




special 
media mind control division 
los offices  ( therefore , evidently , incompetent ) 

safe  . signature . ! prevent dangerous signature ! 
our names in a certain dawn ... a message ... a 
summons ... there must have been a moment , at the beginning , 
where we could have said no. but somehow we missed it. 

from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization james limited , tokyo japan 
lines 31 

in article writes 

there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report 
on the situation in the o . t .  . but , as most people used to see on tv , the 
do not allow them to go deep there in the o . t .  . the 
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters .  . 
so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in  . 
they do not allow fair and neutral of the situation in 
 . 

bring me one case where israeli soldiers deliberately killed a neutral 
reporter . this is another one of your wet dreams .  . 

unlike many countries , israel does allow reporters in and out of the o . t .  . 
that is what the problem is. if israel were a country like china , then 
nothing would from what is happening in the o . t .  . but there 
seems to be a of journalists in israel always trying to show 
how evil the israeli is. arab countries do n't allow journalists 
anywhere , we have yet to hear about the massacres of , the destruction 
and of , the killings of moslem fundamentalists in mosques 
in egypt and algeria etc .  .  .  . why is it we only get state reports how accurate 
are they 
, go give a lesson of freedom of speech to your arab before 
telling us what to do. 



8 8 
if you do not receive this e mail , please let me 
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible. 
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing. 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re go ! ! 
organization the department of department 
lines 17 

in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 

brad , you 're a very sick son of a bitch .  . wishing for someone 's death , even if 
they are your enemy , is very  . i really have pity for you and those 
like you. did you acquire this philosophy from islam 

brad 
ed .  . 

this is an interesting question to ponder .  . did brad ali 's sickness 
make style islam attractive to him or did this new religion 
that brad ali has formally give him this sickness 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from center for policy research 
subject gaza and separation from israel 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 24 07 06 00 1993 
lines 73 


from center for policy research 
subject gaza and separation from israel 


gaza and the idea of separation 

the israeli left 's inability to with the challenges it is 
presented with by reality becomes obvious at those when 
the reality does not line up with the expectations of the left. we 
were able to see this clearly during the gulf war. because of the 
's popular with iraq , 
currently of the environment made his infamous 
statement you look for me ! , i.e. , i am not making any more 
efforts to speak with you. from 's point of view , 
reality during the gulf war was not the lengthy 
or the danger of it brought with it , but whether or not the 
palestinians accepted what was acceptable to the party. similarly 
, mk , recently with criticism from 
residents of the west bank town of over his 
government 's and his party 's lack of action for human rights and 
peace , responded by asking those present at the discussion whether 
they would rather have a government. from the  
perspective this is the best government because it is their 
government , regardless of what it does. 

these members of the israeli left have already decided how the 
future of the territories will look , and they want to 
to the palestinians how to get there. an essential step 
towards this future is their participation in 's 
government , and from their point of view the were a 
marginal of this government of peace , which need not 
disturb the course of events. likewise the 
policies in gaza the blowing up of houses with anti 
and the significant increases in the number of persons injured in 
the of need not disturb it. 

but the fact that reality is not as they would have it forces 
itself upon them when a in gaza falls upon a who has 
lost his way , when a is by his 
workers , or when a people in the streets of tel 
 . then all hell breaks loose and the israeli left has nothing 
to propose except separation let 's cut ourselves off from the 
palestinians , let 's build a so high that they wo n't be able 
to harm us this is the cry of the israeli left. let us erect a 
between us and the reality is the occupation .  . 

writes about this in ha  ( 4 3 93 )  .  .  . the . 
liberal left. which does not between physical 
separation and  the future of the territories  , must come to 
understand that the regime of magnetic cards , exclusion of arab 
workers , , and are of enforcement 
designed for the of a population in , and that 
their ideological support for separation only provides 
  arguments for the legitimization of the status 
quo . 

enforced separation is carried out only to meet the need of the 
ruling community , but it is only the ruled population which bears 
its burden .  . ..... . 

thinks that  out of gaza first  is a liberal , 
idea had best the question of whether 
this position is also moral .  . it is very easy to off 
responsibility for this concentration of human suffering , and to 
thus also disregard responsibility for it 's creation. it is very 
easy to erect a between jewish and arab in 
jerusalem , when this has a gate the to which are at 
the of one hand which to allow the jews to pursue 
all their interests , but is to the  .  .  . . 

from the other front , jerusalem , 10 march 1993 


ac . il . ! 
subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 old child 
from  ( livian segal ) 
organization institute of science , center 
lines 130 

well , i tried not to get involved in this never ending talk , but , man , i really got 
hot about this bullshit .  . 

in article writes 
ahmed wrote 

in reply to 's message 
 ( sam zbib ) writes 

 ( nick steel ) writes 
q how many israeli soldiers  ( terrorists ) does it 
take to kill a 5 year old native child 

a four 

two his , one in the face , 
and one writes up a false report. 


making stupid and idiot about will not bring anything  ( not 
mentioning peace or  . i also know several tens of about 
 ( palestinians ) but i do not post them to usenet  ( anyway , not to this newsgroup ) , 
since i do n't think i will achieve any target but making other parts , and 
this is not my target. 
if this is your target .  .  . well .  .  . that . tells a lot about you. 


can provide documentation for this alleged incident 

did you really think he is talking about something 


 . 

you must be kidding , this is not a single incident 
now. this has become a daily life practice in 
if you mean the killing of children by armed soldiers .  . 

yeah , well , sometimes , when put their children and wives in the front line , 
so their enemy cannot do anything , well , maybe in those cases , you have no better 
thing to do  ( to save your life ) than shooting .  . and if parents want their 
children alive , i think it would be better that before they get out to 
stones , or when they come to kill , to keep their children 
in the houses .  . 


if you are objecting the number of israeli 
soldiers  ( terrorists ) or the way they do it , then 

look in the dictionary at the word terrorism ! it 
says  ( nu ) the use of threats of violence , and violence 
esp for political purposes. 
it sounds more like your guys .  .  .  . 

i you that they do worse than that. just as 

yeah well , i guess you were in there , and you know it all .  .  .  . 

example 11 children were killed this month of 
two of them by military  . an other similar 
incident by was the one of 25 feb  ( 4 ramadhan ) 
where thee military on purpose hit a 

where from do you know that it was on purpose 
personally , i did n't hear about this case , although 
i do n't deny it . but . how can anybody , besides the 
person itself , can say it was on purpose 

car where the victims were a 5 year girl sail 

and a 2 weeks old ( . the 23 
rouhy ) 

yeah , sure . the . looked in the car with his zionist equipment of 
children , and then he thought to himself hey there is a 
5 year and 2 weeks girls in the car . why . wo n't i make an accident and kill 
the enemy i will die too in the crash .  .  . but . what do i care ... 


 . 

actually , if can remember correctly , was it not reported and even on camera 
some time during the israeli invasion of , or when the began , 
that caught regular israeli soldiers breaking the of 
some arab youngsters in a very and brutal manner ,  ( someone 
please give full details if they can  . this is one of the few 

well , it was about 3 years ago , in the  ( the fact that you ca n't 
remember the time how much do you care about it) .  . i do not think 
that what the did was correct. but i will not agree that they were 
breaking their  . i . saw that film , and , unlike in the usa , it was 
entirely not long ago  ( in a talk show ) and at the end the broken guys got 
up and walked and used their very good. they guy who did it was 
and he said he did it because the terrorist or whatever he was refused to take 
his orders , and in his face. what of truth exist in this 
statement i cannot tell you , because i was n't there. but the guy who did it was 
in prison , if it makes you any good. 

on which such a has been to the west and 
in the usa ... it caused and was one of the factors that has 
changed the of the israeli army 's role in the mid east .  . 

no , it did n't .  . the israeli army is still the most important army in the 
east . it . is still the only human  ( army(as much as an army can be to . any 
american who will claim the opposite , i can only remember the broadcasting 
of the american who a boy .  . it was very cruel to see . but . 
i wo n't say because of this that the american army is cruel .  . 


so there is proof for you ! it is obvious that is a policy of the 
which must be on a massive scale behind the  . 

some kind of proof ! obvious where from if you say it is behind the , 
how do you know about it 






i just wanted to show how much one can say , without knowing anything 
about what he says , and living a life far away from the place he talks about. 




o 


unix 

from  ( brad hernlem ) 
subject re was go ! 
reply to  ( brad hernlem ) 
organization eng 
lines 31 


in article ,  ( dorin baru ) writes 

 ( brad writes 


well , you should have noted that i was cheering an attack on an israeli 
inside territory while i was condemning the 
of by israeli and israeli backed forces .  . my team , 
you see , was playing fair while the team was the 
faces of the in my team 's stands , so to speak. 

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on 
in and try to see through the propaganda .  . there are no a 
black and white but one sure wonders how the can in 
to pin point attacks on its soldiers in and then call the 
 . 

if the attack was justified or not is at least  . but this is not the 
issue. the issue is that you were cheering death. ... 



, of all the criticism of my post expressed on t . p . m .  . , this one i accept .  . 
i regret that aspect of my post. it is my hope that the occupation will end  ( and 
the accompanying loss of life ) but i believe that resistance can help to 
achieve that end. despite what some have said on t . p . m .  . , i think that there is 
a point when losses are unacceptable .  . the strategy u.s. troops out of 
, at least. 

brad 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti human right in 
summary to current events in 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 120 

accounts of anti human right in 
to current events in 



i asked , what 's going on he says , what 's the matter , 
ca n't you see , they 've a car and they 're 
killing ! 



of 

born 
employed 
plant 

resident at building 34 , apartment 33 
no. 12 



on february 27 my wife and i went to to go shopping and returned to 
at around five in the evening. we into one of my relatives at the 
station and got to talking. a lot of people had gathered not far away , 
near the  . well at first we did n't know what was happening , and then a 
fellow i know comes up to me , an guy , and says , what are you 
standing here for go home immediately ! i asked , what 's going on he says , 
what 's the matter , ca n't you see , they 've a car and they 're 
killing ! he helped me a and we got home safely .  . 

we sat at home for two days. during that time a of came into our 
 . but the would n't let them in the building .  . there were 
about 80 of them. they had sticks and pieces of in their hands. they 
were shouting something , but you could n't understand it. it was n't one voice 
or two , all of them were shouting in a  . they turned building 35 .  . 
they went up to the third , and we see that they 're breaking glass and 
throwing things out the  . after a while they come out the one 
has a pair of in his hands , another has a , and a third a 
guitar .  . they went on the parts  . 

we had to save ourselves. after on march 1 we went to hide at school 
no. 33 , which is in 13 .  . there were two other families 
there with us. there were 13 of us altogether. out of all of them i had only 
known before , he had moved to from  . the 
guard at the school let us in. at first he did n't want to , but there was 
nowhere else for us to go. we had to with him and talk him into it. we 
were told that on that day , the 1st , there would be an attack on our 
 . 

we went to a on the second  . 

on the city radio station they three telephone numbers that could be 
used to assistance or communicate anything important. i called one of 
them and the first of the city party answered. i 
asked him for assistance .  . i say , we 're in school no. 33 , we need to be 
evacuated .  . well he says , got it , wait there , i'm sending out help now. 

i know his voice .  . the first had been to our plant , i had spoken with 
him personally. when i called he said , here. 

about two hours after the call we heard near the school. we looked out 
the and about 100 to 120 people were outside saying , , come 
out , we 're here to get you. they have , axes , and in 
their hands. the guard sat there with us , and asked , where should i go i 
say , if your life is of any value to you you 'll go down there and say that 
the were here and that they left. that 's what he did. he went down 
there and said , the were here , he said , i let them out the back 
door , they went that way. and pointed with his hand. and with and 
the set off in the direction he had pointed .  . 

so the assistance we had been promised did come. they sent us help , all right ! 
instead of sending real soldiers he had sent his own. i am positive that 
did that. no one had seen us entering the school , no one knew that 
we were there. in any case , we stayed at the school until seven in the 
morning , and no soldiers of any sort came to our aid .  . 

in the morning we went to my relative 's in 1 , and the soldiers 
took us to the club from there. the club was with people , and there 
were lots of people ahead of us there was no space available. one small boy , 
about three months old , died right in my  . there was n't a single doctor , 
nothing. the boy was , there were no or on him. he was 
just very ill .  . they gave him mouth to mouth , they did everything 
they could under the circumstances , but were unable to save him. and his 
mother and father , a young couple , were right there , on the ... 

i searched for a for us in the , we have a small child of our own , i 
wanted to find a room or something to put my family in. i went up to the third 
, there were a lot of soldiers up there , , with , , 
with their heads broken open. they were a terrible sight. young guys , all of 
them. 

there were a lot of , too. everyone had been , 
everyone was , wailing , and calling for help. i think that the city 
party ignored us completely. true , there was a bar a 
was 30 or 40 , a of cookies that cost 26 was being 
sold for 50 , a soft drink cost a . . . but there was no way to 
get the things any  . 

i met my old , , there. he saw me and up in 
his eyes. my whole life he had told me that we were friendly peoples , that we 
worked together , he always had over at his house. and now he saw 
me and there was nothing he could say , he just cried .  . you can understand his 
feelings , of course. 

april 8 , 1988 


reference 

1 the against in soviet , 
volume i , accounts , edited by , forward by 
, 1990 , published by d. , ny , pages 



david has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma late turkish president 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject their eyes out by  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 31 

reports 

who returned from the seen to this town about 
away brought back three dead children , the backs of their heads blown off .  .  .  . 
 women and children had been , ' said , an to 
's  . television showed pictures of one 
of bodies brought to the town of , some with their 
faces apparently with or their eyes out. 
brian  ( reuters ) 
the washington times , 3 3 


killings in , 

journalists in the area reported seeing of , including some 
of the civilians , and said began shooting 
at them when they sought to the bodies .  . 
fred 
the washington post , 3 3 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from center for policy research 
subject by 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 25 05 29 00 1993 
lines 46 


from center for policy research 
subject by 


by german jewish poet  ( holocaust survivor ) 

an die 1988 

von 

was die 
die in 
und in 



die an mit allen 
mit die 




die gestapo die 
die sa and und die 




will 
von 
mit die 




und will in 
land in 
und 
der der 
in 
mit 
! 




from () 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
nntp posting host edu . au . 
organization school of mathematics 
lines 

in article  ( sabri t atan ) writes 
in article ,  ( mau 
napoleon ) writes 
from article , by  ( sabri t 
atan ) 
well , , mr. , the way you put it it is only the turks 
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to 
believe for somebody trying to be objective .  . 
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot 
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides. 
what were you doing on after the anyway 
do you think it was your right to be there 

i 've heard many turks say this and it me that they do n't read about 
it . remember . the treaty of as a consequence of being in the powers 
in the . turks under international law were supposed to look after their 
minorities ie .  . greeks , ,  ( kurds(i must say relations are 
improving slightly with time) and not pose a threat to 's  . 
the turks blatantly rejected this  ( treaty(the germans accepted 
which was a million times worse for the health and pride of the 
german the . greeks who had an army there , were there with british 
and french backing to enforce  . 
in possibly the first example of appeasement the young government 
managed the treaty of out of the weak allies , this was after 
the greek forces were were at when . this occurred , 
french were in the and many greeks trying escape to the 
french and climbed aboard only to get their cut off by the french 
as they they 're way up the sides of the  . 
, ,  . 

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor until  . 
someone had to protect them. if not us who 

i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only 
not one side being the aggressive and the always suffering .  . 
it is sad that we  ( both ) still are not trying to compromise .  . 
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the 
requirement for greeks to come to  . i thought it 
was a positive attempt to make the relations better. 

compromise on what , the invasion of , the of in 
greek politics , the refusal of to accept 12 of 
as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of 
, the ownership of the islands in the greek , sorry ,  . 

there are some things on which there can not be a compromise .  . 


the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are 
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person 
because i am from  . politics is not my business , and it is 
not the business of most of the turks .  . when it comes to individuals 
why the hatred 

any person who supports the policies of the turkish directly or 
is a bad person. 
it is not your that makes you bad , it is your support of the 
actions of your that make you bad . 
people do not hate you because of who you are but because of what you 
are. you are a supporter of the policies of the turkish and 
as a such you must pay the price .  . 

so that makes me think that there is some kind of 
brainwashing going on in  . after all why would an person 
treat every person from a nation the same way can you tell me about your 
history books and things you learn about greek turkish 
during your  . 
take it easy ! 





, baby ! 

you do not need brainwashing to turn people against the turks .  . just talk to 
greeks , , slavs , and all other people who had the luck to be under 
turkish occupation .  . 
they will talk to you about murders , ,  . 

you do not learn about turks from history books , you learn about them from 
people who experienced first hand turkish  . 

napoleon 


well , napoleon .  . it is your kind of people who are preventing peace 
on the world. first of all , you did n't answer the question i asked 
at the end of my posting. and then you told me some bullshit 
throughout your posting which had no positive point about the issue , 
filled with hatred , and filled with emotions .  . why am i doing this 
forget it , i do n't think you are worth it to discuss the issue. 






, baby ! 



from  ( oded maler ) 
subject re peace proposal 
nntp posting host 
organization , university of , france 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( center for policy research ) writes 

from center for policy research 
subject peace proposal 


a proposal for peace in the middle east .  . 
by 



1. a should be established which would grants 
for each child born to a couple where one is israeli jew 
and the other arab .  . 

2. to be entitled for a grant , a couple will have to prove 
that one of the partners or is entitled to israeli 
citizenship under the law of return and the other , 
although born in areas under current control , is not 
entitled to such citizenship under the law of return. 

3. for the first child , the grant will amount to 18 . 000 .  . for 
the second the third child , 12 . 000 . for each child. for each 
subsequent child , the grant will amount to 6 . 000 . for each child. 
... 

i would be for critical comments to the above proposal as 
well for any of this proposal for meaningful 
discussion and  . 

post box , 

maybe i'm a bit old , but have you heard about something 
called love it used to play some role in people 's 
for getting married .  . of course i know some people who married 
in order to get a green card , but making a common 
child for 18 , 000 the power of aa is limited .  . your proposal is 
indeed  . 


, , d , b . p .  . , , france 
phone fax e mail 


from  ( bulent murtezaoglu ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 16 45 17 gmt 
nntp posting host vein . cs . rochester . edu . 
organization computer science department , university of rochester 





in article writes 
stuff deleted 

country. turks and want to into the 
conflict with  . 

a break .  . capital letters , or not , the above is pure nonsense. it 
seems to me that short are the 
while that will stay out. stop and think for a moment , 
will you does n't need anyone to her into the conflict , it 
is a part of it. 

the who have lived 
in their for 3000 years  ( cut off from and given to 
by stalin ) are the ones directly involved in the conflict .  . they are defending 
themselves against  . 

huh you did n't expect 's to be friendly to forces fighting with them 
within their borders 

... 
at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that stay out of the 
crisis so that the repeat of the invasion will never occur again. 

you 're not playing with a full , are you where would invade 
are you throwing the around with s . c . g .  . in the 
in hopes that the greek netters will jump the gun yes indeed 
has the military to intervene , what she wishes she had , however , is 
the diplomatic power to stop the and bring the parties to the 
table .  . that 's hard to do when are attacking 
towns .  . leaders are lacking the to recognize the 
of armed conflict and convince their nation that a compromise that 
leads to is much better than a military that 's 
going to cause  . think of 10 or 20 years down the 
line both of the independent countries need to develop economically 
and neither one is going to wipe the other out. these people will be 
, would it not be better to keep the bad blood between them minimal 

if you belong to the , keep in mind that what strikes 
your fancy on the map is costing the local in terms of their 
blood and future. it 's easy to be comfortable and 
to have your feelings about turks  . the 
in and n k will be there , with the same people you seem to hate 
as their , for maybe 3000 years more. the sooner there 's peace in 
the the better it is for them and everyone else. i 'd push for 
compromise if i were you instead of hitting the caps lock and spreading 
inflammatory half truths .  . 

cheers , 



from  ( steve birnbaum ) 
subject re  . questions to 
reply to  ( steve birnbaum ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 


in a previous article ,  ( center for policy research ) says 

6. your answer to the question concerning rights to return 
conflicts with what i was told , namely that hundreds of thousands 
of non jews who left for some reason or other the area under 
israel control during the war of 1947 8 , were prevented from 
returning for the sole reason they were not jews .  . jews who also 
left , for example to europe , to avoid the , were allowed to 
return. how can you justify such discrimination , if this is true 
is the mere fact of a person leaving area of combat to seek refuge 
somewhere else a reason for him of his right to live in 
his 

you are conveniently the fact that the arab governments told the 
arab citizens of israel to leave israel , join with the arab armies so that 
after what they felt like an assured victory occured , these could 
return to their former homes , them as well as anything else they 
wanted that to jews .  . when the lost , israel was left with 
a bunch of people who has just tried to kill them who now wanted back 
into the country as citizens .  . what would you have done let them in so 
they could kill jews israel sees those who stayed as citizens 
because they were loyal to israel during the war and did n't leave .  . of 
course some could have left to avoid the fighting but 
between the two is impossible. therefore a decision was made based on 
of the country. 

8. you maintain that there are some israeli living in 
israeli  . i wonder how many and where .  . there is very 
little evidence available about that. as much as i know , many 
are working for , even for many years , but are 
not accepted as members .  . could it be that do not want 


no that i have ever visited has any employees unless they had to 
some people for the , etc if there were n't enough 
people on the to do them. in such cases , they are paid properly. 
if a turns away an arab , have never seen or heard of this) but it 
reflects only on the membership of that , not the whole 
movement .  . 

to keep it what  . i am certain that if only religious 
communities in the u.s. would be asked , they would 
civil marriage so that people would depend upon and priests 
to marriages .  . but israel has always been ruled by a 
secular majority .  . your answer is not  . 

this just shows how ignorant you are of israeli politics. although the 
major parties in israel are n't religious  ( however not totally secular ) , 
due to the format of the government  ( coalition ) the religious parties have 
always had a lot of pull since they were needed to form a majority  . 
in fact , from what i heard the present government is the least 
by the religious parties in the existance of israel .  . israel cannot be 
called a secular state. for , is the only city in the country 
 ( except for maybe some arab cities ) where buses run on the jewish sabbath .  . 
there are many other examples of religion in israel .  . marriages in israel 
are not by the state , but by and priests .  . obviously your 
disbelief of this fact some light of your ignorance of the country 
you claim to know so much about. 

steve 


internet 1 109 . 18 . 

my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head. 

from  ( eric s. perlman ) 
subject re who should be on .  .  .  . 
keywords 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 49 

in article  ( anwar mohammed ) writes 
in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 
 ( anwar mohammed ) writes 

in article  ( gideon ehrlich ) writes 
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents 
of those files. 
so it will be nice if will tell us 
1. why do american authorities consider to be dangerous 

authorities seem to view a lot of people as dangerous , including 
the millions of americans of arab ancestry .  . perhaps you can answer 
the question as to why the files and on members 
in california  ( and elsewhere ) friendly perhaps 

come on ! most if not all are to the war 
against israel .  . that is why the arab organizations .  . that is 
the same reason the us communist organizations and soviet 
only a few years ago. 


the is an organization of arab americans . 

let me see .  .  . you . 're saying that most if not all arab americans should be 
on you 're also saying that most if not all arab americans 
should be views as a national security threat to israel  ( and the us , 
as you imply in your reference to the wtc bombing , in 
which no arab americans were involved ) by inference , can we assume 
that you think that anyone of arab lineage anywhere in the world poses 
a threat to israel and , therefore , should be on 

like it or not , edward , has a very good , valid point. obviously , 
in presenting it , he  ( quite legitimately and deliberately ) takes a point 
of view to an extreme which might not have been what you intended , but 
that is one of the best ways to demonstrate a slippery slope type of 
argument , which i believe was his aim .  . 

i very frankly believe that the will be proved innocent in this 
case. i doubt there 's enough evidence to against them even in a 
civil court , where of the evidence , not evidence beyond 
any reasonable doubt , is the standard for such a case. that , 
however , does not prevent me from seeing the merit in 's point. 

rest deleted. 

how sad to see a model of and become like any other 
a for ideologies to it out with  . tim rice , 
eric s. 
center for and space astronomy , university of , boulder 

from  ( farzin mokhtarian ) 
subject news from 
originator 
organization corp .  . japan 
lines 31 


from 



o dr. , of health stated that infant 
 ( under one year old ) in iran went down from 120 
per thousand before the revolution to 33 per thousand at 
the end of  ( last  . 

o dr also stated that before the revolution only 
children received to protect them 
from various but this figure reached 
the end of  . 

o dr. , the of health mentioned that 
the population growth rate in iran at the end of 
went below 2 . 7 . 

o during the visit of mohammad , the prime 
of , to iran , agreements for in the 
areas of industry , trade , education and were 
signed .  . according to one agreement , iran will be in 
charge of building 's natural gas network. 








from  ( basil hamdan ) 
subject re , opinions  ( re water on the brain ) 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering college , state university 
lines 65 

in article think . com . ,  ( shai guday ) writes 
in article , writes 

in article ,  ( alan stein ) writes 
i guess finally revealed the source of his claim that israel 
diverted water from his imagination. 

h. stein 
mr. water head , 
i never said that israel diverted , in fact i said that 
israel went into southern to make sure that no 
water is being used on the 
side , so that all water would run into river where there 
israel will use it ! head. 

of course posting some hard evidence or facts is much more 
difficult. you have not bothered to substantiate this in 
any way. , do you know of any evidence that would support 
this 

i agree with , there are many references to israeli 
plans on the river but i have yet to find hard 
evidence. i had mentioned before that there is a report 
by the un to study the river , it is 
still in draft form. the israeli gov t also 
a study on the river that was done by dr. ben  . 
the starts in the in , 
, then west across south and 
into the near the city of tyre .  . 
there are other such as the and the 
that start in territory than join the river .  . 
the most mentioned plan was one that would water 
from the into these , then the water would 
naturally into the de  . but there is no evidence 
of any structure  ( which would need to be at least 
3 long) .  . the area is , inaccessible and 
by israel so i have not seen any independent 
reports of the existence of any structure there. 
another often mentioned is through deep  . 
it is also that has 600 m 
into deep and drawing water on the 
israeli side of the border .  . if such are indeed 
under use they would be to operate 
 ( high energy costs ) and the and israeli gov t should 
agree on the distribution of water from shared 
as part of an overall peace plan and the 
on regional issues . the fact that we have 
been at war all this time has led to the current state 
of affairs where from such is 
completely  . 











stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from ( ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization university of virginia 
lines 29 

writes 
( ) writes 

first of all i never said the  . i said before the 
 . i'm not ignorant of the and know more 
about nazi germany than most people  ( maybe including you) .  . 

uh oh ! the first sign of an argument without merit the stating of one 's 
in an area. if you know something about nazi germany , 
show it. if you do n't , shut up. simple as that. 

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii 
the crimes commited by the israeli government. any 
attempt to call civil like myself anti is 
not appreciated. 

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who or were 
tortured .  . we all suffered .  . second , the name calling was directed against 
you , not civil in general. your name dropping of a fancy 
sounding political term is yet another attempt to cite 
in order to your for this argument. go 
back to the ,  . 
all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many 
others suffered physically .  . it is sad that people like you are 
so by emotions that they ca n't see the facts .  . thanks 
for calling me names , it only me of what kind of 
ignorant people i am dealing with. i included your letter since 
i thought it demonstrated my point more than anything i could 
write .  . 

from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press. madness .  . 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 16 16 49 00 1993 
lines 130 


from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press. madness .  . 

written 4 34 apr 16 , 1993 by in forum . 
from israeli press. madness .  . 
from the israeli press. 

paper tel  ( tel 's time) .  . friday local tel 's 
paper , with  . 

date 19 february 1993 

guy 

subject with soldiers who served in the 
 ( cherry ) units , which themselves as and operate 
within the territories .  . 

excerpts from the article 

a lot has been written about the units who themselves as 
, things good and bad , some of the  . but the most 
important problem of those units has been hardly dealt with. it is 
that everyone who serves in the , after a time goes in one 
way or another insane . 

a man who said this , who will here be called  ( his full name 
is known to the editors ) served in the  . after his 
from the army he works as boy .  . his , who will here be 
called was also serving in the , and is now about to 
depart for a round the world  . they both look no different 
from average israeli youngsters discharged from 
service .  . but in their souls , one can notice something completely 
different .  .  .  . it . was not easy for them to come out with 
about what happened to them. and they think that to most of their 
from the it wound n't be easy either. yet after they 
began to talk , it was nearly impossible to make them stop talking. 
the following article will contain all the stories 
with an appalling  . 

( .  .  . ) . a short time ago i was in command of a team , in 
which some of the applied for release from the  . we 
called such soldiers h . i .  .  hit by the  . under my command 
was a who talked to himself non stop , which is a common 
phenomenon in the  . i sent him to a  . but why i 
should talk about others when i myself feel quite insane on 
, when i come home , my parents know i cannot be talked to 
until i go to the beach , a little , calm down and return. the 
of my father 's car must be ready for in advance , so that i 
can go there. i they dare talk to me before , or whenever i do n't 
want them to talk to me , i just a chair and it 
 . i know it is my all the time 
and then running away from home , to the car and to the beach. only 
there i become normal . ( .  .  . ) . 

( .  .  . ) . another friday i was eating a lunch prepared by my mother. 
it was an of sorts .  . she took the risk of sitting next to 
me and talking to me. i then told my mother about an event which 
was still in my mind. i told her how i shot an arab , and how 
exactly his wound looked like when i went to it. she began 
to laugh  . i wanted her to cry , and she laugh 
straight in my face instead ! so i told her how my had made a 
of the two who were the 
 . he shot them down , hitting them , exactly as 
they deserved .  . one bullet had set a on fire , with 
the effect that the arab was burning all over , just  . i 
was to see it. my fired three , two at the 
arab with the , and the third at his  . it hit 
him straight in his ass. we both felt that we 'd off 
something. 

next i told my mother how another of mine split open the 
in the belly of another arab and how all of us that 
to take a look. i reached the first. and then that arab , 
blood forth from his body , at me. i  shut 
up  and he talk back to me in hebrew ! so i just laughed 
straight in his face. i am usually laughing when i at 
something right before my eyes. then i told him  all 
right , wait a  . i left him in order to take a look at 
another arab .  . i asked a if that arab could be 
saved , if the from his could be stopped with the 
help of a of something else like that. i keep telling all 
this to my mother , with details , and she keeps laughing straight 
into my face. this me. i got very angry , because i felt 
i was becoming mad. so i stopped eating , the with he 
and some still on , and at once threw it over 
her head. only then she stopped laughing .  . at first she did n't know 
what to say. 

( .  .  . ) . but i must tell you of a still other madness which falls 
upon us frequently .  . i went with a friend to practice shooting on a 
field .  . a appeared right in the middle of the field .  . my friend 
shot it at once. then we noticed four deer standing high up on the 
hill above us. my friend at once aimed at one of them and shot it. 
we the sight of it falling down the  . we shot down two 
deer more and went to take a look. when we climbed the we 
saw a young deer , by our bullet , but still trying to 
such some milk from its already dead mother. we carefully 
two , covered by blood and of flesh of 
the two deer we had hit .  . we were just by that sight. we 
had hit em so good ! then we decided to kill the young deer too , 
so as spare it further suffering .  . i approached , took out my 
and shot him in the head several times from a very short 
distance .  . when you shoot straight at the head you actually see the 
in. but my bullet made its brains fall 
outside onto the ground , with the effect of lots of 
blood straight on us. this made us feel cured of the of our 
madness .  . standing there with blood , we felt we were like 
of prey .  . we could n't explain what had happened to us. we 
were almost in while walking down from that hill , and we 
felt the whole day very  . 

( .  .  . ) . we always go back to places we carried out in. 
this is why we can see them. when you see a guy you , may 
be for the rest of his life , you feel you got power. you feel 
of sorts .  . 

( .  .  . ) . both and at least at this moment 
studying the acting .  . is not willing to work in any 
security linked occupation .  . the exact opposite .  .  why 
should n't i take advantage of the i have so well 
why should n't i 3 . 000 . for each head i would deliver 
while being a in south africa this kind of job suits 
me perfectly .  . i have no human emotions any more. if i get a 
reasonable i will have no problem to board a plane to 
bosnia in order to fight there. 

 . by israel  . 


from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re investment in and 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 30 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article ,  ( jonathan b. horen ) writes 

while i investing of money in , , v , 
in order to create jobs for their residents , i find it deplorable that 
this has never been an active policy of any israeli 
since , with regard to their jewish residents . past governments 
found funds to cheap  ( read affordable ) housing and the 
, but where was the investment for creating 
industry  ( which would have generated and jobs ) 

the investment was there in the form of huge tax breaks , and employer 
 . you are the difference that these could have 
made to any company .  . part of the problem was that few 
were interested in political , as much as profit .  . 

after 26 years , and remain , of even 
middle , and the jewish are sterile 
communities , for  ( in the main )  ( both 
secular and religious ) who work in tel or jerusalem but 
cannot afford to live in either city or their surrounding  . 

true , which leads to the obvious question , should any investment have 
been made there at the 's expense .  . obviously , the answer was 
and still is a no. 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( basil hamdan ) 
subject re was go ! 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering college , state university 
lines 

in article ,  ( adam shostack ) writes 

tell me , do these young men also attack troops 

in the south area , only israeli  ( and sla ) and troops 
are present. 
troops are north of the river .  . between the 
river and the security only troops are  . 


with the blood of its soldiers .  . if israel is interested in peace , 
than it should from our land. 

there must be a of peace before this happens. it 
seems that many of these youth are unable to restrain 
themselves from violence , and unable to to realize that their actions 
stay in south  . 

that is your opinion and the opinion of the israeli government. 
i agree peace would be better for all , but i am addressing 
the problem as it stands now. a comprehensive peace 
will be concluded soon , and will include security for 
both sides. my proposal was aimed at decreasing the casualties 
in the period. in my opinion , if israel 
unilaterally it would still be better off than staying .  . 
the israeli gov t obviously agrees with you and is not willing 
to do such a move. i hope to be be able to change your opinion 
and theirs , that 's why i post to  . 

if the army was able to maintain the peace , then 
israel would not have to be there. until it is , israel prefers that 
its soldiers die rather than its children. 

as i explained , i that if israel does unilaterally 
i believe no attacks would against northern israel .  . i also 
explained why i believe that to be the case. my suggestion 
is aimed at reducing the level of and casualties on all sides. 
it is unfortunate that israel does not agree with my opinion. 



if israel really wants to save some israeli lives it would 
unilaterally from the so called security before the conclusion 
of the peace talks .  . such a move would save israeli lives , 
advance peace efforts , give israel a great moral lift , better israel 's 
public image and give it an in the peace 
since israel can claim that it is interested in 
peace and has already offered some important  . 

israel should from when a peace treaty is 
signed .  . not a day before. because of casualties would tell 
the people that all they need to do to push israel around is 
kill a few soldiers .  . its not gonna happen. 


that is too bad. 

along with such a israel could demand that 
be by the government and warn that it will not 
accept any attacks against its northern cities and that if such a 
occurs than it will consider re taking the 
and will hold the and government responsible for it. 


why should israel not demand this while holding the 
it seems to me that the better position is while 
holding your land. 

because israel is not the security free of charge .  . 
it is paying the price for that. once israel it may have 
lost a chip at the table but it would save 
some soldiers  lives , that is my contention .  . 

if were willing to agree to 
those conditions , israel would quite probably have left already. 
unfortunately , it does n't seem that the can the 
, and maintain the peace. 

that is completely untrue .  . is now a minor force in 
politics. the real heavy are syria 's allies .  . the gov t is 
supported by syria .  . the army is over 30 , 000 troops and 
like never before. can have no moral justification 
in attacking israel proper , especially after israeli  . 
that would draw the of the the and the 
israeli  . if israel does and such an act 
 ( hizbolllah attacking israel ) would be akin to political and moral 
suicide .  . 



adam 
adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( kamil b. ucer ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
organization university of rochester department of electrical engineering 

in article  ( angelos greek and the only combination ) writes 

ok. my  . , what about the of greek that was 
, and all the the people in the died. happened oh , about 5 
years ago in  . 
what about the greeks in the islands of and , they 
are not allowed to have churches any more , instead has 
turned the church into a , i got a picture too. 
what about the greeks of and , 
what you now call and , they spoke a 2 thousand year 
language , are there any left that still or were they 
before we start another , and before you start quoting 
all over again , or was it somebody else , please think. i know it 
is a hard thing to do for somebody not , but try nevertheless .  . 
if turks in were so how come they 
elected two , m not one but two , representatives in the greek government 
how come they have  ( free(absolutely free ) and education 
do the turks in have so much if they do then you have every right 
to , then you can also move to and enjoy those 
 . but i forget , for you do study in a foreign university , 
some poor is the earth with his own  . 
btw is still writing i 'd like to read some 
of his new stuff. also who was the guy that wrote on the mountains of 
 . please respond to the last two questions , i am 
interested in finding more books from these two people. 



the opinions expressed above are nobody else 's but 
mine , mine , , ,  . ( .  (  
live long no 

any and all mail sent to me , can and will be used in any manner 
whatsoever. i may repost or parts of messages or whole 
messages. if you disagree , please exercise your freedom of speech 
and do n't send me anything. 

dear mr. , 
i would like to clarify several in your posting. first the incident which i believe was in three years ago , was done by a mentally ill person who killed himself afterwards. the greeks were ex turks in in  . i have to now since my greek friend 
here wants to use the computer .  . well , i 'll be back . la baby .  . 


from  ( david davidian ) 
subject in and 
summary asking not to fight against in for 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 


04 19 1993 

by 
associated press writer 

,  ( ap ) the 600 , 000 of and russia have 
begun for their own state , threatening in a corner 
of the  . 

the has escaped the ethnic warfare of , 
and , but could become the next minority in the former 
soviet union to fight for independence .  . 

, who are muslim descendents of , are angry about the 
of their young men to fight in 's 5 year old 
war with  . 

they also want to unite the regions of and russia , which 
were effectively one until the of the soviet union created national 
borders that had been only lines on a map .  . 

a of more than 3 , 000 in march to and 
demand a separate the government. 

in , the capital , deny that police shot 
demonstrators to death. but the government strict security measures 
and began with authorities to control the movement of 
living across the border in the of russia .  . 

to , the center of life , found the town quiet soon 
after the  . children played in the air. 

at the sunday , men in heavy and dark gathered to 
discuss from high duties at the border to a 
war they say is not theirs .  . 

i have been , but i wo n't go , said , gold 
in the sun .  . why must i fight a war for the i have 
nothing to do with  . 

more than 3 , 000 people have died in the war , which on the disputed 
territory of , about 150 to the  . 

, an official in the 's office , said only 11 of 
in 1992 had served .  . 

the police do n't force people to go , he said. they are afraid of an 
that could be backed by in  . 

all the men agreed that police had not fired at the demonstrators , but 
on how the came about. 

some said it occurred spontaneously when spread that was 
about to draft 1 , men from the , where 75 , 000 live. 

others said the was ordered by gen .  . , leader of the 
movement , , based in  . 

we organized the when families came to us about 
draft orders , said , a mathematics teacher who belongs to  . 

we hope to , by everyone the , 
the russians .  . 

in the early century , the formed two , or , 
in what are now and  . they freely with their 
over the green and mountains between the two  . 

by , the areas were joined to russia .  . after , they 
came under soviet rule. with the of the soviet union , the 
600 , 000 were for the first time with strict borders .  . 

about half remained in and half in independent  . 

we have to pay on all this , on cars , on wine , 
, a small  . his , laid out on the ground at the , 
included , stomach and plastic shoes from  . 

we want our own country , he said. we want to be able to move about easily. 
but wo n't listen to us. 

physically , it is hard for to distinguish from other 
 . in many , they live side by side , working at the same 
jobs and to some degree. 

but the have a language , a mixture of arabic , turkish and 
with strong  . 

supports the cultural preservation of its 10 largest 
ethnic minorities .  . the have weekly newspapers and some elementary 
school classes in their language. 

is a different question. if the succeeded in separating from 
, they would set a precedent for other minorities , such as the 
in the south , the in the nearby mountains and the of eastern 
 . 





david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from 
subject re israeli terrorism 
distribution world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 45 

in article ,  ( anas omran ) writes 

in a previous article ,  ( tim clock ) says 

in article ( ) writes 
i think the israeli press might be a bit biased in 
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of 
reported accurately on what was happening in germany .  . it is 
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda .  . 

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or 
news , where do we go to understand , to learn 
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another 

there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report 
on the situation in the o . t .  . but , as most people used to see on tv , the 
do not allow them to go deep there in the o . t .  . the 
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters .  . 


, of course ! the needed blood for the  . after all , 
was last month ) 

why do n't you give us your national of your recent trip 
to or are you too by what you saw ) 










so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in  . 
they do not allow fair and neutral of the situation in  . 

to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political 
, whether it is on or against our side . 

tim 




from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israeli lust 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 24 

in article writes 

now , if actions of the resistance help send the 
, i'm all for it. if you are really 
concerned about , a little self criticism could do 
you a great favor. 

one of these days you 'll learn that the way to stop israel 
from fighting back is to stop attacking .  . if there were no attacks in 
the security for a year because the army could maintain 
the peace , then would be in much better shape .  . 

tell me something , though. why do troops not get 
attacked are n't they 

israel has repeatedly stated that it will leave on two 
conditions .  . one is a that the army can keep 
the peace. the second is that the pull out as well. 

adam 
adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject as today marks the of the turkish genocide .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 65 

in article  ( system operator ) writes 

or , as we have witnessed in , would like to see 
it happen again .  .  .  . 

is this the joke of the month 

1. your exterminated 2.5 million muslim people 
between and  . 

2. your nazi parents fully participated in the extermination of the 
european during wwii .  . 

3. your criminal have been muslim women , children 
and people in x soviet and for the last 
four years. 

the entire population of x soviet now , as a result of the 
genocide of 2.5 million muslim people , are  . 

for nearly one thousand years , the turkish and people 
lived on their the last one hundred under the 
soviet and occupation .  . the 
in the government and carried 
out a genocide against its muslim subjects .  . 2.5 million turks 
and were murdered and the remainder driven out of their 
 . after one thousand years , turkish and lands 
were empty of turks and  . 

the survivors found a safe heaven in  . 

today , x soviet government rejects the right of turks and 
to return to their muslim lands by x soviet  . 

today , x soviet government covers up the genocide 
by its and is therefore an to this crime against 
humanity .  . 

x soviet government must pay for their crime of genocide 
against the muslims by admitting to the crime and making 
to the turks and  . 

turks and demand the right to return to their lands , to determine 
their own future as a nation in their own  . 

during the , we come once again reiterate the 
unity of the muslim people , the of the turkish 
and demands and the desire to pursue the struggle 
for that a struggle that all turks and  . 

today , we appeal to all turkish and people in the united 
states and canada to participate en in the 
events , be they cultural , political or religious .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( ozan s. yigit ) 
subject re public service translation no . 2 . 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 04 57 08 gmt 
organization york u. student information systems project 
lines 54 

david posts a good translation of a post by 

most of the original post 

en 

in translation , as a public service 

most of the translation 

the love of the is the strongest of all 
off souls 

i think this part of the translation is questionable .  . although i 
think the original quote is plain silly , you made it sound as if 
it is coming from a nazi youth .  . for example , turks talk of a 
not a . why instead of 
the of translation is a well known problem 
1 so one may have to fudge , but with some care of course. is 
the following an equally valid translation 

the love of one 's country is the strongest wind to one 's 
soul .  . 

see my point 

nevertheless , i think you translate well. 



1 van 
word and object 
mit press , cambridge , mass 






















from  ( mark steinberger ) 
subject re more on case 
organization state university of new york at 
lines 6 

i do n't think and his friends have had as much fun for years , 
if ever , as they 're getting over this business. 

the is likely to generate some speaker 's , too. 

mark 

from ( ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization university of virginia 
lines 7 

i understand how israel captured the and that it 
is its right to it. i ca n't fully understand why it has 
to deal with palestinians much the same way jews were treated 
before the  ( the final solution ) by hitler .  . what i 
totally do n't get is why the u.s. has to the 
existance of such a of human rights. 
just wondering 

from  ( yon of robbing ) 
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
organization workstations at maryland , university of maryland , college park 
lines 37 

in article 
 ( ilyess bdira ) writes 
1)why ) do jews who do n't even believe in god  ( as is the case with many 
of the of secular zionism ) have a right in more 
than the of , just because god gave you the land 
g d has nothing to do with it. some of the land was in fact given to the 
jews by the united nations , quite a bit of it was purchased from arab 
 . present claims are based on prior ownership  ( purchase 
from landlords ) award by the united nations in the 
partition of the territory , and as the result of 
wars fought against the egyptians , , , et al. 


2)why ) do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of 
the are not jews and do not want to be part of israel 
first , i should point out that many jews do not in fact agree with the 
idea that the west bank is theirs .  . since , however , i agree with those who 
claim the west bank , i think i can answer your question the west 
bank was what is called the of war. hussein ordered the arab 
to attack israel , which was a poor move , seeing as how the 
kicked his butt. the territory is therefore  . 
of all of the west bank is not desirable , but it beats 
national suicide for the  . put another way , one could ask why it 
is that so many palestinians seem to think that tel belongs to them 
and the future state of  . as long as this state of affairs 
continues , it seems that to give the palestinians a place from which they 
can launch attacks on jews is a real poor idea. giving up the entire west 
bank would be idiotic security standpoint .  . in addition , there is 
the small matter of jerusalem , which is considered to be part of the west 
bank. the chances of the giving up jerusalem are nil .  . even 
who think is a really cool dude , like , are n't 
going to propose giving up jerusalem .  . if he did , he 'd get run out of town 
on a  . 


! 
jeff 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject entire muslim population was to genocide by  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 76 

in article  ( hm ) writes 

president said had 
the bodies of some including blacks , mongols and 
recently brought to  ( the capital ) from  . 

you can dream whatever you wish. we have demands from the  . 
with the government of x soviet , we would sit down , go over 
all our outstanding issues , whether it 's land or or 
recognition , whatever it is. we 'd like to sit down and ask for it. 
by all means , lands and properties were taken away from us and they 
should be returned to the owners , the turkish and 
people , who were there 3 , 000 years , long before the ever 
showed up in that area. entire population of the was 
to genocide beyond belief genocide which was to exterminate 
the whole turkish people of the to the last man , woman and child. 
tortured and millions of civilians .  . to 
innocent civilians in the mosques and burn them in the buildings 
was one of their methods .  . even today the in that is seldom 
free from the evidence of these crimes .  . 

if you have the stomach , i would strongly recommend the following 
references on the genocide of the muslims .  . many more of them 
are also available in the  and van turkish genocide ' . 

1. , 
nin , ve t . a . s .  . , 
,  . 

2. , , , ,  . 

3. a. , 
, , ,  . 

4. dr. m. , ve , 
, ,  . 

but more than that. 

a final in 

photo by associated press at a in , , family 
members and friends during the of victims killed in the 
fighting in  . , right , the 
containing the remains of his brother , one of the victims .  . a copy 
of koran the  . 
the new york times , 3 6 

final embrace 

photo by associated press , right , weeps over 
holding the remains of his brother as other relatives 
at an yesterday of victims killed 
in fighting in  . 
the washington post , 3 6 

victims buried in town 

claim hundreds died in attack .  .  . of . seven bodies seen 
here today , two were children and three were women , one shot through 
the at what appeared to be close range .  . another 120 
being treated at 's hospital include many with multiple stab 
 . 
thomas 
the washington post , 2 28 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( david davidian ) 
subject turkish government on usenet lie through their ! 
article i.d. 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 63 

in revision of history as posted by turkish government 
under the of  ( serdar argic ) lie in response to 
article and 


( is blown up. an either 
( he gives up his honorary position or he will be executed . he 
( refuses .  . responsibility is claimed by and  . 

( may 4 , cambridge , 
( , the turkish honorary consul in boston , would not bow 
( to the terrorist that he give up his title of 
( honorary consul . now he is attacked and murdered in cold blood. 
( president reagan orders an all out to no avail. an eye 
( witness who gave a description of the murderer is shot down. he 
(  .  .  . but falls silent .  . one of the most in 
( the , history of terrorism .  . such a murder 
( brings absolutely nothing except an ego boost for the murderer 
( within the terrorist , which is already 
( in self  . 
( 
( were you involved in the murder of 

( december 17 , 
( two nazi massacre and his , engin 
(  . and claim responsibility .  . 

mr. turkish prove that the even existed in or 
! go ahead , provide us the newspaper accounts of the and 
show us the letters ! the turkish government is good at text from 
their references , let 's see how good are at adding text to verifiable 
newspaper accounts ! 

the turkish government ca n't support any of their anti claims as 
in the above garbage ! that government continues to make 
false and charges for they have no recourse left after having made 
fools out of through their attempt at a campaign at denying and 
covering up the turkish genocide of the  . 

just like a dog at a moving , it , , , until the 
stops , at which point it just walks away ! such will be with this posting ! 
turkish level the most ridiculous charges , and when brought to answer , 
they are silent , like the dog after the stops ! 

the turkish government it can a state of 
existing in today onto usenet and convince people via its 
, , and incidental view of themselves and their place in the 
world. 

the resulting inability to address and greek refutations of 
re write of history is to refer to me as a terrorist , and worse , claim 
as part of the record i took responsibility for the murder of 2 people ! 

what a pack of fools , by anti  . it 's too bad 
the socialization policies of the of requires it to always 
find non turks to de ! such will be their downfall ! 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 52 

in article  ( kenneth tolman ) writes 

i sure hope so. because , the crimes of the must 
be  . invaders burned and the of 

no ! no ! no no no no no. it is not to right wrongs of 
previous years. my ancestors tortured , , and killed blacks .  . i 
do not want to take responsibility for them. i may not have any direct 
relatives who did such things , but how am i to know 
there is enough current torture , and genocide to go around. 
lets correct that. lets forget and forgive , each and every one of us has 
a historical reason to kill , torture or take back things from those around 
us. pray let us not be infantile for past  . 

are you suggesting that we should forget the cold genocide of 
2.5 million muslim people by the between and but 
most people are n't aware that in 1939 hitler said that he would pattern 
his elimination of the jews based upon what the did to turkish 
people in  . 


 after all , who today the extermination of the ' 
 ( adolf hitler , august 22 , 1939 ruth w.  ( durusoy ) , 
the turkish , p. ) . 


i refer to the turks and as history 's forgotten people. it does 
not serve our society well when most people are totally of 
what happened in where a society , run by , 
decided to simply use the of as an excuse , for wiping 
out a peace loving , , and very intelligent and 
ethnic group. what we have is a demand from the government of 
x soviet to the wrongs that were done against our 
people. and the only way we can do that is if we can hold of and 
not lose sight of the historical precedence in this very century. we 
cannot reverse the events of the past , but we can and we must to 
keep the memory of this alive on this side of the atlantic , so as 
to help prevent a of the extermination of a people because 
of their religion or their race .  . which means that i support the claims 
of the turks and to return to their lands in x soviet , 
to determine their own future as a nation in their own  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( brad hernlem ) 
subject israeli media  ( was re israeli terrorism ) 
reply to  ( brad hernlem ) 
organization eng 
lines 33 


in article ,  ( tim clock ) writes 

in article ( ) writes 
i think the israeli press might be a bit biased in 
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of 
reported accurately on what was happening in germany .  . it is 
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda .  . 

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or 
news , where do we go to understand , to learn 
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another the only way 
to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political 
, whether it is on or against our side . 

tim 

to , 

i have to disagree with you about the value of israeli news sources. if you 
want to know about events in it makes more sense to get the news 
directly from the source. every news source is inherently biased to some 
extent and for various reasons , both intentional and otherwise. however , 
the more sources relied upon the easier it is to see the truth and to 
the bias .  . 

go read or listen to some israeli media. you will learn more news and more 
opinion about israel and by doing so. then you can form your own 
opinions and they will be more informed even if your views do n't 
change .  . 

brad 
can call me doctor brad ali  ( as of last wednesday ) 

from  ( mohammad khan ) 
subject re fundamentalism again. 
organization engineering institute , , mi 
lines 10 

ok , someone is fundamentalist , someone else is not. 
what defines a fundamentalist  ( not who ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) .  . 
that is an essential question which nobody has agreed upon an answer , 
at least to what literature discussion news i 've seen .  .  . 


mohammad r. khan 
after  93 , please send mail to 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject they were completely and systematically exterminated by  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( joel furr ) writes 

do it. has shown himself to be  ( though embarrassed ) and 
still of the same up self that 

the theory is that the kills the spirit of the criminal nazi 
of the terrorism and triangle .  . 
now , try dealing with the rest of what i wrote. 

what is more , the activities of the government seem to have been 
efforts aimed at a race  ( the turks ) or aimed at carrying out a 
one feud , instead of being a struggle for liberation .  . from the , 
the efforts of the within the ottoman borders took 
the form of terrorist and destructive actions aimed at mass murder , 
and genocide , so that no other interpretation of them is possible. 
activities started during the reign of ii as individual acts of 
, and then developed into and surprise attacks .  . the element 
of brute force in these activities increased steadily , in mass 
and widespread fighting during the first world war. furthermore , 
when the ottoman army from eastern after the 
defeat , initiated a series of in this area. 
although the russians eastern as an enemy , nevertheless they 
were by the rules of war. however , when they returned to their 
country in after the revolution , were 
in this area for about a year until the ottoman forces returned to 
in  . during this period , executed massacres on 
the local people which is recorded in historical documents .  . 1 

for example , let us look at a report dated 21 march which the 
of the third army when he entered and 

they were completely and systematically and burned down 
by , even the trees were cut down , and they are like a 
building entirely by fire in every sense of the word. 

as for the people who had been living in and 

those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginning 
with the excuse of forced labor in road construction , they were taken 
in the direction of and  . when the army 
, a part of the remaining people was in 
massacres and they were thrown into , they were locked 
in houses and burned down , they were killed with and , in places 
as , their were open , their 
were out , and girls and women were hanged by their hair after 
being to every conceivable act. a very small part 
of the people who were these far worse than the 
of the inquisition living dead and were suffering 
from temporary insanity because of the poverty they had lived 
in and because of the experiences they had been to. 
including women and children , such persons discovered so far do not 
one thousand five hundred in and thirty thousand in 
 . all the fields in and are , everything 
that the people had has been taken away from them , and we found them 
in a situation. at the present time , the people are 
on some food they obtained , by , from 
left behind after their occupation of this area. 2 

foreign observers who witnessed the events , including officers 
who did not desert their lines , detailed reports proving the 
genocide to ottoman who received them as prisoners of war. 
what is most important is that they stated in their reports  the 
massacres did not happen by chance but were ' . 3 

at the end of the war , the german author dr. , his 
dr. stein and his turkish mr. visited , , 
and between april 17th and may 20th to record the 
 . their writings not only show the of activities , 
but also reveal their goal and true nature. 4 

1  ( the ottoman state , the ministry of war ) , islam 
,  ( istanbul ,  . the french 
version documents par 
la population ,  ( istanbul ,  . in the h. k. 
, ed .  . , ve ,  ( ankara , 
 . in addition z .  . , ed .  . , ,  ( ankara , 
1974 ) and , edited by the same author , 
,  ( ankara ,  . ... , vol. 32 , 
 ( december 1983 ) , document 1881 .  . 
2 .... , vol. 31 ,  ( december 1982 ) , document 
 . 
3 from 's report dated 29 april quoted in ... , 
vol. 2 , p.  . 
4 a. r.  ( altinay ) , ,  ( istanbul , 1919 ) , and , 
ve  ( istanbul ,  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject way of a twelve year old muslim girl .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 41 

source world alive , a personal story by robert dunn .  . publishers , 
inc. , new york  . 
 ( memoirs of an american who witnessed the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 

p.  . 

at length all shooting out. i got on my horse and down 
 . it burned still but little flame showed now. the way was and 
tough , through  . finally on ground i came out suddenly , 
through , on smoldering houses .  . across my brothers in 
were off animals , several and a lamb .  . 

p.  ( fourth  . 

came next , the first a pretty child with straight black hair , 
large eyes. she looked about twelve years old .  . she in some 
where from the she 'd been  . the 
had gone through her back , i judged , for blood around was  . between 
the one , too small for a bullet wound , her 
dress .  . 

the next was a boy of ten or less , in and knee pants .  . he 
face down in the path by several  . one reached out to the 
bowl he 'd carried , now upset upon its  . had 
just below his , into the  . 

there were , too , i saw as i led the around. was 
empty of the living till i looked up to see beside me 's german speaking 
 . he said all who had not escaped were dead. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re about this  center for policy 
organization the department of department 
lines 85 

in article center for policy research writes 

it seems to me that many readers of this conference are interested 
who is behind the center for research .  . i will  . 

, please. 

my name is , citizen , born in  . my 
mother was thrown from germany because she to the   
 ( at that times this group was defined as  . she was forced to go 
to due to many cynical factors .  . 

forced to go to  . how dreadful .  . unlike other 
jews , she was n't forced to go into a gas chamber , forced 
under a , thrown into a river , forced into a medical 
experiment like a rat , forced to march until she dropped dead , burned 
to in a  . your mother was forced to go to 
 . you have our sympathies .  . 

i have in  ( 30 years ago ) 

we are pleased to hear of your escape .  . at least you wo n't have to 
suffer the same fate that your mother did. 

and met many people who were thrown out from 
my , , 

your , 

because of the same reason  ( they to 
the  . 

should we assume that you are refering here to jews who were kicked 
out of their homes in jerusalem during the occupation of 
east jerusalem these are the same people who are now being called 
thieves for re claiming houses that they once owned and lived in and 
never sold to anyone 

these people include my in jerusalem 
with the children of whom i played as child. their crime 
not jews .  . 

i have never heard of not being a jew as a crime .  . certainly in 
israel , there is no such crime .  . in some times and places being a jew 
is a crime , but not being a jew ! ! 

my conscience does not accept such , period. 

our brains do not accept your logic , yet , either. 

my 
work for justice is done in the name of my opposition to racism 
and racial discrimination .  . those who against such practices 
in arab countries have my support as long as their is based 
on a position , but not as a tactic to criticism 
from israel .  . 

the way you 've written this , you seem to accept criticism in the arab 
world unless it criticism from israel , in which case , we have 
to presume , you no longer support criticism of the arab world. 

the struggle against discrimination and racism is universal .  . 

look who 's about discrimination now ! 

the center for policy research is a name i gave to those activities 
under my in different domains , and which command 
the support of many in  . it is however not a formal 
institution and works with minimal funds .  . 

be careful .  . you are starting to sound like  . 

professionally i am music teacher and  . i have published 
several pieces and my music is taught widely in europe .  . 

i would hope that discussion about israel be conducted in 
a more civilized manner. calling names is not helpful .  . 

good. do n't call yourself or the center for policy research , 
either. 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from state . edu .  ( amir taghavi ) 
subject u.s. wants iran to end terrorism links 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 27 

washington  ( upi ) a state department official on tuesday 
ruled out any of u.s. attitudes iraq but said relations 
with iran 's islamic regime could improve if that 
government itself from international terrorism .  . 
the name calling and the harsh rhetoric from across the 
gulf , despite all this , we do not take a position of permanent hostility 
towards the islamic of iran , '' david , assistant 
for near eastern affairs , said. 
the primary u.s. objection is 's international behaviour   
which includes support of violence   to the arab 
israeli peace process and its build up of dangerous weapons .  . 
said could contribute to regional and peace but 
first it is to end the behaviour which threatens this area . '' . 
spoke at the u.s. business conference aimed at promoting 
gulf american trade .  . he said the east will be an item very high 
on the of the u.s. '' . 
the importance of the gulf is by of state warren 
's visit last year to saudi arabia and kuwait before anywhere 
else in the world , said. he added that the u.s. has no long term 
plan to station troops in the gulf .  . 
also insisted that the clinton will continue to 
pressure iraq to with all the u . n .  . security '' . 
long as iraq is ruled by saddam hussein we do not expect 
, '' told  . 


1993 by upi 

from  ( esin terzioglu ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science 
lines 21 

in article writes 

your ignorance is obvious from your posting. 
1 ) was an independent country with turkish greek 
 ( not a greek island like your ignorant 
posting claims ) 
2 ) the name should be  ( in english ) 
next time read and learn before you post. 



aside from , why is that you turks do not want to admit your 
past mistakes you know turkish invasion of was a mistake and too 
bad that u . n .  . did not do anything about it. you may ask mistake 
yes , i would say. why is that the greeks did not invade 


the greeks did try to invade just before the turkish intervention they 
failed .  . just for your info .  . 

 . 

from  ( anwar mohammed ) 
subject re remember those names come election time. 
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government 
nntp posting host sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 39 

in article  ( peter nelson ) writes 

btw , with bosnia 's large moslem population , why have nations like 
, saudi arabia , syria , egypt , and others with either money 
or strong military forces not spoken out more forcibly or offered 
to help out bosnia 

obviously , you really do n't know. 

they have spoken out  ( cf y of state 's recent trip to the me ) , 
they have provided millions in aid , and they have participated in the 
to  . they would supply military aid , if the un would lift the 
on sales .  . 

the turkish has said 
a thing or two , but that 's all i see no great from any 
of those places to get their hands  . why does the us always 
get stuck with this stuff 


see above.  ( kuwait has directly participated in the of food to 
) . 

besides , there 's no case that can be made for us military involvement 
there that does n't apply equally well to , say , , , or 
 ( it appears with the 's new campaign )  . non 
do n't count 

hmm .  .  . some . might say are non white. , i forgot , are 
oil rich , loaded with dollars , etc so they do n't count. 



peter 






from  ( gt1091a , timucin ) 
subject re public service translation no . 2 . 
keywords effective greek postings 
organization institute of technology 
lines 21 

who the hell is this guy david  . i think he talks too much .  .  . 


yo , david you would better shut the f .  .  .  . up .  .  . o . k . i do n't like 

your  . you are full of lies and shit. did n't you hear the 

saying t mess with a ! ! ... 

see in hell .  .  . 

 . 





, 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re antisemitism 
organization the department of department 
lines 21 

in article  ( center for policy research ) writes 

the first point to note regarding the of the history 
of the by zionist propaganda is that without 
anti semitism is impossible. agrees with the basic 
of anti semitism , namely that jews cannot live with non jews .  . 

that 's why the decided that zion must be gentile  . 
what ! they did n't ! you mean to tell me that the early 
actually granted citizenship in the jewish state to christian and 
muslim people , too 

it seems , , that your first point to note is wrong , so the rest 
of your posting is n't worth much , either. 

 .  .  . 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization , inc. 
lines 20 

 ( hamaza h. salah ) writes 

would you tell me which arab country is the jews from 
to 

the last arab country was syria .  . but not all of them 
due to the jewish state economical and 
dilemma ! 

as usual , when is not totally racist , she manages to get 
virtually all the facts wrong. 

to allow jews to leave syria , but not to go to israel .  . 

unfortunately , not all of them have escaped yet , but not because they 
do n't want to leave rather , went back on his word and stopped 
travel  . he claimed , but everyone 
knows it was a tactic to pressure israel .  . 

h. stein 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re ten questions about israel 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 64 

in article  ( center for policy research ) writes 
ten questions about arab countries 


i would be if any of you who live in arab countries could 
help to provide accurate answers to the following specific questions. 
these are indeed questions but they are asked time and 
again by people around me. 

1. is it true that many arab countries do n't recognize 
israeli that people with israeli on their 
ca n't enter arabic countries 

2. is it true that arabic countries such as and syria 
have borders and that arab governments from until today 
have refused to state where the ultimate borders of their states 
should be 

3. is it true that arab refused to sign the chemical 
weapon treaty in in 1993 

4. is it true that in arab there are a number of 
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their 
, the date of their trial and their imprisonment are 
state 

 . is it true that some arab countries , like syria , harbor nazi 
war criminals , and refuse to them 

 . is it true that some arab countries , like saudi arabia , 
women from driving cars 

5. is it true that jews who reside in the muslim 
countries are subject to different laws than muslims 

6. is it true that arab countries the property of 
entire jewish forced to flee by anti jewish riots 

7. is it true that israel 's prime , y .  . , signed 
a chemical weapons treaty that no arab nation was willing to sign 

8. is it true that jews are required to leave a 10 , 000 
deposit before leaving the country , and are no longer allowed to 
, despite promises made by to george bush 

9. is it true that jews in muslim lands are required to pay a 
special tax , for being jews 

10. is it true that in jerusalem was built 
on a jewish , with roads being over grave sites , and 
being used in 

11. is it really and inappropriate to post lists of biased 
questions 

 . is it less appropriate if information implied in mr. 
's questions is highly 

adam 

adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization none 
lines 52 

in article ,  ( hilmi eren ) writes 


the in are simply defending their 
rights to keep their and it is the that are 
invading their  . 


he first was today 
he , and several  ( in azerbadjan ) 
he are their  . ca n't you see the 
he the great dream in this with methods like 
he killing , raping and bombing  . the last move was the 
he of a with 60 , trying to 
he escape the from , a city that was given to the 
he by the  . 

is in not  . have lived in 
ever since there were  . used to live in the areas 
between and and this area is being used to invade 
 . are defending themselves. if are dying 
because of a policy of attacking , then something is wrong with this 
policy. 

if i recall correctly , it was stalin who caused all this problem with land 
in the first place , not the  . 

however , i hope that the will force a turkish 
to land for purposes of searching for similar to the one 
that happened last summer .  . searched an american plane 
 ( carrying aid ) bound to  . 

he do n't speak about things you do n't know 8 u.s. 
he were heading to  . when the turkish authorities 
he that they were going to search these 
he 3 of these returned to it 's base in germany .  . 
he 5 of these were searched in  . the content of 
he of the other 3 not hard to guess , is it it was sure not 
he aid .  .  .  .  .  . 

what story are you talking about from the u.s. have been sending 
aid into for two years. i would not like to guess about what were in 
the 3 in your story , i would like to find out. 


he search turkish you do n't know what you are talking about. 
he 's government has that it 's giving weapons 
he to since started to attack 
he it self , not the  . so why search a plane for weapons 
he since it 's content is to be weapons 

it 's too bad you would want to start a war with  . 

from ( ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization university of virginia 
lines 23 

writes 

the comparison of the situation with the 
is insulting and completely false .  . any person making such a rude 
and false comparison is either ignorant of the , or also 
ignorant of the situation in the , or is an anti  . 

to compare a complicated political situation with the genocide 
of 6 , 000 , 000 jews is racist in and of itself. 

first of all i never said the  . i said before the 
 . i'm not ignorant of the and know more 
about nazi germany than most people  ( maybe including you) .  . 
what i is ignorant statements that call people 
names when they disagree with your position. the 
atrocities commited by the israeli hardly 
as anti semitism .  . if you think name calling is a valid form of 
argument in intellectual circles , you need to get out more 
often. 
i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii 
the crimes commited by the israeli government. any 
attempt to call civil like myself anti is 
not appreciated. 

from  ( virginia 's gentleman ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
organization university of virginia 
lines 4 

we really should try to be as understanding as we can for brad , because it 
appears killing is all he knows. 



from ( ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization university of virginia 
lines 15 

well i'm not sure about the story it did seem biased .  . what 
i disagree with is your statement that the u.s. media is out to 
ruin reputation .  . that is rediculous .  . the u.s. media is 
the most pro israeli media in the world. having lived in europe 
i realize that such as the one described in the 
letter have occured .  . the u.s. media as a whole seem to try to 
ignore them. the u.s. is existance and the 
are not  ( at least not to the same  . so i think 
that might be a reason they report more clearly on the 
atrocities .  . 
what is a is that in austria , daily reports of 
the acts commited by israeli soldiers and the blessing 
received from the government makes some of the guilt 
go away. after all , look how the jews are treating other races 
when they got power. it is unfortunate .  . 

from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press nazi methods .  . 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 16 16 50 00 1993 
lines 66 


from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press nazi methods .  . 

written 4 38 apr 16 , 1993 by in forum . 
from israeli press nazi methods .  . 
from the israeli press 

newspaper ha date 14 author 

subject nazi methods in gaza 

title in the neighborhood of hope , among the 

 ( excerpts ) 

r at me long and sadly i worked my entire 
life in order to built that house and this is what is left . only 
tv could the full of his face. you say that we 
teach our children to hate you , but what do you expect to happen 
to a child who sees this and once again he himself in a 
lengthy silence , his face crumbling into weeping .  . stood in 
the field of that was once his home. the term 
  has an absolute meaning here. nothing is left of 
what he during his entire life , only the of a 
house and of  . 

once again khan  . once again demolished homes .  . last thursday 
there was a search for wanted people here. once again the 
forces employed the new method , fired and bombed and shot missiles 
and placed  . already three times during the past weeks i 
have gone out to see the destruction and each time i was more 
 . this time they hit the largest number of 
houses , 17 according to the estimate , ten of them completely 
demolished .  . but not only that the method has also become more 
brutal .  . three weeks ago , in neighborhood in gaza , the 
residents were still told to remove their from their 
homes .  . this time the army that part three weeks ago the 
men , of the demolished homes , were 
with some water and one apple during the 12 hours they had to 
stand. this time there was only water .  . three weeks ago they were 
even allowed to go out to the toilet .  . this time the just 
gold them and shit in your pants .  . and thus , last thursday , 
some 45 men stood for about 12 hours , their hands bound behind 
their backs , their eyes , without food , with wet pants 
on their legs and a terrible feeling of in their 
hearts , listening to the sounds of the destroying their 
homes , one after the other. 

( .  .  . ) . 

dr. a said al  . the brother from saudi arabia , 
emerges from among the ruins .  . ten days ago he arrived for a family 
visit , mainly in order to celebrate the with his 
father and brothers .  . on thursday he was like everyone 
else for 12 hours , and later went with everyone to view the 
 . he tried to explain that he was a and that he 
is a , but only got a shove .  . like all the rest he also 
in his pants , while standing with his hands bound and his 
eyes for the entire day. a al studied 
medicine at university , and for ten years he has been 
treating in medina .  . his wife and four children 
remained there. now his documents have been lost and he does not 
know how he will return to them. there is no humanity , stated 
the from saudi arabia .  . 


from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re , opinions  ( re water on the brain ) 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 21 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article ,  ( brad hernlem ) writes 


btw , does the river not west and not south i think that its 
stay entirely within territory and so what says about the 
river makes no sense , in any case. the river , on the other hand , 
into the , if i am not mistaken .  . 

the river in a west direction and indeed does 
not run through the  . the does into the 
but contrary to what our imaginative poster might write , there has been 
no increase in the from this river that is not proportional to 
changes in  . 

brad 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re how many can dance on the head of a pin 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of california , 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( joel furr ) writes 
in article writes 
in  ( joel furr ) writes 
how many can dance on the head of a pin 

that reminds me of the massacre of the turks .  . 

joel , i took out , are we sure we want to invoke the name of he who 
for 's last name lest he include in his daily 


i , warren .  . just the other day i heard a that 
 ( aka and ahmed and zumabot ) is not really a at all , 
but in fact is an who is attempting to make any discussion of the 
massacres in of turks so as to make serious discussion 
impossible , thereby the historical record with a cloud 
of confusion. 


it possible to track down and determine who what where is 
if not , why not i me his her its identity is not by policies 
similar to those in place at anonymous services .  . 

tim 
d 
d 
d 
very 

from 
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders 
originator 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 51 


in article ,  ( yon of robbing ) writes 
in article 
 ( ilyess bdira ) writes 
1)why ) do jews who do n't even believe in god  ( as is the case with many 
of the of secular zionism ) have a right in more 
than the of , just because god gave you the land 
g d has nothing to do with it. some of the land was in fact given to the 
jews by the united nations , quite a bit of it was purchased from arab 
 . present claims are based on prior ownership  ( purchase 
from landlords ) award by the united nations in the 
partition of the territory , and as the result of 
wars fought against the egyptians , , , et al. 


2)why ) do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of 
the are not jews and do not want to be part of israel 
first , i should point out that many jews do not in fact agree with the 
idea that the west bank is theirs .  . since , however , i agree with those who 
claim the west bank , i think i can answer your question the west 
bank was what is called the of war. hussein ordered the arab 


this is very funny .  . 
anyway , suppose that in fact israel attack till attacked 
israel .  . now , how do you explain the attack on syria in , syria 
enter the war with israel till the 4th day . 

by the way it is funny that you are implying that the reason behind 
by israel was only to capture , egypt ! 


to attack israel , which was a poor move , seeing as how the 
kicked his butt. the territory is therefore  . 
of all of the west bank is not desirable , but it beats 
national suicide for the  . put another way , one could ask why it 
is that so many palestinians seem to think that tel belongs to them 
and the future state of  . as long as this state of affairs 
continues , it seems that to give the palestinians a place from which they 
can launch attacks on jews is a real poor idea. giving up the entire west 
bank would be idiotic security standpoint .  . in addition , there is 
the small matter of jerusalem , which is considered to be part of the west 
bank. the chances of the giving up jerusalem are nil .  . even 
who think is a really cool dude , like , are n't 
going to propose giving up jerusalem .  . if he did , he 'd get run out of town 
on a  . 


! 
jeff 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti human right in 
summary to current events in 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

accounts of anti human right in 
to current events in 



on the way the says , in fact there are n't any 
left.  they burned them all , them all , 
and them. 



of 

born 

 ( umsmr 1 ) 

resident at building 36 7 , apartment 9 
block 14 



during the first days of the events , the and the of february , i 
was away on a business trip .  . on the i had got my , done the paper 
work , and left for the district .  . that 's in , near the 
 . 

after the , started to the effect that in , specifically 
in , an had taken place. they said in 
, but i do n't think it was really an , just a 
 . after that the started .  . several living in the 
district were injured .  . how were they injured they were , even 
women it was said that they were at the , but they live here , 
and went from here to to demonstrate .  . after that i felt uneasy .  . there 
were some about among the local population the 
had done this , the had done that. right there at the site. 
i was attacked a couple of times by kids .  . well true , the guys from my 
would n't let them come at me with and  . after that i felt really 
bad. i did n't know where to go. i up and called home. and my children tell me , 
there 's everywhere , be careful .  . well i had a project going on. i told 
the second of the district party what had been going on 
and said i wanted to take my off the site. they would n't allow it , they 
said , nothing 's going to happen to you , we 've the matter to the 
police , we 've warned everyone in the district , nothing will happen to you. 
well , in fact they did especially detail us a to look after me , he 
knows all the local people and would protect me if something happened. this 
man did n't leave me alone for five he was at work the whole time and 
he spent the night with us , too. 

i sense some and call home my wife also tells me , the situation is 
very tense , be careful .  . 

we finished the job at the site , and i left for first thing on the 
morning of the  . when we left the guys warned me , they told me that i 
should n't tell anyone on the way that i was an  . i took someone else 's 
business travel documents , in the name of , and my own. i it 
and my in my socks .  . we set out for  . our guys were on the , 
they sat behind , and i sat up front .  . in they had come to me and said that 
they had to all of our travel documents just in case. as it turns out 
they knew what was happening in  . 

i arrive at the station and there they tell me that the city of is 
closed , there is no way to get there. that the city is closed off and the 
buses are n't running .  . buses normally leave for almost every two 
minutes. and suddenly no buses .  . well , we tried to get there via private 
drivers .  . one man , an , said , let 's go find some other way to get 
there. they found a light transport and for the to 
take us to  . 

he took us there. but the others had said , i would n't go if you gave me a 
thousand  . why because they 're burning the city and killing the 
 . there is n't an left. well i got hold of myself so i could 
still stand up. so we it away , the four of us got in the car , and we 
set off for  . on the way the says , in fact there are n't any 
left.  they burned them all , them all , and them. well 
i was silent .  . the whole way 20 odd i was silent .  . the asks me , 
how old are you , old man he wants to know if i'm being that quiet , not 
saying anything , maybe it means i'm an  . how old are you he asks 
me. i say , i'm 47 .  . i'm 47 too , but i call you  old  . i say , it 
depends on god , each person 's life in this world is different. i look much 
older than my years , that 's why he called me old man. well after that he was 
silent , too. 

we 're the city , i look and see all around , and a  . 
before we get to the the starts to wave his hand. well , he 
was waving his hand , we all start waving our hands. i'm sitting there with 
them , i start waving my hand , too. i realized that this was a sign that meant 
there were no with us. 

i look at the city there is a of people walking down the middle of the 
street , you know , and there 's no traffic .  . well probably i was scared .  . they 
stopped our car. people were standing on the  . they have 
, and stones . . . and they stopped us . . . 

along the way the tells us how they know who 's an and who 's 
not. the usually . . . for example , i'm an , but i speak 
their language very well. well usually the word for 
, or little , as , but is actually correct. the 
are different. anyone who says , even if they 're not 
, they immediately take out and start to  . another one says , 
there was a car there , with five people inside it , he says .  . they started 
hitting the side of it with an axe and it on fire .  . and they did n't let the 
people out , he says , they would n't let them get out of the car. i only saw 
the car , but the says that he saw everything. well he often drives from 
to and back . . . 

when they stop us we all get out of the car. i look and there 's a short guy , 
his eyes are , he has an in one hand and a in 
the other and asks the guys what they are one by one. we 're 
, ' they tell him ,  no here. he did come up to me when 
we were our things out and says , maybe you 're an , old man 
but in i say , you should be of yourself ! and . . . he 
left. turned and left. that was all that happened. what was i to do i had 
to . . . the city was on fire , but i had to steal my children out of my own 
home. 

they stopped us at the to street , that 's where the 
and three large , 12 story buildings are. that 's the beginning of down town .  . i 
saw that burned automobile there , completely burned , only metal remained .  . i 
could n't figure out if it was a or a  . later i was told it 
was a  . and the people in there were completely  . nothing 
remained of them , not even any traces .  . that had told me about it , and i 
saw the car myself. the car was there. the , a  . about 
30 to 40 from the  . 

i see a military transport , an  . the are 
closed. and people are throwing and pieces of iron at it , the 
is. and i hear shots , not automatic fire , it 's true , but shots .  . 
several shots .  . there were crowded around that  . 
someone in the was shooting .  . apparently they either wanted to kill the 
soldiers or get a machine gun or something. at that point there was only one 
 . and all the were outside the city , 
off  . 

i walked on. i see two going home from the plant .  . i can tell by 
their that they 're not , they 're just people , walking home. i 
joined them so in case something happened , in case someone came up to us 
and asked questions , either of us would be in a position to answer , you see. 
but i avoided the large groups because i'm a local and might be quickly 
recognized .  . i tried to keep at a distance , and walked where there were 
people. well so i walked into 2 , which is across from our block. 
i ca n't get into our block , but i walked where there were people , so as 
to get around. well there i see a guy and 25 to 30 people are walking 
behind him. and he 's shouting into a , the 
war has begun ! 

the police have like that. so they 're talking and walking around 
the second  . i see that they 're coming my way , and turn off 
behind a building .  . i noticed that they walked around the outside buildings , 
and inside the there were about 5 or 6 people standing on every 
corner , and at the of the buildings , and at the edges .  . what they were 
doing i ca n't say , because i could n't get up close to them , i was afraid .  . but 
the most important thing was to get away from there , to get home , and at least 
find out if my children were alive or not . . . 

april 20 , 1988 


reference 

1 the against in soviet , 
volume i , accounts , edited by , forward by 
, 1990 , published by d. , ny , pages 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 60 

in  ( marc a afifi ) writes 

 ( dorin baru ) writes 
even the most , one  ( jewish israeli ) postings  ( with which i 
certainly disagree ) , did not openly back plain murder .  . you do. 

the  resistance  you are talking about is a bunch of 
who bombs after work , or is an organized entity of not 
only well trained i do not know , just curious. 

i guess you also back the killings of hundreds of in beirut , right 

what kind of  resistance  movement killed jewish in 

you liked it , did n't you 


you posted some other garbage before , so at least you seem to be consistent .  . 



, 
let 's not forget that the soldiers were killed not murdered .  . the 
distinction is not trivial .  . murder happens to innocent people , not people 
whose line of work is to kill or be killed. it just so happened that these 
soldiers , in the line of duty , were killed by the opposition .  . and 
resistance is different from terrorism .  . certainly the in 
were victims of  ( though some might call them freedom  . 

and some of us call them , but what 's in a name. 

their deaths cannot be compared to those of soldiers who are killed by 
resistance  . do n't forget that it was the french resistance to the 
nazi forces which eventually succeeded in driving out the 
hostile in wwii .  . diplomacy has not worked with israel and the 

just a damn minute ! what history books did you read i seem to recall 
that there were a few british , canadian , american , and commonwealth 
soldiers in france about that time. perhaps you believe they were taking 
a trip 

people are tired of being ! they are now turning to the 
only option they see as viable .  .  ( do n't forget that it worked in driving 
out the us ) 

sure , the want to get all out of the country so they 
can go back to killing each other off. 









some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with 
both eyes. 
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions. 


from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject re , the humanist 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 8 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


mr. , why are you such a racist do you feel this 
same hatred towards , or is it only jews are you from 
a family of did you learn this racism in your home or 
are you a self made bigot how does one become such a racist i 
wonder what you think your racism will  . are you under 
the impression that your racism will help bring peace in the mid 
east i would like to know your thoughts on this. 

from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re water on the brain  ( was re israeli lust ) 
organization , inc. 
lines 4 

i guess finally revealed the source of his claim that israel 
diverted water from his imagination. 

h. stein 

from center for policy research 
subject of the 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 25 05 25 00 1993 
lines 


from center for policy research 
subject of the 


the of the 
by , i p march 
1990 

i. the before and after ii. jewish 
in the iii .  . development of the 
's population  . economic situation of jewish 
in 1990 v. failure in the 
 . failure in the central mountains  . failure in 
making the  ( cleansing the of bedouins ) 
 . into low paid workers  .  . failure 
in the development towns x. water to the 
a strategic xi .  . the becomes a dumping 
ground  . the nuclear plant  . the as a 
military base  . the in the year 2000 

just after the creation of the state of israel , the phrase the 
jewish will make the desert was 
throughout the western world. after the day war in , david 
ben declared in a letter to charles de it 's by our 
creation that we have a poor and land 
into a land , created built up areas , towns and in 
abandoned desert areas . 

contrary to ben 's assertion , it must be affirmed that 
during the 26 years of the british over and for 
centuries previous , a human presence was to be found in 
all parts of the desert in the very and 
of the southern as well as in the more north .  . these 
were the  . 

the real of the , mainly in the southern 
part , occurred after israel 's of the 's 
lands and pastures .  . nowadays , the majority of the 
12 , square , which represents 62 percent of the 
state of israel  ( pre borders ) , has been beyond 
recognition .  . the main new of the 
are the israeli army the nature authority , whose chief 
role is to prevent from roaming their former 
lands and vast industrial , including nuclear and 
dumping grounds for chemical , nuclear and other  . israeli 
jews in the today less than half the surface area 
by the before , and there is no jewish 
activity. 

i. and activities of the 
before and after 
in , 
according to british mandatory statistics , the 
sub district  ( which corresponds more or less to israel 's , or 
southern , district ) had 52 , 000 , almost all 
, who held 11 , , 6 , 000 and , 42 , 000 
and 22 , 000  . 

the majority of the lived a more or less life in 
the north , where between 200 and per 
year .  . in they about 200 , 000 of the 
district i.e. 16 percent of its total area and more 
than double the area by the 's jewish settlers 
after 40 years of making the desert 

the had a very low to 400 kilograms of 
per during rainy years and their 
techniques were primitive , but was based solely on 
animal and human labor .  . it must also be that animal 
, although low , was based entirely on  . 
increased during the rainy years and 
during years. all 
animals , and had the ability to gain weight 
quickly over the relatively rainy and to many 
days during the hot  . these animals were the 
result of a centuries old process of natural selection in harsh 
local conditions .  . 

after the creation of the state of israel , 80 percent of the 
were to the or to southern  . the 
10 , 000 who were allowed to remain were confined to a territory of 
40 , 000 in a were mean was 150 
a quantity low enough to ensure a failure two years out 
of three. the rare water in the south and central , 
spring of life in the desert , were to prevent 
from roaming .  . 

a few were allowed to stay in the central  . 
but after , when the was returned to egypt , these 
were also eliminated .  . at the same time , strong pressure 
was applied on the to of their fields 
in order that the land could be transferred to the army .  . 

no reliable statistics exist concerning the amount of land held 
today by  . it is a known fact that a large part of 
the 40 , 000 they in the has been 
by the israeli authorities .  . indeed , most of the are now 
confined to seven development towns , or , established 
for them. 

 ( the rest of the article is available from , email 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re why does us consider to be a dangerous to humanity 
organization the department of department 
lines 31 

in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 

come on ! most if not all are to the war 
against israel .  . 

i would n't bet on it. 

arab governments generally do n't care much about the and 
their struggle but find it useful for political purposes back home. 
they are happy to leave the largely under israeli control 
because that leaves the job of controlling them to the  . the 
do n't like this job any more than king hussein of 
liked it and he managed to kill them off at the rate of thousands 
per month when they started an in  . the governments of 
syria , and egypt all feel similarly .  . however , proclaiming 
public support for the war against israel 
criticism from deep problems at home and lends an air of legitimacy to 
even the most brutal arab tyrants .  . 

arab people probably are n't much more  . 
have shown a to and in , 
and kuwait and are viewed with suspicion elsewhere. 

you might still be right in sympathy to the war against israel , but i 
suspect that many , far removed from the immediate border with 
israel (e . g .  . in kuwait or morroco ) , could n't care less. 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  . daniel sokol ) 
subject re enough freeman ! was no free man propaganda machine blood from israel 
nntp posting host amherst . edu . 
organization amherst college 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 47 

a wrote 
 ( peter freeman ) writes 


peter , 

i believe this is your most post to date. since you have nothing 
to say , you say nothing ! it 's  . did you think of this all by 
yourself 




some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with 
both eyes. 
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions. 


an open letter to 


dear , 
i believe that you are wrong about mr. freeman .  . he has written in 
a style that raises the level of posts on this board. if you just do n't seem 
to get it , i believe that it is more of a reflection of you and your abilities 
than of him. his posts contain substance and and he his positions 
well. 
having said this , i would like to ask in general for people on this 
board to realize that if they do n't agree with the substance of posts , then they should respond to the substance  ( or lack of ) of the posts rather than attack 
the author of the posts. when one has to resort to attacking a poster rather than what he she has written , one can see that that person does not have the 
ability to make a argument concerning the post. 

peace , 















from  ( aurag hassan ) 
subject re 
organization de montreal 
lines 25 

are you trying to say that there were no massacres in 
or in and if so then let me tell you some good 

there is not and was not any such thing like jewish killing in wwii 

palestinians just did what did for years and more. 

in fact no one was killed in any war at any time or any place. 

people die that is all. no one gets killed. 

maybe also did n't die in vietnam war killed by american 
they were just and that 's all. 

maybe jews just liked gas and no one forced them to get in there . they . 
may be thought it was like cocaine .  . no 

what do you think of this is n't it stupid to say so 
well it is as stupid as what you said  . next . time you want to lie do it 
 . 

sincerely yours. 




from  ( casper ,  . ppe ) 
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization european organization for nuclear research , 
lines 50 

in article ,  ( ken arromdee ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( casper ,  . ppe ) writes 
are you aware that there is an on all of what is was 
yugoslavia , including bosnia , which massive military 
superiority of forces and does not allow the to 
try to defend themselves 
should we sell weapons to all sides , or just the one , then 

ending an does not we must sell anything at all. 

right. we 'll probably end up giving them weapons .  . 

if the want to sell weapons to one or both sides , they are welcome 
as far as i'm concerned. 

you seem to oppose ending the  . you know , it is difficult for 
to sell weapons when there is an in place. 

during wwii , the british managed to supply to the despite 
german occupation .  . if the had the will to do anything besides 
peace , they would have no problem putting any kind of 
weapon they wanted into bosnia .  . 

i guess i would favor ending the if the congress would pass a law 
of us military to yugoslavia , including via third 
parties .  . until then the risks of the us being drawn into a more active 
role would be too great .  . i do not see the as a major factor in 
the outcome of the war. 

i do not automatically accept the argument that bosnia is any worse than 
other recent civil wars , say vietnam for instance .  . the difference is it is 
happening to white people inside europe , with lots of tv  . 

but if this was the reason , and if furthermore both sides are equal , would n't 
all us racist americans be the good christians  ( serbs ) instead 
of the non christians we really seem to favor 

both sides are certainly not equal in the eyes of the press. and that 's 
about all we have to go on , is n't it 

and i wish you 'd quit words like racist around. there are many levels 
at which people react to what they see. at the most fundamental level , you 
do not have to recognize the racial element you simply tend to 
empathize more with people who are like yourself. as far 
christian over moslem , i am an atheist myself , and i think you 'll agree that 
in the us , the majority of people do not typically discriminate on the basis of 
religion , nor give it a particularly important place in their world view. 


dave 

from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re from israeli press. madness .  . 
in reply to 's message of sat , 17 apr 1993 18 16 47 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 12 

in article  ( virginia 's gentleman ) writes 

this post has all the of a form program , where the user types in 
a or and it fills it in in certain places in the story. 
if this is true , i condemn it. if it 's a , then the posters have 
horrible morals and should be despised by everyone on who values truth. 



agreed. 

 . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re minority abuses in  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( michael s. polymenakos ) writes 

well , claims just the opposite that greeks are not allowing 
turks to the country. now , explain this the number of turks in 
has steadily risen from 50 , 000 in 23 to 80 , 000 , while the greeks of 

dr. thought that a lie repeated enough times could finally 
be believed .  . i have been observing that   has been practicing 
 rule quite  .  's audience is mostly made of greeks 
who are not allowed to listen to turkish news. however , in today 's 
informed world greek can only fool themselves. for 
instance , those who lived in will remember the tv news they 
watched and the newspapers they read and the generation can 
read the american newspapers of and august to find out what 
really happened. 

there are in the greek hospital , the greek girls  
association , the islands greek benevolent society , 
the greek medical foundation , the greek foundation , 
the greek girls  foundation , and the greek 
men 's foundation .  . 

as for , the longstanding use of the  turkish  
in titles and on is  . the greek courts 
have ordered the of the turkish teachers  association , 
the turkish youth association and the 
turkish association on grounds that there are no turks 
in western  . such community had been 
active until 1984 .  . but they were first told to remove 
the word  turkish  on their buildings and on their official 
papers and then eventually close down. this is also the 
final verdict  ( november 4 , 1987 ) of the greek high court. 

in the city of , a former greek of turkish 
parentage , was sentenced recently to 18 months of imprisonment 
with no right to appeal , just for saying that he was 
of turkish descent .  . this elected ethnic turkish official 
was also deprived of his political rights for a period of three 
years. each one of these acts seems to be none other than 
a , used by the greek governments , to cover up their 
complex they display , a , the people of  . 

the agreement on the exchange of minorities uses the term  turks , ' 
which demonstrates what is actually meant by the previous reference 
to ' . the fact that the greek governments also mention the 
existence of a few thousand non turkish muslims does not change the 
essential reality that there lives in western a much bigger 
turkish minority .  . the   are also a muslim people , whom all the 
three nations  ( bulgarians , turks , and greeks ) consider as part of 
themselves. do you know how the muslim turkish minority was organized 
according to the agreements poor ' . 

it also proves that the turkish people are in 
and the greek people are free to anywhere in the world. 
the greek authorities deny even the existence of a turkish 
minority .  . they pursue the same denial in connection with 
the of  . talk about oppression .  . in addition , 
in the  democratic  greek passed law no. , 
virtually taking over the of the and 
other trusts .  . they have ceased to be self supporting 
religious and cultural entities .  . talk about  . the greek 
governments are attempting to appoint the , 
of the will of the turkish minority , as state official .  . although 
the orthodox church has full authority in similar matters in 
, the muslim turkish minority will have no say in 
its religious leaders .  . talk about democracy .  . 

the government of has recently an islamic 
in  . such destruction , which reflects an 
attitude against the muslim turkish cultural , is a 
violation of the as well as the  so called  
greek constitution , which is supposed to the protection 
of historical  . 

the government of , on the other hand , is building new 
churches in remote as a step 
the  . 

and you pondered .  . , the president of the human 
rights , became the latest victim of a tactic long used by 
the greeks to silence of policies of forced 
of the minority .  . a official by occupation , 
has been sent to  internal exile  on the island of 
, hundreds of away from his native  . 
his employer , the city council , asked him to depart in 
24 hours. the greek authorities are trying to punish him for his 
involvement in  . he returned to by his own choice 
and remains without a job. 

watch , a well known human rights group , had been investigating 
the plight of the turkish minority in  . in august 1990 , their 
findings were published in a report titled 

 destroying ethnic identity turks of ' . 

the report confirmed gross of the human rights of the 
turkish minority by the greek authorities .  . it says for instance , 
the greek government recently an islamic in 
 . such destruction , which reflects an attitude against 
the muslim turkish cultural , is a violation of the 
 . 

the turkish in the of and in 
were attacked , and were broken. the in 
was by  . 

shall i go on why not the people of are not going 
to take human rights lessons from the greek government. the 
discussion of human rights in does not 
stop at the greek  . in several following articles 
i shall on and the greek treatment of turks 
in western and the  . 

it has been reported that the greek 
has an intense desire for and that has made 
plans to supply it with the and it 
has to destroy in accordance with the agreement reached on 
conventional in europe .  . , greek 
and greek are reported to have 
to take measures aimed at the 
of these and to southern 
, a process that will conflict with the spirit of 
the agreement on conventional in europe .  . 

an acceptable method may certainly be found when there 
is a will. but we know of various kinds of violent 
behaviors from physical attacks to the burning 
of buildings .  . the at the mosque were 
out to the front of the building and there. 
shots were fired on the mosque in the of  . 

now wait , there is more. 

 greek atrocities in the of  ( may to 1919 ) , 
documents and evidence of english and french officers , ' published by 
the permanent bureau of the turkish congress at , , 
, held , , 5  . 

pages 

1. the train going from to was stopped at 
and the 90 turkish , men and women who were in it ordered 
to  . and there in the open street , under the eyes of their 
husbands , fathers and brothers , the women without distinction of age 
were violated , and then all the were  . amongst 
the latter the , a native of tripoli , and a 
whose name is not known , and to whom the authorities 
had given safe conduct , were killed with atrocious  . 

2. before the battle , the wife of the lawyer coming from 
her garden was by greek soldiers , she was even 
of her garments and her servant was violated .  . 

3. the two tax and ali were killed in the 
following manner their were bound behind their backs with wire 
and their heads were and open with from the butt 
end of a gun. 

4. during the firing of the town , children , little girls 
and five , fleeing from the flames , were stopped by greek soldiers 
in the , and thrown into a burning jewish house 
near , where they were alive .  . this fact is confirmed on oath 
by the hussein who saw it. 

5. the ahmed and his son were and 
out of their  . the son had his eyes put out and was then 
killed in the court of the greek church , but ahmed has been 
no more heard of. 

6. at the market , during the fire , two unknown people were 
by , then bound together , thrown into the fire and alive .  . 

the greeks killed also many jews .  . these are the names of some 

, killed 
, killed 
israel , killed 
isaac , killed 
david killed 
killed 
killed 
killed 
killed 
isaac 

david 
killed 
killed 

 .  .  .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( hap freiberg ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
nntp posting host 
organization s cubed , a division of maxwell labs san diego ca 
lines 26 

in article  ( steven smith ) writes 
 ( dan gannon ) writes 
the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 

by theodore j. o 


theodore j. o is an editor with the institute for historical 
review .  . at university . . . 

according to the 1990 directory , mr. o failed to 
graduate .  . you may decide for yourselves if he was indeed 
anywhere. 

smith 

is any education a for employment at 
is it true that really stands for institution of 
curious minds would like to know .  .  .  . 








from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject talk 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 9 

, an israeli , will be speaking 
 ( wednesday , 7 30 pm ) on the subject of politics in israel .  . 
he is speaking at on the u . c .  . berkeley campus .  . the talk is 
sponsored by the berkeley israel action  . 

adam 




from  ( lance visser ) 
subject re israel 's 
nntp posting host com . 
organization engineering , computer corp .  . , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 22 

in  ( alan stein ) writes 


the heights is a serious security problem , and israel obviously 
will have to keep part of it and give up part of it.  ( one should 
remember that the heights had been part of the area that was to 
be in britain 's , to become part of the jewish 
state , until britain it to france for other  . in 
other words , it is an historical accident that it was ever part of 
syria . ) . 

the had no borders before 
the borders were and drawn .  . the most the may have been 
is on the list of what territories would have liked to 
see in the  . 
until the came into existance , there were no defined 
between any of the various territories in the  . 

if you have a source for any of these claims , then please 
present it. 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject x soviet denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 61 

in article  ( michael s. polymenakos ) writes 

maybe with the of anon some people are beginning to 
speak out 

i sure hope so. because , the crimes of the must 
be  . invaders burned and the of 
, and exterminated its population and presented to 
the world all those left from the , as the civilization .  . 

all reliable western describe how 
exterminated 2.5 million muslim women , children and people of 
eastern and how they with the enemies of the 
ottoman empire between  . 

it is unfortunately a truth that are known as 
of the nazis during world war ii and that , even today , criminal nazi 
members of the terrorism triangle preach and 
racism , hatred , violence and terrorism among peoples .  . 

and x soviet continues its anti turkish policy in the following 
ways 

1. x soviet denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide 
in order to shift international public opinion away from its political 
responsibility .  . 

2. x soviet , terrorism and 
triangle and criminal nazi , attempts to call into question the 
veracity of the turkish genocide .  . 

3. x soviet has also implemented state sponsored terrorism through 
the terrorism and triangle in an attempt to 
silence the turkish people 's demands and  . 

4. using all its human , financial , and resources , x soviet 
and its tools in the united states attempt to silence through 
terrorism , and other methods , non turkish 
of the turkish cause , be they political , and  . 

using all the methods , the x soviet government 
is attempting to the international diplomatic community from 
making the turkish case a contemporary issue. 

yet despite the efforts of the x soviet government and its terrorist 
and organizations , in the last decades , thanks to the struggle 
of those whose ones were systematically exterminated by the , 
the international of silence on this issue has begun to collapse , and 
consequently a number of governments and organizations have become 
of the recognition of the turkish genocide .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
organization the department of department 
lines 32 

in article  ( dan gannon ) writes 

the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 

by theodore j. o 

hard by the washington , within clear view of the jefferson 
memorial , an easy stroll down the to the majestic lincoln memorial , 
has , on some of the most territory of the united states of 
america , a and dangerous mistake. on ground where no yet 
marks countless sacrifices and of americans of all 
races and creeds in the building and defense of this nation , today a 
massive and , devoted above all to a contentious and false 
version of the ordeal in europe during world war ii , of non american 
members of a minority , group. now , in the of 
tolerance , the united states memorial begins a propaganda 
campaign , through the of the american , 
in the interests of israel and its adherents in america .  . 

after reading the first paragraph , a quick confirmed my first 
impression this is a bunch of and anti semitic hogwash .  . 

the ny times reported on april 18 , 1993 that the was built 
through private contributions on federal land . your hate 
article is of current and historical fact , intellectual content 
and social value. down the toilet it goes .  .  .  .  .  . 



ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( onur yalcin ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
reply to  ( onur yalcin ) 
organization iowa state university 
lines 

in article , writes 
in article ,  ( onur yalcin ) 
writes 

 .  .  . ... 




secondly , the island of which the name is more correctly spelled 
as has never been greek , but rather , it has been home to 
a communal society formed of greeks and turks .  . it seems that 

you know as little about the history and the of the 
island , as you know about the essence of 's 
military intervention to it under international agreements .  . 

communal society then why did not invade 

( ) , 

your ignorance manifests itself in an form of intransigence .  . i'm not 
going to spend time to review with you the recent history of  . if you are 
really interested , i can provide you with a number of references on the issue. 
just send me email for that. 


be that as it may , an analogy between an act of occupation in 
history and what is going on today on land , can only 
be drawn with the policy that is now 
 . 

of crap and you know it. has always been part 
of and it was stalin who gave it to the  . go back and 
review the history. 

the in are simply defending their rights 
to keep their and it is the that are invading their 
 . 

but , i could agree that it is not for us to issue to 
the political conduct of countries , and them in such 
terminology as ... 

i was not the one that stated it. 


relax ! you 're into open air .  .  .  . i was with you , 
assuming that would be one of your points that you did not state ! you may 
not be very much used to it , to be agreed with that is , but take it more 
easily. ! ) 

however , i hope that the will force a turkish 
to land for purposes of searching for similar to the one 

no , , believe me you do n't hope that. 

that happened last summer .  . searched an american plane 
 ( carrying aid ) bound to  . 


was that after or before one french plane changed its route to avoid 
inspection 





un in 

from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject happy birthday israel ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 2 

israel happy birthday ! 


from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re ten questions about israel 
organization the department of department 
lines 66 

in article  ( yigal arens ) writes 

at issue was not a trial behind closed doors , but arrest , trial and 
imprisonment in complete secrecy .  . this was attempted in the 
case of and failed .  . it has happened before , and there is reason 
to believe it still goes on. 

the lengthy article you quote does n't imply this. it only states that 
it is somehow possible , not that it is in any way likely. this is akin 
to an article saying that it is possible that the has several 
captured ufos , without supporting the of such an assertion .  . 

read this 
from ma , february 18  ( possibly 28 ) , 1992 
publication ban 

by me 

all those involved in this matter refused my request , one way 
or another look , the subject is too  . if i comment on it , i 
will be implicitly admitting that it is true if i mention a specific 
case , even hint at it , i might be guilty of making public something 
which may legally not be published . 

in other words , they were telling a reporter to keep  . 

israel this same attitude about nuclear weapons it may or 
may not have. the us the same attitude about the presence 
of nuclear weapons on specific  . by refusing to 
acknowledge the existence of such weapons on specific , us 
have , i believe , become in new , which has 
declared itself a nuclear free  . 

the state of israel has never admitted that for many years 
there have been in its israeli citizens who were sentenced to 
long prison terms without either the fact of their arrest or the 
crimes of which they were accused ever being made public. more 
precisely a court ordered publication ban was placed on the fact of 
their arrest , and later on their imprisonment .  . 

the has never admitted to having any ufos , either. 

in israel of 1993 , citizens are imprisoned without us , the citizens of 
this country , knowing anything about it. not knowing anything about 
the fact that one person or another were tried and thrown in prison , 
for security offenses , in complete secrecy .  . 

this is stated as a fact without supporting evidence. it would 've 
been more convincing if your reporter had come up with just one name 
of someone who is sitting in jail , lost to the world , as he suggests .  . 
maybe elvis , or jfk , somebody .  . 

let 's put it this way if israel has put people away without 
publicizing their or the legal against them , how 
has their disappearance been explained people have relatives , 
friends and colleagues , you know. israel is not known as a place 
where people are made to  . would you care to give us a list of 
people whose are unknown people who are to be 
imprisoned this whole conspiracy story is n't something that we 've 
come to associate with before. perhaps from now on , we 
should .  . 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( yigal arens ) 
subject re ten questions about israel 
organization usc information sciences institute 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 21 38 19 gmt 

in article writes 

in article ,  ( center for policy research ) writes 

4. is it true that in israeli there are a number of 
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their 
, the date of their trial and their imprisonment are 
state 


apart from who had a trial behind closed doors , there 
was one other case  ( the professor at the 
biological institute who was a k . g . b .  . mole ) who was tried in camera . 
i would n't exactly call it a state secret. the trial was simply tried 
behind closed doors. i hate to you but the united states 
has tried a number of cases in camera .  . 

at issue was not a trial behind closed doors , but arrest , trial and 
imprisonment in complete secrecy .  . this was attempted in the 
case of and failed .  . it has happened before , and there is reason 
to believe it still goes on. 

read this 

from ma , february 18  ( possibly 28 ) , 1992 

publication ban 

the state of israel has never admitted that for many 
years there have been in its israeli citizens who were 
sentenced to long prison terms without either the fact of 
their arrest or the crimes of which they were accused ever 
being made public. 

by me 

all those involved in this matter refused my request , one way 
or another look , the subject is too  . if i comment on it , i 
will be implicitly admitting that it is true if i mention a specific 
case , even hint at it , i might be guilty of making public something 
which may legally not be published . 

the state of israel has never admitted that for many years 
there have been in its israeli citizens who were sentenced to 
long prison terms without either the fact of their arrest or the 
crimes of which they were accused ever being made public. more 
precisely a court ordered publication ban was placed on the fact of 
their arrest , and later on their imprisonment .  . 

in israel of 1993 , citizens are imprisoned without us , the citizens of 
this country , knowing anything about it. not knowing anything about 
the fact that one person or another were tried and thrown in prison , 
for security offenses , in complete secrecy .  . 

in the distant past for example during the days of the 
affair we heard about the third man being in prison .  . but many 
years have passed since then , and what existed then can today no 
longer be found even in south american countries , or in the former 
communist countries. 

but it appears that this is still possible in israel of 1993 .  . 

the chair of the on law , the constitution and 
justice , mk david , sent a letter on this subject early this 
week to the prime , the of justice , and the 
legal  . ma has obtained the content of the letter 

during the past several years a number of israeli citizens have been 
imprisoned for various periods for security offenses .  . in some of 
these cases a legal publication ban was imposed not only on the 
of the crimes for which the prisoners were convicted , but 
even on the mere fact of their imprisonment .  . in those cases , after 
being legally convicted , the prisoners spend their term in prison 
without public awareness either of the imprisonment or of the 
prisoner , asserts mk  . 

on the other hand agrees in his letter that , there is 
absolutely no question that it is possible , and in some cases it is 
imperative , that a publication ban be imposed on the of 
security offenses and the course of trials .  . but even in such cases 
the court must carefully and deliberately the circumstances 
under which a trial will not be held in public. 

however , one must ask whether the of a publication ban on 
the mere fact of a person 's arrest , and on the name of a person 
sentenced to prison , is justified and appropriate in the state of 
israel .  . the principle of public trial and the right of the public to 
know are not consistent with the disappearance of a person from public 
sight and his descent into the of prison .  . 

thus decided to turn to the prime , the of 
justice and the legal and request that they consider 
the question. the state of israel is strong enough to the 
cost incurred by by the principle of public punishment .  . the 
state of israel cannot be allowed to have prisoners whose 
and its cause is kept secret , wrote  . 

the legal counsel of the civil rights union , 
said that , we , as the civil rights union , do not know of any 
cases of security prisoners , citizens of israel , who are imprisoned , 
and whose imprisonment cannot be made public. this is a situation 
which , if it actually exists , is definitely  . just like 
censorship is an matter . 

the union is aware , says , of cases where of a 
suspect 's arrest to family members and lawyers is  . i am 
speaking only of several days. i know also of cases where a 
was not allowed to meet with an sometimes for the whole 
first month of arrest .  . that is done because of the great secrecy .  . 

the suspect himself , his family , his lawyer or even a 
can challenge the publication ban in court. but there are cases where 
the family members themselves are not interested in  . the 
knows nothing of the arrest , and so almost everyone is 
happy .  .  .  . 

, an official of the bar , claims that given the 
laws as they exist in israel today , a situation where the arrest of a 
person for security offenses is kept secret is definitely possible. 
nothing is easier. the court orders a publication ban , and that 's 
that. someone who has committed security offenses can spend long 
years in prison without us knowing anything about it. 

do you find this situation acceptable 

definitely not. we live in a democratic country , and 
such a state of affairs is  . i am well aware that 
publication can be damaging from the standpoint of security but 
total non publication , silence , is unacceptable .  . consider the trial of 
at least in his case we know that he was charged 
with aggravated and sentenced to 18 years in prison .  . the 
trial was held behind closed doors , nobody knew the details except for 
those who were to. it is somehow possible to understand , 
though not to accept , the reasons , but , as i have noted , we at least 
are aware of his imprisonment .  . 

why is the matter actually that serious ca n't we trust the 
of the court 

the judges have no choice but to trust the 
made to them. the judges do not have the tools to 
investigate .  . this gives the government enormous power , power which 
they can misuse .  . 

and what if there really is a security issue 

i am a man of the legal system , not a security expert .  . 
democracy stands in opposition to security .  . i believe it is possible 
to the matter of the arrest and the charges without 
entering into detail. we have already seen how the laws concerning 
publication can be misused , in the case of the rachel 
murder .  . a suspect in the murder was held for many months without the 
matter being made public. 

, on the other hand , believes that state security can 
be a legitimate reason for prohibiting publication of a suspect 's 
arrest , or of a convicted criminal 's imprisonment .  . a healthy 
situation definitely not. but i am aware of the fact that mere 
publication may be harmful to state security . 

a different opinion is expressed by , former 
for arab affairs to prime and 
 . clearly , we are speaking of isolated special cases. such 
situations with the principle that a judicial proceeding must 
be held in public. no doubt this contradicts the principle of freedom 
of  . definitely also to the principle of individual freedom 
which is also harmed by the of publication .  . 

nevertheless , , the allowed for the 
possibility of such a ban , to special cases where the 
damage possible as a consequence of publication is greater than that 
which may follow from an of the principles i 've mentioned. 
the authority to decide such matters of publication does not rest with 
the prime or the security services , but with the court , which 
we may rest assured will a publication ban only if it has 
been convinced of its need beyond a of a doubt. 

nevertheless , agrees as a rule , clearly such a 
phenomenon is undesirable .  . such an extreme step must be taken only in 
the most extreme circumstances .  . 


usc tv made me do it ! 


from  ( peter freeman ) 
subject methods of murder 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
organization university 
lines 9 



if anyone gets the new york times , the edit page has a 
of a from describing their methods of torture and 
execution .  . i will post it later on. 





from  ( gt1091a , timucin ) 
subject re public service translation no . 2 . 
keywords effective greek postings 
organization institute of technology 
lines 19 

i see that our translator , david , is still writing things that 
do n't make sense. hey david i can see where you are .  .  . may be one day , 
we will have the chance to talk deeply about that freedom of of 
yours .  .  . and you now , killing or torture , these things are only easy 
ways out .  .  . i have different plans for you and all empty like 
you .  .  .  . 

lets get serious , dave , do n't ever write bad things about turkish people 
or especially  .  . if i hear a word from you again that i consider 
to be a curse to my people i will  .  .  . 

 .  . 
 . 


, 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti human right in 
summary to current events in 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

accounts of anti human right in 
to current events in 



there were about burned people in there , and the small 
of a burned child. it was  . i suffered a 
 . there were about ten people there , but the 
doctor on duty said that because of the numbers they were being 
taken to  . there was a woman 's there too , she had 
been . . . well , there was part of a body there . . . a 
off part of a woman 's body. it was something terrible .  . 



of roman 

born 
engineer 
transport association 

resident at building 17 , apartment 40 
no. 3 



what happened in was a great , an awful for us , the 
people , and for all of mankind .  . a genocide of took place 
during  . 

and it was a great for me personally , because i lost my father in 
those days. he was still young. born in  . 

on that day , february 28 , we were at home. of course we had heard that there 
was in town , my brother had told us about it. but we 
did n't think . . . we thought that everything would happen , that they 
would n't go into people 's  . about five o we saw a large 
near the movie in our  . we were sitting at home 
watching television .  . we go out on the and see the pour into 
street. this is right near , next to the office , our 
house is right nearby .  . that day there was a group of with 
there. they threw at those policemen .  . then they moved off in the 
direction of our building .  . they burned a in our and 
started shouting for to come out of the building .  . we switched off 
the light. as it turns out , their signal was just the opposite to turn on the 
light. that meant that it was an home. we , of course , did n't know 
and thought that if they saw on they would come to our apartment .  . 

suddenly there 's on the door .  . we go to the door , all four of us 
there were four of us in the apartment .  . father , mother , my brother 
, and i. he was born in  . my father was a of world war 
ii and had fought in china and in the soviet far east he was a  . 

we went to the door and they started on it harder , breaking it down 
with axes .  . we start to talk to them in , what 's going on what 's 
happened they say , , get out of here ! we do n't open the door , we 
say , if we have to leave , we 'll leave , we 'll leave tomorrow .  . they say , no , 
leave now , get out of here , dogs , get out of here ! by now they 've 
broken the door both on the lock and the sides. we hold them off as best 
we can , my father and i on one side , and my mother and brother on the other. 
we had prepared ourselves we had several and an axe in the apartment , 
and what we could find to defend ourselves. they broke in the door and 
when the door gave way , we held it for another half hour .  . no , no 
police and no one from the city government came to our aid the whole time. we 
held the door .  . they started to the door on the lock side , first with an 
axe , and then with a  . 

when the door gave way they it off its hinges hit one of them 
with the axe .  . the axe flew out of his hands. they also had axes , , 
, and special made from  . one of them hit my father 
in the head. the pressure from the was  . when we into the 
room , one of them hit my mother , too , in the left part of her face. my brother 
and i fought back , of course. is quite strong and hot , he 
was the of  . we had in our hands , and we injured 
several of the in the heads and in the eyes , all that went on. but 
they , the injured ones , back , and others came to take their places , there 
were many of them. 

the door down at an angle .  . the tried to remove the door , so as to go 
into the second room and to continue . . . to finish us off. father brought 
and gave them to and me we flew at them when we saw father 
his face was covered with blood , he had been in the head , 
and his whole face was bloody .  . we just threw ourselves on them when we saw 
that. we threw ourselves at the and back the ones in the hall , 
them down to the third  . we came out on the landing , but a group of the 
remained in one of the they were all the in 
there , having closed the door behind them. we started tearing the door off to 
away the remaining ones or finish them. then a man , an man of 
about 40 , an , came in. when he was coming in , father down and 
mother flew to him , and started to cry out. i out onto the and 
started calling an , but then the started throwing stones through 
the of our and kitchen .  . we live on the fourth  . and no 
one came .  . i went into the room. it seemed to me that this man was the leader 
of the group. he was dressed in a hat and a coat with a 
 . and he addressed my mother in what 's with you , 
woman , why are you shouting what happened why are you shouting like that 
she says , what do you mean , what happened you killed somebody ! my father 
was a , he played the , he played at many , 
and , he played for many years. everyone knew him. mother says , 
the person who you killed played at thousands of , he 
brought so much joy to people , and you killed that person. he says , you 
do n't need to , stop shouting .  . and when they heard the voice of this 
man , the 15 to 18 people who were in the other room opened the door and 
started running out. we after them , but they away. that man left , 
too. as we were later told , one of them told the others , i do n't 
know if it was from or what , told them that we had , even 
though we only fought with and an axe .  . we to father and started 
to his heart , but it was already too late. we asked the to 
call an  . the never came , although we waited for it all 
evening and all through the night. 

somewhere around about 15 policemen came .  . they informed us they were 
from  . they said , we heard that a group was here at your place , you 
have our  . they told us not to touch anything and left. father 
in the room. 

so we stayed home. each of us took a hammer and a knife .  . we sat at home. well , 
we say , if they on us again we 'll defend ourselves. somewhere around 
one o in the morning two people came from the , 
 . they say , leave everything just how it is , we 're coming back 
here soon and will bring an expert who will record and everything. 
then people came from the too , but no one helped us take 
father away. the morning came and the arrived. we wanted to take 
father away somehow. we called the and the police a couple of times , 
but no one came .  . we called an , and nobody came .  . then one of the 
said that the were coming to our place again and we should 
hide .  . we the door somehow or other. we left father in the room and 
went up to the neighbor 's .  . 

the began again in the morning. the came in several , 
, and threw themselves out of the like . . . a 
landing force near the center of town .  . our building was right there. a 
formed .  . then they started fighting with the soldiers .  . then , in buildings 
19 and 20 , that 's next to the office , they started breaking 
into , destroying property , and  . the 
were n't at home , they had managed to flee and hide somewhere. and again they 
in the direction of our building .  . they were shouting that there were 
some left on the fourth , meaning us. they 're up there , still , 
up there. let 's go kill them ! they broke up all the remaining in 
the two , threw it outside , and burned it in large  . we were hiding 
one up. something heavy  . threw himself the door 
shouting that it was probably father , they had thrown father , were 
the , probably throwing it in the fire , going to burn it. i heard it , 
and the sound was kind of , and i said , no , that 's from some of the 
 . mother and i on and stopped him somehow , and 
him down. 

the left somewhere around eight  . they open the door and 
went into the apartment of the across from us. they were also 
, they had left for another city. 

the father of the neighbor who was us came and said , are you 
crazy why are you hiding do n't you now they 're checking all the 
they could kill you and them ! and to us . . . come on , leave 
this apartment ! we went down to the third , to some other  . at 
first the man did n't want to let us in , but then one of his sons asked him and 
he  . we stayed there until o at night. we heard the sound 
of  . the said that it was  . we went 
 . there was a light on in the room where we left father .  . in the 
other , as we found out later , all the had been down. 
they left only one  . the was burning , which probably was a signal 
they had agreed on because there was a light burning in every apartment in our 
3 where there had been a  . 

with the help of the soldiers we made it to the city party and were 
saved .  . our salvation my mother 's , my brother 's , and mine , was purely 
accidental , because , as we later found out from the , someone in the 
that we had up there. well , we fought , but we were only 
able to save mother. we could n't save father .  . we inflicted many on 
the , some of them serious. but others came to take their places. we 
were also , there was blood , and we were all over we got our 
share .  . it was a miracle we survived .  . we were saved by a miracle and the 
troops .  . and if troops had n't come to , the slaughter would have been 
even greater probably all the would have been victims of the 
genocide .  . 

through an acquaintance at the city party i was able to contact the 
leadership of the military that was brought into the city , and at their 
orders we were special people to us ,  . we went to ' 
pick up father 's  . we took it to the  . this was about two o 
in the morning , it was already march 1 , it was raining very hard and it was 
quite cold , and we were wearing only our suits .  . when my brother and i carried 
father into the we saw the burned and  . there were 
about burned people in there , and the small of a burned child. it 
was  . i suffered a  . there were about ten people 
there , but the doctor on duty said that because of the numbers they were being 
taken to  . there was a woman 's there too , she had been . . . well , 
there was part of a body there . . . a off part of a woman 's body. it 
was something terrible .  . the was by the landing force . . . the 
child that had been killed was only ten or twelve years old .  . it was impossible 
to tell if it was a boy or a girl because the was burned .  . there was a 
man there , too , several men. you could n't tell anything because their faces 
were , they were in such awful condition .  .  .  . 

now two and a half months have passed .  . every day i recall with what 
happened in the city of  . every day my father , and the death of my 
father , and how we fought , and the people 's , and especially the  . 

i still want to say that 70 years have passed since soviet power was 
established , and up to the very last minute we could not conceive of what 
happened in  . it will go down in history. 

i'm particularly surprised that the was n't even afraid of the troops .  . they 
even fought the soldiers .  . many soldiers were  . the threw 
onto the , setting them on fire .  . they 
were n't afraid .  . they were so sure of their that they attacked our 
troops .  . i saw the on february 29 near the office , right 
across from our building .  . and that was fighting with the soldiers .  . the 
of some of the buildings , also , threw at the 
soldiers from , , even blocks and glass  . they 
were n't afraid of them. i say they were sure of their  . when we were 
at the  and when they were homes near the 
office i called the police at number 3 20 02 and said that they were 
and burning homes .  . and they told me that they knew that 
they were being burned .  . during those days no one from the police department 
came to anyone 's aid .  . no one came to help us , either , to our home , even though 
perhaps they could have come and saved us. 

as we later found out the was given free and drugs , near the 
station .  . were in all parts of town to be thrown and used in 
fighting .  . so i think all of it was in advance. they even knew in 
which buildings and the lived , on which they had 
lists , the  . you can tell that the operation was in advance. 

thanks , of course , to our troops , to the country 's leadership , and to the 
leadership of the ministry of defense for helping us , thanks to the 
people , because the majority of the troops were russians , and the troops 
suffered losses , too. i want to express this in the name of my 
family and in the name of all , and in the name of all 
 . for coming in time and terrible things worse would 
have happened if that had not been stopped on time. 

at present an investigation is being conducted on the part of the ussr 
 . i want to say that those should receive the severest 
possible punishment , because if they do n't , the , the genocide , could 
happen again. everyone should see that the most severe punishment is 
out for such deeds .  . 

very many and took part in the , in the mass 
 . the mobs were huge .  . at present not all of them have been caught , 
very few of them have been , i think , judging by the newspaper reports .  . there 
were around 80 people near our building alone , that 's how many people took 
part in the of our building all in all. 

they should all receive the most severe punishment so that others see that 
those who perform such acts .  . 

may 18 , 1988 


reference 

1 the against in soviet , 
volume i , accounts , edited by , forward by 
, 1990 , published by d. , ny , pages 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re why does us consider to be a dangerous to humanity 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 48 

 ( anwar mohammed ) writes 

in article  ( gideon ehrlich ) writes 
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents 
of those files. 
so it will be nice if will tell us 
1. why do american authorities consider to be dangerous 

authorities seem to view a lot of people as dangerous , including 
the millions of americans of arab ancestry .  . perhaps you can answer 
the question as to why the files and on members 
in california  ( and elsewhere ) friendly perhaps 

come on ! most if not all are to the war 
against israel .  . that is why the arab organizations .  . that is 
the same reason the us communist organizations and soviet 
only a few years ago. 

perhaps is a member or the or a reporter 
or a member of any of the of other political organizations ethnic 
minorities that the on. 

all of these groups have , in the past , associated with or been a part of anti 
israel activity or propoganda .  . the is simply them so that if 
anything comes up , they wo n't be caught by surprise .  . 

2. why does the have an interest in that person 

paranoia 

no , that is why world trade center bombings do n't happen in israel  ( aside from 
the fact that there is no world trade center ) and why people like ( 
whose american group to bow up the israeli and 
kill many jews .  . ) are caught. as of the said , 
jews live longer .  . 

3. if one does trust either the us government or the what an 
additional information should he send them 

the names of half the posters on this forum , unless they already 
have them. 

they probably do. 



ed .  . 


from  ( gedaliah friedenberg ) 
subject re is racism 
organization college of engineering , michigan state university 
lines 26 
distribution world 
reply to  ( gedaliah friedenberg ) 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 

in article , writes 
in re syria 's , the author writes that the un thought 
was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct 
the first time , is racism and , the daily 
 ( the student newspaper at mcgill ) was proud enough to print an article 
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail .  . 

if you want info claiming that blacks were brought to earth 60 
years ago by from the , i can send you literature from 
the nation of islam  ( farrakhan 's group ) who believe this. 

if you want info claiming that the never happened , i can send you 
info from  ( institute for historical review david 's group ) , or 
just read dan 's posts on alt .  . 

i just wanted to put steve 's post in with the company that it deserves .  . 

steve 


department of engineering 
department of , mechanics and materials science 
michigan state university 




from  ( david davidian ) 
subject and international relations 
summary re e not .  .  .  . 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 47 

in article 
ca  ( suat kiniklioglu ) a.k.a. wrote 

jewish 
 . 

israel was able to the jewish lobby from the greeks , 
for example , by it that supporting the 
resolution which came before the senate in february 1990 
could help sour israeli relations .  . in addition , the 
israeli in washington was active in that the 
resolution failed , for instance by turkish jews to 
travel to to the between israel 
and  . 

there was no doubt about the debt which felt it 
to israel over this matter. even four months before the re 
solution came up for consideration , as member of the 
turkish foreign ministry said his country was very 
to israel , the , in his view , the 
of the relationship .  . the experience over 
the issue has convinced in 
that the pro israel network in washington can indeed deliver 
the desired results. 

philip , and the middle east 1991 house 
papers .  . p. 

papers p . 


got to go now 

not so fast ! you have a rather sense of logic ! you are telling us that 
because israel wishes to have good relations with even at the expense 
of or , makes it bad for turks to tell racist against 
jews .  . thus , we can infer , if israel had poor relations with , it would 
be to post such horrible against jews ! 

you impress nobody .  . 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 




center for policy research writes .  .  .  . 


subject final solution for gaza 


final solution for the gaza 


while israeli jews the of the , they 
by violent means the of the gaza and 
attempt to the  . 

your comparison with the is insulting , 
and racist beyond belief .  . the attempts to quiet any violence 
in the gaza strip are just that. the efforts to murder 
and in the gaza strip were the of violence and 
came after the violence .  . it was not an arbitrary racial move 
like the nazi treatment of jews .  . jews had not committed acts 
of violence and murder as have the residents of gaza .  . i find 
your to ignore the acts of murder nothing more than 
anti israel bigotry .  . 


the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population 
in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks. 
the israeli has decided to punish the whole population of 
gaza , some 700 . 000 . people , by denying them the right to leave the 
strip and seek work in israel .  . 

it is not punishment , but protection from repeated attacks by 
residents of gaza .  . you self any references to 
why israel has had to take action. the deaths of 
innocent israeli civilians do not enter into your equation , a 
racist on your part. 


while non jews their lives to save jews from the 
, no israeli jew is known to have his life to help 
the resistance .  . the only help given to by israeli 
jews , only of people , is assistance .  . 

the right of the population to resist occupation is 
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of 
justice. a population denied basic human rights is entitled to 
rise up against its  . 

the right of israel to protect its citizens from murderers is 
also recognized by international law. israeli civilians have 
been getting to death on a daily basis. if this wave 
of murder does not matter to you , then your for the 
basic human rights you claim matter so much to you is nothing 
but an anti israel  . 


as is known , the israeli regime is considering unworthy of 
israeli citizenship and equal rights in israel , although they are 
considered worthy to do the work in israeli , 
and fields .  . 

do you know of residents of gaza who have applied for israeli 
citizenship and were denied i have heard of no such denials 
taking place. can you document this , or is this more of your 
stupid and propaganda the truth is that if 
residents applied for citizenship , would murder them as 
 . 


many are born in towns and in 
israel .  . they may not live there , for these areas are for 
the master race .  . 

how dare you use such a disgusting phrase .  . how very easy you 
attack a people , when you facts which in the face of 
your pure racism .  . perhaps you are judging a people to be the 
that you are. do you believe that all jews must have 
the same bigoted makeup as you 

here 's another little in your , about the  master 
race , ' for you to avoid .  .  .  . 

two months ago a plane with 86 bosnian muslims left bosnia to 
seek in the middle east .  . four arab nations refused to 
grant them  . then when agreed to take the 
responsibility for them , they were allowed into israel .  . yes , 
israel .  . but when the plane , the israeli who had 
previously agreed to take care of them refused to be involved 
with the rescue project , because they felt that it would make 
israel look good. it was more important to avoid any good 
for israel than to take care of fellow muslims .  . israel moved 
them to a , where they are safe and secure .  . the truth 
is that time after time the islamic world has turned its back 
on muslims in need more than israel has .  . even in the case of 
the 400 , was willing to let their so called 
arab brothers to death rather than give them 
in  . 

nearly twice as many palestinians have been murdered by other 
palestinians than in with israel .  . hundreds of 
thousands of palestinians had been from kuwait , just 
because they were  . the truth is that your 
concern for the welfare of the palestinians is nothing but an 
excuse to attack israel .  . you are part of the ignorant effort 
to all concern for the welfare of the palestinians to 
attacking israel .  . but the truth is there are greater reasons 
than israel for the plight of the palestinians .  . to disregard 
or kuwait or saudi arabia or any of the other oil rich 
nations who do nothing for these people , is to use the plight 
of these poor people as a for your hatred of jews , or 
your hatred of israel .  . anti semitism and anti is not 
the same as pro and anyone who insists that it is 
the same really does not give two for their welfare .  . 


the nazi regime to the residents of the the 
right to self  . they jews to the 
population and preventing any form of resistance .  . some 
jewish were killed. israel also wishes to rule over 
gaza through arab  . 

your pathetic analogy is so absent of relevant fact that your 
racism cannot be disguised .  . jews had never declared war on a 
people. jews had never attacked poles with , or 
had used the as a ground for attacks .  . to take 
something like the  ( ghetto(the creation of which you do 
not even bother to discuss ! and ) the that followed is 
to degrade the dead , and to show that intelligent debate on a 
difficult situation is beyond your intellectual  . you 
clearly have never even read a single word of the covenant of 
the islamic resistance movement .  . here is arguably the single 
most anti semitic genocidal document since mein kampf , yet it 
is totally in your  . your racism is most 
evident in your to avoid such documentation .  . if it 
were considered , you might actually have to deal with 
problems in a balanced manner , rather than in an anti semitic 
manner. 


as israel denies the only two options which are compatible 
with basic human rights and international law , that of becoming 
israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for 
self determination , it must be concluded that the israeli jewish 
society does not consider full human beings .  . 

and just how was gaza obtained do you forget that israel is 
not in the habit of grabbing land for the hell of it , but had 
taken gaza in a war that it did not start did you know land 
israel in wars , wars which other nations have always 
started , are n't the same as israel , and they are subject to a 
completely different set of international laws since you do 
continuously refer to international law , would you please say 
what specific international laws israel is violating 


this attitude 
is consistent with the attitude of the nazis towards jews .  . 

i can cite 6 , 000 , 000 reasons why it is not. 


the 
current policies by the israeli government of cutting off gaza are 
consistent with the wish publicly expressed by prime 
that  gaza into the  . 

where is this quote i have never heard assert that he 
wished such a thing. since you are in general a liar , you 'll 
have to provide the entire quote , with source , or this effort 
will be regarded as just another one of your fabrications .  . 


one is led to ask 
oneself whether israeli leaders entertain still more 
goals towards the whether they have some final solution 
up their sleeve 

only you are led to ask such a loaded , racist , intellectually 
dishonest question. you inability to come to terms with what 
you are has turned you into a racist of the highest order. 


i urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever 
they can to help the their full human , civil and 
political rights , to which they are entitled as human beings .  . 

why do you not feel the same compassion for the jews of iran , 
or iraq , or , or saudi arabia , or syria do you have an 
of what they have over the past decades or , 
what about the plight of the palestinians in kuwait or what 
about the treatment of the bosnian muslims do you think the 
residents of gaza are being to what all the muslims 
in bosnia are why are you to the death 
and suffering of people why do you not care that these folk 
are being exterminated why do you not care that only israel 
has given any of these people safe haven could it be due to 
the fact that it is not israel who is doing the killing the 
people in gaza are not being exterminated .  . they are n't being 
killed. they are n't being  . they are n't being  . 
they are n't being driven from their lands .  . they are not kept 
from receiving food or other  . but the are. 
and the only country which has provided some to the 
bosnian muslims is the same nation that you have devoted your 
life to attacking , in the of compassion .  . 

your are so by the burden of intellectual 
honesty that you ought to take a deep and ask yourself 
what your real motives are. do not yourself into the 
belief that truth or compassion are what drives you. in your 
case , it is clear that hate beats out love every time. maybe 
you are with some kind of guilt for having been born 
a jew .  . it is obvious that your hatred of your own judaism is 
being on all other jews .  . why else would you suggest a 
racist idea like breeding jews out of existence maybe these 
fits of anti semitism are a result of being cut off from your 
own people for an extended period. whatever the case may be , 
it is clear that you are not what you have so hard to 
appear to be. when you realize that you ca n't care for other 
people while you hate yourself you might actually begin to do 
some good. 

but for now , you are a  . 




from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 9 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


the comparison of the situation with the 
is insulting and completely false .  . any person making such a rude 
and false comparison is either ignorant of the , or also 
ignorant of the situation in the , or is an anti  . 

to compare a complicated political situation with the genocide 
of 6 , 000 , 000 jews is racist in and of itself. 


from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
organization the department of department 
lines 39 

in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

and other resistance are at precision 
bombing of and israeli targets .  . 

it 's hard to a car bomb with a in getting 
right up to the target before blowing up. even and 
radio controlled bombs under cars are pretty efficient killers .  . 
you have a point. 

i find such methods to be far more 
and responsible 

is this part of your islamic value system 

than the israeli method of and bombing 
with the hope that a member will be killed along with 
the civilians murdered .  . 

had israeli methods been anything like this , then iraq 've been 
long ago , entire arab towns and executions performed by 
the tens of thousands .  . the fact is , though , that israeli methods 
are n't even 1 10 , as evil as those which are common and everyday 
in arab states. 

soldiers are trained to die for their country. three soldiers 
did their duty the other day. these men need not have died if their government 
had kept them on israeli  . 

israeli brad ali ! just wait until the 's 
thought police get wind of this. it 's all holy muslim  ( tm ) . 
have you forgotten may allah have mercy on you now. 

brad 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject 2.5 million muslims of at the hands of  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( mikhail s. verbitsky ) writes 

actually , is a permanent resident of my killfile 

anyone care to speculate on this i 'll let the rest of the net judge 
this on its own merits .  . between and , 2.5 million turks 
of at the hands of  . the genocide involved not only 
the killing of innocents but their from the 
 . they were persecuted , , and slaughtered while much of 
ottoman army was engaged in world war i. the genocide treaty defines 
genocide as acting with a 

 specific intent to destroy , in whole or in substantial part , a 
national , ethnic , racial or religious group . ' . 

history shows that the x soviet government intended to 
the muslim population .  . 2.5 million turks and were exterminated by the 
 . international in ottoman empire at the time including 
u.s. the x soviet government 's policy 
as a massacre of the , turks , and  . the blood leaders of 
the x soviet government at the time personally involved in the 
extermination of the muslims .  . the turkish genocide in honor 
those who died during the turkish massacres by the  . 

the accounts and the historical documents established , 
beyond any doubt , that the massacres against the muslim people 
during the war were and  . the aim of the policy 
was clearly the extermination of all turks in x soviet 
territories .  . 

the muslims of van , , , and and 
their wives and children have been taken to the mountains and killed. 
the massacres in , , and were organized and 
by the blood leaders of the x soviet 
government. 

the principal of the slaughter of innocent muslims were 
, , , , , , 
, and  . 

source papers , general correspondence container 32 
to letter of september 14 ,  . 

i have it from absolute first hand information that the in 
the attacked  ( turkish ) that are utterly 
and these with and they murder 
the , pillage the and often burn the  . 


sources  ( the ottoman state , the ministry of war ) , islam 
,  ( istanbul ,  . 
the french version documents par 
la population ,  ( istanbul ,  . in the h. k. 
, ed .  . , ve ,  ( ankara , 
 . in addition z .  . , ed .  . , ,  ( ankara , 
1974 ) and , edited by the same author , 
,  ( ankara ,  . ... , vol. 32 , 
 ( december 1983 ) , document 1881 .  . 
.... , vol. 31 ,  ( december 1982 ) , document 
 . 

those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginning 
with the excuse of forced labor in road construction , they were taken 
in the direction of and  . when the army 
, a part of the remaining people was in 
massacres and they were thrown into , they were locked 
in houses and burned down , they were killed with and , in places 
as , their were open , their 
were out , and girls and women were hanged by their hair after 
being to every conceivable act. a very small part 
of the people who were these far worse than the 
of the inquisition living dead and were suffering 
from temporary insanity because of the poverty they had lived 
in and because of the experiences they had been to. 
including women and children , such persons discovered so far do not 
one thousand five hundred in and thirty thousand in 
 . all the fields in and are , everything 
that the people had has been taken away from them , and we found them 
in a situation. at the present time , the people are 
on some food they obtained , by , from 
left behind after their occupation of this area. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( jonathan b. horen ) 
subject investment in and 
lines 40 

in today 's posting , at the end  ( an ) , i read 

more money to building in territories to 
create jobs for palestinians 

reports that public works at building 
costing million new israeli shekels  ( about 50 
million dollars ) will begin sunday in the territories .  . this was 
last night by prime and 
in an effort to create more jobs for 
residents of the territories .  . this of money 
will bring given to developing in the 
territories this year to million , up from last year 's 
figure of 120 million  . 

while i investing of money in , , v , 
in order to create jobs for their residents , i find it deplorable that 
this has never been an active policy of any israeli 
since , with regard to their jewish residents . past governments 
found funds to cheap  ( read affordable ) housing and the 
, but where was the investment for creating 
industry  ( which would have generated and jobs ) 

after 26 years , and remain , of even 
middle , and the jewish are sterile 
communities , for  ( in the main )  ( both 
secular and religious ) who work in tel or jerusalem but 
cannot afford to live in either city or their surrounding  . 

there 's an old saying , just living there 
was n't enough , we had to really it. but instead , we 
for , and now we are paying the price  ( and doing 
for others what we should have done for  . 



b. jews who do not base their of jewish positions and 
 ( 408 ) interests on judaism are essentially  .  .  . the only 
morally defensible grounds for the preservation of jews as a 
separate people rest on their religious identity as jews .  . 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti human right in b 
summary part b 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

accounts of anti human right in part b 
to current events in 

 ( part b of 008 ) 



oh , yes , i just  . while they were raping me they 
repeated quite frequently , let the women have babies 
for us , muslim babies , let them bear for the 
struggle against the  . then they said , those 
muslims can carry on our holy cause. heroes ! they repeated 
it very often. 



 .  .  . continued . from part a 

the of them left. they left and i had an attack .  . i realized that the dan 
was past , and stopped controlling myself. i for a moment and the 
physical pain immediately made itself felt .  . my heart and hurt. i had 
an awful attack .  . i rolled back and forth on top of those christmas 
, and  . i did n't know where i was or how long this 
went on. when we out the time , later it turned out that i and 
was in pain for around an hour .  . then all my strength was gone and i into 
, i started feeling sorry for myself , and so on and so forth . . . 

then someone came into the room. i think i hear someone calling my name. i 
want to respond and restrain myself , i think that i'm  . i am 
silent , and then it continues it seems that first a man 's voice is calling 
me , then a woman 's .  . later i found out that had sent our neighbor , the 
one whose apartment she was hiding in , , to our place , 
telling him , i know that they 've killed  . go there and at least bring 
her to me so they do n't violate her  . he went and returned empty 
handed , but thought he just did n't want to carry the into his 
apartment .  . she sent him another time , and then sent his wife , and they were 
walking through the looking for me , but i did n't answer their calls .  . 
there was no light , they had the and  . 

they started the in our apartment around five o , and at 9 30 i 
went down to the  . i went down the myself. i walked out of the 
apartment how long can you wait for your own death , how long can you be 
, afraid come what will. i walked out and started knocking on the 
doors one after the next .  . no one , not on the , not on the fourth , 
opened the door .  . on the third , on the landing of the , 
's son started to , , do n't cry , 's alive ! he 
knocked on his own door and out came , , and after them ,  . 
, 's wife , is an  . all of us were in their 
apartment .  . i did n't see , but she was in their home , too , lying 
, she had a  . was there too , and my father and mother. 
all of my family had gathered there. 

at the door i lost consciousness .  . and carried me into the 
apartment .  . 

later i found out what they had done to our  . said , , 
's in really serious condition , she 's probably dying .  . if she 
you , do n't cry , do n't tell her that her face looks so awful .  . it was as though 
her whole face was , you know , everything was pushed over to one 
side , her eye was all , and everything together , her , her 
. . . it was as though they had her right side around the whole 
, that 's how her face was. i said , fine. was 
afraid to go into the room , because she went in and and started 
to cry .  . i went in. as soon as i saw her my legs gave way. i down near the 
, her legs and started them and  . she opened the eye 
that was , looked at me , and said , who is it but i could barely talk , 
my whole face was so  . i did n't say , but rather something 
tender , something , but tender , my , my , my 
little golden one . . . she understood me. 

then brought me some water , i drank it down and 's  . 
she started to  . she was saying something to me , but i could n't 
understand it. then i made out , it , i hurt all over. her hair was 
down with blood. i her forehead , her head , she had on her 
forehead , and on her . . . she was groaning again , and i do n't know how 
to help her. she calls me over with her hand , come closer .  . i go to her. she 's 
saying something to me , but i ca n't understand her. brings her a 
and paper and says , write it down. she shakes her head as if to say , no , i 
ca n't write .  . i ca n't understand what she 's saying. she wanted to tell me 
something , but she could n't .  . i say , , just lie there a little while , 
then maybe you 'll feel better and you can tell me then. and then she says , 
maybe it 'll be too late. and i completely . . . just broke down , i could n't 
control myself. 

then i my hand in the water and her forehead and eye. i 
a into the water and a little water onto her  . she 
says , , we 're not saved yet , we have to go somewhere else. out of this 
damned house. they want to kill us , i know. they 'll find us here , too. we need 
to call  . she repeated this to me for almost a whole hour , until i 
understood her every word. i ask , what 's his number , 
that 's the head of the where she works. we have to call him. 
but i did n't know his home number .  . i say , , what 's his number she 
says , i ca n't remember. i say , who knows his number who can i call she 
says , i do n't know anything , leave me alone. 

i went out of the room. stayed to watch over her and sat there , he was 
, too. i say , , says that we have to call  . how can 
we call him who knows his telephone number i tell , think , think , 
who can we call to find out she started calling several people did n't 
answer. she called a , her called another and 
found out the number and called us back .  . the boss 's wife answered and said he 
was at the  . my voice keeps cracking , i ca n't talk normally .  . she says , 
, do n't panic , get a hold of yourself , go out to those and 
tell them that they just ca n't do that. she still did n't know what was really 
going on. i said , it 's easy for you to say that , you do n't understand what 's 
happening. they are killing people here. i do n't think there is a single 
left in the building , they 've cut them all up. i'm even surprised 
that we managed to save ourselves. she says , well , ok , if it 's that serious 
. . . and all the same she 's thinking that my emotions are all up 
and that i'm fearing for my life , that in fact it 's not all that bad. ok , 
fine , fine , she says , if you 're afraid , ok , as soon as comes back 
i 'll send him over. 

we called again because they had just started the apartment directly 
under 's , on the second , 's apartment .  . she 
was n't home , she was staying with her daughter in  . they 
everything there . . . we realized that they still might come back .  . we kept on 
trying to get through to 's wife is named too and 
finally we get through. she says , yes , he 's come home , he 's leaving for your 
place now. he came .  . of course he did n't know what was happening , either , 
because he brought two of his daughters with him. he came over in his 
with his two daughters , like he was going on an  . he came and saw what 
shape we were in and what was going on in town and got frightened .  . he has 
grown up daughters , they 're almost my age. 

the three of us carried out , a coat on her and a warm , and 
went down to his car. he took and me to the maternity home. . . no , 
first they took us to the po ice  . they had ready. as 
soon as we got out of the car they put and me on and said 
that we were in serious condition and that we must n't move , we might have 
 . from the i saw about 30 soldiers sitting and lying on the 
first , , on the concrete , groaning . . . this was around 
o at night. we had left the house somewhere around 1 30 .  . when i 
saw those soldiers i realized that a war was going on soldiers , enemies 
. . . everything just like a war. 

they carried me into some office on the  . the emergency medical 
people from were there. the medical there was an older 
 . told him what they had done to because she 's so proud 
she would never have told .  . and this . . . his name was 
, i think , because someone said , get an injection ready , he 
started to fill a , and turned around so as to give a shot .  . but 
when he looked at her face he became ill .  . and he was an old man , in his 
sixties , his hair was all grey , and his , too. he and 
started to cry what have they done to you ! he was speaking  . what 
have they done to you ! did n't say anything. came in then , and 
she started to cry , too. the man tried to calm her. i 'll give you a shot .  . 
tells him , i do n't need any shot .  . where is the government just what 
are they doing look what they 've done to my children ! they 're killing people , 
and you 're just sitting here ! some were standing on the table in 
there. you 're sitting here drinking tea ! look what they 've done to my 
daughters ! look what they 've turned them into ! they gave her something to 
drink , some heart medicine , i think. they gave an injection and the 
doctor said that she had to be taken to the maternity home immediately .  . papa 
and , i think , even though papa was in bad shape , helped carry 
out. when they put her on the , none of the got near her. i 
do n't know , maybe there were n't any  . then they came to me what 's 
the matter with you their tone was so official that i wrapped myself 
in the half length coat .  . i had a blanket on , too , an orange one , 's .  . 
i said , i'm fine. came over and was me , and then told 
the doctor , you leave , let a woman examine her. a woman came , an 
, i believe , and said , what 's wrong with you i was wearing my 
sister 's , the sister who at this time was in  . when 
she was her infant she had cut out a big hole in it so that it would 
be easier to feed the baby .  . i the night some more and showed 
her. i took it off my and turned my back to her. there was a huge 
wound , about the size of a hand , on my back , from the  . she said 
something to them and they gave me two shots .  . she said that it should be 
dressed with something , but that they 'd do that in the hospital .  . 

they put me on a , too. they started looking for people to carry me. 
i raised up my head a little and wanted to sit up , and this woman , i do n't 
know if she was a doctor or a , said , lie still , you must n't move. when 
i was lying back down i saw two policemen a man. his seemed 
very familiar to me. i , stop ! one of the policemen turned and says , 
what do you want i say , bring him to me , i want to look at him. they 
brought him over and i said , that person was just in our apartment and he 
just me and my sister .  . i recognize him , note it down. they said , 
fine , but did n't write it down and led him on. i do n't know where they were 
taking him. 

then they put my near where the injured and soldiers were 
sitting .  . they went to look for the so he would bring the car 
up closer .  . one of the soldiers started talking to me , sister . . . i do n't 
remember the conversation exactly , but he asked me were we lived and what they 
did to us. i asked him , where are you from he said that he was from  . 
apparently they were the first that were brought in. the police .  . later i 
learned that they suffered most of all. he says , ok , you 're , they 
did n't get along with you , but i'm a , he says , what are they trying 
to kill me for oh , i something else. when i went out onto the 
with for a hammer and nails i looked out the and saw 
two beating a near the kindergarten .  . he was pressed 
against the and he covered his head with his , they were beating him 
with his own club. the way he cried made my  . i do n't know 
what they did to him , if he 's still alive or not. and something else. before 
he attack on our house we saw sheets , clothes , and some flying from the 
third or fourth of the building , but i did n't think it was 
attacking  . i thought that something was on fire or they 
were throwing something they did n't need out , or someone was fighting with 
someone .  . it was only later , when they were burning a car in the 
, when the said that they were doing that to the , that 
i realized that this was serious , that it was anti  . 

they took and me to the maternity home. went to them too 
and said , i 've been too , help me. but they just ignored her. my 
father went to them and said in a guilty voice , as though it was his fault 
that he 'd been , and says , my hurt so much , those have 
probably broken my  . please look at them. the doctor says , that 's not my 
job. said , fine , i 'll take you to my place and if we need a doctor , 
i 'll find you one. i 'll bring one and have him look at you. and he them 
to his apartment .  . 

and i stayed there. they examined us. i was more by what the 
doctor said than by what those in our apartment did to us. i 
was n't surprised when they us they wanted to us , but i was very 
surprised that in a soviet medical a woman who had taken the 
oath could talk to victims like that. by happy or unhappy 
coincidence we were seen by the doctor that had our  . and she , 
having examined , said , no problem , you got off pretty good. not like 
they did in , when you were killing and raping our women. 
was in such terrible condition that she could n't say anything she 
would certainly have had something to say ! then they examined me. the same 
story. they put us in a separate ward .  . no shots , no , no 
drugs .  . absolutely none ! they did n't even give us tea .  . all the women there soon 
found out that in ward such and such were who had been  . and 
they started coming and through the , the way people look at 
zoo animals .  . did n't see this , she was lying there , and i kept her from 
seeing it. 

they put ira b. in our ward .  . she had also been  . true , she did n't have 
any serious bodily , but when she told me what had happened at their 
place , i felt worse for them than i did for us. because when they ira 
her daughter was in the room , she was under the on which it happened. and 
ira was holding her daughter 's hand , the one who was hiding under the bed. 
when they were beating ira or taking her off , gold , when she 
let go of her daughter 's hand , her daughter took her hand again. 
her daughter is in the fourth grade , she 's 11 years old .  . i felt really awful 
when i heard that. ira asked them not to harm her daughter , she said , do what 
you want with me , just leave my daughter alone. well , they did what they 
wanted .  . they threatened to kill her daughter if she got in their way. now i 
would be surprised if the criminals had behaved any other way that night. it 
was simply 's night , i say , they did what they would love to do 
every day steal , kill , rape . . . 

many are surprised that those animals did n't harm the children. the 
explained it like this this would be repeated in 15 to 20 years , and those 
children would be grown , and then , as they put it , we 'll come take the 
pleasure out of their lives , those children. this was about the girls that 
would be young women in 15 years. they were thinking about their tomorrow 
because they were sure that there would be no trial and no investigation , just 
as there was no trial or investigation in , and that those girls could be 
of some use in 15 years. this i heard from the one of the 
victims to it. that 's how they described their own , that 
they would still be in 15 to 20 years , and in 100 years they 
themselves said that. 

and this , too. everyone is surprised that they did n't harm our  . many 
people say that they either were or had too much. i do n't know 
why their eyes were red. maybe because they had n't the night before , 
maybe for some other reason , i do n't know. but they had n't been and 
they were n't , i'm positive , because someone who has will stop at 
nothing he has the urge to do. and they spoke in a fashion with 
little sister , do n't be afraid , we wo n't harm you , do n't look over 
there where i was , you might be frightened .  . you 're a muslim , a muslim woman 
should n't see such things. so they were really quite . . . 

so we came out of that story alive .  . each every day we have lived since it all 
happened bears the mark of that day. it was n't even a day , of those several 
hours. father still ca n't look us in the eyes. he still guilty for what 
happened to , mother , and me. because of his he 's started talk 
to himself , i 've heard him argue with himself several times when he 
thought no one is listening listen , he 'll say , what could i do what could 
i do alone , how could i protect them i do n't know where to find the words , 
it 's not that i'm happy , but i am glad that he did n't see it all happen. 
that 's the only thing they us . . . or maybe it happened by chance. of 
course he knows it all , but there 's no way you could imagine every last detail 
of what happened. and there were so many and i spoke 
together in private , and we talked with , too. but father was never 
present at those  . we spare him that , if you can say that. and 
when the comes to the house , we do n't speak with father present. 

on february 29 , the next , and i were discharged from the hospital .  . 
first they released me , but since law had been declared in the city , 
the soldiers took me to the police in an  . 
there were many people there , victims .  . i met the family 
there. from them i learned that and their grant had died. they 
were sure that both had died. they were talking to me and , 's wife 
and grant 's daughter , and her mother , were both  . 

then they took us all out of the office on the first into the  . 
there 's a little one room house outside there , a recreation and reading area. 
they took us in there. the women were afraid to go because they thought 
that they were us out of the police because it had become 
so dangerous that even the people working at the wanted to hide .  . 
the women were shouting .  . they explained to them we want to hide you 
better because it 's possible there will be an attack on the police  . 

we went into the little house. there were no or in there. we 
had children with us and they were we even had infants who needed to 
have their changed. no one had anything with them. it was just awful .  . 
they kept us there for 24 hours. from the of the one room house you 
could see that there were standing on the around the 
police , as though they were on us. the police is 
by a , like a , and it 's , but if they were 
standing on the , it means the was shut off. this brought 
great psychological pressure to bear on us , particularly on those who had n't 
just walked out of their , but who had n't for 24 hours , or 48 , 
or those who had suffered physically and , the ones who had lost 
family members .  . for us it was another ordeal .  . we were especially frightened 
when all the employees suddenly disappeared .  . we could n't see a single 
person , not in the and not in the  . we thought that they must 
have already been hiding under the building , that they must have some secret 
room down there. people were they started throwing themselves at 
one another . . . that 's the way it is on a  . we heard those 
people , mainly young people , and on the walls .  . we felt that 
the end was  . i was completely i had left in the 
hospital and did n't know where my parents were. i was sort of calm about my 
parents , i was thinking only about , if , heaven forbid , they should 
attack the hospital , they would immediately tell them that there was an 
in there , and something terrible would happen to again , and 
she would n't be able to take it. 

then soldiers with dogs appeared .  . when they saw the dogs some of the people 
climbed down off the  . then they brought in about another 30 soldiers .  . 
they all had machine guns in , their fingers on the  . we 
down a little. they brought us and brought the children some 
little and showed us where we could our hands , and took the children 
to the toilet .  . but we all sat there , but to be honest , it would never 
have occurred to any of us that we had n't for two days and that people 
do eat .  . 

then , closer to , they brought a group of criminals .  . they 
were being watched by soldiers with guard dogs .  . one of the men came back from 
the and told us about it. . . . it was like a 
different woman had been  . earlier she had been , wailing , 
and calling out oh , ! , but when she heard about this such a rage came 
over her ! she up , she had a coat on , and she started to roll up her 
sleeves like she was getting ready to someone .  . and suddenly there were 
soldiers , and dogs , and lots of people. she over to them. the were 
standing there with their hands above their heads facing the wall. she went up 
to one of them and him by the and started to and 
him ! then , on to a second , and a third .  . everyone was to the  . not 
one of the soldiers moved , no one went up to help or made her stop her from 
doing it. and the down and covered their heads with their hands , 
something. she came back and sat down , and something akin to a 
appeared on her face. she became so quiet no , no cries .  . then that round 
was over and she went back to them again. she was walking and cursing 
terribly take that , and that , they killed my husband , the , the 
, and so on. then she came back again and sat down. she probably did 
this the whole night through , well , it was n't really night , no one  . she 
went five or times and them and returned .  . and she told the women , 
what are you sitting there for they killed your husbands and children , they 
, and you 're just sitting there. you 're sitting and talking as though 
nothing had happened. are n't you she to everyone , but no 
one got up. i was just , i did n't have the strength to anyone , i 
could barely hold myself up , all the more so since i had been standing for so 
many hours i was released at o in the morning and it was already 
after ten at night because there were n't enough , really it was the 
and women with children who sat .  . i was on my feet the whole time. 
there was nothing to , the door was closed , and the men were  . 
the situation was deplorable .  . 

at o at night policemen came for us , local policemen , 
 . they said , get up. they 've brought , you can up 
and put the children to bed. now the women did n't want to leave this place , 
either. the place had become like home , it was safe , there were soldiers with 
dogs .  . if anyone went outside , the soldiers would say , oh , it 's our little 
family , and things like that. the soldiers felt this love , and probably , for 
the first time in their lives perceived themselves as  . everyone 
spoke from the heart , cried , and them and they , with their loaded 
machine guns in their hands , said , , you must n't approach me , 
i'm on guard .  . our people would say , oh , that 's all right. they 
them , one woman even one of the machine guns .  . this was all terribly 
moving for me. and the small children kept wanting to pet the dogs .  . 

they took us up to the second and said , you can and sleep in 
here. do n't be afraid , the is on guard , and it 's quiet in the city. 
this was the , when the killing was going on in block and in other 
places. then we were told that all the were being gathered at the 
club and at the city party  . they took us there. on the way i 
asked them to stop at the maternity home i wanted to take with me. 
i did n't know what was happening there. they told me , do n't worry , the 
maternity home is full of soldiers , more than to be. so you can rest 
assured .  . i say , well , i wo n't rest assured regardless , because the in 
there is capable of anything. 

when i arrived at the city party it turned out that had 
already been brought there. they had seen fit to release her from the 
, that she felt fine and was no longer in need of any care. once 
we were in the city party we gave free reign to our  . we met 
, but everyone was somehow divided into two groups , those who 
had n't been injured , who were , who had brought a pot of food with 
them , and so on , and those , like me , like , who were wearing whatever had 
come their way. there were even people who were all made up , up like 
they had come from a  . there were people without shoes , people , 
people , those who were , and those who had lost someone .  . and of 
course the stories and the talk were flying oh , i heard that they killed 
him ! what do you mean they killed him ! he stayed at work ! do you know 
what 's happening at this and such a plant talk like that. 

and then i met , the teacher .  . i know him very 
well and respect him highly .  . i 've known him for a long time. they had a small 
room , well really it was more like a study room. we spent a whole night 
talking in that study once. on march 1 we heard that first 
of the communist party of had arrived. everyone to see 
, what news he had brought with him and how this was all being viewed 
from outside .  . he arrived and everyone went up to him to talk to him and ask 
him things. everyone was in a rage .  . but he was protected by 
soldiers , and he went up to the second and did n't to speak with 
the people. apparently he had more important things to do. 

several hours passed .  . called me and says , , find another 
two or three. we 're going to make up lists , they asked for them , 
lists of the dead , those whose are unknown , and lists of people 
who had of their and of those whose cars were burned .  . i 
had about 50 people in my list when they called me and said , , your 
has arrived , she 's looking for you , she does n't believe that you are 
alive and well and that you 're here. i gave the lists to someone and asked 
them to continue what i was doing and went off. 

the list was imprecise , of course. it included grant , 's 
father , who was alive , but at the time they thought him dead. there was 
's father and , and  . the list also included the 
name of my and neighbor ,  . one of the guys said 
that he had been told that they her head off in the in front 
of the movie  . we put her on the list too , and cried , but later 
it turned out that that was just a , that in fact an hour earlier she had 
somehow left for the and from there had set sail for 
, where , thank god , she was alive and well. i should also say that 
in addition to those who died that list contained people who were 
missing or who were so that they were given up for dead. 3 

all the lists were taken to  . i do n't remember how many dead were 
contained in the list , but it 's a fact that when came in a couple 
of later he was cursing and was terribly  . i asked , what 's 
going on he said , , can you imagine what animals , what 
they are ! they say that they lost the list of the dead. 
member of the of the central of the communist party 
of the ussr has just arrived , and we were supposed to submit the list to 
him , so that he 'd see the of the slaughter , of the , whether it 
was one or fifty .  . they told him that the list had disappeared and they 
should ask everyone who had n't left for the house all over 
again. there were 26 people on our second list. i think that the number 26 
was the one that got into the press and onto television and the radio , because 
that 's the list that got .  . i remember exactly that there were 26 
people on the list , i had even told that that was only 
a half of those that were on the first list. he said , , please , try to 
remember at least one more. but i could n't remember anyone else. but there 
were more than 30 dead. of that i am certain .  . the government and the 
do n't count the people who died of , like sick people and old people 
whose lives are threatened by any  . they were n't as victims of 
the  . and then there may be people we did n't know. so many 
people left between march 1 and 8 ! most of them left for smaller towns 
in russia , and especially to the northern , to , and the 
territory .  . we do n't have any information on them. i know that 
there are people who set out for parts around  . in the 
woman there was a call for people who know how to milk 
, and for mechanics , and drivers , and i know a whole group of people went 
to help out. also clearly not on our list are those people who died entering 
the city , who were burned in their cars .  . no one knows about them , except the 
, who are hardly likely to say anything about it. and there 's 
more. a great many of the people who were were not included in the list 
drawn up at the  . i know of three instances for sure , and i of course 
do n't know them all. i'm thinking of three women whose parents chose not to 
what had happened , that is , they did n't take the matter to court , 
they simply left. but in so doing they did n't cease being victims .  . one of them 
is the first cousin of my  . she lived in no. 
8 , on the  . i ca n't tell you the building number and i do n't know 
her name. then comes the neighbor of one of my relatives , she lived in 
1 near the gift  . i do n't know her name , she lives on the 
same landing as the  . they her father , he was holding 
the door while his daughter , but he could n't hold the door forever , and 
when she climbed over the to the  they her by her 
 . like the were saying , it was a very , because 
they did n't kill anyone , they only them and left. and the third one 
. . . i do n't remember who the third one was anymore. 

they transferred us on march 1. still was n't herself .  . yes , we lived for 
days in the , in the cultural , and at the  . they lived there 
and i lived at the city party because i could n't stay with 
it was too difficult for me , but i was at peace she had survived .  . i could 
already walk , but really it was honest words that held me up. thanks to the 
social work i did there , i managed to persevere .  . said , 
if it were n't for the work i would go insane .  . he and i put ourselves in gear 
and took everything upon ourselves someone had an infant and needed 
and free food , and we went to get them. the first days we bought everything , 
although we should have received it for free. they were supposed to have been 
free of charge , and they sold it to us. then , when we found out it 
was free , we went to  . at the time , fortunately , you could still drop by 
to see him like a neighbor , all the more so since everything was still clearly 
on our faces .  . sent a down and he the issue. 

on march 2 they sent two to see us and 
 . the way it worked out , in our family they had considered 
only and me victims , maybe because she and i wound up in the hospital .  . 
mother and father are considered witnesses , but not victims .  . 

was involved with 's case , and , with mine. after i 
told him everything , he and i to sit down with the and 
record everyone i could remember while everything was still in my mind. 
we did n't work with the until the very last day because the 
conditions were n't there. the group worked and did poor 
quality work solely because the situation was n't conducive to working there 
were n't enough , especially during the time when there was a 
, and there were no for typing , and no still or 
video  . i think that this was done on purpose. we 're not so poor that 
we ca n't supply our with all that stuff. it was done especially 
to draw out the investigation , all the more so since the local authorities saw 
that the were leaving at the speed of light , never to return to 
 . and the had a lot to say i came to an agreement with 
, i told him myself , do n't you worry , if it takes us a month or two 
months , i 'll be here. i'm not afraid , i looked death in the eyes five times in 
those two days , i 'll help you conduct the investigation .  . 

he and i worked together a great deal , and i used this to shelter , i 
gave them so much to do that for a while they did n't have the time to get to 
her , so that she would at least have a week or two to get back to being her 
self .  . she was having difficulty so we looked for a doctor to take x 
rays .  . she could n't eat or drink for days , she was  . i did n't eat 
and drank virtually nothing for five days. then , on the day , when we 
were in already , the told me , how long can you go on like 
this well fine , so you do n't want to eat , you do n't love yourself , you 're 
not taking care of yourself , but you gave your word that you would see this 
investigation through. we need you. then i started eating , because in fact i 
was  . it was n't enough that i kept seeing those faces in our apart 
in my mind , every day i went to the 
cells and  . i do n't know . . . we were just everywhere ! probably in 
every prison in the city of and in all the cells of 
 . at that time they had even turned the into 
 . 

thus far i have identified 31 of the people who were in our apartment .  . 
identified three , and , two .  . the total is 36 .  . did n't identify 
anyone , she the faces of two or three , but they were n't among the 
of those  . i told of the neighbor i recognized .  . the one 
who went after the axe .  . he still has n't been , he 's still on the 
loose .  . he 's gone , and it 's not clear if he will be found or not. i do n't know 
his first or last name. i know which building he lived in and i know his 
sisters  faces .  . but he 's not in the city. the informed me that 
even if the investigation is closed and even if the trial is over they will 
continue looking for him. 

the 31 people i identified are largely blue workers from various 
plants , without education , and of the very lowest level in every respect. 
mostly their ages range from 20 to 30 years there was one who was 48 .  . only 
one of them was a student .  . he was the and 
chemical institute in , his mother kept trying to the 
 . once , thinking that i was an and not a victim , she said in front 
of me i 'll set you up a worth and give you 600 in cash 
simply for keeping him out of , that is , to keep him from landing in 
a prison on  . they 're all terribly afraid of that , because if the 
is talking with a criminal and the criminal does n't confess even 
though we identified him , they tell him in order to apply psychological 
pressure they say , fine , do n't confess , just keep silent .  . when you 're in an 
prison , when they find out who you are , they 'll take care of you 
in short order. that somehow gets to them. many give in and start to talk .  . 

the and i were in our apartment and the entire 
of our apartment , as an experiment .  . it was only then 
that i saw the way they had left our apartment .  . even without knowing who was 
in our apartment , you could guess. they stole , for example , all the money and 
all the , but did n't take a single book. they them up , burned 
them , water on them , and them with axes .  . only the materials 
from the congress of the communist party of the soviet union and james 
cooper 's last of the  . oh yes , lunch was ready , we were 
a , and there were for tea on the table .  . after they had 
been in our apartment , both the and the were gone. that 's 
enough to tell you what kind of people were in our apartment , people who do n't 
even know anything about books. they did n't take a single book , but they did 
take clothing , food , and even the of the cheap , out 
 . 

of those whom i identified , four were living in  . 
basically , the group that went seeking revenge let 's use their word for 
it was joined by people seeking easy gain and  . i talked with 
one of them. he had gray eyes , and somehow against the back drop of all that 
black i him specifically because of his of his eyes. besides taking 
part in the of our apartment , he was also involved in the murder of 
from building 16. she was an older who had recently 
arrived from , she lived alone and did not have anyone in  . i 
do n't know why she had a last name like that , maybe she was married to an 
 . i had laid eyes on this woman only once or twice , and know 
nothing about her. i do know that they murdered her in her apartment with an 
axe .  . murdering her was n't enough for them. they her into pieces and 
threw them into the with water .  . 

i remember another guy really well too , he was also rather fair  . you 
know , all the people who were in our apartment were than dark , both 
their hair and their  . and in with them , in addition to the grey 
eyed one , i remember this one fellow , the one l took to be a  . i 
identified him. as it turned out he was , born 
in the city of , and he had been convicted twice .  . one of our own. how 
did i remember him the name was on his left or right hand. i 
kept thinking , is that or puma , which it would be if you read the word 
as characters instead of , because the t was the one 
that looks like a m. when they led him in he sat with his hands behind 
his back .  . this was at the confrontation .  . he on every holy book , tried to 
put in an word here and there to try and spark my compassion , and 
told me that i was making a mistake , and called me dear sister .  . he said , 
you 're wrong , how could i , an , raise my hand against my own , an 
, and so on. he spoke so convincingly that even the 
asked me , , are you sure it was he i told him , i 'll tell you one more 
mark. if i'm wrong i shall apologize and say i was mistaken .  . the 
name is on his left or right hand. he went and became 
pale .  . they told him , put your hands on the table .  . he put his hands on the 
table with the palms up. i said , now turn your hands over , but he did n't 
turn his hands over. now this me. if he had from the very start 
acknowledged his guilt and said that he had n't wanted to do it , that they 
forced him or something else , i would have treated him somewhat differently. 
but he stuck to his story , no , i did not do anything , it was n't 
me. when they turned his hands over the name was in fact on his 
hand. his face and he something wicked .  . i immediately flew 
into a rage .  . there was an on the table , a really heavy one , made out 
of or something , very large , and it had and in it. 
catching myself quite by surprise , i that at him. but he 
and the hit the , and and down on his head and 
back .  . and he  . when he it provoked me further. i do n't know how , 
but i over the table between us and started either him or 
him i no longer remember which .  . when i i caught the 
 . the was there , . .  . i . no longer recall his 
last name , and he says , , it 's a japanese ! please . . . 
and shut off all the equipment on the , it was all being video taped .  . 
they took him away. i stayed , and they talked to me a little to calm me down , 
because we needed to go on working , i only remember telling me , you 're 
some ! what a ! i said , , honestly . . . 
they would always tell me , , more  . you speak as as if 
nothing had happened to you. i say , i do n't have any more strength or 
 . all my emotions are behind me now , i no longer have the strength 
. . . i do n't have the strength to do anything. and he says , , how were 
you able to do that and when i returned to normal , drinking tea and watching 
the , i said , can i really have over that table i never 
that high in class .  . 

so you could say the that took over our apartment was international .  . of 
the 36 we identified there was an , a , , who 
, and 34  . 

at the second meeting with , when he had completely his 
guilt , he told of how on february 27 the had come knocking .  . among 
them were guys if you can call them guys he knew from prison .  . they said , 
tomorrow we 're going after the  . meet us at the station at three 
 . he said , no , i'm not coming .  . they told him , if you do n't come 
we 'll kill you. he said , , i 'll come. and he went .  . 

they also went to visit my from our ,  . he 
had also been in prison i think that together they had either stolen a 
or one to get some parts they needed .  . they called him 
out of his apartment and told him the same thing tomorrow we 're going to get 
the  . be there. he said , no. they a knife on him. he said , 
i'm not going all the same. and in the on the they 
him several times , in the stomach .  . he was taken to the hospital .  . i know he was 
in the hospital in , in the hospital .  . if we had known about that 
we would have had some idea of what was to come on the  . 

i 'll return to , what he did in our apartment .  . i remember that he 
me along with all the rest. he spoke extremely well. but he 
was very fair , maybe that led me to think that they had it out for 
him , too. but later it was proved that he took part in the beating and burning 
of  . i do n't know if he participated in the in our 
apartment i did n't see , i do n't remember. but the people who were in our 
apartment who did n't yet know that he was an said that he did. i 
do n't know if he or not , and i myself do n't recall because i 
out very often. but i think that he did n't participate in the rape of 
because he was in the apartment the whole time. when they carried her into the 
, he remained in the apartment .  . 

at one point i was talking with an acquaintance about  . from her 
i learned that his wife was a , his mother is , he does n't 
have a father , and that he 's been convicted twice .  . well this will be his third 
and , i hope , last sentence. he his wife , she was coming to work 
with  . his wife was an by the name of  . 

the others who were . . . well they 're little  . you really ca n't 
call them , they 're just little  . they were robots carrying out 
someone else 's will , because at the investigation they all said , i do n't 
understand how i could have done that , i was out of my head. but we know that 
they were won around to it and prepared for it , that 's why they did it. in the 
name of allah , in the name of the koran , in the name of islam 
that 's holy to them that 's why they did everything they were commanded to do. 
because i saw they did n't have minds of their own , i'm not talking about their 
level of cultural or any higher values .  . no education , they 
work , have a of children without the means to raise them properly , they 
them in , like at the temporary housing , and apparently , they were 
promised that if they slaughtered the they would receive  . 
so off they went .  . many of them explained their participation saying , they 
promised us  . 

among them was one who  . i am sure that he from the 
heart and that he just despised himself after the incident .  . he worked at a 
children 's home , an , he has two children , and his wife works at 
the children 's home too. everything that they acquired , everything that they 
have they earned by their own labor , and was n't inherited from parents or 
 . and he said , i did n't need anything i just do n't know . . . how 
i ended up in that it was like some hand was guiding me. i had no will of my 
own , i had no strength , no , nothing. and the whole time i 
kept repeating , now you imagine that someone did the same to your young wife 
right before your own eyes. he sat there and just  . 

but that leader in the coat was not  . he performed a 
act , but i think that they 'll get onto him , they just 
have to work a little , because that , that boy , according to his 
, is in touch with the young person who taught him what to do , how 
to cover his  . he was constantly with other he 
knew and those he did n't , either , and other things as well , and changed 
himself like a so they would n't get onto him , but he was  . 

that one in the coat was at the  after 
was murdered .  . he came in and said , let 's go , enough , you 've 
enough blood here. 

maybe does n't know this but the reason they did n't finish her off was 
that they were to take her home with them. i heard this from 
and her sons , the , who were in the near the  . they 
liked her very much , and they had decided to take her to home with them. when 
came to at one point she does n't remember this yet , this the 
old me and she saw that there was no one around her , she started to 
the  . they saw that she was still alive and came back , they were 
already at the third , on their way to the  . they came back 
and started beating her to finish her. if she had not come to she would have 
lesser bodily , they would have her less. an older 
woman from our building , , an , all but on top of 
, and pleading that they leave her alone , but they her off. 
the woman 's grown sons were right nearby they picked her up in their hands 
and led her home. she and cried out loudly and god is on earth , 
he sees everything , and he wo n't forgive this. 

there was another woman , too , , a sick , woman from the first 
, she 's already  . , and , too , have a 
if men are fighting , they a under their feet to stop them. 
but they her and sent her home. to a is 
to a woman 's honor .  . 

now that the investigation is going on , now that a lot is behind us and we 
have gotten back to being ourselves a little , i think about how could these 
events that are now called the happen how did they come 
about how did it start could it have been avoided well , it 's clear that 
without a signal , without permission from the top leadership , it would not 
have happened. all the same , i'm not afraid to say this , the , 
let other worthy people take no offense , the better representatives of their 
nations , let them take no offense , but the in their majority are 
a people who are kept in line only by fear of the law , fear of for 
what they have done. and when the law said that they could do all that , like 
dogs who were afraid they would n't have time to do everything , they 
threw themselves from one thing to the next so as to be able to get more done , 
to a bit more. the smell of the danger was already in the air on 
february 27 .  . you could tell that something was going to happen. and everyone 
who had it out took steps to avoid running into those  . many left 
for their , got plane for the other end of the country , just got 
as far away as their legs would carry them. 

february 27 was a saturday .  . i was teaching my third class .  . the director came 
into my and said that i should let the children out , that there had 
been a call from the city party asking that all teachers gather for 
a meeting at lenin square .  . well , i the children , and there were few 
teachers left at school , three women , the director , and or 
seven men. the rest had already gone home. we got to lenin square and there 
were a great many people there. this was around five thirty or in the 
evening , no later. they were saying all kinds of rubbish up on the and 
the below was supporting them , roaring .  . they spoke over the 
about what had happened in a few days earlier and that the 
of a going to some district had recently thrown a small 
child off the bus. the speaker affirmed that he was an , that he had 
seen it himself .  . the . started to rage death to the ! they must 
be killed ! then a woman went up on stage .  . i did n't see the woman because 
people were to the like  . i could only hear her. the 
woman introduced herself as coming from , and said that the 
cut her daughters  off , and called , sons , my daughters ! that 
was enough. a portion of the people on the square took off running in the 
direction of the , the beginning of lenin street. 

we stood there about an hour .  . then the director of school 25 spoke , he gave a 
very speech. he said , brother muslims , kill the ! this 
he repeated every other sentence. when he said this the supported him 
, and shouting ! he said , has been our 
territory my whole life long , is my soul .  . how can you tear out my 
heart as though an would die without  . it 's our 
territory , the will never see it. the must be eliminated .  . 
from time muslims have the land of , from 
time , that 's the way nature created it , that every 20 to 30 years 
the should the land of  . by he meant 
 . 

i heard this. before that i had n't been listening to the closely .  . 
many people spoke and i stood with my back to the , talking with 
the other teachers , and somehow it all went right by , it did n't , 
that in fact something serious was taking place. then , when one of our 
teachers said , listen to what he 's saying , listen to what he 's 
, we  . that was the speech of that director .  . before that we 
to the woman 's speech. 

right then in our group there were of us the mood changed , and the 
subject of conversation and all school matters were forgotten. our director of 
studies , for whom i had great respect , he 's an . . . before that i 
had considered him an and worthy person , if there was a need to 
obtain leave we had asked him , he seemed like a good person. so he tells me , 
, you know that besides you there are no on the square if 
they find out that you 're an they 'll tear you to pieces .  . should i 
tell them you 're an should i tell them you 're an when he 
said it the first time i not to hear it , and then he asked me a 
second time. i turned to the director , , and said that it was already 
after eight , i was expected at home , and i should be leaving .  . she answered , 
no , they said that women should stay here until ten o ,  . and . men , until 
twelve .  . stay here. there was a young teacher with us , her children were in 
kindergarten and her husband worked shifts .  . she asked to leave i left my 
children at the kindergarten .  . the director her. when she let her go i 
turned around , said , good bye , and left with the young teacher , the 
 . i did n't see them after that. 

when we were walking the buses were n't running , and a from the 
nearby us. they had apparently gotten all fired up. it must have become too 
much for them , and they wanted to seek immediately , so they 
off. i was n't afraid this time because i was sure that the other teacher 
would n't say that i was an  . 

to make it short , we reached home. then told of how they had been at 
the and what had happened there. i started telling of my experience and 
again my parents did n't understand that we were in danger .  . we watched 
television as usual , and did n't even imagine that tomorrow would be our last 
day. that 's how it all was. 

at the city party i met an acquaintance , we went to school together , 
, i do n't remember her last name , she lives above the 
on street. she was there with her father , for some reason she 
does n't have a mother. the two of them were at home alone. while her father 
held the door she from the third , and she was lucky that the 
ground was wet and that there was n't anyone behind the building when she went 
out on the , there was no one there , they were all standing near the 
 . that building was also a lucky one in that there were no murders 
there. she  . she and did n't feel any pain in the of the 
moment .  . a few days later i found out that she could n't stand up , she had been 
injured somehow. that 's how people in saved their lives , their honor , 
and their children any way they could. 

where it was possible , the fought back .  . my father 's first cousin , 
m. , lives in block 30 .  . they found out by phone from one of the victims 
what was going on in town .  . the in that building all called one 
another immediately and all of them armed themselves with axes , , even 
with and went up to the roof .  . they took their infants with them , and 
their old women who had been in for god knows how many months , they got 
them right out of their and took everyone  . they 
up to the trap door to the roof and waited , ready to fight. then 
they took the daughter of the school board director , she 's an 
who lived in their building .  . they called the school board director 
and told her that if she did n't help them , the 17 on the roof , to 
escape alive and , she 'd never see her daughter again. i'm sure , of 
course , that would never a hand on a woman , it was just the only 
thing that could have saved them at the time. she called the police .  . the 
made a deal with the local police to go into town .  . two 
and soldiers were they the and 
led everyone down from the roof , and off to the side from the 
was a that was on its way to the building at that 
very moment , into block 30 .  . that 's how they defended themselves. 

i heard that our , roman and , resisted .  . they 're big , 
strong guys .  . their father was killed. and i heard that the brothers put up a 
strong defense and lost their father , but were able to save their mother. 

one of the told me that after it happened , when they were looking 
for the criminals on march 1 to 2 and everyone they suspected , 
people people in our , maybe people who were injured or perhaps 
dead. the themselves were afraid to go there , and when they went 
with the soldiers into our they are supposed to have found 
 . i do n't know how many. even if they had been and 
put down there , after two days they would have died from loss of blood or 
infection that was filled with water .  . i heard this from the 
neighbors. and later when i was talking with the the subject 
came up and they confirmed it. i know , too , that for several hours the 
was used to objects stolen from our apartment .  . and our neighbor 
carried out our , along with the rest he stole it for himself , 
as one of the criminals .  . everyone was taking his own share , and the neighbor 
took his , too , and carried it home. and when we came back , when everything 
seemed to have down , he returned it , saying that it was the only thing 
of ours he had managed to save .  . 

's husband and father defended themselves. the defended 
themselves , and so did other families .  . to be sure there were 
victims , although we 'll never hear anything about them. for some 
reason our government does n't want to say that the were not just 
victims , but that they defended the honor of their sisters and , too. 
in the tv show viewpoint a military man , an , said that 
the did virtually nothing to defend themselves. but that 's not 
important , the truth will come out regardless .  . 

so that 's the price we paid those three days. for three days our courage , our 
, and our humanity was tested .  . it was those three days , and not the 
years and of years we had lived before them , that showed what we 've 
become , what we grew up to be. those three days showed who was who .  . 

on that i will conclude my on the  . it should be said 
that it 's not over yet , the trials are still ahead of us , and the punishments 
received by those who so violated us , who wanted to make us into 
will depend on our position and on the work of the , the 
, and literally of every person who his hand to the 
 . that 's the price we paid to live in , to not fear going out on 
the street at night , to not be afraid to say we 're , and to not fear 
speaking our native tongue .  . 

october 15 , 1988 


reference for 

1 the against in soviet , 
volume i , accounts , edited by , forward by 
, 1990 , published by d. , ny , pages 145 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re the israeli press 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 48 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article , ( b. ) writes 

of course you never read arab media , 

i do n't , though when i was in israel i did make a point of listening 
to news , as well as radio .  . in the united states , 
i generally read the , and , a mainstream israeli 
 . 

i read arab , israeli  . post , and this network is more than enough ) 
and western  ( american , french , and british ) reports and i can say 
that if we give israel 10 and 10 on the bias scale  ( of course 
you can switch the polarities ) israeli newspapers will get either 
a 9 or 10 , american newspapers and tv news range from 6 
to 10  ( yes there are some that are more than israelis ) 
the montreal (a local free newspaper ) probably is closer 
to 's views than some israeli right newspapers , british 
range from 0  ( neutral ) to 10 , french  ( that of , of course) range 
from 2  ( afro french magazines ) to 10 , arab official media range from 
0 to 5  ( egyptian ) to 9 in sa .  . why no 10 because they do not want to 
it and stir people against israel and therefore against them since 
they are doing nothing. 

what you may not be taking into account is that the is no longer 
representative of the mainstream in israel .  . it was purchased a few 
years ago and in the battle for control , most of the liberal and 
left reporters walked out. the new owner stated in the past , 
more than once , that the 's task should be towards explaining 
and promoting israel 's position , more than attacking the gov t  ( likud 
at the time) .  . the paper that i would recommend reading , being middle 
and factual is ha or at least this was the case two 
years ago. 

the average bias of what you read would be probably around 9 , 
while that of the average american would be the same if they do 
not read or read the new york times and similar news makers , and 
8 if they read some other relatively less biased newspapers. 

and what about the l 8 ) 
but seriously , if one were to read some of the newspapers 
one could arrive at other conclusions .  . the information you received 
was highly selective and from it is a bad move. 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re peace proposal 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 22 

in article center for policy research writes 

1. the idea of providing financial to 
forms of and marriage , is not conventional .  . however , 
it is based on the concept of action , which is 
recognized as a legitimate form of public policy to reverse the 
perverse effects of and discrimination .  . 

other people have already shown this to be a rediculous 
proposal .  . however , i wanted to point out that there are many people 
who do not think that action is a either intelligent or 
 . it is to those who it supposedly helps and it 
is discriminatory .  . 

any proposal based on it is likely bunk as well. 

adam 

adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 80 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article ,  ( basil hamdan ) writes 
in article ,  ( shai guday ) writes 

that is what is so hard of south , israel is 
not fighting an army with well drawn battle lines , but a 
resistance which by definition and necessity with 
the local  . not because they are evil that 
use women and children as , but because that is the only 
way one can fight a more powerful better army .  . 

while that is currently true from their perspective , it is also 
worthwhile to note that in such cases the often does suffer 
from attempts to control the  . furthermore , there were 
cases in the past of gun being 
within  . the argument that can be made for small 
fire can not be made for field pieces .  . 

and are now the main two  . though 
people tend to be more committed to 
operation and better motivated by religious conviction .  . 

as i recall , was primarily for 
the motivated .  . i think that the difference between them 
was also a matter of funding and support .  . one question does 
come to mind however , 

given that you claim the to be more committed etc .  .  .  . and 
that their stated position is 
1. no peace talks .  . 
2. no peace talks .  . 
. 
. 
. 
. 
n 1. no peace talks .  . 
n .  . no israel 

if we assume that and syria are sincere in their desire for 
peace , why has n't the been 

i hope you are right on israeli to , but i still 
that would be the better course for israel 's 
security , since it would reduce its military losses , and i claim 
that the and gov would be able to prevent any 
further attacks on northern israel .  . 

bearing in mind the above and that military losses are more 
than civilian ones , i am sure you can understand why israel is slow 
to act in that manner. 

no , the gov t is more than happy to have israel into another 
 . i could elaborate if necessary. 

hmm .  .  .  . here we disagree on what serves syria interests better. 
i think syria wants to have all to itself. it would 
be willing to northern israel 's security in return for 
israeli  . i do n't think syria wants israel to be 
involved in its of  . syria is sitting at the 
table because it has come to accept that and wants 
to get a political resolution .  . a of 
along the front could put the whole me peace 
back in question. 

i agree that syria wants to be part of its greater syria .  . 
i do n't necessarily see that the would be unhappy to see 
israel up to its in another syria 
could continue on its when israeli public opinion 
would lead to a second  . 

i agree that the loss of any human life is deplorable and  . 

sigh 

why ca n't some gov negotiate as easily as some people 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from center for policy research 
subject hebrew labor racist 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 23 15 18 00 1993 
lines 37 


from center for policy research 
subject hebrew labor racist 


hebrew labor 


hebrew labor is a concept which has served the zionist movement 
for a long time. it has a double message 1 ) the new jew 
must learn to do physical labor , i.e. working the land 2 ) the 
land in this country must pass into jewish hands , i.e. to the same 
new jew who has learned to work it. both aspects of the 
two concept of hebrew labor have racist  . on 
the one hand , the jew 's lack of training in physical 
labor is a myth shared by and  . on the other 
hand , its meaning in practice has been the of the 
arab from the source of his  . 

the occupation and the cheap labor which from 
the territories to the , , and 
hot houses of israel relegated the myth of hebrew labor to the 
history books and of the zionist movement .  . it 
has forth , however , as the government 's answer to 
problems caused by the of the territories .  . today too this 
concept has two functions 1 ) to give a progressive look to the 
of the population .  . or in the words of 
environment , i have no for those who 
get rich off of cheap labor . 2 ) to an answer to the 
israeli who complains of being to work for 
wages that are lower than the he  . 

the israeli government is considering plans to import labor from 
the far east to replace native people , palestinians , who work in 
their own country , thus creating interests between two 
ethnical communities and ruling over them. 


from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re peace proposal 
organization the department of department 
lines 85 

in article  ( center for policy research ) writes 

from center for policy research 

a proposal for peace in the middle east .  . 
by 


of all the stupid postings you 've brought here recently , it is 
that you chose to put your own name on perhaps the 
of them. 

the following proposal is based on the following assumptions 

1. fundamental human rights , such as the right to life , to 
education , to establish a family and have children , to human 
, the right to free movement , to free , etc. are 
more important to human existence that the rights of states. 

does this mean that you are calling for the of the arab 
states 

2. in the event of a conflict between basic human rights and 
rights of , basic human rights should  . 

apparently , your answer is yes. 

6. attempts to solve the israeli arab conflict by traditional 
political means have failed .  . 

attempts to solve these problem by traditional military means and 
non traditional terrorist means has also failed .  . but that wo n't stop 
them from trying again. after all , it is a holy war , you know .  .  .  .  . 

7. as long as the conflict is perceived as that between two 
distinct ethnical religious communities peoples which claim the 
land , there is no just nor peaceful solution possible. 

no just solution possible. how very encouraging .  . 

having stated my assumptions , i will now state my proposal .  . 

you mean that it gets even 

1. a should be established which would grants 
for each child born to a couple where one is israeli jew 
and the other arab .  . 
... 
3. for the first child , the grant will amount to 18 . 000 .  . for 
the second the third child , 12 . 000 . for each child. for each 
subsequent child , the grant will amount to 6 . 000 . for each child. 

4. the would be by a variety of sources which 
have shown interest in promoting a peaceful solution to the 
israeli arab conflict , 

no , the should be by the center for policy research .  . it 
is a major organization , is n't it is n't it 

5. the emergence of a number of   
marriages in israel , all of whom would have relatives on 
 both sides  of the divide , would make the conflict lose its 
ethnical and core and the emergence of a 
truly civil society. 

yeah , just like marriages among has their 
societies .  . 

the existence of a strong   stock of 
people would also help the of israeli society into the 
middle east in a manner. 

the world could do with a bit less middle eastern . 

objections to this proposal will certainly be  . i will 
attempt to identify some of these 

boy , you 're a one man  . listen , if you 'd like to followup on your 
own postings and debate with yourself , just tell us and we 'll leave 
you alone. 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization none 
lines 41 

in article ,  ( onur yalcin ) writes 
in article , writes 
in article ,  ( onur yalcin ) 

( ) , 
your ignorance manifests itself in an form of intransigence .  . i'm not 
going to spend time to review with you the recent history of  . 

good ! ! go back to your references and read it over and over ... 

if you are really interested , i can provide you with a number of references 
on the issue. just send me email for that. 

you think i am that stupid to ask you for references ! not ! 
i have many greek friends that i could ask for the info if i 
needed .  . i have already read many articles and do not need 
your help. boy , how generous ! ! 

relax ! you 're into open air .  .  .  . i was with you , 
assuming that would be one of your points that you did not state ! you may 
not be very much used to it , to be agreed with that is , but take it more 
easily. ! ) 

believe me , i am so ... 

however , i hope that the will force a turkish 
to land for purposes of searching for similar to the one 

no , , believe me you do n't hope that. 

if is to do that , then so be it. 

that happened last summer .  . searched an american plane 
 ( carrying aid ) bound to  . 

was that after or before one french plane changed its route to avoid 
inspection 

all i am saying is that the plane that was searched was an 
american and why did not trust the u.s. that it was 
mainly aid  . 

from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re ten questions about israel 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 23 

writes 

in article ,  ( center for policy research ) writes 



4. is it true that in israeli there are a number of 
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their 
, the date of their trial and their imprisonment are 
state 


apart from who had a trial behind closed doors , there was one 
other case  ( the professor at the biological 
institute who was a k . g . b .  . mole ) who was tried in camera . i would n't exactly 
call it a state secret. the trial was simply tried behind closed doors. i hate 
to you but the united states has tried a number of cases 
in camera .  . 

one of those us cases was john  . 

ed .  . 


from  ( david davidian ) 
subject posting posting posting 
summary usually generated by those who ca n't live with themselves ! 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 37 


the following posting was in my name ! please ignore such postings ! 

newsgroups soc . culture . turkish . , talk . politics . , talk . politics .  . 
soviet , soc . culture . greek . 
from  ( david davidian ) 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization university of computing center 
date fri , 16 apr 1993 21 36 00 gmt 
lines 

dear friends , 

i am a graduate student in education at the university of  . 

. 
. 
. 



teaching music for children. 

name 
address e mail 
institution 
years of experience grade  ( level(s ) 
background masters 
field special  . music  . other 

the above posting was in my name ! please ignore such postings ! 


david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( danny keren ) 
subject suicide bomber attack in the territories 
organization brown university department of computer science 
lines 22 

attention israel line 

friday , april 16 , 1993 


two killed and eight soldiers in west bank car 
bomb 

israel defense forces radio , , reports today that a car 
bomb in the west bank today killed two palestinians and 
eight soldiers .  . the is believed to be the work of 
a suicide bomber .  . radio reports said a car with gas 
between two buses , one belonging to the and the 
other civilian .  . both went up in flames .  . the killed an 
arab man who worked at a nearby bar in the  . 
an israel radio report stated that the other man who was killed may 
have been the one who set off the bomb .  . according to at 
the hospital in , the eight soldiers injured in the 
suffered light to moderate  . 




from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 15 

 ( tim clock ) writes 

i too strongly object to those that justify israeli rule 
of those who do not want that. the territories are not 
israel 's to control , to keep , or to dominate .  . 

they certainly are until the make peace. only the most 
lunatics call upon israel to now. most moderates realize that an 
israeli will be based on the camp david madrid 
which make full peace a to  . 

tim 

ed 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the religious persecution , cultural oppression and economical .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( mau napoleon ) writes 

you may not be afraid of anything but you act as if you are. 

i always like your kind of odds .  . the greek governments must be held 
to account for the sub human conditions of the turkish minority living 
in the western under the brutal greek  . the religious 
persecution , cultural oppression and economical ex applied 
to the turkish population in that area are the of the human 
rights abuse widespread in  . 

's housing policies worry western turks 

 .  .  . built houses belonging to members of the minority 
community in , had , he said , been 
by public works department on dec .  . 4. 

added that they had received harsh treatment by the 
security forces during the  . 

this is not the first in more 
than 40 houses were there between 1984 and 
members of that minority community were made homeless , he 
continued .  . 

government roads two turkish ethnic 

while world human rights organizations , greeks 
work on removing the 
of dr. and mr.  . 

in his 65 page , salman , a former chief of 
in that high level relations between 
, and greek existed .  . 

according to , greek not only 
gives shelter to but also them with 
food and weapons at the temporary camps set up in its territory .  . 
that has three safe houses in south , 
used by such as  . in the camps , he added , 
were trained to use various weapons including 's 
and anti guns which had been purchased directly from 
the greek government. greek government has gone to the 
extent of special cards to members so 
that they can travel from one to another without being 
by legal obstacles .  . 's account was confirmed 
by another , tan , who gave himself over to 
police in after spending four years with  . tan explained 
that the went through a training in camps in south , 
sometimes for a period of 12 weeks or more. 

torture in hidden reality 

case 1 and  . 

 .  .  . head was covered with a and he was tortured 
by  ( beating on the of the feet ) , electric shocks , 
and was threatened with being thrown out of the  . an 
official medical report clearly documented this torture .  .  .  .  . 

case 2 , a west german citizen .  . 

 .  .  . at . he was taken to the beach , chains were put to his 
feet and he was threatened to be thrown to the sea. he was 
along the beach for about a 1 . 5 . while being on the 
head and  .  . back . on the police station , he was 
on the finger with a thin stick until one of the 
split open .  .  .  .  . 

case 3 torture of  . 

case 4 brothers  ( 16 ) and christos  ( 12 ) , 
 ( 13 ) , and  . 

case 5 torture of eight students at police 
 . 

source the british broadcasting corporation , summary of 
world broadcasting 6 , 1987 part 4 a the 
middle east , me a 1. 

's training 
in 

, , tel  . the israeli secret service , 
, is reported to have acquired significant 
information in connection with the camps set up in the 
mountains in for the training of 
of the and secret army for 
the liberation of . according to sources close 
to , about 700 , greek and 
are training in the 
mountains in southern  . the same sources stated 
that 's special are giving military 
training to the and in the camps .  . 
they added that the leave southern for 
, , syria , and iran after 
their training .  . has established that due to the 
which were taking place among the terrorist 
groups based in syria , the and 
moved to the greek part of , where they 
would be more comfortable. they also transferred a 
number of their camps in northern syria to the 
mountains .  . 

revealed that the national movement , 
which is known as the , has opened offices in 
, and tripoli in order to meet the needs 
of the camps .  . the offices are used to provide material 
support for the camps .  . , the leader 
of the popular front for the liberation of , 
george , is reported to have ordered his men 
not to participate in the carried out 
by the , which he described as extreme 
racist , extreme and  . reliable 
sources have said that believed that the recent 
carried out by the show that 
organisation to be a of engaged in 
extreme  . they added that he 
instructed his to their links with the 
and avoid with it. it has been established 
that george from his 
camp after 's with drug 
were exposed .  . 

source , s .  . in dispute on , ' the new 
york times , june 27 , 1987 , p. 4. 

special to the new york times 

, june 26 a dispute developed today between and 
washington over united states intelligence reports saying that 
, for several months , conducted with the 
terrorist known as  .  .  . 

they said the contacts were verified in what were hard 
intelligence reports .  . 

leads the splinter group al 
council , in the 1985 airport 
bombings at rome and that contributed to the reagan 
's decision to bomb tripoli , , last year .  . 

in washington , state department said that when 
learned about the contacts , the 
state department a strongly  . the 
also expressed unhappiness with 's dealings 
with , the liberation army , which has carried 
out terrorist acts against turks .  .  .  .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject to be exact , 2.5 million muslims were exterminated by the  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( peter van der linden ) writes 

1. so , did the turks kill the 

so , did the jews kill the germans 
you even make laugh. 

an appropriate analogy with the jewish might be the 
extermination of the entire muslim population of 
the independent of which of at 
least 30 40 percent of the population of that  . the 
of an army who participated in and 
eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in 
with the title  men are like that . ' . other references abound .  . 
 ( rachel a. the jewish times june 21 , 1990 ) 

2. or was it the who the turks 

yes. to be exact , slaughtered 2.5 million muslim people between 
and  . 


source 1 , j. , muslims and minorities , the population of ottoman 
and the end of the empire , new york university press , 
new york , , pp.  . 

source 2 , richard g. , on the road to independence , 
 . university of california press  ( berkeley and los angeles ) , 
, p. 13 .  . 

source , richard g. on the road to independence ,  . 
university of california press  ( berkeley and los angeles ) , , p. 13 .  . 

the addition of the and to the empire increased the 
area of to over 130 , 000 square  . the population 
of the entire in was 4 , 700 , 000 , of whom , 000  ( 20 percent ) were 
, 1 , 200 , 000  ( 25 percent ) , and 2 , , 000  ( 45 percent ) moslem .  . 
of the latter group , 1 , , 000 were  . , barely one third 
of 's lived in the , where the 
christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven  . 
, the administrative center of the , had only 44 , 000 
as compared to , 000 moslems .  . by the time of the of , 
however , the had established a majority , 53 percent , in the 
it had risen by to 60 percent , or , 000 of the 1 , 120 , 000 
 . this impressive change in the 's ethnic character 
, there was , on the eve of the creation of the 
, a solid block of , 000 who continued to dominate the 
southern , from the of to the border of  . 
 ( see also map 1. and map 4. administrative of 
 . 

in ,  0  percent  . 

we closed the roads and passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops after  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our knocked the 
into of and and when the became 
and from them into fields , and 
the work. some of the escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in the border 
into  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the of from to 
from the hot of to the cold 
of the north were with mute ruins of 
 . they are quiet now , those , except for 
of and that visit them to over the 
bones of the dead. 


men are like that 
p.  . 


some of the references from authors in the field of middle eastern 
history and of the genocide of 2.5 million muslims 

1. the movement by , 
university of california press , berkeley , los , 

2. diplomacy of by william i. , professor 
of history , university , boston , a. , new york , 

3. in europe by sir charles , 
edward arnold , london , 1900 

4. the house version and other middle eastern studies by 
, publishers , new york , washington , 

5. the by , 
, inc. , new york , 

6. spiritual and political in islam by , 
, paul , co .  . , london , 

7. the struggle for power in moslem asia by e. , 
the century co .  . , new york , london , 

8. struggle for by , 
yale university press , new haven ,  . , 

9. history of the ottoman empire and modern  ( 2 volumes ) by 
stanford j. shaw , cambridge university press , cambridge , new york , 
, 1977 

10. the western question in and by arnold j. , 
co .  . , ltd .  . , london , bombay , 

11. the 's last by sir mark , 
co .  . , london , 

12. men are like that by leonard a. , 
co .  . , , 

13 .  . in the near east , 22 by a. , 
, co .  . , 

14 .  . world alive , a personal story by robert dunn , 
publishers , inc. , new york , 

15 .  . from to serves and by , 
the review magazine , volume 15  ( fall 1962 ) through 17 
 ( spring 1964 ) 

16. on the road to independence by richard g. , 
university of california press , berkeley , california , 

17. the of by price , 
thomas , new york , 

18 .  . by w. b. allen paul , 
cambridge , 

19 .  . partition of by n .  . , 
h. , new york , 

20 .  . the king by n .  . , 
beirut , 

21 .  . united states policy and partition of by evans , 
john hopkins university press , baltimore , 

22 .  . british documents related to turkish war of independence by 


1. , 
nin , ve t . a . s .  . , 
,  .  ( ingilizce , the 
question in ) 

2. , , , ,  . 

3. a. , 
, , ,  . 

4. dr. m. , ve , 
, ,  . 

t . c .  . , , 

a ) 
b ) 
c ) 
d ) i i 
e) 
f ) , i 
g ) , 
h ) 
i ) 

t . c .  . , i , 

a ) i 
b ) 

british archives 

a ) papers  ( hansard ) 
b ) foreign office print various collections 
c ) foreign office correspondence reports 
d ) foreign office 
e) foreign office , political intelligence general correspondence 
f ) foreign office 240 , ryan papers 
g ) foreign office , papers 
h ) foreign office the eastern conference  . 53 files 

india office records and library , road , london .  . 

a ) l political and security 10  ( five boxes ) , treaty of 
peace 
b ) l p s 10 , near east and conference , 

c ) l p s 11 154 
d ) l p s 11 

french archives 

archives des , d ,  . 

a ) documents collections 
b )  . 
c ) ,  . 


official , published documents , diplomatic correspondence , 
agreements , and others 

a.  ( the ottoman empire and the of turkey ) 

, e. ) . ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
 .  . , atase ) , v.  ( 81 ) , 
 .  . 
, v.  ( 83 ) , 
 .  . 
, m. ) . i i , 
 ( istanbul ,  . 
, s. l.  . ed . ) . , 
 ( ankara , 1978 ) , 2  . 
, s. l. o .  . ) . 
, , ,  ( ankara ,  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) aspirations et 
des et la 
de la constitution ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
ve i i 
ve ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
i ve ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
i , v. i  ( istanbul ,  . 
i , v. ii  ( istanbul ,  . 
i , v. iii  ( istanbul ,  . 
i , v.  ( istanbul ,  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) i nin 
,  ( istanbul ,  . 
 ( osmanli , nezareti ) islam 
,  ( istanbul ,  . 
 . ordu ) i 
,  ( istanbul ,  . 
, h. k. ) . ve , 
 ( ankara ,  . 
,  ( ankara , 1985 ) , 
4  . 

russia 

, e. e. ) . 
,  . h. , ed .  . h. mutlucag ) ,  ( istanbul ,  . 

, a. r. ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
ve ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
 de , , 
v. 5  .  . 
ve ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
, c. , v. i 
ve ve ,  .  . , ,  . 
, s. general un ve  ( ermeni dair ) 
,  ( istanbul ,  . 
akin , i. ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
, s. jon ve ve ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
, z .  . ) . ,  ( ankara ,  . 
,  ( ankara ,  . 
, f. ,  ( ankara ,  . 
, a. ,  ( istanbul ,  . 
, n .  . n .  . ) . ve , 
 ( istanbul ,  . 
, a. ve , 
 ( ankara ,  . 
, k.  ' , 
,  ( izmir ,  . 
, m. ve , 
 ( istanbul ,  . 
, e. s. , v. v  ( 1983 , 4th ed . ) . v.  ( 1976 , 2nd ed . ) . 
v.  ( 1977 , 2nd ed . ) . v.  ( 1983 , 2nd ed . ) .  . 
, y .  . t. ,  ( ankara ,  . 
, s. s. 
,  ( ankara ,  . also in english translation. 
, f. the young turks the of union and progress in 
turkish politics ,  ( oxford ,  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re while are innocent women and children .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( neophytos iacovou ) writes 

historically even the most of peoples have 
signs of compassion by allowing aid to reach civilian 
 . even the nazis did this much. 

is the world community really so powerless where are all those human 
rights advocates where are all the decent people are we going to 
let this human go on and do nothing about it the number 
of murdered by the terrorist army and its 
is increasing .  . 

news reporters make their living by providing stories , and there is 
so way in hell that they are going to confuse the public with 
what is happening in (a country that few know of ) , and 
risk people 's interest from what is happening in  . 

then you must be living in an alternate universe. where were they 

an appeal to mankind 

during the last three years and its 
population are fighting for justice within the limits of 
the soviet union .  . all , constitutional human rights 
guaranteed by the un charter , universal declaration of human 
rights , agreements , human problems international , 
documents signed by the soviet union all of them are violated .  . 

the ussr 's president , government bodies do not defend 
though they are all to take necessary measures to 
life and peace. 

the , 000 strong army of with 's 
tacit consent wages an war of against 
 . as a result , a part of has been 
and annexed , hundreds of people killed , thousands  . 

some 200 , 000 have been brutally and 
from the , their historical  . 
together with them 64 , 000 russians and 22 , 000 have also 
been driven out , a part of them now in  . 
some 40 , 000 turkish , and representatives 
of other who escaped from the central 
asia where the president and government bodies did not 
them the life and peace also suffered from these  . 

one of the directed not only against 
science but the world civilization as well is the 
extremists  destruction of the scientific 
experimental base of the institute of genetics and selection 
of the of sciences of the  . 

we beg you for help and political assistance , 
for the honour and of 7 million are 
violated , its territory , culture and history are , 
its people are shot .  . there is persistent negative image of 
, and this is spread over 
the whole world by soviet mass media , lobby in the 
ussr and the united states. 

one of the myths is that all events allegedly involves and 
generated by and religious intolerance 
while the truth is that all these and recent 
events from the claims of on 
 . 

it is a well documented fact that before the conflict there 
were no between and on the 
issue of  . hundreds and thousands 
and lived and worked in land , had their 
representatives in all government bodies of the 
 . 

we are for a united , , , we 
are for a common home in by one 
of the founding fathers of the democratic 
muhammed  . 

but all these goals and expectations are upon the 
soviet leadership in favour of the 
encouraged by and intended to create a new  1 , 000 
year reich  the  great  by the 
lands .  . 

the world public opinion shed to save the , 
suffers for dying out in the continent .  . 

but what about the lives of seven million human beings 
if these people are muslims , does it mean that they are 
less valuable can people be by their 
of or religion , by their or other 


all people are brothers , and we appeal to our brothers 
for help and understanding. this is not the first appeal 
of to the world public opinion. our previous 
appeals were  . however , we still carry the hope 
that the truth beyond the and propaganda 
will one day reveal the extent of our suffering and 
at least as much help and compassion for 
as to and  . 

the for people s help to 
 ( of the ) of sciences 
of the 

everyone knows this , even the turks know this , you know this. give 
us a time period when the world is currently , and what is 
happening in would make front page  . think i'm lying 
take a look at what happened in  . when did the press report 
it to the world 

but perhaps should intervene in the affairs of the 
in the name of peace and democracy .  . the are christians , the 
are moslems , and islam is a religion especially 
by the  . besides , at the root of this conflict 
lie the claims on , a consequence of which 
were the blood and suffering of innocent people , hundreds of 
thousands of , and gross of human rights. 

recently attacked the town of and 
thousands of  . the based  association for democracy and 
human rights in  puts the number of victims 
at 3 , 145 .  . some of the dead were and mutilated .  . this whole 
thing has now gone entirely too far. 

want to know what will bring the story in to the front 
page if the russians move into the area with a shit load of 
then your human rights advocates will show up defending the  . 
of course we can also be sure that the russians wo n't show up with 
any , not with the problems they are having at home. 

they already did. the scenario and genocide by the 
78 years ago in the ottoman empire is being reenacted again this 
time in  . there are remarkable similarities between the 
, the perpetrators , and the  . 

report taken from the new york times , tuesday , march 3 , 1992 

massacre by being reported 

, , march 2  ( reuters ) evidence today 
of a massacre of civilians by in , 
a predominantly of  . 
the of denials that its had killed 
1 , 000 people in the populated town of last week and 
men , women and children fleeing the carnage across covered 
passes .  . 
but dozen of bodies over the area credence to 
reports of a massacre .  . 

reported 
and journalists who flew to the 
by brought back three dead children with the back of their 
heads blown off. they said shooting by has prevented them 
from more bodies .  . 
women and children have been , said , an 
to 's  . when we began to pick up bodies , 
they began firing at us. 
the chief in , rashid , said the bodies 
are lying there like of  . even the did nothing like this. 

of bodies 
near on the of , a , 
, said she had seen two filled with 
bodies .  . 
in the first one i counted 35 , and it looked as though there were as 
many in the second , she said. some had their head cut off , and many had 
been burned .  . they were all men , and a few had been wearing uniforms .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re was go ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 

in article , 
 ( brad hernlem ) writes 

in article , 
 ( tim clock ) writes 

are you suggesting that , when use the population for cover , 
israel should totally back down so .  .  . the . easiest way to get away with 
attacking another is to use an innocent as a and hope that the 
other respects innocent lives 

tell me tim , what are these doing wrong assuming that they are 
using civilians for cover , 

assuming also come on , brad .  . if we are going to get anywhere in 
this  ( or any) discussion , it does n't help to bring up elements i never 
addressed , nor commented on in any way . i made no comment on who is 
right or who is wrong , only that civilians are being used as cover 
and that , having been placed in between the and the , 
they will be injured as both parties continue their fight. 

the purpose of an army 's use of military uniforms 
is to set its members apart from the civilians so that 
civilians will not be thought of by the other side as 
combatants . so , what do you think is the meaning behind , 
the intention and the effect when an army 
does not were uniforms but goes out of its way to look 
like civilians  they are judging that the benefit they will 
receive from this cover is more important that the harm 
that will come to civilians .  . 

this is a comment on the israeli experience and is saying 
that the do have some responsibility in putting civilians 
in the middle of this fight. by putting on uniforms and living apart 
from civilians  ( barracks , etc . ) . , the would lower 
the risk to civilians .  . 

but if the do this are n't they putting themselves 
at greater risk absolutely , they ask themselves why set 
ourselves apart  ( by wearing uniforms ) when there is a ready made 
cover for us  ( civilians ) that makes sense from their point of 
view , but when this cover is used , the should accept 
some of the responsibility for subsequent harm to civilians .  . 

if the is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working why 
is it further for israeli guns to why 
not just kill those who try to the you see , there 
is more to the of the  .  .  .  . it is called  .  .  . 
getting back ... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the 
 . the least it shows is a disregard by the israeli 
government for the lives of civilians .  . 

i agree with you here. i have always thought that israel 's bombing 
and bombing policy is stupid , , inhumane and 
ineffective .  . but , there is no reason that israel should passive wait 
until chose to act there is every reason to believe that 
taking the fight to the enemy will do more to stop attacks .  . 

as i said previously , israel spent several decades sitting 
on its side of a border and only acting to stop these attacks after 
the had entered israeli territory .  . it did n't work very well. 
the host arab state did little nothing to try and stop these attacks 
from its side of the border with israel so the number of attacks 
were higher , as was their physical and psychological impact 
on the civilians caught in their path .  . 

what so the whole bit about attacks on israel from arab states 
can start all over again while i also hope for this to happen , it will 
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the 
responsibility and the duty to stop attacks on israel from their 
 . they have to prove it  ( or provide some ) , there is no way 
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of 
tolerance towards anti israel in . 

if israel is not willing to accept the word of others then , imho , it has 
no business wasting others  time coming to the peace talks .  . 

this is just another applied statement. 

the reason for this drawn out between palestinians and 
is that neither side is willing to accept the word of the other. by your 
everyone should stay away from the  . 

that is precisely why the palestinians  ( in their recent proposal for 
the period after and up to full autonomy ) are 
demanding conditions that essentially define already. they do 
not trust that israel will follow through the entire process and allow 
palestinians to reach full  . 

do you understand and accept this viewpoint by the palestinians 
if you do , then why should israel 's view of palestinians 
be any different why should they trust the arab palestinians  words 
since they do n't , they are very reluctant to give up 
 ( land , control of areas ) in exchange for words . for this reason , 
they are also concerned about the sorts of they will have 
that the will follow through on their part of any agreement reached .  . 

but do n't you see that the same statement can be made both ways 
if was interested in peace then it should accept the word 
of israel that the attacks were the cause for war and the 
will remove the cause for its continued  . 

absolutely , so are the palestinians asking first for the 
word in relation to any agreement no , what is being 
demanded first is land. when the issue is land , and one party 
finally gets hold of this land , what the other party does 
is totally irrelevent .  . if i now have of this land , 
your words have absolutely no power whether israel chooses to 
keeps its word does not get the land back .  . 

, israel has already two parts of the from 
areas it in during  . 

tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in have been 
 . remains the only independent  . does 
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the burned up 
, his wife , and young son. 

while the major  ( those allowing people to civil wars ) 
have been removed , the weapons needed to cross border attacks still 
remain to some extent .  . rocket attacks still continue , and 
raids only require a few easily weapons and a refined disregard 
for human life  ( yours of that of  . such attacks also continue. 

of course , if israel would from 
and stop assassinating people and they would n't 
make the so mad as to do that. 

 . the situation you call for existed in the and attacks 
were  . 

furthermore , with subsequently , it would not be possible. 

there is no way these groups can be effectively unless the state 
is as is syria 's .  . the only other way is for to take 
it upon itself to constantly the entire border with israel , essentially 
israel 's border on its side. it has to prove to that 
it is this committed to protecting israel from attack from territory .  . 

once syria leaves who is to say that will be able to 
control if syria may be even more dangerous for israel .  . 

tim , when is the last time that you recall any trouble on the border 
not lately , eh 

that 's what i said , ok but , does n't that mean that syria has to take over 
i do n't think israel or would like that. 

what both sides need is to receive something . the 
palestinians are looking for land and demanding that they receive it 
prior to giving anything to israel .  . israel has two problems 1 ) if it 
gives up real land it is itself to a changed 
situation  ( and that change does n't help israel 's position ) , and 2 ) when 
it gives up this land it needs to receive something in return to 
for the increased risks 

tim 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject slaughter of muslim children and pregnant women. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article writes 

a break .  . capital letters , or not , the above is pure nonsense. 
it seems to me that short are the 


again , in are simply defending themselves. what do 

the down of puts you in a heavy   mood i 'll 
see if i can get our dear to write you a letter giving 
you and your criminal at the terrorism and 
triangle some military , like how to shoot armed 
adult males instead of small muslim children and pregnant women. 


source  the times , ' 3 march 1992 

massacre  .  .  .  . 

by , 

more than bodies , including those of women and children , have 
been on in , claims 
that troops  . hundreds are missing .  . 

the grass and along a small 
and across the beyond are the bodies of last 's 
massacre by forces of  . 

from that hill can be seen both the controlled town of 
and the of the military 
of  . those who died very nearly made it to the safety of their 
own lines. 

we at this by yesterday afternoon as the last 
troops of the commonwealth of independent states began out. 
they left by the factions as general , 
who the soviet from , flew to 
to their  . 

a local was enforced to allow the to their 
dead and any still hiding in the and  . all the 
same , two attack continuously the nearby 
positions .  . 

in all , 31 bodies could be counted at the  . at least another 
31 have been taken into over the past five days. these 
do not include civilians reported killed when the 
the town of on tuesday night. the also 
do not include other as yet undiscovered bodies 

, a of the massacre , said he saw up to 200 
people shot down at the point we visited , and who came 
by different have also told of being shot at repeatedly and 
of leaving a trail of bodies along their path .  . around the bodies 
we saw were possessions , clothing and documents .  . 
the bodies themselves have been preserved by the bitter cold which 
killed others as they in the and after the massacre .  . 
all are the bodies of ordinary people , dressed in the poor , 
clothing of workers .  . 

of the 31 we saw , only one and two apparent national 
were wearing uniform .  . all the rest were civilians , 
including eight women and three small children. two groups , 
apparently families , had fallen together , the children 
in the women s  . 

several of them , including one small girl , had terrible head 
only her face was left. survivors have told how they 
saw shooting them point as they on the ground. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( steve birnbaum ) 
subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 old child 
reply to  ( steve birnbaum ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 27 


in a previous article ,  ( nick steel ) says 

q how many israeli soldiers  ( terrorists ) does it 
take to kill a 5 year old native child 

a four 

two his , one in the face , 
and one writes up a false report. 

this newsgroup is for intelligent discussion. i want you to either 
up and stop this bullshit posting or get the fuck out of my face and this 
net. 

steve 



internet 1 109 . 18 . 

my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head. 

from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 old child 
organization james limited , tokyo japan 
lines 63 

the great writes 

q how many israeli soldiers  ( terrorists ) does it 
take to kill a 5 year old native child 
a four 
two his , one in the face , 
and one writes up a false report. 

a couple of months ago wrote a terrible c program  ( it would never have 
passed  . this is one describes the great .  . 

8 cut here and save to c . 8 

include h . 
include signal . h . 

define 
define childish 
define 
define 
define 

define j l e childish 


 ( abort( ) 

 ( printf even if she wanted , 's mother could n't abort this program ) 
 ( printf n n n n ) 



 ( main( ) 

 ( signal(sigint , abort ) 
 ( printf this program does not help jewish arab relations ( n ) 

 ( printf hit c to abort n ) 

infinite loop , never comes out of his world 

 ( while(j l e) 


8 cut here 8 


to this program on a unix machine try. 
cc o c . 
or 
make 

then type at your  . 

i tried it , it works great ... 




8 8 
if you do not receive this e mail , please let me 
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible. 
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing. 

from center for policy research 
subject peace proposal 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 18 07 24 00 1993 
lines 131 


from center for policy research 
subject peace proposal 


a proposal for peace in the middle east .  . 
by 


the following proposal is based on the following assumptions 

1. fundamental human rights , such as the right to life , to 
education , to establish a family and have children , to human 
, the right to free movement , to free , etc. are 
more important to human existence that the rights of states. 

2. in the event of a conflict between basic human rights and 
rights of , basic human rights should  . 

3. between the defining themselves as 
jewish israeli and arab , however , an 
conflict exists. 

4. this conflict has caused great for millions of 
people. it moreover relations between communities , peoples 
and nations .  . 

5. each year , the united states billions of dollars 
in economic and military aid to the parties .  . 

6. attempts to solve the israeli arab conflict by traditional 
political means have failed .  . 

7. as long as the conflict is perceived as that between two 
distinct ethnical religious communities peoples which claim the 
land , there is no just nor peaceful solution possible. 

8. love between human beings can be for the sake 
of peace and justice. when people love , they share .  . 

having stated my assumptions , i will now state my proposal .  . 

1. a should be established which would grants 
for each child born to a couple where one is israeli jew 
and the other arab .  . 

2. to be entitled for a grant , a couple will have to prove 
that one of the partners or is entitled to israeli 
citizenship under the law of return and the other , 
although born in areas under current control , is not 
entitled to such citizenship under the law of return. 

3. for the first child , the grant will amount to 18 . 000 .  . for 
the second the third child , 12 . 000 . for each child. for each 
subsequent child , the grant will amount to 6 . 000 . for each child. 


4. the would be by a variety of sources which 
have shown interest in promoting a peaceful solution to the 
israeli arab conflict , including the u.s. government , jewish and 
christian organizations in the u.s. and a great number of 
governments and international organizations .  . 

5. the emergence of a number of   
marriages in israel , all of whom would have relatives on 
 both sides  of the divide , would make the conflict lose its 
ethnical and core and the emergence of a 
truly civil society. the existence of a strong   stock of 
people would also help the of israeli society into the 
middle east in a manner. 

objections to this proposal will certainly be  . i will 
attempt to identify some of these 

1. the idea of providing financial to 
forms of and marriage , is not conventional .  . however , 
it is based on the concept of action , which is 
recognized as a legitimate form of public policy to reverse the 
perverse effects of and discrimination .  . international 
law clearly action when it is aimed at 
reducing racial discrimination and  . 

2. it may be that the israeli conflict 
is not primarily a religious or ethnical conflict , but that it is 
a conflict between a society and an indigenous 
society that can only its freedom by armed 
struggle .  . this objection is based on the assumption that the 
 enemy  is not as ideology and practice , but 
israeli jewish society and its members which will have to be 
 . this objection has no merit because it does not fulfill 
the first two assumptions concerning the of fundamental 
human rights over collective rights  ( see above) 

3. fundamentalist jews would certainly object to the use of 
financial to encourage   . from their 
point of view , the continued existence of a specific jewish people 
overrides any other consideration , be it human love , peace of 
human rights. the president of the world jewish congress , edgar 
, this view a few years ago in an he 
gave to der , a german magazine .  . he called the increasing 
of jews in the world a , comparable in its 
effects only with the  . this objection has no merit 
either because it does not fulfill the first two assumptions  ( see 
above) 

4. it may that only a few people in 
israel , would request such grants and that it would thus 
not serve its purpose. to this objection one might respond that 
although it is not possible to determine with certainty the effect 
of such a proposal , the existence of such a would help 
to resist the pressure of their respective societies and 
encourage young to reject fundamentalist and racist 
attitudes .  . 

5. it may that such a would need great sums to 
bring about substantial changes .  . this objection has 
merits .  . however , it must be that huge sums , more than 
3 billion , are each year by the united states government 
and by u.s. organizations to maintain an peace in the 
middle east through  . a mere of these sums would 
suffice to launch the above proposal and create a more 
towards the existence of   marriages in 
israel , thus encouraging the emergence of a 
non society in that land. 

i would be for critical comments to the above proposal as 
well for any of this proposal for meaningful 
discussion and  . 

post box , 


from  ( john a absood ) 
subject re freedom in u . s . a .  . 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( john a absood ) 
organization university 
lines 25 

dear mr. 

it is never wise to confuse freedom of speech with freedom 
of racism and violent  . 

it is unfortunate that many fail to understand this crucial 
distinction .  . 

indeed , i find the latter in absolute and complete contradiction 
to the former .  . racial tends to create an atmosphere of 
where certain individuals  ( who belong to the group 
under target group ) do not feel the and liberty to exercise 
their fundamental freedom of speech. 

this brand of is not under freedom of 
speech. 

, 

john 

ceased , and sat apart , and silent , in the pose of a 
buddha .  . nobody moved for a time .  .  . the . was by 
a black bank of , and the to the utter 
most ends of the earth under an sky seemed to 

from 
subject re from israeli press. madness .  . 
distribution world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 

in article , center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press. madness .  . 

written 4 34 apr 16 , 1993 by in forum . 
from israeli press. madness .  . 
from the israeli press. 

paper tel  ( tel 's time) .  . friday local tel 's 
paper , with  . 

date 19 february 1993 

guy 

subject with soldiers who served in the 
 ( cherry ) units , which themselves as and operate 
within the territories .  . 

excerpts from the article 

a lot has been written about the units who themselves as 
, things good and bad , some of the  . but the most 
important problem of those units has been hardly dealt with. it is 
that everyone who serves in the , after a time goes in one 
way or another insane . 


gee , i 'd better tell this to the mental health branch of the israeli army 
medical corps ! where would we be without you , davidson 






a man who said this , who will here be called  ( his full name 
is known to the editors ) served in the  . after his 
from the army he works as boy .  . his , who will here be 
called was also serving in the , and is now about to 
depart for a round the world  . they both look no different 
from average israeli youngsters discharged from 
service .  . but in their souls , one can notice something completely 
different .  .  .  . it . was not easy for them to come out with 
about what happened to them. and they think that to most of their 
from the it wound n't be easy either. yet after they 
began to talk , it was nearly impossible to make them stop talking. 
the following article will contain all the stories 
with an appalling  . 

( .  .  . ) . a short time ago i was in command of a team , in 
which some of the applied for release from the  . we 
called such soldiers h . i .  .  hit by the  . under my command 
was a who talked to himself non stop , which is a common 
phenomenon in the  . i sent him to a  . but why i 
should talk about others when i myself feel quite insane on 
, when i come home , my parents know i cannot be talked to 
until i go to the beach , a little , calm down and return. the 
of my father 's car must be ready for in advance , so that i 
can go there. i they dare talk to me before , or whenever i do n't 
want them to talk to me , i just a chair and it 
 . i know it is my all the time 
and then running away from home , to the car and to the beach. only 
there i become normal . ( .  .  . ) . 

( .  .  . ) . another friday i was eating a lunch prepared by my mother. 
it was an of sorts .  . she took the risk of sitting next to 
me and talking to me. i then told my mother about an event which 
was still in my mind. i told her how i shot an arab , and how 
exactly his wound looked like when i went to it. she began 
to laugh  . i wanted her to cry , and she laugh 
straight in my face instead ! so i told her how my had made a 
of the two who were the 
 . he shot them down , hitting them , exactly as 
they deserved .  . one bullet had set a on fire , with 
the effect that the arab was burning all over , just  . i 
was to see it. my fired three , two at the 
arab with the , and the third at his  . it hit 
him straight in his ass. we both felt that we 'd off 
something. 

next i told my mother how another of mine split open the 
in the belly of another arab and how all of us that 
to take a look. i reached the first. and then that arab , 
blood forth from his body , at me. i  shut 
up  and he talk back to me in hebrew ! so i just laughed 
straight in his face. i am usually laughing when i at 
something right before my eyes. then i told him  all 
right , wait a  . i left him in order to take a look at 
another arab .  . i asked a if that arab could be 
saved , if the from his could be stopped with the 
help of a of something else like that. i keep telling all 
this to my mother , with details , and she keeps laughing straight 
into my face. this me. i got very angry , because i felt 
i was becoming mad. so i stopped eating , the with he 
and some still on , and at once threw it over 
her head. only then she stopped laughing .  . at first she did n't know 
what to say. 

( .  .  . ) . but i must tell you of a still other madness which falls 
upon us frequently .  . i went with a friend to practice shooting on a 
field .  . a appeared right in the middle of the field .  . my friend 
shot it at once. then we noticed four deer standing high up on the 


sigh. 

four  ( 4 ) deer in tel well , this is probably as accurate as the rest of 
this fantasy .  . 





hill above us. my friend at once aimed at one of them and shot it. 
we the sight of it falling down the  . we shot down two 
deer more and went to take a look. when we climbed the we 
saw a young deer , by our bullet , but still trying to 
such some milk from its already dead mother. we carefully 
two , covered by blood and of flesh of 
the two deer we had hit .  . we were just by that sight. we 
had hit em so good ! then we decided to kill the young deer too , 
so as spare it further suffering .  . i approached , took out my 
and shot him in the head several times from a very short 
distance .  . when you shoot straight at the head you actually see the 
in. but my bullet made its brains fall 
outside onto the ground , with the effect of lots of 
blood straight on us. this made us feel cured of the of our 
madness .  . standing there with blood , we felt we were like 
of prey .  . we could n't explain what had happened to us. we 
were almost in while walking down from that hill , and we 
felt the whole day very  . 

( .  .  . ) . we always go back to places we carried out in. 
this is why we can see them. when you see a guy you , may 
be for the rest of his life , you feel you got power. you feel 
of sorts .  . 

( .  .  . ) . both and at least at this moment 
studying the acting .  . is not willing to work in any 
security linked occupation .  . the exact opposite .  .  why 
should n't i take advantage of the i have so well 
why should n't i 3 . 000 . for each head i would deliver 
while being a in south africa this kind of job suits 
me perfectly .  . i have no human emotions any more. if i get a 
reasonable i will have no problem to board a plane to 
bosnia in order to fight there. 

 . by israel  . 


the  . i often see him in the 
 ( jerusalem ) post office. a really sad figure .  . actually , i feel sorry 
for him. he was in a concentration camp during the and it must have 
affected him deeply .  . 










from  ( basil hamdan ) 
subject re go ii ! 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering college , state university 
lines 15 

in article ,  ( noam tractinsky ) writes 
a bit , with every rocket that 
the on the , they justify israel 's 
holding to the security  . 

noam 



i only want to say that i agree with noam on this point 
and i hope that all sides stop targeting civilians .  . 





from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject re bb  . 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 25 


in article ,  ( ahmed abed ) writes 


but the irony is that the jewish population has no problem in 
a leader who has to having an extra affair .  . 

this is a first. 

aa .  . 

the american people did n't have any problem with it too  . actually i 
think that it does not make any difference as long as they have the 
to become leaders .  . btw in my political view i hope  ( and should be 
the arab hope too) that will not be as prime 
of israel .  . 






internet road , a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) fax  ( 303)581 ) boulder , co 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( yigal arens ) 
subject more on case 
organization usc information sciences institute 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

los times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993 .  . p.  . 

new details of extensive operation emerge 

inquiry reveal nearly 40 years of 
by a man who political groups 

by richard c. , times writer. 

san francisco to the outside world , roy was a small time 
art who operated from his house in the district .  . in 
reality , he was an undercover who picked through garbage and 
secret files for the anti league for nearly 40 
years. 

his code name at the prominent jewish organization was cal , and he was 
so successful at political groups that he was once chosen 
to head an arab american that visited  . nancy 
 ( d san francisco ) in her washington , d . c .  . , office. 

for a time , cal into the phone message system of the white 
resistance to learn of hate crimes .  . from police sources he 
obtained , personal information on at least 1 , people. 
and he met with of the south african government 
to trade his knowledge for , new 100  . 

these are among the that and david , a former 
los based , in extensive with 
police and the fbi in a growing over the nation wide 
intelligence network operated by the anti league .  . 

of the anti league , while denying any improper 
activity , have said they will with the investigation .  . they 
have refused to discuss and  . 

of the among nearly 700 pages of documents 
released by san francisco last week offer new details 
of the private operation that authorities crossed the line 
into illegal territory .  . 

at times , the intelligence activities took on a and air 
with , documents , with 
foreign and code names like and  . 

on one , , he received a that a 
pro was about to board a plane bound for , 
israel .  . although the anti league publicly denies any ties 
to israel , an israeli official to warn him. 
shortly , another official called back and 
him. 

the court papers also added to the mystery of tom , a former 
and san francisco police accused of providing 
material from police files to the anti league .  . 

to the last fall after he was by 
the fbi , but left behind a in his police  . its 
contents included , 's and 
cards in 10 different names cards in his own name for 
four american embassies in central america and a collection of 
birth , army papers and official stationery from 
various  . 

also in the were extensive information on death squads , a 
black , apparently for use in , and of 
and men. 

suspect that and other police sources gave the 
's license or information 
on a vast number of people , including as many as 4 , members of one 
target group , the arab american anti discrimination  . 

each case of obtaining such data from a law enforcement would 
constitute a , san francisco police ron noted in 
an for a search warrant .  . 

the anti league , a self described jewish defense and civil 
rights organization , it has long information on 
groups that are anti semitic , or racist .  . the 's 
fact finding division , headed by in new york , enjoys a 
reputation for and has often shared its information with 
police and journalists .  . 

however , evidence from 's computer shows he kept files 
on at least groups of all political , including the 
american civil liberties union , earth island institute , the united 
farm workers , jews for jesus , mother jones magazine , the center for 
reporting , the for president , the 
law and the aids group act up. 

the computer files also included information on several members of 
congress , including , house armed services chairman 
ron  ( d berkeley ) and former republican  . 
from the bay area. 

in their statements , and said the anti 
league has information on political in the los 
area for more than 30 years. they said they worked closely 
with three los 's who in 
intelligence work , a los police department anti terrorism 
expert and a san diego 's department intelligence 
 . 

a spokesman for the los 's department said he knew 
nothing of any contact between the and the  . the los 
police department , which earlier refused to with the 
investigation , and the san diego 's department declined 
comment. 

, , is one of the most intriguing characters in the 
 . although he is not jewish , he began working undercover as a 
for the and the fbi in in after reading a 
book about a man who the communist party. 

moved to los in and was given a paid position by 
the as an intelligence , he told authorities .  . in the 
mid , he moved to san francisco and continued his 
up and down the west coast .  . 

to keep his identity secret , his has always been 
through bruce i. who has never 
missed a in more than 32 years , said. 

i was an for the  . i investigated any and all 
anti democratic movements , said. . . . , i'm only 
a contract with bruce  . that way , the league would not 
be connected with me. 

said he became a master at groups from communists 
to arab american to gay to , usually using his own 
name but once adopting the elmer  . 

i'm one of a kind , he told police .  . 

in recent years , however , his has become 
known , and at one point he was by a armed with a 
who threatened to kill him. 

in the mid , he helped san francisco police solve a bombing at a 
by through the trash of and 
matching with samples on a threatening letter obtained by 
police .  . in part because of this investigation , he became close 
friends with , who at the time was working in the san francisco 
police intelligence division .  . 

frequently searched through the garbage of target groups. an 
fbi report noted how he investigated one group 

would write reports based on what he found in the trash , and 
would share the reports with  . also gave the trash to 
for to examine .  . would later return the trash to 
 . 

from a wide range of sources , compiled files on 9 , 
individuals and more than political groups. , whose files 
contained many identical , kept files on 7 , people. 

in 1987 , and began selling some of their vast wealth of 
information to the south african government. tells of 
meetings secretly with south african at san francisco 
and receiving filled with thousands of dollars in new 100 
 . 

insists the information he sold of data he 
only from public sources. once he an item published 
by san francisco about south african 
and the wife of prominent 
and it as his own work. 

said it was who sold official police intelligence .  . 
said he split about 16 , 000 from the south african government 
with , telling him at one point , i may be gay but i'm a 
straight arrow .  . 

in his with the police and fbi , talked freely about 
engaging in certain activities that say would appear to 
violate the law. 

for example , admitted to receiving 's license records 
and criminal histories from on about 50 people a of 
the police data found in his computer .  . and he said 
gave him complete san francisco police department intelligence 
files on various nazi groups that were supposed to be under 
department policy. 

said he also received a fbi report on the nation 
of islam that he later at the anti league 's san 
francisco office. 

seemed proud of his operation , in which he used a 
paid , code named , to help into a white 
resistance phone message network , listening to the messages left by 
members of the right group. for a short time , it was 
wonderful , he told police .  . 

in los , was about four years ago 
as a fact to keep intelligence files and go 
undercover to the meetings of target groups. 

among other things , he told san francisco authorities , the los 
office kept a record of any arab american who had anti israel 
or who wrote a letter to a newspaper expressing such 
 . 

was recently forced to after an incident in which he 
attempted to misuse the intelligence network to seek revenge on a 
who got a job wanted at the simon center for 
studies .  . got police data on the 
and threatened to him as a jewish to a right hate 
group. 

has since begun with police and the fbi in the 
, providing information about the operation. 
unlike , he has been assured he is not a subject of the 
investigation .  . 

declined through his father in los to be 
by the times. 's said his would not comment. 


usc tv made me do it ! 


from  ( oded maler ) 
subject re flame and a jewish home in 
nntp posting host 
organization , university of , france 
lines 40 

in article ,  ( jake livni ) writes 
in article  ( nabil gangi ) writes 

according to exodus , there were 600 , 000 jews that out of egypt .  . 

this is only the number of adult males .  . the total number of jewish 
slaves leaving egypt was much larger .  . 

the number which could have arrived to the holy lands must have been 
less to the harsh desert and the killings between the 
jewish tribes on the way .  .  . 



typical arabic thinking. if we are guilty of something , so is 
everyone else. unfortunately for you , , jewish tribes are not 
nearly as susceptible to the murdering that is still so 
common among in the middle east .  . there were no killings 
between the jewish tribes on the way. 

i do n't like this comment about typical thinking. you could state 
your interpretation of exodus without it. as i read exodus i can see 
a lot of killing there , which is by the author of the bible 
in ideological religious  . the history in the desert can be seen 
as an of any people a land. that 's why i think 
it is a great book with which descendants , turks and mongols can 
as well. 




ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 



, , d , b . p .  . , , france 
phone fax e mail 


from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 33 

in article  ( marc a afifi ) writes 

resistance  . do n't forget that it was the french resistance to the 
nazi forces which eventually succeeded in driving out the 
hostile in wwii .  . 

and all this time i thought it was the us invading 
, the constant , round the bombing , and the fact that the 
germans were fighting on two  . how silly of me. ) 

this is not to the actions of the resistance 
movements , but resistance movements did not defeat the nazis .  . 

diplomacy has not worked with israel and the 
people are tired of being ! they are now turning to the 
only option they see as viable .  .  ( do n't forget that it worked in driving 
out the us ) 

israel has repeatedly stated that it will leave when the 
government shows that it can prevent attacks on israel , and 
when the agree to leave .  . 

the have not tried diplomacy for very long , or maybe 
they 're not capable of getting rid of the and who 
their land. if they closed down the , and a 
of forces , israel would be happy to leave .  . 

adam 

adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from com .  ( frank benson ) 
subject 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 7 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

you are brain  . that hate of yours 
through your sick body like poison .  . it 's just a matter of time. your fate 
is  . 


internet com . 
uucp uunet ! edu . ! ! pro ! 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 7 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


how many of you readers know anything about jews living in the 
arab countries how many of you know if jews still live in these 
countries how many of you know what the circumstances of arabic 
jews leaving their homelands were just curious. 



from  ( anwar mohammed ) 
subject lawsuit against 
nntp posting host sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 

it looks like has been busy .  .  .  . 

04 14 jewish group for passing official information 

by 
san francisco , april 14 , people , including the son of 
former israeli defence , the anti league 
 ( adl ) on , accusing the jewish group of 
official information about them. 
richard , director of the san francisco branch of the , art 
roy and former tom were also named as 
in the suit , filed in san francisco superior court. 
the 19 accuse the of b b , a group dedicated to fighting 
anti semitism , and the other of secretly information on 
them , including data from state and federal  . 
the suit alleges they the information to others , including the 
governments of israel and south africa , in what it alleges was a a massive 
operation. 
the action is a class action suit .  . it was filed on behalf of about 12 , 000 
anti or opponents of israeli policies about whom the 
believe the , and gathered information. 
representatives of the in san francisco were not immediately available 
for comment on  . 
the civil suit is the first legal action arising out of allegations that 
, a former in the san francisco police intelligence , passed 
police files on california political to a  . 
the fbi and san francisco police are investigating the , and 
over the affair and last week searched the 's offices in san francisco 
and los  . 
the suit alleges invasion of under the civil code of california , 
which prohibits the publication of information obtained from official sources. 
it seeks exemplary of at least 2 , per person as well as other 
 . 
lawyer , a former who is the 
, said the 19 included arab americans and jews and his 
wife helen , who also had information gathered about her. 
one of the is , a research scientist at the 
university of southern california who is a son of the former israeli defence 
 . 
told the san francisco examiner he had seen a file the kept on 
him in the , presumably because of his criticism of the treatment of 
palestinians and his position on the israeli territories .  . 
according to court documents released last week , and both 
kept information on thousands of california political  . 
in the documents , a police said he believed the paid 
for many years to provide information and that both the league and 
received information from the authorities .  . 
no criminal charges have yet been filed in the case. the , and 
have all denied any  . 
ac 



04 14 lawsuit 

, 1993 .  . the associated press. all rights  . 

by 
associated press writer 
san francisco  ( ap ) arab americans and of israel the 
anti league on , saying it invaded their by 
information about them through a network. 
the , a national group dedicated to fighting anti semitism , intended to 
use the data to discredit them because of their political views , according to 
the class action lawsuit filed in san francisco superior court. 
none of us has been guilty of racism or nazism or anti semitism or hate 
crimes , or any of the other  that the claims to protect against .  . none 
of us is violent or criminal in any way , said , an education 
who develops programs on arab culture .  . 
the 19 include , son of former israel defense 
 . the , a research scientist at the university of 
southern california , said the kept a file on him in the presumably 
because he has criticized israel 's treatment of palestinians .  . 
the believes that anyone who is an arab american ... or speaks 
politically against israel is at least a closet anti , said. 
the has denied any , but could n't comment on the lawsuit 
because it has n't it , said a spokesman at the 's new york 
 . 
the fbi and local police and are investigating allegations that 
the on thousands of individuals and hundreds of groups , including 
white and anti semitic organizations , arab americans , , 
the national association for the of people and san francisco 
public television station  . 
some information allegedly came from police and government 
records , according to court documents filed in the and the civil lawsuit .  . 
no charges have been filed in the criminal investigation .  . 
the lawsuit the of violating california 's law , which 
forbids the intentional of personal information not otherwise 
public from state or federal records .  . 
the lawsuit claims the the information to persons and 
entities who had no compelling need to receive it. it did n't elaborate .  . 
include richard , director of the 's office in san 
francisco .  . he did not immediately return a phone call seeking comment. 
other are san francisco art roy , an alleged 
over the past four decades , and former police tom  . 
allegedly into law enforcement and government computers and passed 
information on to  . 
, who has from the police force , has moved to the  . 
's lawyer , richard , said he could not comment on the lawsuit 
because he had not yet studied it. 





04 14 for allegedly on u.s. residents 

san francisco  ( upi ) a group of california residents filed suit 
charging the anti league of b with violating their 
by on them for the israeli and south african governments .  . 
the class action suit , filed in san francisco superior court , charges the 
and its leadership with a local police official to obtain information 
on opponents of israeli policies towards the territories and 
south africa 's policy. 
the refused to comment on the suit .  . 
the suit also took aim at two top local and san 
police tom , claiming they violated 
in the state constitution and violated state laws .  . 
according to the suit , helped the obtain access to 
files in law enforcement and government computers. information from these files 
were passed to the foreign governments , the suit charges .  . 
the whole concept of an organized collection of information based on 
political viewpoints and using government as a source of information is 
absolutely , said former  . , who is the 
 . 
the 's information network was revealed publicly last week when 
the san francisco district 's office released documents indicating the 
group had on 12 , 000 people and political and ethnic groups for more 
than 30 years. 
my understanding is that they  ( the adl ) consider all activity that is in 
some sense opposed to israel or israeli action to be part of their 
to investigate , said , a research scientist at the university of southern 
california .  . 
the believes that anyone who is arab american .  .  . or . speaks politically 
against israel is at least a closet anti  . 
the fbi and the district 's office have been investigating the 
operation for four months. 
the 19 in the case include , the son of former israeli 
defense  . 
in a press release , the said the alleged had them 
psychologically and economically and accused the of trying to interfere with 
their freedom of speech. 

from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 19 

( ) writes 

i think the israeli press might be a bit biased in 
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of 
reported accurately on what was happening in germany .  . it is 
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda .  . 

if you consider israeli reporting of events in israel to be propoganda , then 
consider the washington post 's handling of american events to be propoganda 
too. what makes the israeli press inherently biased in your opinion i 
would n't compare it to nazi propoganda either. unless you want to provide 
some evidence of israeli inaccuracies or to nazism , i suggest you 
keep your mouth shut .  . i'm sick and tired of all you anti comparing 
israel to the nazis  ( and yes , in my opinion , if you compare israel to the nazis 
you are an anti because you know damn well it is n't true and you are 
just trying to discredit  . 

ed .  . 


from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re conventional israel palestinians 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 117 

in article  ( tim clock ) writes 

the latest israeli proposal , first proposed in february of 1992 , contains 
the following assumptions concerning the nature of any status refering to the and gaza , the palestinians , implemented by  . it 
states that 
israel will remain the existing source of authority until final status 
is agreed upon 
israel will the of power to the of the 
self government  ( isga ) 
the will apply to the of the territories 
under israeli military  . the will not have a 
application , nor will they apply to the israeli population 
of the territories or to the of jerusalem 
powers not under the will be by israel 
will continue to live and in the 
israel alone will have responsibility for security in all its aspects 
external , internal and for the of public order 
the of the will be of an administrative functional nature 
the exercise of powers under the will be subject to and 
with israel .  . 
israel will negotiate of powers and in the 
areas of , justice , , , education , 
business , , labor and social welfare , local police , 
local transportation and communications , affairs and religious 
affairs .  . 

the of march 1992 
the of a self governing authority 
 ( pisga ) whose authority is vested by the people 
its  ( pisga ) powers cannot be by israel 
in the the israeli military government and civil 
will be abolished , and the will the powers previous 
by israel 
there will be no on its  ( pisga ) powers and 
except those which derive from its character as an arrangement 
by the time is , the israeli armed forces will have 
their to agreed points along the borders of the 
territory  . the opt includes jerusalem 
the jurisdiction of the shall extend to all of the opt , including 
its land , water and air space 
the shall have powers to , amend and laws 
it will power foreign control 
it shall determine the nature of its with any state or 
international body , and shall be to conclude binding 
agreements free of any control by israel 
the shall administer justice throughout the opt and will have sole 
and exclusive 
it will have a strong police force responsible for security and public 
order in the opt 
it can request the assistance of a un force 
with israel over self governing will be by 
a of representatives of the five permanent members of 
the un security council , the general  ( of the un ) , the , 
, egypt , syria and israel .  . 

but perhaps the attitude behind these very different visions 
of the stage is wrong for two reasons 1 ) the present 
and israeli leadership are as moderate as is likely to exist for many years , 
so the present opportunity may be the last for a significant period , 2 ) since 
these are not designed to , or even attempting to , resolve the 
conflict , attention to issues dealing with a desired final status are mis 
placed and destructive .  . 

given this , how should  ( from either side ) be altered to 
their approaches as stated above how can israeli , and 
desire for some control , be addressed while providing for a very 
real self governing entity 

tim 

april 13 , 1993 response by al 

basically the problem is that israel may remain , or leave , the 
territories it cannot do both , it cannot do neither .  . so far , 
continues to propose that they remain .  . the palestinians propose that they 
leave .  . why should either change their view it is worth pointing out that 
the only area of compromise both views seems to require a 
in the israeli presence .  . israel no such  .  .  .  . 
and in fact may be said to not be  . 


tim 

there seem to be two perceptions that have to be addressed . the 
first is that of israel , where there is little trust for arab groups , so 
there is little support for israel giving up in 
exchange for pieces of paper , expectations , hopes , etc. the second 
is that of the arab world palestinians , where there is the demand that 
these be made by israel without it receiving 
anything back .  . given this , the gap between the two 
seems to be the need by israel of receiving some returns 
for its expected  . by is meant something that 
1 ) provides israel with comparable protection  ( from the land it is to 
give up ) , 2 ) in some way that the arab states and 
will be accountable and held actively  ( not just diplomatically ) 
responsible for the upholding of all actions on its territory  ( by citizens 
or ) .  . 

in essence i do not believe that israel objections to 
would be anywhere near as strong as they are now if israel 
was assured that any new state would be committed to 
co existing with israel and held responsible for all attacks on israel 
from its territory .  . 
aside from some of the rather slanted above , 
how could such be for example , 
how could such be added to the 


israel is hanging on largely because it is scared that the minute 
it lets go  ( gives lands back to arab states , no more , gives 
full to palestinians ) , any and or all of the arab parties 
could  ( and would , if not controlled somehow ) easily return to the 
traditional anti israel position. the question then is how to really 
ensure that that will not happen. 

tim 


nntp posting host no . 
from  ( michael preminger ) 
subject re is racism 
organization dept. of , university of , norway 
lines 18 
originator 


in article , writes 
in re syria 's , the author writes that the un thought 
was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct 
the first time , is racism and , the daily 
 ( the student newspaper at mcgill ) was proud enough to print an article 
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail .  . 

steve 

was the article about or about something else. the majority 
of people i heard this ignorant statement , do not really 
know what is. they have just associated it with what they think 
they know about the political situation in the middle east .  . 

so steve lets here , what is 

michael 

from bill 
subject 
organization 4th dimension bbs 
lines 7 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

can you me one question how did you get to be so 


system com . phone 
quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry 



from  ( joseph askew ) 
subject re israeli lust 
organization statistics , pure applied mathematics , university of adelaide 
lines 46 

in article  ( amir y rosenblatt ) writes 
in article  ( joseph askew ) writes 
in article  ( adam shostack ) writes 

it depends entirely on how you define  . the actual fighting largely 
the arab invasions after all happened in 
well before the arab invasion .  . 

how do you define war do and constant attacks on 
count as acts of war , or is that only when the jews do them 

i would hope that if you intend to have a reasonable discussion you might 
wait until i express an opinion before i should be flamed for it. 
as for  war  i am not sure how i would define it. if you just look at attacks 
on then there is no way of when it started .  . would you 
count the riots in the 20 's and 30 's violence but not war. i personally 
think that  war  , as opposed to civil or whatever , requires 
organisation , planning and some measure of or semi regular forces .  . 
perhaps the arab liberation army  . i could easily be convinced it was 
so. from what i know they did not have a great deal of planning let alone 
organisation .  . the and certainly did. that is not a cause 
for criticism , it merely reflects the great organisation generally in the 
 zionist  camp .  . 

of course , this is n't war , since it 's only the attacking .  . 

now you are being silly are n't you in any case the war did not start 
with the invasion of the arab armies .  . you see we both agree on something. 
and the previous posters were wrong , no 

just like last week when the 
against northern israel .  . where does end and war begin 

again i am not sure , i doubt you want my opinion anyway , but i think 
war requires organisation as i said before. it needs a group to command 
and plan .  . if from southern  ( and are you 
sure you have the right group not the moslems again ) then that sounds 
like war to me. throwing does not. 

joseph 


joseph , and proud in the , see the , 
remote in , the grief .  . 
disclaimer , see if i care north of our , the sky must end , 
actually , i rather like beyond the pale , the river on. 

from  ( anwar mohammed ) 
subject re why does us consider to be a dangerous to humanity 
nntp posting host sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 30 

in article  ( gideon ehrlich ) writes 
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents 
of those files. 
so it will be nice if will tell us 
1. why do american authorities consider to be dangerous 

authorities seem to view a lot of people as dangerous , including 
the millions of americans of arab ancestry .  . perhaps you can answer 
the question as to why the files and on members 
in california  ( and elsewhere ) friendly perhaps 

perhaps is a member or the or a reporter 
or a member of any of the of other political organizations ethnic 
minorities that the on. 

2. why does the have an interest in that person 

paranoia 

3. if one does trust either the us government or the what an 
additional information should he send them 

the names of half the posters on this forum , unless they already 
have them. 







from  ( hilmi eren ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
lines 
nntp posting host su . 
reply to  ( hilmi eren ) 
organization dept. of computer and systems sciences , university 


and writes 



the in are simply defending their 
rights to keep their and it is the that are 
invading their  . 



he first was today 
he , and several  ( in azerbadjan ) 
he are their  . ca n't you see the 
he the great dream in this with methods like 
he killing , raping and bombing  . the last move was the 
he of a with 60 , trying to 
he escape the from , a city that was given to the 
he by the  . 



is in not  . have lived in 
ever since there were  . used to live in the areas 
between and and this area is being used to invade 
 . are defending themselves. if are dying 
because of a policy of attacking , then something is wrong with this 
policy. 


attacking who is attacking who even the country you live in , usa , have condemned 
for it 's attacking .  . and you start to say that the 
are the 

have lived in ever since there were 


have lived in ever since there were  .  .  . 
do n't come with , there is no reason to attack a people 
just because a man called and co .  . gave the freedom to the people 
in this area. 


if i recall correctly , it was stalin who caused all this problem with land 
in the first place , not the  . 



it 's easy for people like you to blame history. the were a lot of 
living in usa .  . there is no reason for these 
to attack the american 
people and say it was the fault of the government of germany and great 
britain , because they made people come to our place .  .  .  .  .  .  . lived in 
harmony with the until and co .  . gave freedom to the people 
in , then the started to kill , rape and torture the , not only 
in but also in  .  .  .  . 

however , i hope that the will force a turkish 
to land for purposes of searching for similar to the one 
that happened last summer .  . searched an american plane 
 ( carrying aid ) bound to  . 



he do n't speak about things you do n't know 8 u.s. 
he were heading to  . when the turkish authorities 
he that they were going to search these 
he 3 of these returned to it 's base in germany .  . 
he 5 of these were searched in  . the content of 
he of the other 3 not hard to guess , is it it was sure not 
he aid .  .  .  .  .  . 


what story are you talking about from the u.s. have been sending 
aid into for two years. i would not like to guess about what were in 
the 3 in your story , i would like to find out. 



he search turkish you do n't know what you are talking about. 
he 's government has that it 's giving weapons 
he to since started to attack 
he it self , not the  . so why search a plane for weapons 
he since it 's content is to be weapons 

it 's too bad you would want to start a war with  . 

that 's what i do n't want , you could n't imagine the result of a war .  .  .  .  .  . 
so france , and usa wants to start fighting with 
they give a lot more weapons to the without 
saying it , that 's no secret any more .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


i must say that these government is very  . 
do they think that they shall move from it 's when the war 
is over the around will be there and must 
live in harmony with these if they do n't want a age country , 
for that 's what 's will happen if the wars continues .  . 

look , the president of , , died and 
the is now in for the funeral .  . is it because 
he liked him sure not , because needs it 's and must 
live with these. but ca n't stop this war with continued 
from states like france and usa .  . with other words , if you love your people 
you must think twice .  .  .  .  .  . 

and i wonder , shoot down turkish with what i forgot 
the ca n't find food but there are a lot of from the mentioned 
countries .  .  .  .  .  . 






university 



from  ( steven smith ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 1993 07 55 09 
organization applied mathematics , university 
lines 15 

 ( dan gannon ) writes 
the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 

by theodore j. o 



theodore j. o is an editor with the institute for historical 
review .  . at university . . . 

according to the 1990 directory , mr. o failed to 
graduate .  . you may decide for yourselves if he was indeed 
anywhere. 

smith 

from  ( todd j. dicker ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization bbs , , florida 
lines 21 

( ) writes 

first of all i never said the  . i said before the 
 . i'm not ignorant of the and know more 
about nazi germany than most people  ( maybe including you) .  . 

uh oh ! the first sign of an argument without merit the stating of one 's 
in an area. if you know something about nazi germany , 
show it. if you do n't , shut up. simple as that. 

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii 
the crimes commited by the israeli government. any 
attempt to call civil like myself anti is 
not appreciated. 

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who or were 
tortured .  . we all suffered .  . second , the name calling was directed against 
you , not civil in general. your name dropping of a fancy 
sounding political term is yet another attempt to cite 
in order to your for this argument. go 
back to the ,  . 

from  ( suat kiniklioglu ) 
subject the and of greek foreign policy 
organization national capital , ottawa , canada 
lines 34 


there you go the greeks have been trying for over a year , even though 
mr. was threatening the ec that if was recognized 
that the would be back .  .  .  . 


well i guess the the plug eh  .  .  . is just one 
other example about the and the of greek 
foreign policy objectives .  .  .  . 

pity to those who have to live under the greek flag with these 
political decision makers .  .  .  . 

more recognition for  . , germany , and joined 
denmark on 15 april in recognizing the of , 
reports .  . each is an ec member state. , which has ec 
recognition of , noted that such recognition does not 
facilitate between and now in 
new york .  . perry , , inc. 


the day will come when will write despite lengthy 
and numerous attempts to the island the turkish 
of northern was recognized by .  .  .  . 


your humble servant 



from  ( hossien amehdi ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
nntp posting host com . 
organization systems research center 
lines 26 

in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 

what the hell do you know about israeli policy what gives you the 
to look into the minds of israeli has this  policy of  
been published somewhere for your information , the actions taken by , 
specifically the , were not in the campaign of  . my 
brain is full of shit at least i do n't look into the minds of others and 
make israeli policy for them ! 

... deleted 

i am not in the business of reading minds , however in this case it would not 
be necessary. top leaders in the past and present , always come across 
as arrogant with their tough talks trying to intimidate the  . 

the way i see it , and have not been able to achieve peace 
after almost 50 years of fighting because of the following two major reasons 

1 ) arab governments are not really representative of their people , currently 
most of their leaders are stupid , and or not independent , and or 
dictators .  . 

2 ) israeli government is arrogant and none  . 




from  ( john a absood ) 
subject re , the humanist 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( john a absood ) 
organization university 
lines 13 

are you people sure his posts are being to his system operator 
who is them 

is there a similar file being kept on mr. 

, 

john 

ceased , and sat apart , and silent , in the pose of a 
buddha .  . nobody moved for a time .  .  . the . was by 
a black bank of , and the to the utter 
most ends of the earth under an sky seemed to 

from  ( gary bradski ) 
subject re was go ! ! 



organization boston university center for systems 
lines 32 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 93 03 13 49 gmt 

on 15 apr 93 03 13 49 gmt ,  ( hossien amehdi ) said 
in article  ( hossien amehdi ) writes 
. . . 
who is the you here. since you are replying to my article you 
are assuming that i am an arab .  . well , i'm not an arab , but i think you 
are brain is full of shit if you really believe what you said. the 
of civilian and none civilian areas in by israel is 
very consistent with its policy of  . that is the only 
policy that has been practiced by the so called only democracy in 
the middle east ! 

i was pointing out that the other side is also suffering .  . 
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a , you bet 
i would my against any by any means. 

the iranian or just israeli invaders 


i net 
and systems 
boston university .  . v v 
, boston ma y 


i do n't even agree with some of my opinions or die ! 








from ( b. ) 
subject re the israeli press 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university , montreal , canada 
lines 41 

 ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 


... 
for your information on israel .  . since i read both american media 
and israeli media , i can say with absolute certainty that anybody 
who exclusively on the american press for knowledge about 
israel does not have a true picture of what is going on. 

of course you never read arab media , 

i read arab , israeli  . post , and this network is more than enough ) 
and western  ( american , french , and british ) reports and i can say 
that if we give israel 10 and 10 on the bias scale  ( of course 
you can switch the polarities ) israeli newspapers will get either 
a 9 or 10 , american newspapers and tv news range from 6 
to 10  ( yes there are some that are more than israelis ) 
the montreal (a local free newspaper ) probably is closer 
to 's views than some israeli right newspapers , british 
range from 0  ( neutral ) to 10 , french  ( that of , of course) range 
from 2  ( afro french magazines ) to 10 , arab official media range from 
0 to 5  ( egyptian ) to 9 in sa .  . why no 10 because they do not want to 
it and stir people against israel and therefore against them since 
they are doing nothing. 


as to the claim that israeli papers are biased , of course they 
are. some may to the right or the left , just like the media 
here in america .  . but they still report events about which people 
here know nothing. i choose to form my opinions about israel and 
the based on more knowledge than does an average american 
who relies exclusively on an american media which does not report 
on events in the with any consistency or accuracy .  . 

the average bias of what you read would be probably around 9 , 
while that of the average american would be the same if they do 
not read or read the new york times and similar news makers , and 
8 if they read some other relatively less biased newspapers. 

so you are not better off. 


from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 46 

writes 


in article ,  ( yon of robbing ) writes 
in article 
 ( ilyess bdira ) writes 
1)why ) do jews who do n't even believe in god  ( as is the case with many 
of the of secular zionism ) have a right in more 
than the of , just because god gave you the land 
g d has nothing to do with it. some of the land was in fact given to the 
jews by the united nations , quite a bit of it was purchased from arab 
 . present claims are based on prior ownership  ( purchase 
from landlords ) award by the united nations in the 
partition of the territory , and as the result of 
wars fought against the egyptians , , , et al. 


2)why ) do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of 
the are not jews and do not want to be part of israel 
first , i should point out that many jews do not in fact agree with the 
idea that the west bank is theirs .  . since , however , i agree with those who 
claim the west bank , i think i can answer your question the west 
bank was what is called the of war. hussein ordered the arab 


this is very funny .  . 
anyway , suppose that in fact israel attack till attacked 
israel .  . now , how do you explain the attack on syria in , syria 
enter the war with israel till the 4th day . 

syria had been bombing israeli from the and sending 
terrorist squads into israel for years. do you need me to provide 
i can. 

why do n't you give it up , i'm really starting to get tired of your 
empty lies .  . you can defend your position and ideology with documented facts 
and arguments rather than the crap you regularly post. take an example from 
someone like brendan , with whom i do n't agree , but who uses logic and 
documentation to argue his position. why must you insist on constantly 
baseless lies you may some people off , but that 's about it. you wo n't 
prove anything or add anything worthy to a discussion. your arguments just 
prove what a poor you are and how weak your case really is. 

all my love , 
ed .  . 


from ( ) 
subject freedom in u . s . a .  . 
organization university of virginia 
lines 11 

i have just started reading the articles in this news 
group. there seems to be an attempt by some members to quiet 
other members with  . i believe one posting said 
that all postings by one person are being to his 
server who keeps a file on him in hope that appropriate action 
might be taken . 
i do n't know where you guys are from but in america 
such attempts to first amendment rights are 
not appreciated. here , we let everyone speak their mind 
regardless of how we feel about it. take your 
ideals back to where you came from. 

from ( ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization university of virginia 
lines 4 

i think the israeli press might be a bit biased in 
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of 
reported accurately on what was happening in germany .  . it is 
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda .  . 

from  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
subject re of the jewish 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
organization university 
lines 

in article writes 

 ( amir y rosenblatt ) writes 
writes 
no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and  . 
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about 
anti trust in the business world. 

since we are the of a 
, we must use the laws governing the 
and ethics of such  . basic anti trust law says 
that , while you can ibm stocks for the purpose of 
investing , you can not acquire a large number of those 
shares with the intent or controlling ibm .  . you can do so 
only if you make your intentions clear . clearly , 
the jews who purchased properties from had some 
designs , they were not buying a or a real  . 
they were establishing a for the european jews .  . 

the sold their properties to the jews in the 
old tradition of arab  . being a ethnic 
religious society , accepting the jews as 
was no different , just another religion. plus they paid fair 
market value , etc .  .  .  . they did not know they were victims of 
an international conspiracy .  .  ( i'm not a conspiracy 
myself , but this one is hard to  . 


right now , i'm just going to address this point. 
when the jewish national bought most of its land , 
it did n't buy it from the palestinians themselves , because , 
for the most part , they were  ( fallahin ) , 
living on land owned by in syria and  . 
the offered a deal , so the owners took advantage of 
it. it 's called commerce .  . the owners , however , made no 
for those who had worked for them , basically 
them by selling the land right out from under them. 
they are to blame , not the jews .  . 




why would you the sale of land as was 
it because it was sold to jews was it fair to assume that the 
would be by the jews is this the norm of 
any commerce  ( read shafting ) between and jews 

it was on the part of the arab land owners for doing it 
without their and for not being responsible 
enough to make for them , but rather just leaving 
them to their fate .  . 

your claim that the sold 
 ( if true , even partially ) omits the fact that the 
treaty put and syria under french rule , while 
under british .  . , any such landlord 
would have found himself a foreigner in and would 
be motivated to sell , regardless of the price .  . 

the point is that the land was sold legally , often at 
above its actual value. it was legal , and good business for 
the , though it left the palestinians who worked the land 
in a poor situation. 

it is interesting though that you acknowledge that the 
palestinians were  . do many or jews share 
your opinion do you the from 
any ethical just because it was n't written down 

i do n't know if others share this opinion. it is mine , 
and i'm sure there are some who agree and some who do n't 
the way i see it , the were caught in circumstances 
beyond their control , in that since they did n't own the land , 
they did n't have a say. of course , now for the sake of the greater 
arab unity the are angry that the land was sold to the jews 
 ( an act that is illegal in jordan ) , but when it happened , it was just 
business. 

all told , i did not see an answer in your response. the 
question was whether the intent behind the was 
aimed at controlling the public  ( land , 
structure etc .  .  . ) .  . imho the palestinians have grounds 
to the of the , say in world court. 



my opinions are my own and no one else 's 

the purpose of buying the land was to provide space and jobs for 
jewish immigrants .  . in any case , no matter what the purpose , 
the sales were legal , so i really do n't see any grounds for 
them. 





from  ( deniz akkus ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization university center for telecommunications research 
x posted from edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 43 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( esin terzioglu ) writes 
my response to the shooting down of a turkish over the 
air space was because of the ignorant posting of the person from your 
country. turks and want to into the 
conflict with  . the who have lived 
in their for 3000 years  ( cut off from and given to 
by stalin ) are the ones directly involved in the conflict .  . they are defending 
themselves against  . that has no mercy for 
people that are with 23 's and  . 

at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that stay out of the 
crisis so that the repeat of the invasion will never occur again. 


is involved in fighting with  . it is 
soldiers from that are towns in  . 
you might wish to read more about whether or not it is 
only in that  . it seems to me that the are better 
organized , have more success militarily and shell towns 
repeatedly .  . 

i do n't wish to get into the discussion. had the right to 
intervene , and it did. perhaps the intervention was not supposed to 
last for so long , but the constant refusal of the greek governments both 
on the island and in to deal with reality is also to be blamed 
for the in the  . 

lastly , why is there not a soc . culture . i vote yes for it. 
after all , it is now free. 

regards , 












subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 old child 
from  ( livian segal ) 
organization institute of science , center 
lines 16 

in article  ( ranen goren ) writes 
q how many 's does it take to twist any truth around 
a only one , and thank god there 's only one. 

 . 

absolutely not true ! 
there are lots of them ! 




o 


unix 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
organization the department of department 
lines 47 



it 's all my fault. 
i am in violation of one of my own rules 
avoid to a barf posting. 



in article  ( jack schmidling ) writes 
in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
through private contributions on federal land . your hate 
article is of current and historical fact , intellectual content 
and social value. down the toilet it goes .  .  .  .  .  . 

and we all know what an unbiased source the is when it comes to things 
concerning israel .  . 

those damned , , right , 

neither the times nor the trained seals who have responded thus far seem to 

trained seals you mean the ones that their making 
, ! , ! sounds 

recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax  . in 
, american put up at least 30 of the money. and 
, how does federal land the of this alien 
dedicated to and the of tax money 
to a foreign entity 

in your own mind , you now seem to believe that tax 
is equivalent to government funding .  . holy shit , batman ! the us 
government is now one of the major of the catholic church 
in violation of the rules of separation of church and state ! 

that federal land and tax money could have been used to 
americans or better yet , to house homeless americans .  . 

quick , bill ! all the churches and give them to the people ! 
or does your anti logic only apply to the mosques belonging to what 
you have described as or perhaps the of those 
you have characterized as 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( hovig heghinian ) 
subject re seventh century a.d. math problems 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 25 

 ( cetin koc ) writes 

problem 1 

my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the 
and the , prince performed extraordinary 
deeds .  . three times in a single month he attacked the troops .  . 
the first time , he down half of the army .  . the second time , 
the , he slaughtered one fourth of the soldiers .  . the third 
time , he one of the army .  . the who were 
still alive , two hundred , to  . and so , from 
this remainder , find how many soldiers there were before the 
massacre .  . 


answer  ( a(1 1 2 1 4 1 11 ) a 

strike , slaughter , destroy , and massacre .  . after all , 
they are not as innocent as the network claims .  . 

hmm ... turks sure know how to keep track of deaths , but they seem to 
lose count around 1 . 5 . million .  . 




from  ( dorin baru ) 
subject re pleasure from death 
organization corporation 
lines 26 


peter freeman writes 


them.  ( by the way , i do not the killing of any human being , 
including prisoners sentenced to death by our justice department ) 

peace. 



boy , you really are a stupid person. our justice department does 
not sentence people to death. that 's up to state courts .  . again , 
get a brain .  . 


peter , i think you are ridiculous here. stupidity is not a measure of how 
well someone knows our judicial system. i guess meant that he is 
against death penalty .  . but no matter what he meant , your statement not 
justified .  . 


regards , 




from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article ,  ( anas omran ) writes 

there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report 
on the situation in the o . t .  . but , as most people used to see on tv , the 
do not allow them to go deep there in the o . t .  . the 
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters .  . 
so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in  . 
they do not allow fair and neutral of the situation in  . 

please list the names of some of those neutral reporters that were killed 
in the o . t .  . . it is also interesting to note that at the of 
the , parties quickly began their 
for the benefit of the media. having spoken to a 
reporter who covered the , i know of at least one case where 
he found out that a mass on the of gaza was 
setup for himself and his colleagues .  . when i asked whether the footage 
shot was sent he replied , after all , it did happen. 
when this became the case , the began sensitive trouble 
to reporters .  . 





stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from s 
subject a 's abc 
originator 
reply to 
organization 
lines 32 

original message 
d 

,  ( tish(a  ( la(omer , , y d b g 
b ,  . 

all ! 
those of you the city these days might be 
interested in the following events  ( abridged ) 
19 00 , fri .  . , 16th april ,  93 service at the 
 ( 6 street , a 10  
walk from the of science 
culture the building in the 
city 's centre , the same distance from 
the central  . 
09 30 , sat .  . , 17th april , l service ,  . 
11 30 , sun .  . , april , the fallen ones memorial service ,  . 
13 00 , sun .  . , april , memorial at the jewish 
 ( okopowa street ,  . 
18 00 , sun .  . , april , official arts at the congress hall 
(a building to the of 
science culture , which like the 
is a 's walk from most of 
, forum , , 
, holiday ,  . 
12 00 , mon .  . , april , of at the 
 . 

b ! 
, student , univ .  . of  . of hebrew ) ,  . 
v q k z  
e mail account 

from  ( chris metcalfe ) 
subject nazi theories by  ( unconventianal peace ) 
organization logic inc. 
lines 85 

now we have strong evidence of where the really stands .  . 
and disgusting .  . it only proves that we must 
never forget .  .  .  . 


! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

in article  ( center for policy research ) writes 

from center for policy research 
subject peace proposal 


a proposal for peace in the middle east .  . 

not so  . solutions to the jewish problem 
have been suggested by northern in the past. 

a science that deals with the improvement  ( as by 
control of human mating ) of qualities of race 
or  . webster 's ninth dictionary .  . 

5. the emergence of a number of   
marriages in israel , all of whom would have relatives on 
 both sides  of the divide , would make the conflict lose its 
ethnical and core and the emergence of a 
truly civil society. the existence of a strong   stock of 
people would also help the of israeli society into the 
middle east in a manner. 

this is nothing more than 's statement that the 
zionist entity must be by forcing it to engage the 
surrounding normal arab society. 

a strong stock , of israeli society into 
the middle east in a manner , these are the phrases 
of nazi racial engineering pure and simple. as if israeli 
society has no right to exist per ! 

3. fundamentalist jews would certainly object to the use of 
financial to encourage   . from their 
point of view , the continued existence of a specific jewish people 
overrides any other consideration , be it human love , peace of 
human rights. the president of the world jewish congress , edgar 
, this view a few years ago in an he 
gave to der , a german magazine .  . he called the increasing 
of jews in the world a , comparable in its 
effects only with the  . this objection has no merit 
either because it does not fulfill the first two assumptions  ( see 
above) 

the continued existance of a specific jewish people overrides 
any other consideration , be it human love , peace of human 
rights. the jewish people and protect human values 
such as love and peace yes ve have heard this before her  . 
notice how the source of the problem seems to be to 
the jews in this analysis. , der ist a gut  .  .  . 

5. it may that such a would need great sums to 
bring about substantial changes .  . this objection has 
merits .  . however , it must be that huge sums , more than 
3 billion , are each year by the united states government 
and by u.s. organizations to maintain an peace in the 
middle east through  . a mere of these sums would 
suffice to launch the above proposal and create a more 
towards the existence of   marriages in 
israel , thus encouraging the emergence of a 
non society in that land. 

nice attempt to mix in a against u.s. aid to israel .  . 

i would be for critical comments to the above proposal as 
well for any of this proposal for meaningful 
discussion and  . 

post box , 

critical comment you can take the nazi flag and 
off of your , you 'll never succeed .  . 

chris 

! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

now we 'll find out where you really stand .  .  .  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re jews in some documents 
article i.d. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( neil bernstein ) writes 

pardon me here is to an amherst clown 

your three , , and are the 
of the which have and have 
massacres in , , , and  . this is 
 . 

this is about  . 

were you expecting a different response here is another one 

source k. s. , patriotism , press , boston , , 
 ( 73 pages with  . 

p. 25  ( third paragraph ) 

some real up from among the people , who 
into the hearts of the turks .  . 


within a few months after the war began , these 
forces , operating in close with the russians , were 
attacking turkish cities , towns and in the east , 
their without mercy , while at the same time 
working to the ottoman army 's war effort by destroying roads 
and , , and doing whatever else they could to 
occupation .  . the atrocities committed by the 
forces accompanying the army were so severe that the 
themselves were compelled to them from the 
fighting and sent them to guard duties .  . the of many 
officers who served in the east at this time are filled with 
accounts of the atrocities committed by these 
, which were even by relatively primitive standards of 
war then observed in such areas .  . 1 

1 journal de d de 
d , , p. 28 .  . 

me by my text. unfortunately , he has still not produced 
the documents on jews in  . instead , he asks for my views on the 
turkish genocide .  . well , that debate seems to be going on in a few hundred 
other threads .  . i 'll let other people bring the usual charges , try to 
(a net wide terrorism triangle ) and their evidence. 

when that does ever happen , look out the to see if there is a 
non x soviet government in the east .  . now , where is 
your non existent list of scholars what a  . during the first 
world war and the years , the dictatorship 
through a and genocide , tried to complete its 
centuries old policy of against the turks and by 
murdering 2.5 million muslims and the rest from 
their 1 , 000 year  . 

this paragraph is well written and interesting , baby , but it has nothing 
to do with jews in  . i have not presented a list of scholars .  . 

how could you because there is none. 

i am not 
interested in an ex soviet  ( why do you write x it 's very cute ) 
government , non or otherwise. you are not responding to what i am 
writing. instead , you are your own particular brand of bullshit .  . 

like with a wall. and you are not responding to what i 
am writing. by the way , that bullshit is justly regarded as the first 
instance of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people. 
for nearly one thousand years , the turkish and people lived 
on their the last one hundred under the soviet 
and occupation .  . the in the 
government and carried out a genocide against its 
muslim subjects .  . 2.5 million turks and were murdered and the 
remainder driven out of their  . after one thousand years , 
turkish and lands were empty of turks and  . 

the survivors found a safe heaven in  . 

today , x soviet government rejects the right of turks and 
to return to their muslim lands by x soviet  . 

today , x soviet covers up the genocide by its 
and is therefore an to this crime against 
humanity .  . 

x soviet must pay for its crime of genocide against the muslims 
by admitting to the crime and making to the turks and  . 

you have now done so four times in a row .  . may i legitimately conclude that 
you are not , indeed , a regular net user , but an posting computer program 
 ( which , for convenience , i have called ) . 

you may assert whatever you wish. 

here we go with 's list of sources 

 . 

the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance 
of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people. 
this event is proven by , government 
and international political leaders , such as u.s. mark 
, ... 

 ( and on and on for 46 lines ) 

and still  .  .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . so . the list goes on and on and on .  .  .  .  .  . 

i'm still trying to find out about those jews in  . can you post those 
documents , mr. could you c mon , it 's my 
birthday in three weeks .  .  .  . post them for me as a birthday present. 

remember , the issue at hand is the cold genocide of 2.5 million 
muslim people by the between , and the nazi 
during world war ii. anything to add 

no , , read what i post ! other people are asking you about the turkish 
genocide .  . i am asking you to produce the documents on jews in  . no 
matter how many times you what i post , i will still post the same 
question. post the documents on jews in  . do not the same 
block of text about the turkish genocide .  . 

remember , the issue at hand is the nazi during 
world war ii and the turkish genocide .  . and i still fail to see how 
you can challenge the following western sources. 

source john dewey the new , vol. 40 , nov. 12 , , pp. 9. 

happy the minority jews which has had no christian nation to protect it. 
and one that the jews took up their in   
when they were from europe , especially spain , by christians , 
and they have lived here for centuries in at least as much tranquility and 
liberty as their fellow turkish subjects , all being exposed alike to the 
of their common rulers .  . to one brought up , as most americans have 
been , in the and foreign missionary tradition , the condition of 
the jews in is almost a mathematical that religious 
differences have had an influence in the of only as they 
were combined with aspirations for a political separation which every 
nation in the world would have treated as  . one readily 
the conclusion that the jews in were fortunate .  .  .  . 

he also stated that 

they turned turkish cities over to the 
that they boasted of having raised an army of one hundred and 
fifty thousand men to fight a civil war , and that they burned at least 
a hundred turkish and exterminated their population .  . 

i want the documents of jews in  . i think several other 
people on soc . culture . greek . are already with you about the turkish 
genocide .  . 

is this the joke of the month who , when , how , where what a clown .  .  .  . 

no , , the joke of the month is that you have now posted the same 
block of text four times , but you still have not produced the documents on 
jews in  . instead , you post the same text you post in every other 
message , that same old table  ( how appropriate it 's named ! ) 

how about shaw , a jewish scholar 

source stanford j. shaw , on with invading 
armies in , history of the ottoman empire and modern  ( volume 
ii reform , revolution the rise of modern ,  . 
 ( london , cambridge university press  . pp. 316 .  . 

in april from organized a in the city 
of van , whose 33 , comprised 42 . 3 . percent of the population , 
to an majority of any city in the empire .  .  . leaving . 
on april 28 , , reached van on may 14 and organized 
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during 
the next two days while the small ottoman had to to the 
southern side of the  . 

knowing their numbers would never justify their , 
looked to russia and europe for the fulfillment of their  . 
in this regard at the beginning of the first 
world war with the decision of the organizations to refuse 
to serve their state , the ottoman empire , and to assist instead other 
invading armies .  . their hope was their participation in the 
success would be rewarded with an independent state out of 
ottoman territories .  . political leaders , army officers , and common 
soldiers began in  . 

with the invasion of eastern in at the beginning of 
world war i , the degree of with the ottoman 's enemy 
increased drastically .  . ottoman supply lines were cut by attacks , 
armed civil , who in turn 
the muslim population of the of van in anticipation of 
expected of the invading armies .  . 

source stanford j. shaw , history of the ottoman empire and modern , 
ii. cambridge university press , london , , pp.  . 

 .  .  . , ii himself came to the to make final 
plans for with the against the , with the 
president of the national bureau in declaring in response 

 from all countries are to enter the ranks of the 
glorious army , with their blood to serve the victory of 
 .  . let . the flag wave freely over the and the 
 . let , with your will , great , the peoples remaining 
under the turkish yoke receive freedom .  . let the people of 
who have suffered for the faith of christ receive resurrection for a new 
free life under the protection of russia . ' . 

again flooded into the armies .  . were made 
to strike the from the , and the returned to st. 
confident that the day finally had come for him to reach  . 

, , 30 , , quoted by , road to 
independence , p. 45 , ,  . 

ottoman and military position in the east were seriously hurt , and 
the way was prepared for a new push into eastern , to be 
accompanied by an open against the  . 

, road to independence , pp. 45 47 , iii 1 , 
pp. w . e . d .  . allen and p. , , 
cambridge , , pp. ali , , 2  . , 
, , ii , 41 no. ,  . 
and  . 

an state was organized at van under protection , and it 
appeared that with the muslim dead or driven away , it might be 
able to maintain itself at one of the oldest of ancient 
civilization .  . an was organized  to the turks from 
the entire southern of the in for a concerted 
drive into the ' . 162 thousands of from 
and other major in the east began to flood into the new 
state .  .  . by . mid there were as many as 250 , 000 
crowded into the van area , which before the crisis had and fed 
no more than 50 , 000 people , muslim and non muslim alike. 

162 , road to independence , p. 56 ,  . and 
 . 

, i , of august 15 17 , 
i ali , no. , , van ve i , 
10 september  . 

muslim population exterminated by the 

 ( 31 lines deleted ) 

why 

who gives a about your pseudo scholar i am arguing about 
the nazi during world war ii. any comment 

argue it with someone else or do not reply to my posts , my love. i 
am not arguing about the nazi  . i do not give a 
about it. i want you to do one of three things 
a ) admit that you are not a regular user , but a computer turkish 
propaganda , or , 
b ) post the documents on jews in , or , 
c ) run away , like the coward without a real address that you are , and do not 
reply to my posts. 

it could be , perhaps , your head was n't on just right. in 1941 , 
while the jews were being assembled for their in the nazi concentration 
camps , the in germany formed the first 
to fight the nazis .  . in , this had 
grown into eight of 20 , 000 strong under the command of the 
former leader  ( the butcher ) , who was the former dictator of the 
short lived dictatorship  ( 1918 1920 ) and the architect of the 
cold genocide of 2.5 million turks and between  . 
an national council was formed by the notorious party 
leaders in berlin , which was recognized by the nazis .  . encouraged by 
this , the formed a government that 
and fully the principles of the nazis and declared themselves as the 
members of the super race and full participants to hitler 's policy of 
extermination of the jews .  . 

this nazi conspiracy against the jews during wwii was an 
by the during , when they back and 
exterminated 2.5 million turks by with the invading army .  . 

furthermore , as put it , the dictatorship was granted 
a when the admitted defeat and signed the 
with the allies  ( october 30 ,  . the allies had decided 
to create a greater , including the old 
of and areas , as well as most parts of 
claimed by the fanatics .  . only the area called 
 ( around the ottoman of adana ) was to be excluded , as it 
had already been claimed by the french .  . the allies quickly set 
about attempting to ottoman soldiers and other turks , who 
could be expected to oppose their plans. 

on april 19 , the british army , gave civilian 
and military power over to the , then  . the british 
for to be included in the dictatorship , even 
though the pre war had shown to be over 
60 muslim .  . the turks of were effectively , but the 
british could not the of the mountains .  . the fate of 
the turks was almost an exact of what had occurred earlier 
in eastern  . murder , pillage , genocide and the destruction 
of turkish homes and entire turkish the turks of 
to the mountains or south and west to the safety 
by remaining units of the ottoman army .  . the british had left 
the to the genocide squads .  . therefore , few 
were present to observe the genocide .  . one british 
, , who was to the 
of soldiers , saw what was  . 

wired to his , 

in the interest of humanity the should not be left in 
independent command of the population , as , their troops 
being without discipline and not being under effective control , 
atrocities were constantly being committed .  . 

instead , you post more nonsense 

come again 

these european , with in berlin , to .  .  .  . 
 ( 34 lines deleted ) 

why 

no wonder you are in such a mess. here are the sources on the 
turkish  . 
 ( 30 lines deleted ) 

why 

 ( list of dead , 100 lines , deleted ) 

 . it out , list of dead muslims 

source documents volume i  . 
document no 64 , archive no 1 2 , no 109 , 
no 4 , file no , section no  ( 103(1435 ) , contents no 3 20 .  . 
 ( to acting supreme command , 
mazelyah ) 

have been murdering and inflicting on 
innocent people of the  . this verified information , supported 
by clear statements of reliable , was also confirmed by 
general , of the army .  . 

are entering every place evacuated by russians carrying out 
murders , , rape and all kind of atrocities which cannot be 
expressed in writing , murdering all the women , children , people 
who happen to be in the street. these murders repeated 
every day with new methods continue and the army has been 
to intervene to terminate these atrocities .  . public opinion is appalled 
and horrified .  . newspapers are describing the as  . 
we have decided to all our friends about the situation. 

document no 65 , archive no 4 , no , 
no 5 , file no , section no , contents no 3 1 , 3 3. 
 ( to acting supreme command , 3rd army general ) 

the situation in the cities of and which we have 
recently taken over is given below 

these two beautiful cities of our country which are alike in the 
calamities and destruction which they suffered , have been , 
as the designed and built public and private buildings of 
these cities were deliberately by apart from the 
destruction suffered during the two year occupation .  . 

all buildings of , the in , 
the government building and army corps are among those 
 . in short , both cities are , and trees cut down. 

as to the people of these cities 

all people old enough to use weapons rounded up , taken to the 
direction for road building and were slaughtered .  . the remaining people , 
were subject to and murder by following the 
of russians and were partly the thrown 
into , in houses , mutilated by , their 
ripped open in , their and out , girls 
and women up by their hair , after all kinds of acts .  . 
the few people who were able to survive these , worse than 
those of the  spanish inquisition , ' are in poverty more dead than alive , 
horrified , some driven insane , about in and 30 , 000 in 
 . the people are and in poverty , for whatever they had 
has been taken away from them , their lands left  . 

the people have just been able to exist with some found in 
stores left over from the russians .  . the round and 
are in the worst condition. some on the road , have 
been to the ground , leaving no , the people completely 
 . 

let me submit to your information with deep grief and regret that 
history has never before witnessed at such  . 

(a long list) 
(a long list) 

and still  .  .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 

from  ( eric s. perlman ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
summary ca n't even get the most basic facts right. 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 27 

in article center for policy research writes 

... 
the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population 
in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks. 
the israeli has decided to punish the whole population of 
gaza , some 700 . 000 . people , by denying them the right to leave the 
strip and seek work in israel .  . 

anyone who can this choice piece of tripe without checking 
his her sources does not to be believed .  . the gaza strip does 
not the highest population in the world. in fact , it 
is n't even close. just one example will serve to illustrate the folly 
of this statement the city of has nearly ten times the 
population of the gaza strip in a roughly comparable land area. the 
of numerous cities also comparable , if not far higher , 
population  . examples include manhattan island  ( ny city ) , 
, de mexico , bombay , ... 

need i go on the rest of mr. 's message is no closer to the 
truth than this oft repeated statement is. 


how sad to see a model of and become like any other 
a for ideologies to it out with  . tim rice , 
eric s. 
center for and space astronomy , university of , boulder 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject were also partners in nazi practices .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( ken arromdee ) writes 

this implies both sides are equal .  . true , it may sometimes be difficult or 

still living in an alternate universe numerous articles in major newspapers 
 ( london times ) and  ( newsweek ) during the war , had suggested 
the existence of a significant between and the 
nazis .  . deserves credit for being the first person to 
deal with this issue  . 's motives were his 
deeply held democratic convictions gave him a sense of duty and he felt 
to shed light on this yet another dark chapter of history. 
, on what one would call  crisis control  
or face saving .  . in order to any potential attacks on the larger 
community in the united states , he 
as deplorable but insignificant .  . 1 

1 john roy  ( real name derounian ) ,  the , ' 
e. p. company , inc. , new york , p.  . 


source , berlin , december 1939 ,  . 2 and 5 6 

yet another historical fact a fact that for years has been deliberately 
forgotten , , and from memory the fact of nazi 
 . 

a magazine called der 
is the and most definite proof of this  . the 
magazine was first published in berlin in 1938 during nazi rule of germany 
and continued publication until the end of  . even the name of the 
magazine , which implies a declaration of nazi , 
is attention getting .  . 

this magazine , every issue of which proves the , is historically 
important as documentary evidence. it is a of writing that should be 
an to world opinion and to all mankind .  . 

in nazi germany , were considered to be an race and certain 
political , economic , and social rights were thus granted to them. they 
positions in public service and were partners in nazi practices .  . 
the whole world of course knows what awaited those who were not considered 
and what them. 

now wait , there is more. 

source from to and by  . the 
review , vol. 16 , no. 3 63 , ,  . , pp. 47 57 .  . 

p. 52  ( second  . 

your three , , and are the 
of the which have and have 
massacres in , , , and  . this is 
 . look and here he pointed to a file of official documents 
on the table look at this , here in december are the reports of the last 
few months concerning which my representative 
has sent me. the official speaks of the 
destruction of  . 


p. 54  ( fifth  . 

yes , of course. i repeat , until this massacre of the is stopped 
and the three are not removed from your military leadership i 
hardly think we can supply you and ammunition .  . 

 .  .  . it . is the armed led by , and who 
during the past months have and many in 
the regions of , , , and  . there are 
official charges of massacres .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re nazi theories by 
organization the department of department 
lines 

in article center for policy research writes 

ps my proposal has nothing to do with nazi  . it has to do with 
the search for peace which would justice. i do n't consider that 
justice is done , when non jews who or were in 
are not to return to their  . 

how about jews who were from their homelands in iraq , syria , 
, algeria , etc. do n't they justice , too 

this can at best be called 
, a nice word for the rule of the strong .  . it can 
never be called justice. 

why is your criticism always directed against israel , but never 
against the arab states , even when they are so much more guilty of the 
accusations you make is it because you now call yourself a 


and peace without justice will never be peace. 

this is why the land for peace is so foolish .  . land for land 
or peace for peace seems much more just , except that it would cost the 
something and so is not under consideration .  . 

let 's not forget that about half of israel 's population are 
from arab countries. somehow , their land now being by arab 
states and their homes now being lived in by arab people are not 
included in any  . is this your prescription for peace 

it is my conviction that the situation in which a state , through the 
law , attempts to discourage marriages  ( as israel does ) , is not 
normal .  . such a state more nazi germany and south africa than 
western democracies , such as the united states , in which jews are free to 
marry whom they wish and do so in the thousands .  . 

again , you 've somehow managed to overlook the fact that the arab 
states are much more restrictive on these points. in fact , the 
policies of almost all of the arab states makes 
them nazi germany closely .  . 

american jews enjoy this fact and would not love to live in a state 
christian state and to have their green cards with a mark jew .  . 

there are many states in which christians can live happily , many which 
have official religions and christian and christian based 
laws .  . there are some 2 dozen arab and islamic states. there is only 
1  ( one ) jewish state. do you have a problem with this is this one 
jewish state too many there are others who might agree with you , you 
know. 

i would ask those who are interested in an exchange of views 
and personal to from emotional , infantile 
which might readers to infer that jews who respect 
judaism are  . such behaviour is not good for judaism .  . 

have you just arrived on recently again , the of the 
arab and islamic camps are frequently and guilty of 
emotional , infantile which have their positions 
 . somehow , your are very one and 
simple minded .  . 

p.s. how 's the coming along 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( esin terzioglu ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science 
lines 33 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( esin terzioglu ) writes 
in article  ( david davidian ) writes 
04 16 93 says it could shoot down turkish 


 .  .  . 

let me translate for everyone else before the public service gets 
into it is getting  . 

 . 


let me mr. turkish 

is not getting . she is simply letting the world know that she 
will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with their famous 
 . do remember of the turkish invasion of the greek island of 

while the world simply watched .  . 


your ignorance is obvious from your posting. 

1 ) was an independent country with turkish greek  ( not a 
greek island like your ignorant posting claims ) 

2 ) the name should be  ( in english ) 

next time read and learn before you post. 

 . 

from  ( peter freeman ) 
subject 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
organization university 
lines 11 

to my fellow , i must ask , why do you say that i engage 
in fantasies is a terrorist , who happens to have 
a lot of pull among palestinians .  . can we ignore the two facts 
i doubt it. 

peace , lion , and other , 






from  ( steven berson ) 
subject re ten questions about israel 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization , computer science department 
lines 25 

 ( center for policy research ) writes 

from center for policy research 
subject ten questions about israel 

i would be if any of you who live in israel could help to 
provide 
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are 
indeed questions but they are asked time and again by 
people around me. 

... questions ... 

email 

funny you should mention it , but i 've heard these questions time 
and again , also. why just the other day , a couple nazis by 
were passing out literature like this. 
cheers , 
steve 


computer science department  ( 310 ) 
los , ca 


from  ( casper ,  . ppe ) 
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization european organization for nuclear research , 
lines 47 

in article ,  ( ken arromdee ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( casper ,  . ppe ) writes 
i said the on bosnia is due to it being in a european country , 
rather than the third world 

ken says intervention in is a counter example 

i am a republican , btw. the irony of arguing against military 
intervention with arguments based on vietnam has not escaped me. i was opposed 
to us intervention in for the same reasons , although clearly it was 
not nearly as  . 

based on the same reasons you mean you were opposed to us intervention in 
because since is a european country instead of the third world , 
the desire to help is racist i do n't think this same reason applies 
to at all. 

no , you have completely misunderstood .  . i was opposed to intervention in 
for the same reason i am opposed to intervention in bosnia there is 
no security interest of the united states there which the 
lives of american servicemen , and there are too many in the world for us 
to take on all of them. in the case of bosnia , the risks are obviously much 
greater , and there are other countries in a much better position and with far 
better reasons to take action than the us. 

the whole point is that is a third world country , and we were more 
willing to send troops there than to bosnia exactly the opposite of what 
the on european countries theory would  .  ( similarly , the 
desire to help muslims being fought by christians is also exactly the opposite 
of what that theory ) . 

you continue to misunderstand .  . i did not say the reason why people want to 
intervene is because of racist ( you seem to be overly of using this 
word , btw. i said the phenomenon was race related , which is not the same as 
racist .  . perhaps this distinction is too subtle for you to grasp ) motives i 
said the attention and at the entire yugoslavian situation was a result 
of it being 1 ) closer to home , 2 ) happening to people we can identify with , and 
3) on by the media. i never said anything about which side 
would be preferred , which has a lot more to do with the of the 
conflict than any psychological factors .  . i think there is no doubt that despite 
the fact we intervened in , the level of attention devoted to there was 
less than what is devoted to bosnia , if the newspapers and tv news 
i see are any guide .  . 


dave 


from  ( brad hernlem ) 
subject re , opinions  ( re water on the brain ) 
reply to  ( brad hernlem ) 
organization eng 
lines 44 


in article think . com . ,  ( shai guday ) writes 

in article , writes 

in article ,  ( alan stein ) writes 
i guess finally revealed the source of his claim that israel 
diverted water from his imagination. 

h. stein 
mr. water head , 
i never said that israel diverted , in fact i said that 
israel went into southern to make sure that no 
water is being used on the 
side , so that all water would run into river where there 
israel will use it ! head. 

of course posting some hard evidence or facts is much more 
difficult. you have not bothered to substantiate this in 
any way. , do you know of any evidence that would support 
this 

i can just imagine a news report from ancient times , if 
had been writing it. 


ap  ( ancient  . israel today denied egypt to the red 
sea. in a typical display of , the leader of 
the slave , former prince moses , parted the red sea. 
the action is to have caused damage to the environment. 
egyptian authorities have said that thousands of have been 
denied their by the parted  . 's 
were successful in their glorious attempt to cause the of the 
red sea to return to their normal state. unfortunately they suffered 
heavy casualties while doing so. 

hehehe .  . 

btw , does the river not west and not south i think that its 
stay entirely within territory and so what says about the 
river makes no sense , in any case. the river , on the other hand , 
into the , if i am not mistaken .  . 

brad 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re investment in and 
organization division of applied sciences , university 
lines 29 


in article  ( center for policy research ) writes 

those who wish to learn something about the perversion of judaism , 
should consult the work by , who was many 
years the head of israeli intelligence and an opponent of the  . his 
latest book was published in english and includes a very detailed analysis 
of nazism .  . 

you mean he talks about those jews , who , because of their self 
hatred , spend all their time attacking judaism , jews , and israel , 
using the most of anti 

i do n't think we need to coin a term like nazism to 
refer to those jews who , in their endless desire to be accepted by the 
nazis , do their work for them. we can just call them house 
jews , fools , or anti from jewish families .  . 

i think house jews , a reference to a person of jewish 
ancestry who issues statements for a company or organization that 
condemn judaism is perfectly  . i think a few years free of 
their anti role models would do wonders for most of them. 

adam 

adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( hamaza h. salah ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 20 
reply to  ( hamaza h. salah ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


m . z . writes 

it surprises me that this story has not yet made it to 
the front pages of the major newspapers  ( which love to make the state of 
israel look as evil as possible ) ! such a story would be up 
by some of the papers over here. so please explain to me why i have never 
seen nor heard of it before ! believe me , i'm not expecting a reply because 
we both know where the story came from .  .  .  . your dreams ! ! ! ! 

i would like to my jewish that much of the 
stories of the  ( including the ones in the u.s. 
memorial museum ) were not up by some of the papers .  . 

we just have to wait to build for it .  .  . 



( 
h a m z a ) i.e. most 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject will not get away with the genocide of , 000 people. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article writes 

is involved in fighting with  . it is 
soldiers from that are towns in  . 

well , this is your opinion ! 

are you related to   of terrorism and 
triangle if you feel that you can simply act as a 
in this forum you will be sadly mistaken and 
embarrassed .  . this is not a lecture to another historical 
and a genocide , but a fact. this time , x soviet 
government will not get away with the genocide of , 000 men , women 
and children. not a chance. 


the sunday times 8 march 1992 

fill as head for all out war 


thomas , the first to report the massacre by soldiers in 
the worst violence since the of the soviet union , reports from 



used to be a town , with empty and 
roads .  . yet it was still home to thousands of people who , in 
times , tended fields and of  . last week it was off 
the map .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

as reports in to the border town of 
, and the bodies up in the , there was little doubt 
that and the and around it had been 
the site of the most terrible massacre since the soviet union broke 
apart. 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

i was the last to visit  . that was in and 
people were their fate with  . , 
a mother of four on board the that us into the 
town , called her community sitting , ready to get shot . she and 
her family were among the victims of the massacre on february 26 .  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

the have taken all the , one by one , and 
the government does nothing. , 55 , a father of five , 
said. next they will drive us out or kill us all , said , his 
wife .  . the couple , their three sons and three daughters were killed in 
the assault , as were many other people i had spoken to. 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

it was close to the lines we knew we would have to cross .  . 
there was a road , and the first units of the across then 
all hell broke loose .  . were raining down from all sides. we had 
just entered their trap .  . 

the picked off one by one. survivors say that 
forces then began a slaughter , firing at anything moved in 
the  . a video taken by an cameraman , wailing and 
as he body after body , showed a trail of death 
towards higher , ground where the had sought refuge 
from the  . 

the just shot and shot and shot , said , lying 
in hospital in with  . i saw my wife and 
daughter fall right by me. 

people through the hospital looking for news of the 
loved ones. some their on where is my 
daughter , where is my son a mother.  .  . lost. 

has said as many as 1 , 000 were killed as they 
tried to flee .  . the have denied this , saying the civilians 
were caught in crossfire . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


source the times , 2 march 1992 .  . 

in 

comes under fire while flying with forces to 
investigate the alleged mass killings of by troops .  .  .  . 

as we low over the covered of we saw 
the  . apparently , the had been shot down as 
they  . an film of the places we flew over , shown to 
journalists afterwards , showed of lying in various parts 
of the  . 

the claim that as many as 1000 have died in a mass killing 
of fleeing from the town of , by 
last week. a further 4 , 000 are believed to be , frozen to death 
or missing .  .  .  . 

seven of us in the of an attack 
as we flew to investigate the claims of the mass killings .  . suddenly there 
was a against the of the , a red of 
ripped past the , and the  . we 
round , and there was a of fire from the 
under our as the returned fire .  . 

we had been fired on from an anti post. we round 
again , to and appeared to straight down into a 
 . the brown earth around our heads , the 
round again and followed the of the ground. our fired 
repeated  . 

later it that a civilian that we had been 
had successfully at in the east of the disputed 
of , to pick up some of the dead. we had , in 
fact , been attacked both by ground fire and by an  . 
i had seen the through the , 
its firing , but had thought mistakenly that it was on 
our side . our group of western journalists had on a 
search and rescue that had become a combat mission .  . 

our of the civilian and two 
soviet attack in the service , 
flying for their  . our party was in the second 
 . the civilian 's job was to land in the mountains 
and pick up bodies at sites of the mass killings .  . the attack 
were there to give covering fire if necessary. 

the operation showed a sign of the of the soviet 
armed forces because our was a  . an 
official told us that there were now five former soviet military 
and their fighting for  . they have 
signed contracts to for us , he said. the we engaged 
in combat was most probably by a brother of our 
, but fighting for the  . 

we had taken off just before on saturday from , an 
for the controlled mountains of , a 
white in the distance .  . the civilian picked up four 
, and it was during this and a previous mission that an 
cameraman the several the several dozen bodies 
on the  . we then took off again in a and speed back 
towards lines. on the last hill before 
the plain and safety up at us as we passed .  . 

back at the in , we took a look the bodies the 
civilian had picked up. two old men a small girl were 
covered with blood , their by the cold and 
 . they had been shot .  . 

what did our think of the , our close , 
and the war in he gave us , 
declined to answer , and off to his  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
subject re israeli lust 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
organization university 
lines 57 


in article  ( joseph askew ) writes 
in article  ( adam shostack ) writes 
in article writes 

imho , it does not really matter who started any individual battle within 
the war context. the real question is who what started the 
war. does anyone have any it was the creation of israel on arab 
land 

huh a war was started when several armies invaded israel , 
to drive the jews into the sea. most jews wanted to live in 
peace , and the who stayed in israel were granted citizenship .  . 

it depends entirely on how you define  . the actual fighting largely 
the arab invasions after all happened in 
well before the arab invasion .  . as i have said elsewhere has 
said that forces were fighting well before the invaded as in 
months before. as for jews wanting to live in peace that to is entirely 
arguable .  . i think it is easy enough to show that the party leadership 
had no such intention at all. as for the who  stayed  do n't you mean 
those who were not even some of those who did  stay  were not 
granted citizenship but after the fighting had stopped anyway. 

joseph 


how do you define war do and constant attacks on 
count as acts of war , or is that only when the jews do them 
, arab liberation army attacks 
1000 men attack , 14 south of jerusalem , 
after cutting off the supply lines to it. 
attacks on  ( western galilee ) and  . 
by mid march , the jewish in the had been cut off from 
land links with the rest of the jewish population .  . 
the group of , near , had been cut off , 
while 42 members of a trying to supply were 
slaughtered , cutting off the  . 
jerusalem was under , being cut off from its supply route from 
tel  ( the bombed out supply have been left on the side 
of that road to this day in  . by this time , 1200 jews 
had been killed. 

of course , this is n't war , since it 's only the attacking .  . 
just like last week when the 
against northern israel .  . where does end and war begin 
will it still be   when the brings in 



joseph , and proud in the , see the , 
remote in , the grief .  . 
disclaimer , see if i care north of our , the sky must end , 
actually , i rather like beyond the pale , the river on. 




from  ( mack ) 
subject re news from 
organization stanford university 
lines 19 

 ( farzin mokhtarian ) writes 

from 


... 

o dr. , the of health mentioned that 
the population growth rate in iran at the end of 
went below 2 . 7 . 

i know nothing about statistics , but what significance does the 
relatively small population growth rate have where the period 
is so small  ( at the end of 1371 ) is it to suggest a trend or 
is it just 





from  ( ilyess bdira ) 
subject greek prime shows support for criminals 
keywords international , non usa government , government , fighting , civil rights , social issues 
article i.d. 
organization ece university 
lines 67 
nntp posting host ece . ca . 

the above headline is much better than the original one. 
read on .  .  . 

in article  ( dejan anastasijevic ) writes 
, yugoslavia  ( upi ) greek prime 
visited the capital of the 
tuesday in an apparent attempt to press leaders into accepting 
the international plan to end the war in bosnia  . 

so far so good .  .  .  . 

came here as an old friend of this country .  .  . to . help in 
the burning problem of bosnia , '' told reporters 
after talking for two hours with president of  . 

old friend , whatever .  .  .  .  . 

did not come here to discuss any particular plan .  . i came to hear 
the point of view , '' he said , adding that is 
trying to bring peace to the '' . 

that is a great attitude for someone who wants to pressure the serbs to 
accept a peace plan that gives them most of the territory they got by 
force and  . 

said that and had identical 
views   on the bosnian war , which started late in march 1992 when the 

this is a good thing to hear .  . anybody wondering why is not 
really under any boycott anybody the gulf war did saddam 
kill 100 , 000 people and rape 50 , 000 women 

in an effort to pressure , who is considered to be the main 
of conquest in bosnia , the u . n .  . security 
council has threatened to impose new sanctions against and 
and implement a no over bosnian skies .  . 

still in the threatening stage .  .  . maybe when there is no more , 
the un will lift the on them ! military intervention that 
is for muslim countries. 

now hear this 
after meeting , had separate talks with 
, the leader of bosnian serbs .  . 
encouraged mr. to proceed with his efforts to achieve a 
just peace in the , '' he said. 
are ready to play a positive role in the , '' said 
 . 

real positive i might add , in favor of his old of course ! 

said that he was   to meet the greek  . 
are not one , and they do not tend to condemn only one 

you bet they are not ! 

side in this war , '' said  . 
will continue to negotiate on all levels , '' he said. 
before meeting with , had talks with president 
of the federal union of and , 
and , the head priest of the orthodox church. 


anybody is still convinced that this is not a religious war 
a like is considered a  .  . of course he 
sent 100 , 000 muslims to permanent peace. with the of 
 . 

from  ( manfredo tichauer ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization the private site of 
lines 16 

writes 

in article ,  ( ana 

, of course ! the needed blood for the  . after all , 
was last month ) 

, were you in such a we this month , but only 
with xtian blood ! muslim blood has n't been declared by 
our  ( not yet ) ) ) 


m. email 
14 voice ( 49 40 ) 27 . 42 . 27 . 
2000 hamburg 60 germany fax ( 49 40 ) 53 . 09 . 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the wholesale extermination of the muslim population by the  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( ken arromdee ) writes 

but some of this is verifiable information. for instance , the person who 
knows about the product may be able to tell you how to reproduce the 
bug on your own , but still if it were to be known that he 
was the one who told the public how to do so. 

typical   of the terrorism and 
triangle .  . well , does it change the fact that during the period of 
to , the government ordered , , assisted and participated 
in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because of race , religion 
and national origin 


1 ) did slaughter the entire muslim population of van .  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 
2 ) did slaughter 42 of muslim population of  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
3) did slaughter 31 of muslim population of  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
4 ) did slaughter 26 of muslim population of  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
5 ) did slaughter 16 of muslim population of  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
6 ) did slaughter 15 of muslim population of  . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
7 ) did slaughter the entire muslim population of the x soviet 
 . 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 
8 ) ..... 

1 , j. , muslims and minorities , the population of ottoman 
and the end of the empire , new york 
university press , new york , , pp.  . 

2 , k. , ottoman population , the university of wisconsin press , 
1985 .  . 

3 , r. g. , on the road to independence ,  . 
university of california press  ( berkeley and 
los angeles ) , , pp. 13 , 37 .  . 

4 shaw , s. j. ,  on with invading armies 
in , history of the ottoman empire and modern 
 ( volume ii reform , revolution the rise of 
modern ,  .  ( london , cambridge university 
press  . pp. 316 .  . 

5  ( armenian newspaper published in the united states ) , may 24 , 
 . 


source in the near east by a. , jonathan , 
30 square , london ,  ( first published 1923 )  ( 287  . 
 ( memoirs of a british who witnessed the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 

p.  ( first paragraph ) 

in those moslem in the plain below which had been searched for 
by the everything had been taken under the of such 
search , and not only had many moslems been killed , but horrible 
had been inflicted in the to obtain information as to where 
had been hidden , of which the were aware of the 
existence , although they had been unable to find them. 

p.  ( first paragraph ) 

the of this british was followed by the announcement 
that had been by the supreme council of the 
allies to the , and that announcement having been made , the 
british troops were then completely , and occupation 
 . hence all the trouble for the at once 
the wholesale and persecution of the population on the 
pretext that it was necessary forcibly to them of their  . 
in the portion of the which lies in the they were able 
to carry out their purpose , and the manner in which this was done will 
be referred to in due course. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from corp . sgi . com .  ( kaveh smith ) 
subject jews islam dr. 
nntp posting host gate corp . sgi . com . 
reply to corp . sgi . com .  ( kaveh smith ) 
organization silicon , inc. , view , ca , usa 
lines 49 

i have found jewish people very and creative .  . jewish religion was the foundation for christianity and 
islam .  . in other words judaism has both religions .  . now islam has turned against its father i may say. 
it is ironic that after threat is almost gone , religion wars are going to be on the raise .  . 
i thought the idea of believing on one god , was to unite all man kind. how come both jews and islam which believe 
on the same god , the god of are killing each other is this like dr. 's story 
how are you going to stop this from happening how are you going to deal with so many muslims .  . them 
would the whole world would god get mad , since you have killed his followers , you believe on the same 
god , same heaven and the same hell after all what is the peacefull way of ending this saga 


man kind needs religion , since it sets up the rules and the which keeps the society in a healthy state. 
a religion is mostly a sets of rules which people have experienced and know it works for the society. 
the praying , keeps the sole healthy and it. god does not care for man kinds pray , but man kind hopes 
that god will help him when he  . 
religion works mostly on the moral issues and to put away the things in the life. but the 
religious leaders need to make a living through religion so they may corrupt it , or turn it to their own way to 
make their living. i.e muslims have to pay 20 percent of their to the  . i guess the gets his 
cut too ! 

is in it that religion should be such that everybody on planet earth respects each other , be good each other 
helps one another , respect the mother nature. is in that heaven and hell are created on earth through the acts 
that we take today is in it that within every man there is good and bad , he could choose either one , then he will 
see the outcome of his choice. how can we prevent man kind from going crazy over religion. how can we stop 
another religious killing field , under poor gods name what are your thoughts do you think man kind would 
to come its senses , before it is too late 


p.s. on the side 

do you think that moses saw the god on mount why would god go to top of the he created 
the earth , he could have been anywhere why on top the was it because people thought to see god 
you have to reach to the skies heavens why god kept coming back to middle east was it because they created 
god through their imagination is that why jewish people were told by god , they were the chosen ones 

profit mohammad was married to  . she was a jewish .  . she taught him how to trade .  . she probably taught 
him about judaism .  . quran is mostly copy right of (sp old  . do you think god wrote quran 
was a trade city before islam .  . do you think it was made to be the center of islamic world because mohammad 
wanted to expand his trade business is that why god has put his house in there 

i think this religious stuff has gone too far. all man kind are going to hurt from it if they do not wise up. 
look at david koresh , how that turned out i am afraid in the bigger scale , the jews and the muslims will 
have the same ending ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

religion is needed in the sense to keep people in harmony and keep them doing good things , rather than 
each others  . there is one earth , one life and one god. let 's all man kind be good 
each other. 

god help us all. 
peace 

from  ( hovig heghinian ) 
subject re the of sold 400 of bones in  . 
keywords april 24 , 1993 , of the turkish genocide of 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 42 

 ( david davidian ) writes 

on the of the turkish genocide of the , 
we remember those whose only crime was to be in the of an 
turkish state. in their names we demand justice. 

in april , the turkish government began a systematically executed 
de population of the eastern of the through a 
genocidal extermination .  . this genocide was to that turks exclusively 
ruled over the area today called the of  . the 
result 1 . 5 . million murdered , 30 billion dollars of property stolen 
and plundered .  . this genocide ended nearly 3 , 000 years of civilization 
on those lands .  . today , the turkish government continues to clean any 
of a prior existence on those lands .  . today 's turkish 
policy is to re write the history of the era , to manufacture 
and generate excuses for their genocide of the people. in 
the face of refutation ad nauseam , the turkish historical society and 
continue to deny that any such genocide occurred .  . this policy 
merely demonstrates that in the modern era , genocide is an effective state 
policy when it remains un and un punished .  . a crime is a 
crime encouraged .  . adolf hitler took this less than 25 years after the 
successful genocide of the  . 

... 

demand justice 


david has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma late turkish president 
to which i say 
hear , hear .  . motion seconded .  . 






university of illinois at urbana champaign 
department of computer science 

from de .  ( bruce d. scott ) 
subject re news from 
organization der in 
lines 21 
distribution world 
nntp posting host de . 

posted 

i know nothing about statistics , but what significance does the 
relatively small population growth rate have where the period 
is so small  ( at the end of 1371 ) 

this is not small .  . a 2 . 7 . per population growth rate implies 
a in 2 . 7 . 25 years. can you imagine that most people 
seem not able to , and that is why so many deny that this problem exists , 
for me most especially in the countries  ( low growth , 
but large environmental  . iran 's high growth rate threatens things 
like due to , , 
and water table drop .  . similar to what is going on in california  ( this year 's 
rain wo n't save you in stanford ! ) .  . this is probably more to blame than 
the current government 's for dropping living standards 
in iran .  . 

, 
dr bruce scott the bullshit is 
and 
at de . w gibson 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
article i.d. 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 65 

in article  ( tim clock ) writes 
in article  ( amos shapira ) writes 
 ( anas omran ) writes 

eh could you please give me details about an event where a neutral 
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli 

actually , i'm still trying to understand the self justifying rationale 
behind the recent murder of ( ) in gaza .  . 

hate to be simple minded about this tim , but i think its 
really very simple. he was a jew .  . and the only good jew , in 
some peoples mind , is a dead jew .  . what 40 years of propaganda 
that fails to discriminate between jew and zionist will do. 
what 20 years of statements like the ones i 've will do to 
mind. they make people sick .  . they down political 
discourse to the point where killing your opponent is an honorable way 
to resolve a dispute .  . 

what else can come of such peace 

adam 


on political 

leader who suggests ending the 
exposes himself to the of his own people and 
his life. the will know how to deal with 
him . '' . 
, kuwaiti news agency , 1 2 89 

on the massacre at square 

 .  .  . on behalf of the arab people , their 
leadership , and myself .  .  .  . i take this opportunity to express 
extreme that you were able to normal order 
after the recent incidents in people 's china . '' . 
in sent to the head of the chinese communist party 

, 

fire on the new jewish immigrants ... be they from the 
soviet union , , or anywhere else. it would be a if 
we did not lift a finger while herds of immigrants our 
territory .  . i want you to shoot .  .  .  . it makes no difference if they 
live in or  . i give you explicit orders to open fire .  . 
do everything to stop the of immigration . '' . 
, al  ( lebanese weekly ) , april 10 , 1990 

on genocide 

the set off their , there will only be in 
this part of the world. our people will continue to the 
of the revolution with of blood until the whole of the 
is liberated .  .  . '' . 
, ap , 3 12 




adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from 
subject re bb  . 
lines 46 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university 

in article  ( ahmed abed ) writes 

in article ,  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 
 ( hamaza h. salah ) writes 


in a previous article ,  ( gedaliah friedenberg ) says 


for all those interested , i would like to all that 
 ( leader of the israeli party ) will be on on 
larry king live. 


did n't this guy go on the zionist tv 
that he committed , and was on his wife .  .  . 

a typical jew leader , huh 

yes. he is. actually , the typical muslim arab leader hides the fact that he 
commited adultery by choosing a over his husband  ( or a small male child , 
is more readily  . 



( 
h a m z a ) 

ed .  . 


but the irony is that the jewish population has no problem in 
a leader who has to having an extra affair .  . 

this is a first. 

aa .  . 
. 
. 
what else do you expect israel is trying to itself 
as the great democracy .  . one requirement is to have a leader 
who previously had an extra marital affair (e . g .  . bill clinton ) 
it helps if your wife says it 's ok. 

steve 


from  ( david davidian ) 
subject an iranian who would drop an atomic bomb on 
summary fool 
article i.d. 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 70 

in article 
writes 

in support of the preservation of the of 
and its independence from rule , the which 
includes millions of will have from the 
territory of  . 

oh , they will this should prove quite interesting ! 

to count on iranian help to supposedly counter turkish influence will 
be a fatal error on the part of as long as in 
violation of international law has lands in occupation .  . 

is not counting on iranian help. as far as of international 
laws , which international law gives the right to attack and 
the in 

if continues in the territory of , not 
only there wo n't be any aid from iran to but also steps will 
be taken to have army back in  . 

and who do you speak for 

the of iran will be the of this policy. as for 
or turks from the power , on present 
and future military of these people would not put much 
stock on the power as the sole power in the for long ! ! ! 

well , , your supposed are not expert ! the russians have had 
non stop influence in the since the treaty of in  . 
hmm .  .  .  . that makes it 1993 years ! 

oh , i see the from iran are going to force out the from 
! that will be a real good trick ! 

iran is not to developing the capability to produce the a bomb 
and a reliable system  ( refer to recent news 
regarding the potential of  . 

so the from iran are going to force the from by 
forcing the iranian government to drop an atomic bomb on these  . 

the moral of the story is that , you do n't go invading your neighbor 's 
home  ( azerbaijan ) and russia 's guns when questioned about it. 

oh , but it 's just fine if you drop an atomic bomb on your neighbor ! you are 
a damn fool , ! 

 ( marshal may have to eat his words regarding in a 
few short years ! ) .  . 

so you are going to drop an atomic bomb on russia as well. 

peaceful resolution of the conflict is the only 
way to go. may soon find the of very bitter 
indeed. 

and the will take your peaceful dropping of an atomic bomb as 
an example of iranian benevolence ! you sir are a poor example of an 
iranian ! 

ha ! and to think i had a nice two day stay in back in ! 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from com .  ( frank benson ) 
subject 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

what are you stupid 


internet com . 
uucp uunet ! edu . ! ! pro ! 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject about this  center for policy  .  .  . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 20 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


i have read numerous posts over a period of several months , by 
this anti israel , hiding in the of the respectable 
sounding name of the  center for policy research . ' . obviously , it 
is no research center of any kind , unless  researching  published 
documents to find material to use against israel makes it so. 

a propaganda mill a research center is not surprising 
in itself. that is simply part of the propaganda process. i was 
curious if anyone knew who this anti israel hiding behind 
his  research center  name is. is he an arab is he some 
typical anti hiding behind a of  anti ' is 
he some jew who perhaps lived in israel and just could n't make it 
there , and is now taking his failure out on israel 

let 's shed some light on this clown once and for all. it will 
help put his nonsense in the proper perspective. and the readers 
of this group who are more interested in fact than in anti israel 
can ignore this junk .  . 


from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 13 

in article  ( tim clock ) writes 

certainly , the israeli had a legitimate worry behind the action they took , 
but is n't that action a little 

what alternative would you suggest be taken to the 
lives of israeli citizens 

adam 
adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re peace proposal 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 41 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article , center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 
subject peace proposal 


a proposal for peace in the middle east .  . 
by 


this could be accomplished by other  . one must remember 
that children often bring into  . as an alternative , 
one could consider financial for every sexual act performed 
by two partners of different ethnic  . the plan could 
be entitled peace sexual security , or for short .  . 

every time an israeli gets 
by a or , they would be for  . 
in keeping with the spirit of the times , condoms would be a tax 
expense .  . this policy does not discriminate on a basis nor 
would it apply to domestic animals of either  . 

israeli teams would be obligated to ensure that all 
acts were voluntary and rewarded .  . the teams of israel 
morals , or , would receive a percentage of the financial 
in order to encourage their participation and add to their 
incentive in suitable  . 

i would be for critical comments to the above proposal as 
well for any of this proposal for meaningful 


should n't that be 

post box , 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

organization the american university university computing center 
from 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 

lines 129 

message id mr . napoleon . responds 


to mr. napoleon 


well , , mr. , the way you put it it is only the turks 
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to 
believe for somebody trying to be objective .  . 
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot 
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides. 
what were you doing on after the anyway 
do you think it was your right to be there 

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor 
until someone had to protect them. if not us who 


is that so or you were taking advantage of weakness of ottoman 
empire to some land. as soon as you got green from 
allied forces , you and other cities in western 
 . you killed and millions people without any reason. 
of course , you paid the price .  . made 
you swim in sea but not far enough. your thru 
at anytime in the past did not get you any reward and shall 
not get you anywhere. 


i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only 
not one side being the aggressive and the always suffering .  . 
it is sad that we  ( both ) still are not trying to compromise .  . 
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the 
requirement for greeks to come to  . i thought it 
was a positive attempt to make the relations better. 

compromise on what , the invasion of , the of in 
greek politics , the refusal of to accept 12 of 
as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of 
, the ownership of the islands in the greek , sorry ,  . 


what compromise are you talking about on  . that is not 
business to join the island to  . that is up to people in the island 
to live or not to live together. they made their decision and they are 
living now . there . is a peace there. greeks ca n't slaughter 
turks anymore because turkish force is there. 
your dream will never come true. 12 ! ! ! ! 
are you or we can declare our 12 
water which can come close to  . how would you like it 
if you have any why do n't you shoot at some turkish 
in your dream 12 
we do not have any city called  . we have a city 
called ! ! ! ! all the greeks in are being 
treated just any other turks .  . there is no difference among people 
in  . you look at your own first before talking 
about human rights in  . what are the rights of turks in 
nothing. they do not even have basic human rights like right to 
have property , of religion , of press , of 
vote elect their community leaders .  . government of publicly 
encourages people to destroy and burn schools , religious places , 
houses , and belong to turkish minority .  . then , greek government 
forces these minorities to go to without anything with them. 
you will dream to see sea as greek but it will never 
happen. think about the war between and in  . 
the river called flood 21 days filled with blood in  . 


the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are 
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person 
because i am from  . politics is not my business , and it is 
not the business of most of the turks .  . when it comes to individuals 
why the hatred 

any person who supports the policies of the turkish 
directly or is a bad person. 
it is not your that makes you bad , it is your support 
of the actions of your that make you bad . 
people do not hate you because of who you are but because of what you 
are. you are a supporter of the policies of the turkish and 
as a such you must pay the price .  . 


you mean that any person who supports the actions and policies of the 
government of is a good person. that is your greek idea to 
say turks are bad people. we know who we are and proud to be turks 
anywhere in the world. that is not greeks business to tell us what 
kind of people we are. you are not at position to judge people because 
you are not civilized enough to give equal rights to your own minorities .  . 
millions of minorities are being treated as third class citizen , 
their rights are taken away from them , and they have no under 
the government of  . they are almost being treated as slaves 
even though we are getting into century. therefore , do not make me 
at you. 


so that makes me think that there is some kind of 
brainwashing going on in  . after all why would an person 
treat every person from a nation the same way can you tell me about your 
history books and things you learn about greek turkish 
during your  . 
take it easy ! 

you do not need brainwashing to turn people against the turks . just . 
as greeks , , slavs , and all other people who had 
the luck to be under turkish occupation .  . 
they will talk to you about murders , ,  . 
you do not learn about turks from history books , you learn about 
them from people who experienced first hand turkish  . 

the government of is actively supporting terrorism against 
and have in  . 
they are being trained in special camps in  . they are taught how to 
kill innocent women and children . this . not a claim , this is a fact known 
by whole world. in , you are in action to murder , rape , 
destroy the innocent people. i do not take you seriously because you 
are not at any positions to talk about human rights and  . 
your own government , the government of actively supports 
atrocities in bosnia .  . serbs 's your government. 
please napoleon think twice before you write anything about turks and 
 . you are the worst in human right conditions and treatment of 
the minorities .  . who wants to be a with someone whose government 
does not respect the human rights , supports terrorism in , 
actions in bosnia , treats turkish minorities as third class citizen and 
take away all of their rights , treating them as slaves at the beginning 
of century 



napoleon 

from  ( shaqeeqa ) 
subject re on  . 
organization university of at denver 
lines 24 

in article ) writes 

arab leaders do n't have to cheat , they are actually allowed to have four wives .  . 
are you implying above that arab leaders are gays are n't there jewish gays too 

arab leaders are now following by islamic rules  ( or is it only applicable 
in cases like this ) 

i remember an article of about a year ago which stated that besides his wife , 
saddam also has a  . 's brother has a wife and several 
, and those   in the gulf have , within their lifetimes , 
wives in the double  ( only they to keep four at a time) .  . 

this is all irrelevant .  . it takes a lot more than to make these 
leaders ruthless and corrupt .  . maybe thought he could   
himself by making such a public  . does the average secular israeli 
care , though the probably him. ) 


 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . 
. . . 
( ( ( ( ) 
 .  .  . 


from  ( dorin baru ) 
subject re reasons was re was go ! 
organization corporation 
lines 32 


writes 


in article  ( dorin baru ) writes 
now , about tough talk and arrogance , we are adults , are n't we do you listen 
to tough talk of american politicians or switch the channel 


i guess , i did n't make my point clear. in the case of israel government , it 
is not only tough talk for its policy. after all , not many 
people are just by talking. here how it goes tough talks , 
followed by aggressive actions followed by taking pride of those actions and 
about them. 

agressive actions are taken by both sides. tough talk is done by both sides. 
when an arab leader is menacing to all jews in the water is also tough talk , 
i think. and killing people is mildly agressive  ( justified , in your opinion 
if they are israeli soldiers , justified , in others  opinion if they are jews , not 
justified at all in others  . 

when brad wrote the article about 3 killed , was a lot of pride 
and in his lines. that 's what i feel disgusting .  . we may agree 
or not when a killing is  technically  murder , but being about it 


and again , i may appreciate some of your points , but you are not objective .  . that 
is not a blame , just a remark .  . 





from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re investment in and 
organization the department of department 
lines 12 

in article  ( adam shostack ) writes 

i think house jews , a reference to a person of jewish 
ancestry who issues statements for a company or organization that 
condemn judaism is perfectly  . 

i believe that is himself such a house jew . 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( eric s. perlman ) 
subject re final solution in 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 50 

in article  ( ahmed abed ) writes 

in article ,  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 
in article center for policy research writes 

final solution for the gaza 


while israeli jews the of the , they 
by violent means the of the gaza and 
attempt to the  . 

... 

the jews in the were fighting to keep themselves and 
their families from being sent to nazi gas  . groups like 
and the islamic jihad fight with the expressed purpose of driving all 
jews into the sea. perhaps , we should persuade jewish people to help 

these freedom this ultimate goal. 

maybe the freedom will choose to spare the co jews .  . 
is that what you are counting on , the pity of murderers .  . 

you say your mother was jewish .  . how she must be of her son. i 
am sorry , mrs .  .  . 

 . 

o.k. , its my turn 

driving the jews into the sea ! 

i am sick and tired of this  driving the jews into the sea  attributed 
to islamic movements and the it simply ca n't be proven as part of their 
plan ! 

this has been discussed before , by several people , on this net. the 
statement is either to al , former grand 
of jerusalem and the leader of the death squads 
during the war , or to one of his chief  . 

it was not coined by b b or , for that matter , any jewish 
organization .  . 


how sad to see a model of and become like any other 
a for ideologies to it out with  . tim rice , 
eric s. 
center for and space astronomy , university of , boulder 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization the department of department 
lines 17 

in article  ( hamaza h. salah ) writes 

( ) writes 

's posting deleted .  .  .  . 

's only comment is 

well said mr. ) 

, when you get the full support of , you know 
you 're on the wrong track .  . 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 25 

in article writes 
in article  ( avi cohen stuart ) writes 
from article , by paul h. 

there is one big difference between israel and the , christians in this 
respect. 

israel allows freedom of religion. 

, 
for your information , islam freedom of religion there is 
no compulsion in religion. does judaism freedom of religion 
(i . e .  . are non jews recognized in  . just wondering .  . 

in islam , there is no compulsion , just a tax on  . in 
judaism , non jews are allowed to do as they wish , and there is no 
effort made to convert them. 




adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject exterminated 2.5 million muslim people. denying the obvious 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 109 

in article writes 

after having read this group for some time , i am appalled at its lack of 
, its fuzzy thinking , on and obnoxious posters 

well , these are and jewish scholars , not me. denying the obvious 


source , richard g. on the road to independence ,  . 
university of california press  ( berkeley and los angeles ) , , p. 13 .  . 

the addition of the and to the empire increased the 
area of to over 130 , 000 square  . the population 
of the entire in was 4 , 700 , 000 , of whom , 000  ( 20 percent ) were 
, 1 , 200 , 000  ( 25 percent ) , and 2 , , 000  ( 45 percent ) moslem .  . 
of the latter group , 1 , , 000 were  . , barely one third 
of 's lived in the , where the 
christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven  . 
, the administrative center of the , had only 44 , 000 
as compared to , 000 moslems .  . by the time of the of , 
however , the had established a majority , 53 percent , in the 
it had risen by to 60 percent , or , 000 of the 1 , 120 , 000 
 . this impressive change in the 's ethnic character 
, there was , on the eve of the creation of the 
, a solid block of , 000 who continued to dominate the 
southern , from the of to the border of  . 
 ( see also map 1. and map 4. administrative of 
 . 

in ,  0  percent  . 

we closed the roads and passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops after  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our knocked the 
into of and and when the became 
and from them into fields , and 
the work. some of the escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in the border 
into  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the of from to 
from the hot of to the cold 
of the north were with mute ruins of 
 . they are quiet now , those , except for 
of and that visit them to over the 
bones of the dead. 


men are like that 
p.  . 


in soviet today there no longer exists a single turkish soul .  . 
it is in our power to tear away the of illusion that some of us 
create for ourselves. it certainly is possible to severe the artificial 
life support system of an imagined  ethnic  that some of us 
falsely trust as the only structure that can support their heart beats 
in this alien land. 
 ( sahak the ) 



 ( daniel 21324 ) 

the world 's when the conflict began over the mostly 
christian inside muslim might have 
encouraged the conflict in bosnia , said the 
based , who 's part  . 

no kidding. the apart the ottoman empire 's eastern , 
2.5 million turkish women , children and 
people , burned thousands of turkish and and exterminated 
the entire turkish population of the dictatorship between 
 . such outrageous of hand that is still employed today 
in brings a depth and to the turkish genocide 
that is hard to match .  . a hundred years ago again thought 
they could get whatever they wanted through like the 
anarchists that they accepted as role models .  . several 
groups like terrorism and triangle 
resorted to the same in the , scores of innocent 
turks and their families in the united states and europe .  . it seems that 
they are doing it again , at a different scale , in x soviet 
today. 

a merciless massacre of the civilian population of the small 
town of  . 6000 ) in , , is reported to 
have taken place on the night of feb .  . 28 under a military 
operation of the division of the cis army and the 
 . close to 1000 people are reported to have been 
 . and children were not  . many were 
and shot at close range .  . a sense of rage and has 
the population in face of the well armed and 
 . the city of outside of the 
has come under heavy  . city 
hospital was hit and two pregnant women as well as a new born infant 
were killed. is appealing to the international community to 
condemn such and ruthless attacks on its population and its 
 . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the  justice  for the victims of the and  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 102 

in article writes 

first of all it is called  . 
let me even it for you i s t a n b u l 


secondly the turks are also asking for their money , for 
their and properties in , and 
former yugoslavia  ( bosnia and  . 

classic ! ! 

it is called  the  . we also demand that the x soviet 
government admit its responsibility for the turkish and 
genocide , render to the muslim people , and return the 
land to its owners .  . the recognition of the genocide has 
become an issue which cannot be further , and it is imperative 
that artificial obstacles created for political be removed. 

now if we 're talking about and , let 's make it fair then 
back it 's and for 400 years and 
destruction of classical  . deal democracy in action. 

are you the   or   of   of the 
terrorism and triangle 

if turks had behaved like christians to use force to convert to islam the 
nations which they brought under their power , to which no one could have 
opposed , today there would be no eastern problem. but turks did not do so. 
they the word of the koran to everybody to worship in their own 
way centuries before the great his famous  . thus , 
in an age when the christian europe itself shed christian blood and when 
people in europe inflicting upon those whose beliefs 
from theirs , the ottoman empire became the sole country where the 
inquisition did not exist , where deaths at the stake were of and 
where accusations of were not made. and the ( ! ) 
was the only country where the jews persecuted and away everywhere 
by the christians , could find  . these facts demonstrate that muslim 
countries provided far better living conditions than christian 
countries. 1 

the turks , who are a conquering nation , did not the nations that came 
under their rule instead , they respected their religions and traditions .  . it 
was a of luck for to live under turkish rule instead of 
or rule. because otherwise there would not have been a 
nation today  ( popescu  . 

turks rule over people under their only , without 
interfering with their internal structures .  . on account of this , the 
of minorities in is better and more complete than any in the most 
advanced european countries. 2 

 .  .  . human . beings hate each other on account of religious differences .  . this flaw 
is older than islam and christianity .  . but there has never been any examples 
of this in because turks never oppress anybody on account 
of his religion. if enmity on the basis of religion had been such a case of 
simple among us too , or if it did not keep itself into 
action , many nations in our europe would probably have considered themselves 
happy ! (a .  . de  . 3 

never became a for religious or for the of the 
inquisition .  . on the contrary , it served as an for the unfortunate 
victims of christian  . if you look into history , you will see that 
in the fifteenth century thousands of jews who were from spain and 
found such a good in that their descendants have been 
living there very all through these approximately three hundred years , 
and are only forced to defend themselves in some countries against the 
of christians , especially that of the  . no jew is able to 
appear in public during easter in , even today. in , 
however , if the israelites are insulted by the greek and communities , 
local courts immediately take them under their protection. 

in that vast and calm country of the , all religions and nations are 
living together  . although the mosque is superior to the church and 
the , it does not replace them. because of this , the catholic is 
more free in and compared with and  . in addition 
to the fact that no law in prohibits the open air ceremonies of this 
, neither does any law imprison its cross in the church. while the 
dead are being taken to the , a long line of priests bear 
and catholic  . when all the priests in all the churches in 
the and go into the streets and form clerical 
during the , and bearing 
their crosses and religious , a of soldiers them 
which forces even the turks to stand in respect around the group of 
priests .  . (a .  .  . 4 

1 ah .  . , , 3rd ed .  .  ( istanbul , 1978 ) , 
pp. 70  . 
2  . , p . 91 .  . 
3  . , pp. 215 .  . 
4  . , pp. 215 216 .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re the genocide of the muslim population by the  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 226 

in article (c . k .  . black ) writes 

mr. does it again , 

very sensible .  . 

he says 

how many can dance on the head of a pin 

and lo and behold , he the mr . of the net himself , our beloved 
, a program designed to seek out the words and in the 
same sentence and gets the reply .  .  .  .  . 

must you so x soviet government engaged in 
disgusting massacres of women and children. i am 
really sorry if that fact bothers you. 

our , this is  . first you discuss your literature 
, then your fantasies , and now your choices of  . have 
you considered just turning on the tv and leaving those of us who are n't 
brain dead to continue to discuss the genocide of 2.5 million muslim 
people by the x soviet government 

etc. etc. etc .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

more , i take it still not addressing the original points made. 

joel , do n't do this to me ! i'm only a poor plant scientist , i do n't 
know how to make  kill  files. my  k  key works as it is just to 

then what seems to be the problem did you ever read newspaper at all 


painful search  .  .  . 

the extent of february 's killings of by 
in the town of is at last in about 
600 men , women and children dead in the worst of the 
four year war over  . 

the figure is drawn from , 
and lists published in the press. and aid 
workers say the death is in line with their own estimates .  . 

the 25 february attack on by forces was one of 
the last in their four year campaign to take full control 
of , the subject of a new round of 
in rome on monday .  . the was something between a fighting 
and a massacre , but say that most of the 
dead were civilians .  . the awful number of people killed was first 
suppressed by the former communist government in  . 
later it was by denials and grief stricken 
's wild and contradictory allegations of up to 2 , 000 
dead. 

the state , , the of a 
15 man team looking into what calls the 
disaster , said his figure of 600 people dead was a minimum on 
preliminary findings .  . a similar estimate was given by 
, the of  . an even higher one was printed in 
the newspaper in may dead people named and more 
than 200 bodies reported  . this figure of nearly 700 
dead is quoted as official by , the new 
of the ministry of defence .  . 

zen , head of of the international 
red cross in , said the muslim imam of the nearby city of 
had reported a figure of bodies received at his mosque 
from , most of them civilians .  . we did not count the 
bodies .  . but the figure seems reasonable .  . it is no fantasy , mr 
zen said. we have some idea since we gave the body 
and products to the dead. 

mr to give an estimate of the 
number of dead in the massacre .  . do n't get worked up. it will 
take several months to get a final figure , the 43 year old 
lawyer said at his small office. 

mr knows about these things. it took him two years to 
reach a firm conclusion that 131 people were killed and 
when soviet troops and a 
in in 1990. 

those , the popular front , finally came to power 
three weeks ago and are applying pressure to find out exactly 
what happened when , an town which lies about 70 
from the border with , to the  . 

, people have so far been as dead , being 
the number of people that could be examined by the 
's department .  . this is just a small percentage 
of the dead , said rafiq , the 's chief 
scientist .  . they were the only bodies brought to us. remember the 
chaos and the fact that we are muslims and have to and bury 
our dead within 24 hours. 

of these people , 51 were women , and 13 were children under 14 
years old .  . killed people , killed 20 and 
axes or killed 10. exposure in the 
killed the last three. thirty three people showed signs of 
deliberate , including ears , , or 
cut off and eyes out , according to professor 's 
report. those bodies examined were less than a third of those 
believed to have been killed , mr said. 

files from mr 's are still 
lists of 44 are dead here , 
policemen there , and in of a mosque , the 
names of brought to be washed in just one day. the 
most account from witnesses so far 
comes from , an who took a 
over the escape route from on 27 
february .  . 

there were too many bodies of dead and on the ground to 
count properly in , 700 people by the 
and the road and 85 100 around , mr 
wrote in a statement by the 
 . 

people up to us for help. we saw three dead children and 
one two year old alive by one dead woman. the live one was 
at her for the mother to get up. we tried to land but 
started a against our and we had to 
return. 

there has been no of the lists and in 
circulation because of the political of the last few 
months and the fact that nobody knows exactly who was in 
at the time many were from other 
taken over by forces .  . 

the independent , london , 12 6  


heroes who fought on the bodies 

sat in the of a bar on the 
sea of and showed a line of in 
his , by an bullet as he the town of 
just over three months ago , writes pope .  . 

i'm still wearing the same clothes , i do n't have any others , 
the 51 year old said , beginning his account of the 
disaster .  . i was in five places , but i am lucky to 
be alive .  . 

mr and his wife were short of food , without 
for more than a month , and cut off from for 12 
days. they sensed the was around the 
2 , 000 to 3 , 000 people left in the town on the 
of  . 

at about a started such as we had never heard 
before , eight or kinds of weapons , , heavy 
machine guns , the lot , mr said. 

soon were down the street from the direction 
of the attack .  . some in but others started 
fleeing the town , down a hill , through a and through the 
into a on the other side. 

to escape , the had to reach the town of 
about 15 away. they thought they were going to make it , 
until at about dawn they reached a between the two 
of and  . 

none of my group was hurt up to then ... then we were by 
a car on the road , and the started 
fire , mr said. 

fighting their way out of forward 
to force open a for the civilians , but their efforts 
were mostly in  . mr said only 10 people from his 
group of 80 made it through , including his wife and 
son. seven of his immediate relations died , including his 
67 year old elder brother .  . 

i only had time to reach down and cover his face with his hat , 
he said , his own big flat turkish cap over his eyes. we 
have never got any of the bodies back .  . 

the first groups were lucky to have the benefit of covering fire .  . 
one hero of the , , was shot dead as he 
to change a magazine while covering the third group 's 
, mr said. 

another hero , , the of , said he and 
several others spent the whole day of 26 february in the 
, by dead bodies as they tried to keep three 
at bay .  . 

as the survivors the last into , there was 
little comfort in a town from which most of the population was 
soon to flee .  . 

the night after we reached the town there was a big 
rocket attack .  . some people just kept going , mr said. i 
had to get to the hospital for treatment .  . i was in a bad way. 
they even found a bullet in my  . 

victims of war an woman her son , killed in the 
massacre in february  . struggle in primitive 
conditions  ( centre ) to save a man in a 
operating theatre set up in a train  . grief stricken 
relatives in the town of  ( right ) weep over the of 
another of the massacre victims .  . the final death 
has been complicated because muslims bury their dead within 24 
hours. 

ap 


the independent , london , 12 6  



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from center for policy research 
subject re of the 
id r 000 272 
from uucp . ! apr 26 17 41 00 1993 
lines 10 


, 

as you think will be surprised by the posted article , i 
would be happy to have some from readers , if you 
will. i cannot judge the accuracy of the article , but assumes that 
it is no  . any critical review would be helpful .  . 




from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re , opinions  ( re water on the brain ) 
organization the department of department 
lines 15 

in article think . com .  ( shai guday ) writes 

the river in a west direction and indeed does 
not run through the  . the does into the 
but contrary to what our imaginative poster might write , there has been 
no increase in the from this river that is not proportional to 
changes in  . 

what did you have to go and bring that up for now they 're going to 
say that israel is the rain , too .  .  .  .  . 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from 
subject re turkish government on usenet 
id r 000 
from uucp . ! apr 16 14 31 00 1993 
lines 20 


i do n't know anything about this particular case , but other 
governments have been known to follow events on the usenet .  . for 
example after square in the chinese government 
began  . as the former director of , 
i am aware of many incidents of local , state , national and 
international authorities usenet and other 
such as those on the institute for communications .  . but 
what 's the big deal you should n't advocate illegal acts in this 
medium in any case. if you are concerned about being , 
you should use software  ( available in 's 
 . i know for a fact that human rights in the 
area use software to send out their 
reports to international organizations .  . such message can be 
however by large computers much time , which 
probably the turkish government does n't have access to. 

, university of california , department of 
politics and society 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject it was an   by the during  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 47 

in 1941 , while the jews were being assembled for their in the nazi 
concentration camps , the nazi in germany formed the first 
to fight the nazis .  . in , this 
had grown into eight of 20 , 000 strong under the command of 
 ( the butcher ) who is the architect of the cold genocide of 2.5 
million turks and between  . an national council 
was formed by the notorious party leaders in berlin , which was 
recognized by the nazis .  . encouraged by this , the 
formed a government that and fully the 
principles of the nazis and declared themselves as the members of the 
super race and full participants to hitler 's policy of extermination 
of the jews .  . 

this nazi conspiracy against the jews during wwii was an 
by the during , when they back and 
exterminated 2.5 million turks by with the invading army .  . 


source in the near east , by a. , 
jonathan , 30 square , london ,  ( first published 1923 ) 
 ( 287  . 
 ( memoirs of a british who witnessed the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 

p.  ( second paragraph ) 

i had received further very definite information of horrors that 
had been committed by the in plain , and as 
i had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their 
treatment of my own detached parties , i had wired to from 
that  in the interests of humanity the should not 
be left in independent command of the moslem population , as , their 
troops being without discipline and not under effective control , 
atrocities were constantly being committed , for which we should 
with justice eventually be held to be morally  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject in nazi germany , were considered to be an race and .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 41 

in article  ( tim clock ) writes 

there was no such letter in the on that date , or at any other time. 

is this a of your imagination here is another one 


source , berlin , december 1939 ,  . 2 and 5 6 

yet another historical fact a fact that for years has been deliberately 
forgotten , , and from memory the fact of nazi 
 . 

a magazine called der 
is the and most definite proof of this  . the 
magazine was first published in berlin in 1938 during nazi rule of germany 
and continued publication until the end of  . even the name of the 
magazine , which implies a declaration of nazi , 
is attention getting .  . 

this magazine , every issue of which proves the , is historically 
important as documentary evidence. it is a of writing that should be 
an to world opinion and to all mankind .  . 

in nazi germany , were considered to be an race and certain 
political , economic , and social rights were thus granted to them. they 
positions in public service and were partners in nazi practices .  . 
the whole world of course knows what awaited those who were not considered 
and what them. 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( jack schmidling ) 
subject re news you may have missed , apr 20 
organization , chicago , il 
lines 65 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( feigenbaum , benjamin ) writes 
in article ,  ( jack schmidling ) writes 

news you may have missed , apr 19 , 1993 

not because you were too busy but because 
in the us media it. 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


those israeli soldiers 


israeli soldiers have arab women in the gaza strip 
during the three week long that has palestinians off from the 
jewish state , sources said on sunday .  . 

the incidents occurred in the town of khan and involved soldiers of 
the who have been at the centre of house to house raids for 
during the , which was imposed on the strip and 
west bank. 
if you are as at this as i am , drop israel 's best friend email and 
let him know what you think. 


 ( via compuserve ) 
 ( via america online ) 
clinton  ( via mail ) 


tell 'em sent  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

if you are tired of learning about american foreign policy from what is 
effectively , israeli controlled media , i highly recommend checking out the 
washington report. a free copy is available by calling the american 
education trust at 
 ( 800 ) 

tell 'em sent you. 






i took your advice and ordered a copy of the report. i 
recommend it to all pro israel types for the following 
reasons 

1. it is an excellent of  . i use it to line 
the bottom of my 's cage .  . a negative side effect is 
that my now has a somewhat view of the  . 

2. it makes a great april fool 's joke , i.e. , give it to someone 
who knows nothing about the middle east and then say april 
fools . 


clearly , if a this way , it must be worth reading by 
more objective types .  . you are so wrapped up in your hate that you 
ca n't even take the time to edit out my long posting. thanks for 
the extra by it. 

organization the american university university computing center 
from paul h. 
subject re israel 's ii 

lines 5 

what gives the right to keep it is the home of the muslim a 
s well as jewish religion , among others. heck , nobody ever mentions what 
k did forty or fifty years ago which is westerners much in the 
way does today. seems are nowhere above , so 
they have a right to as much as does. 

from  ( brendan d mckay ) 
subject re peace proposal 
nntp posting host virginia 
organization rochester institute of technology , rochester , ny 
lines 42 

in article  ( red herring ) writes 
in article center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 
subject peace proposal 

a proposal for peace in the middle east .  . 
by 

having stated my assumptions , i will now state my proposal .  . 

1. a should be established which would grants 
for each child born to a couple where one is israeli jew 
and the other arab .  . 
... 
5. the emergence of a number of   
marriages in israel , all of whom would have relatives on 
 both sides  of the divide , would make the conflict lose its 
ethnical and core and the emergence of a 
truly civil society. the existence of a strong   stock of 
people would also help the of israeli society into the 

sounds just like a racial theory that hitler in mein kampf .  . 

someone else said something similar. i will not comment on the 
value or lack of value of 's proposal . i just want to say 
that it is very that at least two people here are 
profoundly ignorant of nazi racial doctrine .  . they were not 
like 's idea , they were more like the opposite .  . 

nazis believed in racial , not racial  . an 
example is the nazi attitude to  . according to 
nazi , were an race .  . they were persecuted , 
and in huge numbers murdered , because most european were 
considered not pure but formed from the pure 
race and other undesirable races .  . this was the key difference between 
the approach to jews and , by the way. it is also 
true that towards the end of wwii even the were 
hunted down as the theory was forgotten. 

brendan .  . 
 ( email 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject after all , exterminated 2.5 million muslim people there. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( hovig heghinian ) writes 

article. i have no interests i would just like to know 
what between and sound like. ) 

very simple. 

x soviet government must pay for their crime of genocide 
against 2.5 million muslims by admitting to the crime and making 
to the turks and  . 

after all , your criminal exterminated 2.5 million muslim 
people between and  . 



 ( hovig heghinian ) 

to which i say 
hear , hear .  . motion seconded .  . 

you must be a new  . you are counting on 
and criminals to prove something for you no wonder you are in 
such a mess. that criminal idiot and  its  non existent junk has 
already been trashed out by , , , , , 
and hundreds of people. moreover , criminals are responsible 
for the massacre of the turkish people that also prevent them from entering 
and  . has yet to renounce its charter which specifically 
calls for the second genocide of the turkish people. this racist , 
and criminal view has been by the x soviet government 
as merely a step on the road to said genocide .  . 

now where shall i begin 

from  ( parlakbilek ahmet ) 
subject , liar 
keywords , the biggest liar 
message id 

following is the article that claims that is a liar 

from  ( david davidian ) 
message id 

in article 
edu  ( ahmet parlakbilek ) asked a simple question 

ap i am asking you to show me one example in which , or any other 
ap was proven to lie . i . can show tens of lies and fabrications of 
ap , like changing quote , even changing name of a book ,  . 

the obvious ridiculous murdered 3 million moslems is the most 
and charge of all. you are obviously new on this 
net , so read the following not one , but three proven lies in one 
day ! 

start txt . 

some parts are deleted 

in article the usenet scribe for the 
turkish historical society , b . , continues to 
the history of the people. let 's witness the 
definition of a  ( or liar , in turkish ) 

according to 1 

the situation is clear. on one side , we have peace loving turks 
and on the other side , peace loving , both sides 
their own affairs .  . then all was in blood and fire .  . indeed , 
the war was actually being between the of 
and the society of and a cruel and 
war in defense of party political interests .  . the 
which relied on for their success. 

1 l. , genocide its political use in the twentieth century , 
new york , p.  . 

this text is available not only in most but in many  . on 
page we find a discussion of related atrocities  ( which is title of the 
 . the topic on this page concerns itself with to the sub 
on of discrimination of minorities of the on 
human rights of the united nations with respect to the massacres in  . 
there is no mention of turks nor as claimed above. 



, , ! ! 

the depth of foolishness the turkish historical society in , while 
covering up the turkish genocide of the , is only by the 
ridiculous historical material publicly ! 

david the life of a people is a sea , and 

receiving this message , i checked the reference , l . , genocide .  .  .  . and 
what i have found was totally consistent with what said . the . book 
was like voice of and although i read the whole book , 
i could not find the original  . 
but there was one more thing to check the original posting of i . found 
the original article of it . is as follows 

according to 1 

the situation is clear. on one side , we have peace loving turks and on 
the other side , peace loving , both sides their own 
affairs .  . then all was in blood and fire .  . indeed , the war was 
actually being between the of and the 
society of and a cruel and war in defense of party 
political interests .  . the which relied on 
for their success. 

1 b. a.  . the ideology of the revolution in , ii , 

p.  . 


is the same , reference is different ! 

lied again , and this time he changed the original posting of 
just to accuse him to be a liar .  . 

, thank you for writing the page number correctly .  .  .  . 

you are the biggest liar i have ever seen . this . example showed me that tomorrow 
you can lie again , and you may try to make me a liar this time . so . i decided 
not to read your articles and not to write answers to you . i . also 
all the netters to do the same . we . can not prevent your lies , but at least 
we may save time by not dealing with your lies .  . 

and for the following line 
, , ! ! 

i also return all the insults you wrote about to you. 
i hope you will be in your lies .  . 



from  ( vedat dogan ) 
message id 

in article  ( david davidian ) writes 
in article 
 ( vedat dogan ) wrote in response to article 
org .  ( david davidian ) writes 


( source in the near east , by a. , 
( jonathan , 30 square , london ,  ( first published 1923 ) 
(  ( 287  . 

such a pile of garbage ! first off , the above reference was first published 
in not , and has pages not ! second , upon checking page 
, we are asked to believe 

no , mr . ... 

it was first published in (i have the book on my , now ! ) 


and furthermore , the book i have does not have pages either , as you 
claimed , mr .  . it . has pages .  . any . question  .  .  . 

well , it seems your book has its total page numbers closer to mine than the 
n crap posted by mr. ( ! 

o boy ! 

please , can you tell us why those quotes are crap  .  . because . you do not 
like them ! ! !  .  .  . because . they really exist .  .  . why . 

as i said in my previous posting , those quotes exactly exist in the source 
given by  .  .  . 

you could n't reject it .  .  .  . 


in addition , the author 's was written on 15 , , but the book 
was published in  . 

here we go again .  .  . 
in the book i have , both the front page and the author 's give 
the same year and 15 , , respectively ! 
 ( anyone can check it at her his library , if not , i can send you the copies of 
pages , please ask by sct ) 


i really do n't care what year it was first  ( published(1923 or 1924 ) 
what i care about is what the book writes about murders , , et .  . in . 
the given quotes by , and your denial of these quotes .  . and . your 
groundless , etc. 


... 

i can provide  . postings if required to verify my claim ! 

what is new 

i will post a  . file , but i am not going go through the effort to show there 
is some turkish modified re publication of the book , like last time ! 


i claim i have a book in my hand published in  ( 1923(first publication ) 
and it exactly has the same quoted info as the book published 
in  ( 1934(serdar 's reference ) has .  . you . could n't reject it .  . but . , now you 
are avoiding the real issues by around .  .  . 

let 's see how you lie !  .  .  non existing  quotes to re publication ) 

first you said there was no such a quote in the given reference .  . you . 
called a liar !  .  .  . 
i said to you , no , mr . , there exactly existed such a quote .  .  .  . 
(i even gave the call number , page numbers .  . you . could t reject it . ) . 

and now , you are lying again and talking about modified , re published book 
 ( without any proof how , when , where , by whom , etc .  . ) .  .  . 
 ( by the way , how is it possible to re publish the book in if it was 
first published in  ( 1924(your claim) . i . am sure that you have some  pretty 
well suited theories  , as usual ) 

and i am ready to send the copies of the necessary pages to anybody who 
wants to compare the fact and mr . 's lies .  .  . i . also give the call number 
and page numbers again for the library use , which are 
6 . r 

and the page numbers to verify the quotes and 215 




it is not possible that ( 's text has pages , mine has , and yours has 
! 

now , are you claiming that there ca n't be such a reference by saying it is 
not possible .  .  .  .  .  . if . not , what is your point 

differences in the number of pages 
mine was published in  . 's was in  .  . 
no need to use the same book size and the same letter 
in both , etc , etc .  .  . does it give you an idea ! ! 

the issue was not the number of pages the book has .  . or . the year 
first published .  .  . 
and you tried to hide the whole point .  .  . 
the point is that both books have the exactly the same quotes about 
how moslems are killed , tortured , etc by  . and . those quotes given 
by exist ! ! 
it was the issue , was n't it 

you were not able to object it .  .  . does . it bother you anyway 

you name all these and murders  ( by armenians ) as a crap  .  .  . 
people who think like you are among the main reasons why the world still 
has so many in the 1993 .  . 

any question 



 ( hovig heghinian ) 

hmm ... turks sure know how to keep track of deaths , but they seem to 
lose count around 1 . 5 . million .  . 

well , apparently we have another son of  the  to with. 
you should indeed be happy to know that you a huge discussion on 
by several of your contemporaries .  . if you feel 
that you can simply act as an in this forum 
you will be sadly mistaken and embarrassed .  . this is not a lecture to 
another historical and a genocide , but a fact. 

i will article by article , paragraph by paragraph , line by line , 
lie by lie , revision by revision , written by those on this net , who plan 
to  prove  that the genocide of 2.5 million turks and is 
nothing less than a classic un genocide .  . we are neither in 
x soviet union , nor in some similar dictatorship , 
that employs the of hitler to domestic  . also , feel 
free to distribute all responses to your , 
the pseudo scholars , or to those with the 
criminal organizations .  . 

government got away with the genocide of 2.5 million turkish men , 
women and children and is the of that genocide .  . you , and 
those like you , will not get away with the genocide 's cover up. 

not a chance. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re investment in and 
organization the department of department 
lines 22 

in article  ( center for policy research ) writes 

those who wish to learn something about the perversion of judaism , 
should consult the work by , who was many 
years the head of israeli intelligence and an opponent of the  . his 

your suggestion to learn something about the perversion of judaism 
from someone you claim has experience in israeli intelligence and the 
is like a suggestion to learn something about the conspiracy of 
street from someone with experience in fashion design and 
pizza making. 

latest book was published in english and includes a very detailed analysis 
of nazism .  . 

nazism , you 're in a league with barf himself. 
you can take that as a , if you see it that way. 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from com .  ( frank benson ) 
subject 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

you are quite the 


internet com . 
uucp uunet ! edu . ! ! pro ! 

from  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
subject re was go ! 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
organization university 
lines 28 

in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

in article ,  ( tim clock ) writes 

in article writes 



tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in have been 
 . remains the only independent  . does 
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the burned up 
, his wife , and young son. of course , if israel would 
from and stop assassinating people and they would n't 
make the so mad as to do that. furthermore , with 
subsequently , it would not be possible. 


just to address this one point , what about the two rocket 
attacks made within , for which claimed responsibility .  . 
i did n't realize that one can use while is  . 
also , page 8 of today 's new york times , , a high 
official , and his 9 month old son were down in beirut 
by members of  . there have been 46 attempts 
in 1993 alone in the between these two factions , resulting in 
11 deaths .  . 




from  ( danny keren ) 
subject , the humanist 
organization brown university department of computer science 
lines 13 

 ( hamaza h. salah ) writes 

well said mr. ) 

he he .  . the great humanist speaks .  . one has to read mr. 's posters , 
in which he jews as sons of and , keeps 
promising the final battle between muslims and jews  ( in which the 
and the trees will cry for the muslims to come and kill the 
jews hiding behind them ) , makes about jews dying from heart 
attacks etc , to realize his objective stance on the matters involved. 

 . 


from  ( nissan raclaw ) 
subject re go ! ! 
organization university , ma 
lines 13 

also are due to the who blew up the 
world trade center , no after all , with every american that they put 

in the grave they are the usa 's bankrupt 
policies .  . go ! 

blah blah blah blah blah 

brad , you are only asking that that violence that you love so much 
come back to you .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 




from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re is racism 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 17 

in article writes 
in re syria 's , the author writes that the un thought 
was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct 
the first time , is racism and , the daily 
 ( the student newspaper at mcgill ) was proud enough to print an article 
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail .  . 

steve 


i know this paper well , and see it for the exercise in selective morality 
and judgement it is. until such time as it that any religiously 
based government is racist , and simply built on a philosophy 
of separate but equal second class treatment of minorities , it will 
continue to be known for its bias .  . if jewish is racism , so is 
islam anywhere where people are different rights according to 
race , religion or culture is racist . 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization the department of department 
lines 28 

in article paul h. writes 
what gives the right to keep it is the home of the muslim a 
s well as jewish religion , among others. 

what gives the us the right to keep new york it is the home of the 
united nations as well as being home to a of ethnic groups. 

 ( actually , is more comparable to the gaza strip the controlling 
authority would probably be pleased as to it on someone 
else but no one seems to want it ! ) 

heck , nobody ever mentions what did forty or fifty 
years ago which is westerners much in the way 
does today. seems are nowhere above , so therefore 
they have a right to as much as does. 

a historical bullshit .  . fought the british  ( who , , 
whole of jews back to the nazis for extermination 
and those jewish that they captured and did n't want to 
deal with  . did not attack civilians on , 
cruise , in , sports events , movie , , 
on buses and children in  . your comparison to a master 
murderer like is blind ! 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 45 

 ( hossien amehdi ) writes 

in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 

what the hell do you know about israeli policy what gives you the 
to look into the minds of israeli has this  policy of  
been published somewhere for your information , the actions taken by , 
specifically the , were not in the campaign of  . my 
brain is full of shit at least i do n't look into the minds of others and 
make israeli policy for them ! 

... deleted 

i am not in the business of reading minds , however in this case it would not 
be necessary. top leaders in the past and present , always come across 
as arrogant with their tough talks trying to intimidate the  . 

how would you deal with who always threaten to drive you into the sea or 
burn half your would you talk nicely would you say please you 
would n't .  . the language of the middle east is power and force. sorry that 
is the way it is now. if you are n't strong , you go down. israel has to talk 
and act tough. notice , israel talks and acts tough in battle , but is willing 
to talk peace. 

the way i see it , and have not been able to achieve peace 
after almost 50 years of fighting because of the following two major reasons 

1 ) arab governments are not really representative of their people , currently 
most of their leaders are stupid , and or not independent , and or 
dictators .  . 

true and they have their people into thinking jews are some sort 
of  . arab non recognition of israel and support of war and 
is also an important factor , would n't you say 

2 ) israeli government is arrogant and none  . 

what do you want israel to do they are i'm sick of people calling 
for israel to from the territories now. that 's not , do n't 
you realize that a solution must be  . it is on the table .  . have 
patience .  . 

ed .  . 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject genocide of the muslim people in and 1993 .  . 
article i.d. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 52 

in article  ( panos ) writes 

, , de la ... 
 . ,  . 
re , re .  .  .  . 


source a. , 
, , ,  . 

pp.  . 

van  dan ilk   . 5 
, sa 
 . o 
en  . 
 . 

ve 
 . islam 
 . her  . 

  . 
 . , ve 

 . , 


, 
ve ve 
 . 

p.  . 

23 gun , sure 
van ,  . 
, 
 . , 
, ve 
 . o 
van  ve , 
 . , 
 . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 

from  ( chris metcalfe ) 
subject brendan the nazi racial theory 
organization logic inc. 
lines 59 


only brendan , or maybe , would come to the rescue of nazi 
racial theory. is it brendan the point is that any 
solution to the jewish problem as has proposed 
of pure nazism .  . the fact that  proposal cast the entire problem 
as one of the abnormal presence of israeli society in the middle east , 
and that he buried a against u.s. aid to israel in the midst of 
his even handed solution of the jewish question , made it obvious what 
he had in mind the jewish  . that is a nazi doctrine 
of the abnormal presence of the jewish people within a 
larger body  . whether your solution involves gas , 
to the poor jews to marry out , or as has 
said , the zionist entity by forcing it to engage the normal 
surrounding arab culture , you are engaged in a nazi project .  . 

just as obvious is your statement i will not comment on the value 
or lack of value of 's proposal .  . still the 
blow , right brendan you could easily see where he was going , but you 
will not comment. so , you are  . 

what is your with nazi racial theory , anyway 

chris ( someone else ) 

! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

in article  ( brendan d mckay ) writes 

a proposal for peace in the middle east .  . 
by 


5. the emergence of a number of   
marriages in israel , all of whom would have relatives on 
 both sides  of the divide , would make the conflict lose its 
ethnical and core and the emergence of a 
truly civil society. the existence of a strong   stock of 
people would also help the of israeli society into the 

sounds just like a racial theory that hitler in mein kampf .  . 

someone else said something similar. i will not comment on the 
value or lack of value of 's proposal . i just want to say 
that it is very that at least two people here are 
profoundly ignorant of nazi racial doctrine .  . they were not 
like 's idea , they were more like the opposite .  . 

nazis believed in racial , not racial  . an 
example is the nazi attitude to  . according to 
nazi , were an race .  . they were persecuted , 
and in huge numbers murdered , because most european were 
considered not pure but formed from the pure 
race and other undesirable races .  . this was the key difference between 
the approach to jews and , by the way. it is also 
true that towards the end of wwii even the were 
hunted down as the theory was forgotten. 

brendan .  . 
 ( email 

from  ( hossien amehdi ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
nntp posting host com . 
organization systems research center 
lines 27 

in article  ( gary bradski ) writes 
on 15 apr 93 03 13 49 gmt ,  ( hossien amehdi ) said 

i was pointing out that the other side is also suffering .  . 
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a , you bet 
i would my against any by any means. 

the iranian or just israeli invaders 


i net 
and systems 
boston university .  . v v 
, boston ma y 


i do n't even agree with some of my opinions or die ! 



i did say any , did n't i what do you want from me , perhaps a 
net design with all countries involved in as its )  ( you are 
in and systems ) 

if that 's the case , i would put different for each country in my 
net. 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject scholars on the extermination of 2.5 million muslim people. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( eduard wiener ) writes 

why do n't you post this in english , mike 
this appears to mean , it seems that 
some greek has you. 

is that what turns you on the truth needs to be told over and over 
again. there are who of course witnessed the genocide 
of 2.5 million muslim people between but their of truth 
are suppressed today in the din of anti turkish muslim campaign 
by the terrorism and triangle of the 
x soviet government. well , that is what i saw in the library. 
what 's your problem with this 


source k. s. , patriotism , press , boston ,  . 

pp. 17 18 .  . 

it seems that terrorism against their own co has been a prominent 
part of the activities of the leaders of the  . 
organized to fight the turks , these have been more successful 
in their fight against their opponents in , and the , 
very often and innocent .  . 

p. 38 .  . 

the fact remains , however , that the leaders of the turkish section 
of the did not carry out their promise of loyalty to the 
turkish cause when the turks entered the war .  .  . and . a call was sent for 
to fight the turks on the front .  . 

p. 38 .  . 

thousands of from all over the world , to the standards of 
such famous as , , , etc. the 
valuable service to the army in the years of 
15 16. 


source in the near east , by a. , 
jonathan , 30 square , london ,  ( first published 1923 ) 
 ( 287  . 
 ( memoirs of a british who witnessed the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 

p.  ( second paragraph ) 

i had received further very definite information of horrors that 
had been committed by the in plain , and as 
i had been able to judge of their want of discipline by their 
treatment of my own detached parties , i had wired to from 
that  in the interests of humanity the should not 
be left in independent command of the moslem population , as , their 
troops being without discipline and not under effective control , 
atrocities were constantly being committed , for which we should 
with justice eventually be held to be morally  . 

p.  ( third paragraph ) 

troops , who , having and all the 
moslem in the plain .  .  .  .  . 

of were in the constantly arriving from the 
plain , from which the whole moslem population was fleeing with as much of 
their personal property as they could transport , seeking to obtain security 
and protection .  .  .  . 

p.  ( first paragraph ) 

in those moslem in the plain below which had been searched 
for by the everything had been taken under the of 
such search , and not only had many moslems been killed , but horrible 
had been inflicted in the to obtain information as 
to where had been hidden , of which the were aware 
of the existence , although they had been unable to find them. 

p. 179  ( first paragraph ) 

shortly afterwards the head of the miserable appeared .  . there 
were in all about 200 persons , mostly old men and women and children , 
with a few , , and donkeys , carrying all their worldly 
possessions , except a few that they were driving before them. 
their leader , and was told to keep on 
into the , where he would be able to cross the into 
by his enemies .  . 

p.  ( first paragraph ) 

the from the plain were attacking the line with 
, with probably a large force in support .  . 

p.  ( first paragraph ) 

the of this british was followed by the announcement 
that had been by the supreme council of the 
allies to the , and that announcement having been made , the 
british troops were then completely , and occupation 
 . hence all the trouble for the at once 
the wholesale and persecution of the population on the 
pretext that it was necessary forcibly to them of their  . 
in the portion of the which lies in the they were able 
to carry out their purpose , and the manner in which this was done will 
be referred to in due course. 

the following news from news agency in 
is brought to you as a service of 

association 
p.o. box 
berkeley , ca 
fax  ( 804 ) 490 
email 

s government appeals to all over the world 
60 from in their escape 
situation in the of 
army continues attack on 
press conference of the chief of press service of president of 
in front of ministry of foreign affairs of russia 
of in 
attack of units stopped 
statement of ministry of foreign affairs of 



s government appeals to all over the world 

 ( april 5 ) today , 's government 
to all over the world in connection with of the 
against the  . 
it is stressed in appeal that the experience of five years of fighting 
for independence from imperial chains shows a process . the war 
against under the of protecting the human rights of 
the of  ( upper ) , has meant the destruction of 
and towns , occupation of 10 percent of the territory , 60 
thousand new in addition to thousand already in place. 
this is all the price of fighting for liberty from imperial rule , 
is said in the document .  . 
's government appeals to all to make every 
effort to the people of the world about the truth in , 
and to assistance in the problems facing the young state. 
it is stressed in the appeal that there is need for medicine , 
food , experienced doctors and financial help to from 
, and regions , and to render medical aid for the 
sick and the men. o 


60 from in their escape 

 ( april 5 ) today , during the from 
, 60 on board two were killed in the fire from the 
on the only road to leave  . according to press 
service of president , no one survived the  . o 


situation in the of 

 ( 5 april ) attempts to the rest of 15 , 000 
citizens , on of the of 
went on within the last twenty four hours. 
could not land near these because of from the 
side and existence of fog .  . measures are to air drop 
food and medicine to the people. 
several hundred people succeed within the last twenty four hours to 
get out of the of via range .  . are 
in the regions of and in  . 
authorities face serious problem with medical 
aid and food. the number of from is over 40 , 000 people. 
is not capable of handling a disaster of this magnitude .  . 0 


army continues attack on 

 ( 5 april ) the of of , 
outside of the territory of  ( nagorno ) , has been 
to attacks of army for the fourth day. about 
30 and more than soldiers of the enemy are taking 
part in the attack .  . 
units broke the defence line of the forces and 
the ruling from where the town is from , 
this morning. there is heavy in the town and more than 20 
people are dead. population of the town is evacuated .  . 0 


press conference of the chief of press service of president of 

 ( 5 april ) fifty five thousand from the 
of were taken out by 11 o on april 5 , informed the chief 
of the press service of president of , , today. 
journalists were also informed at the press conference that 
international red cross is helping to accept and render medical 
aid .  . there is an need to supply the with , food and 
medical aid .  . 
informed that as a result of the brought 
on by the latest of , the leadership of 
intends to appeal to and all those who human life 
all over the world for help. 
concerning the reaction of the international community to 
of , said the department of state of the usa has expressed 
its anxiety to leadership of  . 
participants of peace efforts in  ( nagorno ) under 
, , and strongly blamed the of 
against  . 
leader of press service informed that tomorrow of 
in russia , , will conduct a press conference 
in  . detailed information on latest events in the of 
of will be given at the press conference .  . 0 


in front of ministry of foreign affairs of russia 

 ( 5 april ) , living in , 
in front of the building of the ministry of foreign affairs of russia .  . 
was conducted as a of against participation of 
units in capture of the of of by 
 . about 100 people took part in the , organized by 
society . 0 


of in 

 ( 5 april ) 30 40 members of society before 
the building of permanent representation of in  . 
were demanding the return of lands , as if annexed 
by  . 
of in , classified 
this action as provocation aimed at creating a further inter ethnic 
conflict in  . he in his talk with the 
that he does not rule out a connection between the 
in the of and this anti 
action of the society in  . he also 
that 30 40 people do not mean the in 
the whole .  . 
society of , , in in 1990 , 
demands the creation of a state , which never existed 
before on the northern territories of  . 0 


attack of units stopped 

 ( 5 april ) attack of army on the town of 
, which began in the last twenty four hours , is stopped , 
the press service of the ministry of defence of  . 
in the result of measures , 6 and a number of 
the were  . advance units of the army 
several  . 
chairman of the , , visited the town of 
and met with of the units of the national army 
and local citizens , today. 0 


statement of ministry of foreign affairs of 

 ( 5 april ) ministry of foreign affairs of 
issued a statement in connection with of in the 
of of  . 
it is stated in the statement that regular units of the armed 
forces of captured the town of on april 3 . 
attack of units , which began on march 27 deep in the 
territory of still continues .  . has at 
present of the territory of  . 
spreading of far away from  ( upper ) 
proves that the conflicts has entered a 
dangerous  . this is the result of non recognition of 
as an by the international community , is 
in the document .  . 
it is stressed in the statement that the units of the 7th 
army are in the attack .  . this casts doubt on 
the sincerity of efforts in finding a peaceful 
solution to the conflict .  . 
it is in conclusion that aggressive actions of 
have the process under of  . 
the document contains the appeal to the world community to stop 
and to use political and economic sanctions 
against the  . 0 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re israel 's 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 39 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article , writes 
just a couple of questions for the pro israeli lobby out there 

1 ) is israel 's occupation of southern temporary for mr. 
stein i am working on a proof for you that israel is 
water to the river  ( away from  . 

yes it is , as has been evidenced by the previous two stages 
of from the area and by the in troops .  . 
currently the troops are kept at a level consistent with light 
and  . no permanent have been 
built in the area , nor are any  . 

as to the water question , you can continue to waste 
your time looking for non existent proof , or you can accept the 
testimony of people here , some , who have acknowledged 
that they know of no evidence for these allegations .  . 

2 ) is israel 's occupation of the west bank , gaza , and 
temporary if so  ( for those of you who support it) , why were so 
many settlers moved into the territories if it is not temporary , 
let 's hear it. 

it depends which of those territories you refer to. 
in general , settlers were moved into the territories because 
at the time , in the context of the situations , it seemed the 
logical move. this is not to say that views do n't change 
or that mistakes are not made. currently , i would say that 
the only disputed territory that does not appear to be temporary 
is that of eastern and northern jerusalem .  . 

steve 



stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( gedaliah friedenberg ) 
subject jewish on the middle east  ( jcome ) 
organization college of engineering , michigan state university 
lines 34 
distribution world 
reply to  ( gedaliah friedenberg ) 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 

i on my local access channel (a channel where any 
community member can whatever they want for about 50 
per half hour ) and saw a documentary (i use this term loosely ) 
on the conflict in the west bank. 

it was apparently made with a hand held  ( the quality was 
terrible , and the camera was really  . the documentary  ( sic ) 
told the tales of all of the children who died in the war against 
the jews as  . 

it was a regular story. one victimized youth was 
on how all he really wants to do is to get an education and that 
the big bad jews wo n't let him go to high school. he admittedly 
spent 4 years in prison  ( age 13 to 17 ) for murdering a jewish woman 
but claims that it was for the cause. 

i have seen this kind of garbage before. i have a lot of sympathy for 
the cause  ( as do many jews) , but i think that even many 
would be to call this a documentary ! 

the most suprising part is that the only credits shown at the end 
was an address for the makers of the film named jewish  . on 
the middle east .  . 

anybody heard of them they make peace now look like right  . 



department of engineering 
department of , mechanics and materials science 
michigan state university 




from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re of the jewish 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 

in article writes 
adam writes 
writes 
i'm surprised that you do n't consider the of land by 
the jews from , for the purpose of establishing an exclusive 
state , as a hostile action to war. 

it was for the purpose of establishing a state , not an 
exclusive state. if the state was to be exclusive , it would not have 
400 000 arab citizens .  . 

could you please tell me what was the ethnic composition of 
israel right after it was formed .  . 

100 israeli citizens .  . the ethnic composition depends on what 
you mean by formed .  . what the un to israel what it won in war 

and no , i do not consider the of land a hostile 
action. when someone wants to buy land , and someone else is willing 
to sell it , at a mutually agreeable price , then that is commerce .  . it 
is not a hostile action to war. 

no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and  . 
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about 
anti trust in the business world. 

were there anti trust laws in place in mandatory 
since the answer is no , you 're argument , while interestingly 
constructed , is irrelevant .  . i will however , respond to a few points 
you assert in the course of talking about anti trust laws .  . 


they were establishing a for the european jews .  . 

and those fleeing arab lands , where jews were second class 
citizens .  . 

plus they paid fair market value , etc .  .  .  . 

jews often paid far more than fair market value for the land 
they bought .  . 

they did not know they were victims of an international conspiracy .  . 

you know , , when people start talking about an 
international jewish conspiracy , its really begins to sound like 
anti semitic bull .  . 

the reason there is no conspiracy here is quite simple. 
made no bones about what was going on. there were 
, , etc , all talking about creating a national 
home for the jews .  . 

israel gave citizenship to the remaining because it 
had to maintain a democratic  ( to keep the western aid 
 . 

israel got no western aid in , nor in 1949 or 50 .  .  . it . 
still granted citizenship to those who remained .  . and how 
is citizenship a 

do n't get me wrong. i beleive that israel is democratic 
within the of one dominant ethnic group  . 
... 
 bad   . , i 've never heard anything about the 
arab community in  . except that they 're there. so 
yes , they 're there. but as a community with history and 
roots , its dead. 

because you 've never heard of it , its dead the fact is , you 
claimed israel had to give rights because of  ( non existant ) 
international aid .  . then you see that that argument has a hole you 
could drive a through , and again assert that israel is only 
democratic within the  ( unexplained ) of one ethnic group. 
the problem with that argument is that are allowed to vote for 
whoever they please. so , please tell me , , what are 
there on israeli democracy that do n't exist in other democratic 
states 

i 've never heard anything about the arab 
population .  . does that mean that they have no history or roots when 
i was at ben university in israel , one of my was an 
israeli arab .  . he was n't really all that different from my other 
neighbors. does that make him dead or oppressed 


i stand  . i meant that the jewish culture was not 
predominant in in recent history. i have no 
problem with jerusalem having a jewish character if it were 
predominantly jewish .  . so there. what to make of the rest 


how recent is recent i can probably build a case for a 
jewish gaza city. it would be pretty silly , but i could do it. i'm 
arguing not that jerusalem is jewish , but that land has no  . 

adam 



adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( rintoul e) 
subject re news you may have missed , apr 20 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 4 

why do you insist on the entire original post 
do n't waste bandwidth , please. you know how us non 
jews can be. ha ha .  . 


from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization , inc. 
lines 16 

( ) writes 

i understand how israel captured the and that it 
is its right to it. i ca n't fully understand why it has 
to deal with palestinians much the same way jews were treated 
before the  ( the final solution ) by hitler .  . what i 
totally do n't get is why the u.s. has to the 
existance of such a of human rights. 
just wondering 

seems that you 're more just misinformed than just wondering .  . 

the comparison you 're making is not just totally off base , but 
offensive to all sane people. 

h. stein 

from  ( alaa zeineldine ) 
subject re wtc bombing 
organization digital equipment corp .  . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 13 

 ( tim clock ) writes 

but might be a fictitious character invented by the two men for 
purposes , said mohammed , head of the arab american relations  . 

tim 

i would readers of the fact that the ny daily news on march 
reported the arrest of  . foreign newspapers reported her 
release shortly afterwards. i can provide copies of the articles 
upon request. 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject now , the genocide of the turks of x soviet and  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article writes 

at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that stay out of the 
crisis so that the repeat of the invasion will never occur again. 

do you have a terminal cold is  turkish  and will remain 
 . here we are , almost at the end of the 20th century , and 
a whole community , the turks of x soviet and , 
is facing forced , torture and murder on one hand and 
forced exodus , and genocide on the other , all because 
of their ethnic and religious background .  . and one should ask herself 
is the world community really so powerless where are all those human 
rights advocates where are all the decent people are we going to 
let this human go on and do nothing about it the number 
of murdered by the terrorist army and its 
is increasing .  . on the one hand they wish to distort the truth 
and on the other , they beg mercy from  . 

the age .  .  .  .  . 6 . 3 

by helen .... , , thursday 

the exact number of victims is still , but there can be 
little doubt that civilians were by 
in the mountains of last week. 

from the town of , sheltering in the 
border town of , give largely consistent accounts of 
how their enemies attacked their homes on the night of 25 
february , those who and shot them in the 
surrounding  . yesterday , i saw 75 in 
one in addition to four mutilated we were 
shown in the mosque when we arrived in late on tuesday .  . i 
also saw women and children with bullet in a 
hospital in a string of  . 

, an in the mostly populated by 
, had a population of about 6000 .  . mr. rashid 
of police in , said only about escaped to 
his town .  . so where are the rest . some might have taken 
prisoner , he said , or  . many bodies were still lying in the 
mountains because the were short of to 
them. he believed more than 1000 had , some of 
cold in as low as 10 degrees .  . 

one , , described how residents at 
first thought the attack was no more than the shooting 
to which they had become in four years of conflict .  . 
but when they saw the with a of 
, they realised they could not hope to defend 
themselves with and , and into the 
 . in the small hours , the massacre started .  . 

mr. , who believes his wife and two children were taken 
prisoner , repeated what many other have said that 
troops of the former soviet army helped the to attack 
 . it is not my opinion , i saw it with my own eyes. 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( todd j. dicker ) 
subject re , the humanist 
organization bbs , , florida 
lines 19 

 ( danny keren ) writes 

he he .  . the great humanist speaks .  . one has to read mr. 's posters , 
in which he jews as sons of and , keeps 
promising the final battle between muslims and jews  ( in which the 
and the trees will cry for the muslims to come and kill the 
jews hiding behind them ) , makes about jews dying from heart 
attacks etc , to realize his objective stance on the matters involved. 

 . 

do n't worry , , every blatantly violent and abusive posting made by 
is immediately to the operator of the system in which he 
has an account. i 'd imagine they have quite a file started on this 
and have already indicated that they have rules governing 
racist and threatening use of their resources .  . i 'd imagine he 'll be out 
of our hair in a short while. 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject serving in the and the  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 63 

in article  ( eduard wiener ) writes 

i can see how little taste you actually have in the 
cheap shot you took at me when i did nothing more 
than translate 's insulting reference 
to  . 

c mon , you still have n't yourself ,  . in april 
, hitler was for the invasion of the  . a 
number of nazi leaders began plans to german 
in spring and summer  . one of them was 
, son of a former of the in  . 
wrote a letter to hitler , asking for german support to his 
national movement and suggesting the 
creation of an formation in order 

to the youth of liberated according to the 
spirit of the nazi ideas. 

he wanted to unite the of the already territories 
of the ussr in his movement and with them conquer turkish 
 . was confined to serving the nazis in 
propaganda ministry as a speaker for and french language 
radio  . 1 the language were 
produced by yet another nazi  . 2 

1 patrick von zur  ( muehlen ) , p.  . 
2 , a. j. ,  und , 
, '  ( heinz 
1988 ) , pp. 124 and 129 .  . 


the of units in the german army was 
by general  ( the  . he played an important role in the 
of the   without assuming any 
official position. his views were represented by his men in the 
respective  . an interesting meeting took place between 
and the end of  . 
discussed matters of with and after 
a long conversation , asked if he could visit camp close to 
berlin .  . provided with his private car. 1 

a minor problem was that some of the soviet were not 
  but   according to the official nazi philosophy .  . 
as such , they were subject to german racism .  . however , 
were the least threatened and indeed most  . in august 
1933 , had been recognized as by the bureau of 
racial investigation in the ministry for domestic affairs .  . 

1 , ,  . , pp.  . 

need i go on 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( sabri t atan ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
reply to  ( sabri t atan ) 
organization iowa state university 
lines 36 

in article ,  ( mau 
napoleon ) writes 
from article , by  ( marek 
osinski ) 

well , it did not take long to see how consequent some greeks are in 
requesting that are not called by netters .  . 
so , napoleon , why do you write about and not 



is called by its for the last 
years. 
the city was never called by its  . 
was called from 320 ad until about the  . 
that 's about years. there many people alive today who were born in a 
city 
called  . how many people do you know that were born in a city 
called  . 

napoleon 

are you one of those people who were born when was called 
i do n't think so ! if those people use it because 
they are used to do so , then i understand. but open any map 
today  ( except a few that try to be political ) you will see that the name 
of the city is printed as  . so , do n't try to give 
any arguments to using except to cause some 
flames , to make some political statement. 






, baby ! 

from  ( cetin koc ) 
subject re seventh century a.d. math problems 
organization college of engineering , state university 
lines 32 
nntp posting host ece . edu . 

problem 1 

my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the 
and the , prince performed extraordinary 
deeds .  . three times in a single month he attacked the troops .  . 
the first time , he down half of the army .  . the second time , 
the , he slaughtered one fourth of the soldiers .  . the third 
time , he one of the army .  . the who were 
still alive , two hundred , to  . and so , from 
this remainder , find how many soldiers there were before the 
massacre .  . 


answer  ( a(1 1 2 1 4 1 11 ) a 

strike , slaughter , destroy , and massacre .  . after all , 
they are not as innocent as the network claims .  . 
















from  ( gideon ehrlich ) 
subject why does us consider to be a dangerous to humanity 
organization math department , bar university , , israel 
lines 20 

in article  ( yigal 
arens ) writes 

los times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993 .  . p.  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

the problem if us government files about 
and some other similar persons does or does not violate a federal 
or a local american law seemed to belong to some local american law 
forum not to this forum. 
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents 
of those files. 
so it will be nice if will tell us 
1. why do american authorities consider to be dangerous 
2. why does the have an interest in that person 
3. if one does trust either the us government or the what an 
additional information should he send them 




from  ( david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti human right in a 
summary part a 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

accounts of anti human right in part a 
to current events in 

 ( part a of 008 ) 



oh , yes , i just  . while they were raping me they 
repeated quite frequently , let the women have babies 
for us , muslim babies , let them bear for the 
struggle against the  . then they said , those 
muslims can carry on our holy cause. heroes ! they repeated 
it very often. 



of m. 

born 
teacher 
secondary school no. 10 
of the organization at school no. 10 
member of the city office 

resident at building 17 , apartment 15 
no. 3 


note the events in , used as a pretext to attack in 
are false , as verified by independent international human rights 
organizations 

i'm thinking about the price the paid to be living in 
now. we paid for it in human casualties and crippled fates the 
price was too great ! now , after the , we , the victims , divide 
our lives into before and  . we talk like that that was before the 
war. like the people who went through world war ii and considered it a whole 
, a fate .  . no matter how many years go by , no matter how long we live , 
it will never be forgotten. on the contrary , some of the become even 
in our rage , in our , we saw everything differently , but now 
. . . they say that you can see more with distance , and we can see those 
events with more clarity now . . . we more perceive our 
losses and everything that happened. 

eight was a leap year .  . everyone a leap year and wants it 
to pass as quickly as possible. yet we never thought that that leap year would 
be such a black one for every those who lost someone and 
those who did n't .  . 

that second to last day of was ordinary for our family , although you 
could already smell danger in the air. but we did n't think that the danger was 
near and possible , so we did n't take any steps to save ourselves. at least , as 
my parents say , at least we should have done something to save the children. 
my parents themselves are not that old , 52 and 53 years. but then they thought 
that they had already lived enough , and did everything they could to save us. 

in our apartment the started on february 28 , around five in the 
afternoon. i call it a , and i repeat it was a even though all 
our family survived .  . when i recall how they broke down our door my 
even now , among , among people who wish me only well , i feel 
like it 's all starting over again. i remember how that broke into our 
apartment . . . my parents were standing in the hall .  . my father had an axe in 
his hands and had immediately locked both of the doors. our door was rarely 
locked since friends and often dropped by. we 're known as a 
family , and we just never really thought about whether the people 
who were coming to see us were , jews , or russians .  . we had friends 
of many , even a woman. 

my parents were in the hall , my father with an axe .  . i remember him telling my 
mother , run to the kitchen for a knife .  . but mother was detached , pale , as 
though she had decided to sell her life a bit  . to be honest i never 
expected it of her , she 's afraid of getting shot and afraid of the dark .  . a 
was at the house that day , a girl , , and said , 
no matter what happens , no matter what they do to us , you 're not to come out 
of the  . we 're going to tell them that we 're alone in the apartment .  . 

we went into the  . there were four of us. and the girl 
under the , and we covered them up with a , boxes of , and 
and i are standing there and looking at one another. the idea that 
perhaps we were seeing each other for the last time somewhere inside 
me. i'm an emotional person and i express my emotions immediately .  . i wanted to 
embrace her and her , as though it were the last second .  . and maybe 
was thinking the same thing , but she 's quite  . we did n't have time to 
say anything to each other because we immediately heard raise a  . 
there was so much from the of feet , from the shouting , and from 
 . i could n't figure what was going on out there because the door 
to the was only open a crack .  . but when the second time 
out of the  . i after her , i had wanted to hold her back , 
but when she opened the door and out into the hall they saw us 
immediately .  . the only thing i managed to do was close the door behind me , at 
least so as to save and her friend. the was shouting , all of their 
eyes were shining , all red , like from  . at first about 40 people 
in , but later i was standing with my back to the door and could n't see. they 
came into the hall , into the kitchen , and my father into the other 
room. he did n't utter a word , he just raised the axe to hit them , but 
the axe from behind and said , tell them not to touch the children. 
tell them they can do as they want with us , but not to harm the children. she 
said this to father in  . 

there were from among the who broke in. they 
understood perfectly .  . the local do n't know , 
they do n't need to speak it. and one of them responded in you and 
your children both . . . we 're going to do the same thing to you and your 
children that you did in  . they killed our women , our girls , 
our , they cut their off , and burned our houses . . . , and 
so on and so forth , and we came to do the same thing to you. this whole time 
some of them are destroying the house and the others are shouting at us. they 
were mostly young people , under 30 .  . at first there were n't any older people 
among them. and all of their faces were  . is a small town , 
all the same , and we know a lot of people by their faces , especially me , i'm 
a teacher .  . 

so they my father into the other room. they twisted his and took 
him in there , no they did n't take him in there , they him in there , 
because he was already unable to walk .  . they closed the door to that room all 
but a crack .  . we could n't see what was happening to father , what they were 
doing to him. then a young man , about 26 years old , started to tear off 
's , and at him in i'm old enough to 
be your mother ! what are you doing ! he her. now he 's being held , 
identified him. i hope he 's convicted .  . then they went after , 
who 's been talking to them like a leader , as though she were trying 
to lead them down a different path , as they say , to influence their 
consciousness .  . she told them that what they were doing was wrong , that they 
must n't do it. she said , come on , let 's straighten this out , without 
emotions .  . what do you want who are you why did you come here what did we 
ever do to you someone tried to explain who they were and why they had come 
into our home , but then the ones in the back more of them kept coming and 
coming said , what are you talking to , them for. you should kill them. we 
came here to kill them. 

they pushed , her , and she down. they her , but she 
did n't cry out. even when they her clothes off , she kept repeating , what 
did we do to you what did we do to you and even later , when she came to , 
she said , , what did we do to them why did they do that to us 

that group was prepared , i know this because i noticed that some of them only 
broke up , and others only dealt with us. i remember that when they 
were beating me , when they were tearing my clothes off , i felt neither pain 
nor because my entire attention was to  . all i could do 
was watch how much they her and how painful it was for her , and what they 
did to her. that 's why i felt no pain. later , when they carried off , 
they her . . . it 's really amazing that she not only lived , but 
did n't lose her mind . she is very beautiful and they did everything they 
could to destroy her beauty .  . mostly they her face , with their , 
kicking her , using anything they could find .  . 

, , and i were all in one room. and again i did n't feel any pain , 
just did n't feel any , no matter how much they me , no matter what they 
did. then one of those said that there was n't enough room in the 
apartment .  . they broke up the and the and moved everything into the 
so there would be more room. then someone suggested , let 's take her 
outside .  . 

those were in heaven. they did what they would do every day if they 
were n't afraid of the authorities .  . those were their true  . at the time 
i thought that in fact they would always behave that way if they were n't 
afraid of what would happen to them. 

when they carried out and her face was completely covered 
with blood that 's when i started to feel the pain. i out several 
times from the pain , but each moment that i had my eyes open it was as though 
i were recording it all on film .  . i think i'm a kind person by nature , but i'm 
, especially if someone is mean to me , and i do n't it. i hold 
a a long time if someone intentionally causes me pain. and every time 
i would come to and see one of those animals on top of me , i 'd remember them , 
and i 'll remember them for the rest of my life , even though people tell me 
forget , you have to forget , you have to go on living. 

at some point i remember that they stood me up and told me something , and 
despite the fact that i hurt all over i had been terribly i found 
the strength in myself to interfere with their  . i realized that i had 
to do something resist them or just let them kill me to bring my suffering 
to an end. i pushed one of them away , he was a real horse .  . i remember now that 
he 's being held , too. as though they were all waiting for it , they me 
and took me out onto the  . i had long hair , and it was stuck all over 
me. one of the to the was open , and i realized that 
they to me out the , because they had already picked me up 
with their hands , i was up in the air. as though for the last time i took a 
really deep and closed my eyes , and somehow myself inside , i 
suddenly became cold , as though my heart had into my feet. and suddenly 
i felt myself flying .  . i could n't figure out if i was really flying or if i 
just imagined it. when i came to i thought now i'm going to on the 
ground. and when it did n't happen i opened my eyes and realized that i was 
still lying on the  . and since i did n't , did n't beg them at all , 
they became all the more wild , like  . they started to me with 
their feet. shoes with on them , and iron , like they had 
put them on. then i lost consciousness .  . 

i came to a couple of times and waited for death , it , it. 
some people ask for good health , life , happiness , but at that moment i did n't 
need any of those things. i was sure that none of us would survive , and i had 
even forgotten about and if none of us was alive , it was n't worth 
living. 

there was a moment when the pain was especially great .  . i 
pain , and realized that they were going to me for a long time to come 
because i had showed myself to be so  . i started to myself , 
and when i started to they realized that with my death i was going to 
put an end to their , and they my hands from my throat. the 
person who injured and insulted me most i remember him very well , 
because he was the oldest in the group. he looked around 48 .  . i know that he 
has four children and that he considers himself an ideal father and person , 
one who would never do such a thing. something came over him then , you see , 
even during the investigation he almost called me daughter , he , 
although , of course , he knew that i 'd never forgive him. something like that 
i can never forgive .  . i have never injured anyone with my behavior , with my 
words , or with my deeds , i have always put myself in the other person 's shoes , 
but then , in a matter of hours , they me entirely .  . i shall never 
forget it. 

i wanted to do myself in then , because i had nothing to lose , because no one 
could protect me. my father , who tried to do something against that of 
by himself , could do nothing and would n't be able to do anything. 
i knew that i was even sure that he was no longer alive .  . 

and ira , my acquaintance i knew her and had been to see her family a 
couple of times her brother tried to save her and could n't , so he tried to 
kill her , his very own sister .  . he threw an axe at her to kill her and put an 
end to her suffering .  . when they her clothes off and carried her into 
the other room , her brother knew what awaited her. i do n't know which one it 
was , or  . both of them were in the room from which the axe was 
thrown .  . but the axe hit one of the people carrying her and so they killed her 
and made her death even more , maybe the most of all 
the deaths of those days in  . i heard about it all from the neighbor 
from the  landing .  . his name is , he knows my family a 
little. he came to see how we had gotten in the new apartment in , 
how we were feeling , and if we needed anything. he 's a good person. he said , 
you should praise god that you all survived .  . but what i saw with my own eyes , 
i , a man , who has seen so many people die , who has lived a whole life , i , he 
says , nearly lost my mind that day. i had never seen the likes of it and 
think i never shall again. the door to his apartment was open and he saw 
everything. one of the brothers threw the axe , because they had already taken 
the father and mother out of the apartment .  . , , and ira remained .  . he 
saw ira , , being carried into the other room in the hands of or seven 
people. he told us about it and said he would never forget it. he heard the 
brothers shouting something , from pain , rage , and the fact that 
they were powerless to do anything. but all the same they tried to 
do something. the guy who got hit with the axe lived .  . i i 

after i had been at killing myself i saw them taking and 
out of the  . i was in such a state that i could n't even 
remember my sister 's name. i wanted to cry ! out to her , but could 
not. i looked at her and knew that it was a familiar , dear face , but could n't 
for the life of me remember what her name was and who she was. and thus 
i saved her , because when they were taking her out , she , as it turns out , had 
told them that she had just been and that she and were both 
there by chance , that they were n't  . 's a , you can tell 
right away , and speaks and she told them that 
she was an  . and i almost gave her away and doomed her. i'm glad 
that at least came out of this all in good physical health . . . 
although her spirit was murdered . . . 

at some point i came to and saw , , my acquaintance , in that 
 . he lives in the building .  . for some reason i his 
name , maybe i sensed my defense in him. i called out to him in , , 
help ! but he turned away and went into the  . just then they were 
taking and out of the  . said he knew and 
, that in fact was , and he took both of them to the 
neighbors. 

and the idea stole through me that maybe had led them to our apartment , 
something like that , but if he was my friend , he was supposed to save me. 

then they were me very hard we have an , a metal one , 
they were hitting me on the back with it and i out they took me out 
onto the a second time to me out the  . they were already 
sure that i was dead because i did n't react at all to the new  . someone 
said , she 's already dead , let 's her out. when they carried me out onto 
the for the second time , when i was about to die the second time , i 
heard someone say in do n't kill her , i know her , she 's a 
teacher .  . i can still hear that voice in my ears , but i ca n't remember 
whose voice it was. it was n't , because he speaks with an 
accent his mother is and they speak at home. he speaks 
worse than our does. i remember when they carried me in and 
threw me on the he came up to me , that person , and i having opened my 
eyes , saw and recognized that person , but immediately passed out cold .  . i had 
been so much that i did n't have the strength to remember him. i only 
remember that this person was older and he had a high position. unfortunately 
i ca n't remember anything more. 

what should i say about he did n't treat me  . i had heard a lot 
about him , that he was n't that good a person , that he sometimes drank too 
much. once he boasted to me that he had served in  . he knew that 
women usually like in a man. especially if a man was in , 
if he was , then it 's about percent sure that he will be treated 
very , with respect. later i found out that he had served in 
, and was injured , but that 's not in , of course. i found that 
all out later. 

among the people who were in our apartment , my also saw the 
of the party organization .  . i do n't know his last name , his first name is 
, he is an born  . but later was n't so sure , 
she was no longer a hundred percent sure that it was he she saw , and she 
did n't want to him. she said , he was there , and a little while 
later , maybe they me so much that i am confusing him with someone else. 
no , it seems like it was he .  . i am sure it was he because when he came to see 
us the first time he said one thing , and the next time he said something 
entirely different. the have n't him yet. he came to see 
us in the house where we were living at the time. he brought 
and flowers , this was right before march he almost started 
, he was so upset to see our condition. i do n't know if he was putting 
us on or not , but later , after we had told the and they 
him to the , he said that he had been in , he was n't in  . 
the fact that he changed his testimony leads me to believe that is 
right , that in fact it was he who was in our apartment .  . i do n't know how the 
are now treating him. at one point i wondered and asked , and was 
told that he had an and was not in our apartment .  . could n't he have gone 
to and an i'm not ruling out that possibility .  . 

ill now return to our apartment .  . had come to. you could say that she 
bought them off with the gold father gave her when they were married her 
and her watch were gold .  . she bought her own and her husband 's 
lives with them. she gave the gold to a 14 year old boy .  .  . a 
boy , he speaks perfectly .  . he 's an orphan who was raised by 
his and who lives in on street. he goes to a 
special school , one for mentally children. but i 'll say this i'm 
a teacher all the same and in a matter of i can form an opinion that 
boy is not at all mentally  . he 's healthy , he can think just fine , 
and analyze , too . . . policemen should be so lucky .  . and he 's , too. 
after that he went home and all of the pictures out of his photo  . 

he and demanded gold , saying , , if you give us all the gold 
and money in your apartment we 'll let you live. and told them where 
the gold was. he brought in the and opened it , shook out the contents , and 
everyone who was in the apartment on it , started knocking each other 
over and taking the gold from one another. i'm surprised they did n't kill one 
another right then. 

was still in control of herself .  . she had been up , her face was 
black and blue from the , and her eyes were filled with blood , and she 
into the other room. father was lying there , up , with a gag in his 
mouth and a over his face. there was a broken table on top of the 
low. father and he could n't walk like me , he was half dead , 
into the other world. he could n't comprehend anything , could n't see , 
and was covered with black and blue .  . the gag out of his mouth , 
it was some sort of cloth , i think it was a from an  . 

the were still in our apartment , even in the room father 
out of , led him out of , carried him out of. we had two in that room , 
a small magazine table , a , a television , and a screen. three people 
were standing next to that , and into their shirts , their pants , 
everywhere , they were shot and cups from the coffee 
service saw them out of the corner of her eye. she said , i was afraid 
to turn around , i just father and started him , but at the 
i could n't hold him up , he down , and i picked him up again and 
him down the to the  . one of the 
criminals , the one who had watched her with his face half turned her , 
out of one eye. she says , i realized that my death would come from that 
person. i looked him in the eyes and he from fear and went  . 
later they caught that  . , father and left. 

i was alone. had taken away , and father were gone , 
was already outside , i did n't know what they were doing to her. i was left all 
alone , and at that moment . . . i became someone else , do you understand even 
though i knew that neither mother and father in the other room , nor and 
under the could save me , all the same i somehow managed to hold out. 
i went on fighting them , i bit someone , i remember , and i another. 
but when i was left alone i realized what kind of people they were , the ones 
i had observed , the ones who , what kind of people they were , the 
ones who me , that it was all unnecessary , that i was about to die and 
that all of that would die with me. 

at some point i took heart when i saw the young man from the next building .  . i 
did n't know his name , but we would one another when we met , we knew that 
we were from the same  . when i saw him i said , neighbor , is that 
you in so doing i placed myself in great danger .  . he realized that if i lived 
i would remember him. that 's when he the axe .  . the axe that had been 
taken from my father .  . i automatically to my and raised my hands to 
take the blow of the axe , although at the time it would have been better if he 
had me in the head with the axe and put me out of my misery .  . when he 
started getting ready to wind back for the blow , someone came into the room. 
the had such an impact on everyone that my neighbor 's axe in 
the air. everyone stood at attention for this guy , like soldiers in the 
presence of a general. everyone waited for his word continue the atrocities 
or not. he said , enough , let 's go to the third  . in the third 
they killed ,  . this once 
again that they had prepared in advance. almost all of them left with him , as 
they went picking up , , whatever they needed , whatever they 
found , all the way up to out and one , someone else had 
already taken the other. 

four people remained in the room , soldiers who did n't obey their general. they 
had to have come recently , because other faces had in front of me over 
those 2 to 3 hours , but i had never seen those three. one of them , (i 
identified him later ) , a native of the district of , an 
, had moved to a year before. he told me in 
sister , do n't be afraid , i 'll drive those three out of here. 
that 's just what he said , those , as though he himself were not 
, but some other , he said with such hatred , i 'll drive 
them out of here now , and you put your clothes on , and find a hammer and nails 
and nail the door shut , because they 'll be coming back from apartment 41 .  . 
that 's when i found out that they had gone to apartment 41 .  . before that , the 
person in the coat , the one who came in and whom they 
to , the general , said that they were going to the third  . 

helped me get some clothes on , because l could n't do it by myself. 
's old coat was lying on the  . he threw it over my , i 
was with , and he asked where he could find nails and a hammer .  . 
he wanted to give them to me so that when he left i could nail the door shut .  . 
but the door was lying on the in the hall .  . 

i went out onto the  . there were broken , and flowers and 
from were on the  . it was impossible to find 
anything. he told me , well , fine , i wo n't leave you here. would any of the 
let you in they 'll be back , they wo n't calm down , they know you 're 
alive .  . he told me all this in  . 

then he returned to the others and said , what are you waiting for leave ! 
they said , ah , you just want to us out of here and do it with her 
yourself. no , we want to do it to. he them on , but , not 
, because he was alone against them , although they were still just 
, not old enough to be  . he led them out of the room , and went 
down to the third with them himself , and said , leave .  . what 's the 
, are n't you men go fight with the men. what do you want of her and 
he came back  . they wanted to come up after him and he realized that 
he could n't hold them off forever. then he asked me where he could hide me. i 
told him at the  on the fourth , apartment 10 , we were on really 
good terms with them. 

we knocked on the door , and he explained in  . the neighbor woman 
opened the door and immediately said , i'm an  . he said , i know. 
let her sit at your place a while. do n't open the door to anyone , no one knows 
about this , i wo n't tell anyone. let her stay at your place. she says , fine , 
have her come in. i went in. she cried a bit and gave me some , i 
had gone entirely and was with nervous  . i into 
 . even though i was wearing 's old coat , it 's a short one , a 
half length , i was cold all the same. i asked , do you know where my family 
is , what happened to them she says , no , i do n't know anything. i'm afraid 
to go out of the apartment , now they 're so wild that they do n't look to see 
who 's and who 's  . left. ten later my 
neighbor says , you know , , i do n't want to lose my life because of you , 
or my son and his wife .  . go stay with someone else. during the in our 
apartment one of the scum , a , took my in his mouth i had 
on and ripped it out , tearing the  . the other was 
still there. when i'm nervous i fix my hair constantly , and then , when i 
my ear , i noticed that i had one on. i took it out and gave it 
to her. she took the , but she led me out of the apartment .  . 

i went out and did n't know where to go. i heard someone going  . i 
do n't know who it was but assumed it was them. with difficulty i 
end up to our apartment , i wanted to die in my own home. i go into the 
apartment and hear that they are coming up to our place , to the  . 
i had to do something. i went into the where and had 
hidden and saw that the was  . instead of hiding i near 
some broken christmas , found an one , and started  . 
then they came in. someone said that there were still some things to take .  . i 
think that someone pushed me under the bed. i on the , and there were 
broken on it , under my head and legs. i got all cut up , but i 
there without moving .  . my heart was beating so hard it seemed the whole town 
could hear it. there were no on. maybe that 's what saved me. they were 
burning , and the end they brought in a  . they started 
picking out the clothes that could still be  . they took father 's 
and a , the end of which was under my head. they on the 
one end , and it felt like they were my hair out. i almost cried out. 
and again i realized i was n't getting out of there alive , and i started to 
myself again. i took my throat in one hand , and pressed the other on 
my mouth , so as not to , so that i would die and they would only find me 
 . they were throwing the burned under the , and i got 
burned , but i it. something inside of me held on , someone 's hand was 
protecting me to the end. i knew that i was going to die , but i did n't know 
how. i knew that if i survived i would walk out of that apartment , but if 
i found out that one of my family had died , i would die for sure , because i 
had never been so close to death and could n't imagine how you could go on 
living without your mother or father , or without your sister .  . , i 
thought , was still alive she went to 's place or someone is hiding her. 
i tried to think that would n't let them be killed. he served in 
, he should protect her. 

while i was myself i said my good to everyone. and then i 
thought , how could survive alone. if they killed all of us , how would 
she live all by herself there were people in the room. they talked among 
themselves and  . one talked about his daughter , saying that there was no 
children 's in our apartment that he could take for his daughter .  . 
another said that he liked the apartment recently we had done a really good 
job fixing everything up and that he would live there after everything was 
all over. they started to argue .  . a third one says , how come you get it i 
have four children , and there are three here , that 's just what i need. 
all these years i 've been living in god awful places. another one says , 
neither of you gets it. we 'll set fire to it and leave .  . then someone said 
that live right next door , the fire could move over to their 
place. and they , to my good , did n't set fire to the apartment , and 
left. 

oh , yes , i just  . while they were raping me they repeated quite 
frequently , let the women have babies for us , muslim babies , let 
them bear for the struggle against the  . then they 
said , those muslims can carry on our holy cause. heroes ! they repeated it 
very often. 

reference for 

1 the against in soviet , 
volume i , accounts , edited by , forward by 
, 1990 , published by d. , ny , pages 145 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 46 

in article  ( anas omran ) writes 

in a previous article ,  ( tim clock ) says 

in article ( ) writes 

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or 
news , where do we go to understand , to learn 
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another 

there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report 
on the situation in the o . t .  . 

a neutral organization would report on the situation in 
israel , where the and children are the victims of by 
 . a neutral organization might also report that 
israeli have full civil rights. 

the used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these 
neutral reporters .  . 

care to name names , or is this yet another 
slander 

so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in  . 
they do not allow fair and neutral of the situation in  . 

terrorism , as you would know if you had a that allowed 
you to stand up , is random attacks on civilians .  . includes 
such things as shooting a and him off the side of a 
because he happens to be jewish .  . not allowing people to go where 
they are likely to be and killed , like a certain lawyer killed 
last week , is not  . 

adam 







adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( alaa zeineldine ) 
subject re facts about wtc bombing 
organization digital equipment corp .  . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 27 

writes 
in article ,  ( hamaza h. salah ) writes 
who is 


i see you did n't notice my recent posting. 

the fbi found that was simply an taken by  . 


i have the sources for the information in the chronology , including the 
ny daily news of march 5 that reports the arrest of and a 
copy of the foreign press reports of her release shortly afterwards. 

what is the source for your story 

and pray tell me how can the fbi arrest and release an 

what is the relationship between that person and the israeli 

, zero , nothing. like the of the idiot who posted this absurdity in the 
first place. 

what has to do with information and putting it forward .  . why 
has the fbi refused comment on the guardian reporter 's question about 
 link with israeli intelligence  ( the information did not mention 
the  . 

from  ( peter nelson ) 
subject re remember those names come election time. 
nntp posting host c . com . 
organization corporation , , ma 
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government 
lines 34 

in article  ( anwar mohammed ) writes 
i said 
in article  ( peter nelson ) writes 

besides , there 's no case that can be made for us military involvement 
there that does n't apply equally well to , say , , , or 
 ( it appears with the 's new campaign )  . non 
do n't count 

hmm .  .  . some . might say are non white. , i forgot , are 
oil rich , loaded with dollars , etc so they do n't count. 

 .  .  . and . let 's not forget , which is about as far from white as it 
gets .  . 

and why are we in when right across the gulf of are 
some of the arab nations on the planet why does the 
us always become the point man for this stuff i do n't mind us 
helping out but what invariably happens is that everybody expects 
us to do most of the work and take most of the risks , even when these 
events are in other people 's back , and they have the 
resources to deal with them quite well , thank you. i mean , it 's 
not like either , or represent some overwhelming 
military force that their ca n't handle .  . nor are the 
a big deal it 's a lot bigger challenge 
to get troops and from new york to , than from 
saudi arabia harder to go from texas to , than or 
austria to  . 


peter 




from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject traditional and historical  ( was re watch out ! ! ) .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( fazia rizvi ) writes 

seems to me that a lot of good muslims would care about those terms. 
especially those affected by the ideology and actions that such terms 
 . the suffering from such bigotry comes to mind. they 
get it from people who call them  descendants of turks  , from 
people who hate their religion , and from those who do n't think they are 
really muslims at all since they are white. the suffering that they are 

let us not forget about the genocide of the people in   
and x soviet by the  . between and , 
committed of crimes , resorted to all conceivable methods of 
, organized massacres , petrol over babies and burned 
them , women and girls in front of their parents who were bound 
hand and foot , took girls from their and fathers and appropriated 
personal property and real  . and today , they put in the most 
conditions any other nation had ever known in history. 


sat in the of a bar on the 
sea of and showed a line of in 
his , by an bullet as he the town of 
just over three months ago , writes pope .  . 

i'm still wearing the same clothes , i do n't have any others , 
the 51 year old said , beginning his account of the 
disaster .  . i was in five places , but i am lucky to 
be alive .  . 

mr and his wife were short of food , without 
for more than a month , and cut off from for 12 
days. they sensed the was around the 
2 , 000 to 3 , 000 people left in the town on the 
of  . 

at about a started such as we had never heard 
before , eight or kinds of weapons , , heavy 
machine guns , the lot , mr said. 

soon were down the street from the direction 
of the attack .  . some in but others started 
fleeing the town , down a hill , through a and through the 
into a on the other side. 

to escape , the had to reach the town of 
about 15 away. they thought they were going to make it , 
until at about dawn they reached a between the two 
of and  . 

none of my group was hurt up to then ... then we were by 
a car on the road , and the started 
fire , mr said. 

fighting their way out of forward 
to force open a for the civilians , but their efforts 
were mostly in  . mr said only 10 people from his 
group of 80 made it through , including his wife and 
son. seven of his immediate relations died , including his 
67 year old elder brother .  . 

i only had time to reach down and cover his face with his hat , 
he said , his own big flat turkish cap over his eyes. we 
have never got any of the bodies back .  . 

the first groups were lucky to have the benefit of covering fire .  . 
one hero of the , , was shot dead as he 
to change a magazine while covering the third group 's 
, mr said. 

another hero , , the of , said he and 
several others spent the whole day of 26 february in the 
, by dead bodies as they tried to keep three 
at bay .  . 

as the survivors the last into , there was 
little comfort in a town from which most of the population was 
soon to flee .  . 

the night after we reached the town there was a big 
rocket attack .  . some people just kept going , mr said. i 
had to get to the hospital for treatment .  . i was in a bad way. 
they even found a bullet in my  . 

victims of war an woman her son , killed in the 
massacre in february  . struggle in primitive 
conditions  ( centre ) to save a man in a 
operating theatre set up in a train  . grief stricken 
relatives in the town of  ( right ) weep over the of 
another of the massacre victims .  . the final death 
has been complicated because muslims bury their dead within 24 
hours. 

ap 


the independent , london , 12 6  



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re was go ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 

in article writes 

it is not a terrorist camp as you and the like 
to view the they are small communities with kids playing 
in the streets , women lunch , men playing cards , etc .  .  .  .  .  . 
some young men , usually between 17 to 30 years are members of 
the resistance .  . even the of the do not 
know who these are , they are about it , but most people often 
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are 
supported by iran most of the time. they and 
into the where they set up 
for israeli  . every time an israeli is killed or injured 
by these , israel by bombing 
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians .  . 

this a tried and true method by and groups 
to conduct in the midst of the local , thus forcing the 
state to possible harm innocent civilians in their search or , 
in order to avoid the deaths of civilians , the search .  . certainly the 
people who use the population for cover are also to for the 
innocent civilians into harm 's way. 

are you suggesting that , when use the population for cover , israel 
should totally back down so .  .  . the . easiest way to get away with attacking 
another is to use an innocent as a and hope that the other respects 
innocent lives 

if israel insists that 
the so called security is necessary for the protection of 
northern israel , than it will have to pay the price of its occupation 
with the blood of its soldiers .  . 

your damn right israel insists on some sort of or 
 . its had to put up with too many years of attacks from the territory 
of arab states and watched as the states did nothing. it is not exactly 
that israel decided that the only way to stop such actions is to 
do it themselves. 

if israel is interested in peace , than it should from our land. 

what so the whole bit about attacks on israel from arab states 
can start all over again while i also hope for this to happen , it will 
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the 
responsibility and the duty to stop attacks on israel from their 
 . they have to prove it  ( or provide some ) , there is no way 
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of 
tolerance towards anti israel in . 

i have written before on this very newsgroup , that the only 
real solution will come as a result of a comprehensive peace 
whereby israel to its own borders and 
peace keeping troops are along the border to 
no one on either side of the border is  . 

good lord , brad .  . what in the world you the idea that un troops stop 
anything they are only in a country because that country allows 
them in. it can ask them to leave at any time as did in  56 and 
 . somehow , with that on the troops powers i do n't 
think that israel is going to be any more comfortable. without a genuine commitment to peace from the arab states , and concrete  ( not intellectual or political in jargon ) by other parties , the un is worthless 
to israel  ( but , perhaps useful as a ) .  . 

this is the only solution , it is time for israel to 
realize that the concept of a aimed at protecting 
its northern cities has failed .  . in fact it has caused much more 
israeli deaths than the occasional of northern israel 
would have resulted in. 

perhaps you are aware that , to most communities of people , there is 
the feeling that it is better that many of us die fighting 
against those who attack us than for few to die while we silently 
accept our fate .  . if , however , you call on israel to see the sense of 
suffering casualties , i suggest you apply the same to , 
arab and islamic groups. 

if israel really wants to save some israeli lives it would 
unilaterally from the so called security before the conclusion 
of the peace talks .  . such a move would save israeli lives , 
advance peace efforts , give israel a great moral lift , better israel 's 
public image and give it an in the peace 
since israel can claim that it is interested in 
peace and has already offered some important  . 
along with such a israel could demand that 
be by the government and warn that it will not 
accept any attacks against its northern cities and that if such a 
occurs than it will consider re taking the 
and will hold the and government responsible for it. 

from israel 's perspective , gets it nothing .  .  . except . the 
that it has given something up and now can only 
hope that the other side decides to do likewise .  . words can be taken 
back by merely doing so to take back items  ( land , 
control of land ) requires the sort of action you say israel should 
stay away from. 

israel put up with attacks from arab state territories for decades 
before essentially putting a stop to it through its invasion of  . 
the entire basis of that reality was exactly as you state above 1 ) israel 
would express at these attacks and to the arab state 
involved , 2 ) that state ignored the entire matter , secure 
in the knowledge that it could not be held responsible for the acts 
committed by private groups , 3) israel would prepare for the next 
round of attacks .  . what would israel want to return to those days  ( and 
do n't be so idiotic as to suggest trust for the motivations of 
present day arab states ) 

there seems to be very little incentive for the and 
to allow to bomb israel proper under such 
circumstances , 

ah , ok .  .  . what . is different about the present situation that tells 
us that the arab states will not pursue their past 
policies towards israel now , do n't talk about vague political factors 
but about those  ( just like that which israel gave up ) 
factors that the responsibility of those states. your 
of difference here is based on a whole lot of assumptions , 
and most states do n't feel basing their existence on that 
sort of thing. 

and now the government has proven that it is 
capable of controlling and all as they did 
in all other parts of  . 



it has not. without the support , and active involvement , of syria , 
would not have been able to all that has occurred .  . 
once syria leaves who is to say that will be able to 
control if syria may be even more dangerous for israel .  . 

tim 

your view of this entire matter is far too one and 
naive .  . 

subject re pleasure from death 
from  ( marc a afifi ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 30 

brad writes .  .  .  . 

to the men of the resistance ! with every 
israeli son that you place in the grave you are the moral 
of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli 
government 's policy of disregard for civilian life. 

brad 

to which mark ira responds 

your delight in the death of human beings says more about you 
than anything that i could say. 

mark , 
were you one of the millions of americans cheering the slaughter of iraqi 
civilians by us forces in 1991 your comment could also apply to all of 
them.  ( by the way , i do not the killing of any human being , 
including prisoners sentenced to death by our justice department ) 

peace. 





some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with 
both eyes. 
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions. 


from 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization none 
lines 67 

in article ,  ( deniz akkus ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( esin terzioglu ) writes 

my response to the shooting down of a turkish over the 
air space was because of the ignorant posting of the 
person from your country. turks and want to 
into the conflict with  . the 
who have lived in their for 3000 
years  ( cut off from and given to by stalin ) are 
the ones directly involved in the conflict .  . they are defending 
themselves against  . that has no mercy 
for people that are with 23 's and 
 . 

at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that stay out of the 
crisis so that the repeat of the invasion will 
never occur again. 

is involved in fighting with  . it is 
soldiers from that are towns in  . 

well , this is your opinion ! 

turkish can all they want since the above is untrue .  . however , 
i am sure you guys would have never brought up 's involvement if 
had had heavy losses .  . 


you might wish to read more about whether or not it is 
only in that  . it seems to me that the are better 
organized , have more success militarily and shell towns 
repeatedly .  . 

read what the new york times , that is publishing anti 
articles .  . , i have my resources .  . look , everyone knows how aggressive 
turks have been in the past. are not sit 
around and watch fire works by taught by turks .  . 

it seems to me that the are better organized , have more success 
militarily and shell towns repeatedly .  . 

of non crap and you know it. who the hell you think 
you are talking to are fighting local in 
 . you tell me who has more 's freedom 
in or 

again , i will say it for the last time , is not involved 
in this war and you guys want to bring this up in order to cover 
up the turkish in the  . go ahead , repeat as 
much as you want. 

i do n't wish to get into the discussion. had the right to 
intervene , and it did. perhaps the intervention was not supposed to 
last for so long , but the constant refusal of the greek governments both 
on the island and in to deal with reality is also to be blamed 
for the in the  . 

not a chance ! you can not convince me  ( based on your reasons)that ) 
your government did the right thing to invade  . 

lastly , why is there not a soc . culture . i vote yes for it. 
after all , it is now free. 

well , i am not in the position to agree or with you. 



from  ( yigal arens ) 
subject re why does us consider to be a dangerous to humanity 
organization usc information sciences institute 
lines 43 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 19 apr 93 14 49 gmt 

in article  ( gideon ehrlich ) writes 

in article  ( yigal 
arens ) writes 

los times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993 .  . p.  . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

the problem if us government files about 
and some other similar persons does or does not violate a federal 
or a local american law seemed to belong to some local american law 
forum not to this forum. 
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents 
of those files. 
so it will be nice if will tell us 
1. why do american authorities consider to be dangerous 

i'm not aware that the us government considers me dangerous. in any 
case , that has nothing to do with the current case. the claim against 
the is that it obtained and information that 
was gathered by state and or federal in the course of their 
standard interaction with citizens such as myself. by that i refer to 
things such as address and phone number , and 
license information , , etc. 

2. why does the have an interest in that person 

you should ask the , if you want an authoritative answer. my guess 
is that they information on anyone who did or might engage in 
political criticism of israel .  . i further believe that they did this as 
of the israeli government , or at least in agreement with them. 
at least some of the information by the was passed on to 
israeli  . in some cases it was used to influence , or attempt 
to influence , people 's access to jobs or public forums. these matters 
will be brought out as the court case , since california law 
people to if such actions can be proven .  . as my 
previous posting shows , california law people to 
even in the absence of any specific consequences just for the further 
of certain types of private information about them. 


usc tv made me do it ! 


from com .  ( frank benson ) 
subject 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

what are you , 


internet com . 
uucp uunet ! edu . ! ! pro ! 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti human right in 
summary to current events in 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

accounts of anti human right in 
to current events in 



right , we should slaughter the ! and 
there 's no need to be afraid , all of is 
behind us. i even heard that all is 
behind us. well i watched and in and 
realized that this was no joke. 



of 

born 
line 
and 

resident at building 4 21 , apartment 29 
block 14 , street 



i spent almost all of february doing  . the was a short day at 
work , we worked until or thirty and left for home. i decided 
to go for a short walk .  . i went to park .  . i walked past the eternal 
flame and saw a group of about 8 to 10 people standing there. when i had 
walked another 15 to 20 i heard the of automobile 
behind me. i turned my head the sound. it was a light blue 24 
 . i see that the people who were standing there have gone over to the 
car. a man and a woman get out. the man is dressed , in a suit , 
and the woman has a on. she does n't have anything on her head , and 
her hair is let down , hair , a heavy set woman. they 're 40 to 
45 years old .  . they get something out of the  . the people start to help 
them. i become curious just what are they out of there 

when i got up close i heard them turn something on. i did n't see what it was , 
but it was probably a  . they put it on the ground near the 
eternal flame the 26 and formed a circle 
around it. i ask , what 's going on someone tells me , come listen. well 
they were , i had asked in  . i hear appeals brother 
muslims , our time has come . . . and something else along that line. i 
did n't understand what it was all about. i walked around the group trying to 
get a look at the owner of the  . but the circle in  . 
new people started coming from various , five here , seven there. and 
the comments started right , we should slaughter the ! and there 's 
no need to be afraid , all of is behind us. i even heard that all 
is behind us. well i watched and in and realized that this 
was no joke. i left and went home. 

now before that at work i had heard that something was going on in , 
that there were there. well , people were saying all kinds of 
things , but i did n't have any idea what was really going on. 

my wife and son were at home , but my daughter was at my 's house in  . 
i did n't say anything to my wife .  . we sat and drank tea .  . sometime around two 
o right behind our house suddenly there is , , and 
shouting .  . i looked out the and saw a crowd. the is moving , 
like they show on tv when blacks in south africa are or having a 
and move  . 

my wife asks what 's going on out there. i say i do n't know. i put on some 
outdoor clothes and went out to find out what it was all about. in the 
people are shouting down with the ! and death to the ! i 
waited for the entire to pass .  . at first they went down street 
on the side with the club and the city party then they turned 
and went against the traffic it 's one way there down the street of the 26 
the line. i went home and told my wife there 
was a going on. in fact i thought that we were having the same 
kind of that they had had in and in  . aside 
from the things they were shouting , i was surprised that there were only young 
people in the crowd. and they were , under draft age. 

my wife and son wanted to go to visit a friend , but i was kind of 
uneasy and said , no , let 's stay at home instead. an hour went by , or maybe 
an hour and a half .  . well , i was n't keeping track of the time , i ca n't say 
exactly how long it was. i look and see another on , but now on 
the side with the , the , and the movie  . 

i put outside clothes on and went out again. there 's , an outside , 
and the has grown .  . there are more people. and whereas the first time 
there were individual , this time they are more , more 
aggressive .  . no , i think , something 's wrong here , this is n't any  . 
they would run , stop , then walk quickly and make , and then run 
again. i was walking along the and they were in the street. i 
followed them. i was thinking i 'd just watch and see. who knew where this was 
we came out on lenin square .  . at the square the club is on one 
side , and the city party is on the other. i went the square 
and heard and shouting , as though the whole town had turned out. there 
was some sort of a going on. i go closer and hear , appeals .  . 
i heard both anti and anti soviet appeals .  . we do n't need 
, we want to go on living like we have been. now what did they 
mean by living like we have been the work like everyone else. 
but too many people live at the expense of the government and at the expense 
of others. speculation , theft , and go on all the time. and not just 
in , everywhere , in all the , but i 've never seen it 
anywhere else like i have in  . 

now at this someone says that they should go around to the  
and drive them out , them and drive them out. true , i did n't 
hear them say kill them over the , i only heard them and 
drive them out. i stayed at the square a few longer .  . first one , then 
another are going up onto the stage , and no one tries to stop the crowd. off 
to the side of the there were small groups of three or four people , and 
i think they were ministry of internal affairs or state security  . 
there were also policemen there , but i did n't see any of them try 
to the crowd. new people kept coming up onto the stage .  . 

well i had finally decided that this could end this was no 
, and i had to protect my family. 

i left the square to return home and suddenly noticed a  . it was next 
to the city party , on street , it stood next to the 
's there , a low , and it had low ,  . i see that some 
thing is being , of some sort .  . i decided to go look because 
after all those appeals i was and thought there might be weapons 
in there. they the out onto the square , not the city 
party , but the club. and when i went right up to them i 
saw that they were cases of  . there were two people handing down the 
cases from the of the , and on the ground there were many people , 15 
to 20 .  . they were handing them down from the and each case was carried 
off by two people. two people , one case of  . and there was a man standing 
right next to the and he was handing out black , maybe 
about the size of a fist , maybe a little bigger or smaller .  . it was  . 
when i passed next to that person , he stood with his side to me. there was 
about a and a half between us , and two people were standing near him. he 
has a in his hand , and he 's out and handing it out. i 
have never it myself. once i tried it for fun , but i 've seen a lot of 
people it , i 've seen it many times , and i know what it is. i 
around and no one asked me who i was or what i was doing there. 

before i got to the glass i heard more , more shouting .  . 
i turned around and saw them running .  . well i 'll just keep on going like i am , 
i thought. when they caught up with me i saw that they were carrying  . 
and i recognized the person who was carrying the flag on my side of the 
street. he 's a young guy , 21 or 22 years old .  . he was carrying a red flag , 
which had written on it in , that means death to 
! that guy used to live off the same as us. i do n't really 
know what his name is , but i know his father very well. his father 's name is 
he used to be a , and then became head  . he used to have a dark 
blue van , then he sold it and now he has a white 06 .  . his 
family , as i said , lived on the same as we did. our building was on 
street , and theirs was on the street of the 26 
their apartment was in the far , on the , the door on the 
left. now 's little brother lives there , and he , , i heard , got a 
new apartment either in the forth or  . in a word , his son 
was carrying a flag that said death to ! i was surprised because 
before this i had gotten the impression that all of this nonsense was being 
done not by people from , but by from and  . 

well anyway i went home. my wife was upset .  . i told her , it 's ok , it 'll pass , 
they 're young kids , they 've just gotten all up. naturally i did n't 
want her to get overly upset .  . after a while a new of went by. and 
this time they were breaking glass. i could hear it breaking , but i could n't 
see where .  . well i think , here we go , the machine 's in motion. they were n't 
handing out that and for nothing. i did n't see people drinking 
and on the , but they certainly had n't the and 
to put in a ! 

so the thought through my head that the machine was running , no one 
would stop them now , they were n't even trying , although , i 'll say it again , 
the police were there , i saw them. and it 's not just that the police were n't 
breaking them up , they were with them , they were having a good time. 
true , at the time i could n't even imagine that under our government , our much 
leadership and i'm not afraid to say these words so many people 
died , so many women were , and how many there were ! i 
could n't imagine that under our much authorities , and if i were to be 
specific , i would say under the much authorities in our city of 
, i could n't imagine that such things could take place. 

when they started breaking glass i told my wife and son let 's go  . 
we went to our , the , on the fourth  . and in the 
evening , when those started going past again , i went outside once more. 
i stopped at the corner , a place called that right next to the  . i 
look and see a on the run. and there , a few from the to 
the , are three respectable looking men of around , say , 50 years old .  . 
the was running and one of the three with his and pointed 
the  . and then the whole , as though it were one person , 
and the  . and not a soul went past those three , as 
though it were off limits ! well everything got all up , there was more 
, and the glass was flying again. 

we spent the night at the  . my apartment was on the first , 
there was really no way to defend yourself there. 

in the morning i went out to buy bread and to see what was happening in town .  . 
on the way i saw someone up , still. i never found out who it was or 
what happened to him. there were 10 to 15 people standing near him. i got the 
bread and on my way back , they had gathered around the person who was lying 
there up , sort of him because of the way they were standing 
you could n't even see him. 

that was on the morning of february 28 .  . everyone knows the rest. 

may 17 , 1988 


reference 

1 the against in soviet , 
volume i , accounts , edited by , forward by 
, 1990 , published by d. , ny , pages 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( yon of robbing ) 
subject re islam borders .  . ( was israel to ganges ) 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
organization workstations at maryland , university of maryland , college park 
lines 20 

in article 
writes 

in article ,  ( gideon ehrlich ) 
writes 

and some other seemed not to be a that jews 
on 
these days the of going a way from the 
 . 
so if one let his imagination freely work it seemed to write 
that the zionist is from the to the . 

the question is by going east or west from the  . on either 
choice 
you would loose or , n . y .  . 

i thought you 're gonna say back to the ! 

 .  .  . its . from the to the  .  .  .  . the . long way ! ) 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( mau napoleon ) writes 

was called from 320 ad until about the  . 
that 's about years. there many people alive today who were born in 
a city called  . 

i know it does n't make sense , but since when is  napoleon  about 
sense , anyway further bigoted and racist attitude of 
certain greeks still exists in our day. most greeks insist even 
today , that the year old capital of the ottoman empire should 
be called not by its name of , but by its half 
a old  cons ' . 

everyone knows that new york city was once called  new  
but people do not on calling it that today. the name 
of too is long gone , replaced by  . china 's 
its name for long ago. 
of the is now santa  . 's 
old capital became  . these changes 
have all been accepted by everyone in the world. 

but , greeks are still determined on calling the turkish 
by the name of  cons  . ' . 

how can one explain this total intransigence what makes greeks 
so different from other mortals 18 year old questionable 
democracy why do n't they seem to reconcile with the fact , 
for instance , that changed hands years ago in 
ad , and that this the of the new 
world , by 39 years. the declaration of u.s. independence 
in 1776 will come years later. 

should n't then , half a be considered enough time for 
 cons ' to be called a turkish city where is the logic in the 
greek reasoning , if there is any how long can one sit on the 
of an ancient civilization ancient does not exist , 
any more than any other 16 that existed on the 
of  . 

these   live with an illusion .  . it 
is the same which allows them to 
that is a greek island .  . no history book shows 
that it ever was. it to the ottoman turks  lock , 
stock and  for a period of well over years. 

in fact , prior to the turks  of it , following 
bloody battles with the in ad , the 
island of , invariably , to several nations 

the , the , the , the egyptians , 
the ottoman turks , of course in that order , owned it as 
their territory .  . but , it has never been the 
of the government of not even for one day 
in the history of the world. moreover , is 
from the greek , but only 
40 from 's southern  . 

saddam hussein claims that kuwait was once iraqi 
territory and the greek government and 
the terrorist greek governments think that 
also was once part of the greek  . 

those   involved in this grandiose hallucination 
should wake up from their and confront 
reality. again , wishful thinking is unproductive , only 
facts count. 

as for , 

those jews who survived these assaults in europe 
particularly to , whose jewish population increased 
as a result , from 28 , 000 in 1876 to 90 , 000 in , more than half the 
total population , though even there increased persecution by local greeks 
led many jews to flee elsewhere in the ottoman empire , particularly to 
the great of  . 

despite all the pressure from and foreign jews alike , the ritual 
murders and other assaults by christians on jews went on and on. greek 
efforts to the jewish population of in 
and , following greek conquest of during the first war , 
when many of its jews , were either killed or into leaving .  .  .  . 

though was obligated by the post world war i treaties to allow 
jews and other minorities to use their own in education and to 
practice their religions without , a law was issued in 
which all from working on sunday , stimulating a new 
jewish exodus as it was intended to do. between and there was a 
series of anti semitic riots in , with the , where 
most of the remaining jews lived , being burned to the ground. this 
was followed by requiring the use of greek and prohibiting 
hebrew and judea spanish in the jewish schools .  . a start was made also 
on the land of the principal jewish in 
for use by the new university in order to derive the jews out 47 . by 
killing and driving out large numbers of jews , the greeks left a 
substantial greek majority in the city for the first time , and starting 
on the way to its final by the nazis during the 
occupation of starting in 1941 .  . 

and of course were not the only places of refuge for 
jewish entering the empire during its last century of existence .  . 
, , and other parts of and received 
thousands more. nor were jews the only received and helped by 
the government of the  . thousands of muslims accompanied them in 
from similar wherever christian states gained 
independence or expanded .  . the conquest of the and the 
starting in the late century , and particularly during 
and after the war , combined with the same independence movements 
in europe that had caused so much suffering and among 
its jews caused thousands of helpless , ill , and poverty stricken muslim 
to them into the ever of the 
ottoman empire , with the government but 
to house and feed them as best it could. from to as many as 
, 000 , , and other muslims from north and 
east of the black sea had entered alone , as many as 200 , 000 more 
came during the next twenty years , while , entered in 1876 
as a result of the ottoman wars with russia and the states , 
with an equal number refuge in the european portions of the 
empire .  . 

47 robert ,  la structure de la de 
a la  , no .  ( 1980 ) , 
, joseph  ( salonica ) to  ( paris ) no . 2 , 
12 may  ( aiu archives i c 43 ) and no . , 10 1900  ( aiu 
archives i c 41 ) , describing daily battles between jewish and greek 
children in the streets of  . , director of 
, , to  ( paris ) , no . , 1 december  ( aiu 
archives i c 48 ) , describing greek attacks on jews , of jewish 
and , and greek press campaigns to blood libel 
attacks .  . cohen , , , to  ( paris ) , 
no . 4 , 4 december  ( aiu archives i c 49 ) describes a week of 
that followed the greek army occupation of in , with the 
soldiers the jewish and destroying jewish , 
accompanied by what he described as an  of hatred  by local 
greek population against local jews and muslims .  . , president of the 
at , reported to the  ( paris ) , no . 3 , 25 
 ( aiu archives i c 51 ) that  it was not only the  ( comitadjis ) 
that , and burned .  . the army soldiers , the chief of 
police , and the high civil also took an active part in the 
horrors .  .  . ' . ,  ( salonica ) to  ( paris ) no .  ( 20 august 1913 ) 
 ( aiu archives i c 51 ) describes the greek pillage of the jewish 
during the night of 18 19 august  . 

 ( aiu alliance , ) . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( craig brown u ) 
subject re iran and the bomb 
organization university 
lines 93 

in article  ( mohamad ebrahimi ) writes 

i would like to share with netters a few points i picked up from the 
program regarding iran 's nuclear activities , on tuesday 
april 13 .  . for the sake of , i 'll present them in some separate 
points. 
already say it the other week on 


1 as many other western programs , this program was laid on a of 
misinformation throughout the program , to the effect of the 
program on the  . some of the were as follows 
yeah , i thought was full of lies about the west .  .  .  . 

















while the number of during the sacred defense against iraqi 
has been to be about 117 , 000 and even most 
radical counter groups claim that iran and iraq had a total 
of one million dead , this program claims that iran alone has one million 
dead left from the war. 

the translation of iranian  talks are not 100 true. for 
example when iranian head of atomic energy says that it me to 
see that iran is the subject of these propaganda .  . the 
translator says it to see that iran is doing 
research .  . ! 

2 almost all alleged devices or material bought or to be bought 
by were of countless dual usage , while the program tries to 
their non military uses , without any reference to iran 's 
big population and its inevitable need to other sources of energy in 
near future and its current in electrical power. 


why the hell would such an oil rich  ( and potential to be 
exploited ) spend billions on a nuclear energy 

3 the whole program is trying to show the university of 
technology as a nuclear research center , while even the of the 
program know well that in a country like iran without a so tightly closed 
society no one can make a nuclear bomb in a university ! taking in account 
the scientific of u. in engineering fields and its 
potential role in improvement of iran 's and eventually the 
lives of people , it is obvious that they are other countries 
to prevent them from further helping this university or other ones 
in scientific and industrial efforts .  . 

4 a key point in program 's justifications is trying to as 
much as possible all efforts done by in their numerous from 
iran 's different sites .  . they say we are not sure if the places visited 
by are the real ones or not ! , or we can not rely on 's 
reports and observation , because they failed to see iraq 's nuclear 
activities before as if they did n't know that iraq was trying to build 
nuclear weapons ! 

yeah , and we have every reason in the world to trust the iranian regime .  . 
after all , they 've been so forward with us in the past .  .  .  .  . 

5 as an extremely personal opinion , the most disgusting aspect of the 
program was the arrogance of the member of us senate foreign affairs , 
william , in his way of talking , as if he was the god talking 
from the absolute knowledge ! 

maybe he is god ! 

i hope all be aware of the gradual against their 
country in western media , and i hope iranian authorities continue to 
their wise and calculated approach with regard to international affairs 
and peaceful with friendly nations .  . 

! 
mohammad 


international atomic energy agency 




from 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization none 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( esin terzioglu ) writes 
in article  ( david davidian ) writes 
04 16 93 says it could shoot down turkish 


 .  .  . 

let me translate for everyone else before the public service gets 
into it is getting  . 

 . 


let me mr. turkish 

is not getting . she is simply letting the world know that she 
will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with their famous 
 . do remember of the turkish invasion of the greek island of 
while the world simply watched .  . 



from  ( oded maler ) 
subject re on  . 
nntp posting host 
organization , university of , france 
lines 16 

i have not seen but i guess would not liked it to me he 
represents the worst of both american and israeli politics 
but this is a matter of taste. 

as for the famous , it is currently believed  ( at 
least by some people ) that all this affair was just 
invented by him in order to impress the voters  ( and poor 
hamazah ) and appear as a real man. 





, , d , b . p .  . , , france 
phone fax e mail 


from com .  ( frank benson ) 
subject 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

you are in need of a , ! 


internet com . 
uucp uunet ! edu . ! ! pro ! 

from 
subject is racism 
lines 8 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university 

in re syria 's , the author writes that the un thought 
was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct 
the first time , is racism and , the daily 
 ( the student newspaper at mcgill ) was proud enough to print an article 
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail .  . 

steve 


from  ( warren burstein ) 
subject re 
organization , jerusalem , israel 
lines 42 

in bill writes 

, 
i would like very much to meet you. where are you 
let me know as soon as possible where we can meet .  . i am looking forward to 
meeting you. 

i do n't know how to reach , but you might be able to reach his 
sysadmin by email , phone , or mail .  . 

here is information from rs . net . 

 ( anatolia dom ) 
s. st. 

, minnesota , 

domain name org . 

administrative contact , technical contact , contact 
,  ( ac234 ) 


and here is what finger gets you 

name 1 
info last 1993 
internet 
other 
address so 

mn 
surname 
telephone 1 
title 

x . 400 . g s 1 mail o edu . c us 




org . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject thousands of were serving the german army and  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 62 

in article  ( hm ) writes 

must bare its to  . 

sooner than you expect. remember   

i have to say i disagree with you , i have seen 

too bad. in fact , by , nazi in europe had established 
a vast network of pro german , that extended over two 
 . thousands of were serving the german army and 
in russia and western europe .  . were involved in 
and activities for hitler in the and 
 . they were promised an  independent  state under 
german  protection  in an agreement signed by the  national 
council . ' . (a copy of this agreement can be found in the  congressional 
record , ' 1 , see document 1 . ) . on this side of the atlantic , 
nazi were aware of their alliance .  . they had often 
expressed pro nazi sentiments until america entered the war. in summary , 
during world war ii were carried away with the german might and 
and over the nazis .  . in that , the publication 
in germany , , carried statements as follows 1 

sometimes it is difficult to these elements  ( the jews) 
when they have deep root like a disease , and when it 
becomes necessary for a people  ( the nazis ) to them in an 
method , these attempts are regarded as  . during the surgical 
operation , the of blood is a natural thing. 

now for a brief view of the genocide of the muslims and jews 
from a letter dated december 11 , , published in the san 
francisco , as an answer to a letter that had been published 
in the same journal under the signature of one b.  . 

 .  .  . we . have first hand information and evidence of atrocities 
against our people  .  . members . of our family witnessed the 
murder of members of our family near , , by 
, on destroying anything and anybody remotely jewish 
and or muslim .  . should look to their own history and see 
the they and their ancestors upon their  .  .  . 
were in league with hitler in the last war , on his premise 
to grant them self government if , in return , the would 
help exterminate jews .  .  . were also of 
the anti semitic acts in league with the communists .  . mr. ! 
i do n't need your bias .  . 

signed ben , , california .  . 

1 james g. ,  , , ' in the  
review , ' a quarterly by the association , inc. , summer 
june , vol. x , no. 2 38 .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( avi cohen stuart ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
originator 
nntp posting host et . 
organization university of technology , dept. of electrical engineering 
lines 14 

from article , by paul h. 
what gives the right to keep it is the home of the muslim a 
s well as jewish religion , among others. heck , nobody ever mentions what 
k did forty or fifty years ago which is westerners much in the 
way does today. seems are nowhere above , so 
they have a right to as much as does. 


there is one big difference between israel and the , christians in this 
respect. 

israel allows freedom of religion. 

 . 

from  ( peter freeman ) 
subject re nazi theories by  ( unconventianal peace ) 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( peter freeman ) 
organization university 
lines 36 

in article  ( chris metcalfe ) writes 
now we have strong evidence of where the really stands .  . 
and disgusting .  . it only proves that we must 
never forget .  .  .  . 


a proposal for peace in the middle east .  . 

not so  . solutions to the jewish problem 
have been suggested by northern in the past. 

a science that deals with the improvement  ( as by 
control of human mating ) of qualities of race 
or  . webster 's ninth dictionary .  . 

i would be for critical comments to the above proposal as 
well for any of this proposal for meaningful 
discussion and  . 

post box , 

critical comment you can take the nazi flag and 
off of your , you 'll never succeed .  . 

chris 

chris , solid job at discussing the inherent nazism in mr. 's post. 
, he has posted an address for hate mail , which i think we should 
all  . and , 

, 
der an 

peace , 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject role of in slaughter of , , , , ... 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article writes 

sure it is. it tells us how far right the whole turkish political spectrum 

nobody ever exposed your crimes like that before what was your personal 
role in the murder of and , again how many more 
muslims will be slaughtered by as publicly declared and filed 
with legal authorities please it out for us. 


 .  .  . that . more people have to die .  .  .  . 



yes , i stated this and stand by it. 




28 , los 
is slaughtered by two while driving to work. 

march 22 , cambridge , 
to murder .  . a gift and import belonging to 
is blown up. an either 
he gives up his honorary position or he will be executed . he 
refuses .  . responsibility is claimed by and  . 

may 4 , cambridge , 
, the turkish honorary consul in boston , would not bow 
to the terrorist that he give up his title of 
honorary consul . now he is attacked and murdered in cold blood. 
president reagan orders an all out to no avail. an eye 
witness who gave a description of the murderer is shot down. he 
 .  .  . but falls silent .  . one of the most in 
the , history of terrorism .  . such a murder 
brings absolutely nothing except an ego boost for the murderer 
within the terrorist , which is already 
in self  . 

were you involved in the murder of 

december 17 , 
two nazi massacre and his , engin 
 . and claim responsibility .  . 

it is public knowledge that the founder of the marxist terrorist 
organization , the  ( an integral part of arf ) , 
, began his notorious career as a member of the terrorist 
group which the massacre of the israeli at the 
in  . and the  foundation  stole from the 
children of to the criminal activities of the 
in their cold murder of defenceless turkish and 
people. 

the foundation provided 30 billion to 

01 09 , the foundation based in 
is found to have provided 30 billion turkish ( 6 
million ) to the terrorist organization which have 
murdered several turkish  .  .  . 

on international terrorism assert that the 
use proceeds from drug  ( and from the foundation ) 
to their  . the of terrorist , 
, on spanish television that his organization had 
entered into a working relationship with and they 
are using drug to raise money  to continue  to slaughter 
innocent people. now , what is your personal and role 
in this scheme 

recent reports which have been confirmed by the u.s. , 
indicate that terrorist organizations are with 
those who are responsible for the bombing of the united states 
in beirut .  . you wo n't be able to get away with your crimes 
forever the justice is long  . 

as for the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people between 
and 

source documents volume i  . 
document no 42 , archive no 1 2 , no 110 , 
no  ( 1(4 ) , file no , section no  ( 1484(1032 ) , contents no 9 , 9 1. 
 ( to the office of acting supreme acting assistant 
section director major ali sukru ) 

it is sufficient to mention just some of the terrible and crimes 
committed only in to get an idea about the atrocities 
in the  .  .  . 

i would also like to mention with disgust and sight , a 
on humanity , that i encountered at the west of while my 
was proceeding into this town .  . there was a young turkish women , apparently 
once a very beautiful one , lying dead on one side of the road. a huge 
stick had been inserted into her  . we took the and left it 
at a that was invisible from the road .  .  .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization the department of department 
lines 29 

in article ( ) writes 

what is a is that in austria , daily reports of 
the acts commited by israeli soldiers ... 

it was n't all that long ago that the acts of israeli soldiers were 
described as superhuman . now , they are . did the 
change so so quickly or have reporting attitudes changed 

and the blessing 
received from the government makes some of the guilt 
go away. after all , look how the jews are treating other races 
when they got power. 

when the jews were powerless , they did what they could to help others , 
which was obviously quite limited .  . later , liberated american jews 
were on the forefront of the civil rights movement .  . the jewish 
government of israel jews in color from white 
to brown to black  . please , , tell us 
how the jews are treating other races when they got power. 

it is unfortunate .  . 

your ignorance and bias are indeed unfortunate .  . 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject nazi philosophy race above everything and before everything. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article writes 

of crap and you know it. has always been part 
of and it was stalin who gave it to the  . go back and 
review the history. 

if a  dog 's prayers were answered , bones would rain from the sky .  . 
did you know that the word   itself is a  turkish  name 
before , before the russians and their   , 
all the turks muslims out , it was a turkish majority town .  . well , 
anyway , it is not surprising that also with the 
nazis .  . 

wholly the have been 
pro nazi , pro russia , pro soviet , pro arab , pro jewish , 
as well as anti jewish , anti zionist , anti communist , and 
anti soviet was  . 1 

1 john roy  ( arthur derounian ) ,  to , ' 
a. , new york , , p.  . 

as a dear friend put it , the  ( armenian racial patriots ) 
was the youth organization of the  . it was based in 
boston  ( where terrorism triangle is located ) but 
had followers in all over the world. literally 
means  to make a religion of one 's race . ' . the architect 
of the racial patriots was , a nazi 
who became a key leader of with hitler in world war ii. 
in 1933 , he had been invited to the united states by the central 
of the to inspire and organize the 
american youth .  . succeeded in many local 
youth groups in the  . starting with 20 
chapters in the initial year , the grew to 60 chapters 
and became the largest and most powerful nazi organization .  . 
also provided the with a philosophy 

the racial religious beliefs in his racial blood as a deity .  . 
race above everything and before everything. race comes first. 1 

1 quoted in john roy  ( real name derounian ) , the 
persons , in  affairs , ' , 
1949 50 , p. 19 ,  . 


now wait , there is more. 

the extent of february 's killings of by 
in the town of is at last in about 
600 men , women and children dead in the worst of the 
four year war over  . 

the figure is drawn from , 
and lists published in the press. and aid 
workers say the death is in line with their own estimates .  . 

the 25 february attack on by forces was one of 
the last in their four year campaign to take full control 
of , the subject of a new round of 
in rome on monday .  . the was something between a fighting 
and a massacre , but say that most of the 
dead were civilians .  . the awful number of people killed was first 
suppressed by the former communist government in  . 
later it was by denials and grief stricken 
's wild and contradictory allegations of up to 2 , 000 
dead. 

the state , , the of a 
15 man team looking into what calls the 
disaster , said his figure of 600 people dead was a minimum on 
preliminary findings .  . a similar estimate was given by 
, the of  . an even higher one was printed in 
the newspaper in may dead people named and more 
than 200 bodies reported  . this figure of nearly 700 
dead is quoted as official by , the new 
of the ministry of defence .  . 

zen , head of of the international 
red cross in , said the muslim imam of the nearby city of 
had reported a figure of bodies received at his mosque 
from , most of them civilians .  . we did not count the 
bodies .  . but the figure seems reasonable .  . it is no fantasy , mr 
zen said. we have some idea since we gave the body 
and products to the dead. 

mr to give an estimate of the 
number of dead in the massacre .  . do n't get worked up. it will 
take several months to get a final figure , the 43 year old 
lawyer said at his small office. 

mr knows about these things. it took him two years to 
reach a firm conclusion that 131 people were killed and 
when soviet troops and a 
in in 1990. 

those , the popular front , finally came to power 
three weeks ago and are applying pressure to find out exactly 
what happened when , an town which lies about 70 
from the border with , to the  . 

, people have so far been as dead , being 
the number of people that could be examined by the 
's department .  . this is just a small percentage 
of the dead , said rafiq , the 's chief 
scientist .  . they were the only bodies brought to us. remember the 
chaos and the fact that we are muslims and have to and bury 
our dead within 24 hours. 

of these people , 51 were women , and 13 were children under 14 
years old .  . killed people , killed 20 and 
axes or killed 10. exposure in the 
killed the last three. thirty three people showed signs of 
deliberate , including ears , , or 
cut off and eyes out , according to professor 's 
report. those bodies examined were less than a third of those 
believed to have been killed , mr said. 

files from mr 's are still 
lists of 44 are dead here , 
policemen there , and in of a mosque , the 
names of brought to be washed in just one day. the 
most account from witnesses so far 
comes from , an who took a 
over the escape route from on 27 
february .  . 

there were too many bodies of dead and on the ground to 
count properly in , 700 people by the 
and the road and 85 100 around , mr 
wrote in a statement by the 
 . 

people up to us for help. we saw three dead children and 
one two year old alive by one dead woman. the live one was 
at her for the mother to get up. we tried to land but 
started a against our and we had to 
return. 

there has been no of the lists and in 
circulation because of the political of the last few 
months and the fact that nobody knows exactly who was in 
at the time many were from other 
taken over by forces .  . 

the independent , london , 12 6  



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from 
subject re ten questions about israel 
distribution world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 

in article ,  ( center for policy research ) writes 

from center for policy research 
subject ten questions about israel 


ten questions to 


i would be if any of you who live in israel could help to 
provide 
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are 
indeed questions but they are asked time and again by 
people around me. 

1. is it true that the israeli authorities do n't recognize 
israeli and that id cards , which israeli citizens 
must carry at all times , identify people as jews or , not as 



although the hebrew is used , the id card specifically states on 
the 2nd page israeli citizen .  . this is true for all 
israeli citizens no matter what their  . in the united states most 
official forms have race  ( caucasian , black , , etc . ) .  . 


2. is it true that the state of israel has no fixed borders 
and that israeli governments from until today have refused to 
state where the ultimate borders of the state of israel should be 



funny , i have a number of and all of them have fixed borders .  . 



3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons if so , 
could you provide any evidence 

probably yes. so what 




4. is it true that in israeli there are a number of 
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their 
, the date of their trial and their imprisonment are 
state 


apart from who had a trial behind closed doors , there was one 
other case  ( the professor at the biological 
institute who was a k . g . b .  . mole ) who was tried in camera . i would n't exactly 
call it a state secret. the trial was simply tried behind closed doors. i hate 
to you but the united states has tried a number of cases 
in camera .  . 



5. is it true that jews who reside in the 
territories are subject to different laws than non jews 


not jews .  . israeli citizens .  . law is in effect in the west bank but the 
passed a law that israeli law would be binding on israeli citizens 
residing in the west bank. these citizens could be jews , israeli muslims , , 
or israeli christians .  . it has nothing to do with religion. 




6. is it true that jews who left in the war 1947 48 
to avoid the war were automatically allowed to return , while their 
christian who did the same were not allowed to return 

anyone who was  ( jew , muslim , christian ) could return. you might be 
confusing this with the taken in june on the west bank after the 
day war. in this instance , if the arab was not physically present he 
could n't reside on the west bank (e . g .  . if he had been  . 



7. is it true that israel 's prime , y .  . , signed 
an order for ethnical in , as is done today in 
bosnia 


no. not even if you him in , or ) 



8. is it true that israeli arab citizens are not admitted as 
members in 

not true. although a minority , there are some israeli living on 
 . on the other hand , at my age  ( 42 ) i would n't be admitted to a 
nor could the family join me. not that i would be so to do so 
in the first place. the movement places under rigorous 
membership  . many israeli jews are not admitted .  . 



9. is it true that israeli law attempts to discourage 
marriages between jews and non jews 

the religious status quo in israel has marriage and divorce by the 
religious courts .  . the handles marriage and divorce for jews , the 
muslim courts are for muslims , the christian have their 
religious courts , and the have their own courts .  . the entire religious 
 ( jewish , muslim , , christian ) wants to keep it that way. 


10. is it true that in tel is built on the 
site of a muslim 

i believe it 's to a former muslim  . from what i heard  ( and i 'd 
like to get from on the net ) of is not 
held that as it is held by jews .  . the current israeli ministry of 
trade and industry on road in jerusalem is in a former that 
was built by in the 's on the site of an arab  . 










thanks , 

email 


from  ( david davidian ) 
subject died ! 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 9 

it was on 4 17 93 10 00 am edt , that turkish president died 
of a heart attack in  . 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( sam zbib ) 
subject of the jewish  ( was re israeli lust ) 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization bell northern research 
lines 

adam writes 
writes 
i'm surprised that you do n't consider the of land by 
the jews from , for the purpose of establishing an exclusive 
state , as a hostile action to war. 

it was for the purpose of establishing a state , not an 
exclusive state. if the state was to be exclusive , it would not have 
400 000 arab citizens .  . 

could you please tell me what was the ethnic composition of 
israel right after it was formed .  . 


and no , i do not consider the of land a hostile 
action. when someone wants to buy land , and someone else is willing 
to sell it , at a mutually agreeable price , then that is commerce .  . it 
is not a hostile action to war. 

no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and  . 
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about 
anti trust in the business world. 

since we are the of a 
, we must use the laws governing the 
and ethics of such  . basic anti trust law says 
that , while you can ibm stocks for the purpose of 
investing , you can not acquire a large number of those 
shares with the intent or controlling ibm .  . you can do so 
only if you make your intentions clear . clearly , 
the jews who purchased properties from had some 
designs , they were not buying a or a real  . 
they were establishing a for the european jews .  . 

the sold their properties to the jews in the 
old tradition of arab  . being a ethnic 
religious society , accepting the jews as 
was no different , just another religion. plus they paid fair 
market value , etc .  .  .  . they did not know they were victims of 
an international conspiracy .  .  ( i'm not a conspiracy 
myself , but this one is hard to  . 


as to whether the jews wanted to live in peace , maybe. 
however they wanted and still want an exclusively jewish 
state , where jews are in control and jews are the masters of 
the land. living in peace is meaningless unless it means 
living with someone else , as equal .  . for a native arab , this 
does not leave many options .  . 

oh , you mean like both jews and being citizens the 
who stayed are now citizens , with as much right to choose who 
they vote for as the jews .  . 

again adam , the devil is in the details. i do n't want to get 
on a here but its the same that says its 
ok to return 100 and leave the rest. because 100 is 
a nice number that you can by 10 , 100 and besides , it 
has an integer square root .  . 

those palestinians who stayed , actually stayed despite of what 
happened , and their number was somewhat tolerated as a 
and ineffective minority .  . 
if i were wrong , you 'd have israel recall all the 
 ( we 're talking  . after all , 
they are civilians .  . 

huh the people who left , did so voluntarily .  . there is no 
reason for israel to let them in. 

do you actually believe this my experience tells me that 
every i knew still keeps the key to his home , in 
 . besides they often refer to their exodus as an 
escape from hell  ( so to  . i know none that agrees with 
you. did you their opinions i know you do n't care , 
just being  . 


israel gave citizenship to the remaining because it 
had to maintain a democratic  ( to keep the western aid 
 . 

israel got no western aid in , nor in 1949 or 50 .  .  . it . 
still granted citizenship to those who remained .  . and how 
is citizenship a 

do n't get me wrong. i beleive that israel is democratic 
within the of one dominant ethnic group  . 
israel probably had a few options after ethnic 
style , and the wrath of the 
international community , or make the best out of a no win 
condition show the world how good israel is towards the 
 bad   . , i 've never heard anything about the 
arab community in  . except that they 're there. so 
yes , they 're there. but as a community with history and 
roots , its dead. 

tell me something ,  . what makes land arab 

how shall i explain , its a contract between the man and the 
land. control is n't it. the ruled 400 years , and 
then left with barely a trace .  . the concept of land identity 
is somewhat foreign to the and pragmatic west .  . it is 
partly the concept of   , native  . i know 
that jews had previous history in the , but none in 
recent memory. i'm talking everyday life not  . 

try again , you tell me what its is n't , but you fail to 
establish what it is. 

also , jews did have history in israel for over a thousand 
years. there were lots of jews slaughtered by in israel .  . 
there was a community in gaza city from roughly 1200  . 
jews were a majority in jerusalem from or so  . does that 
make the land jewish 


i stand  . i meant that the jewish culture was not 
predominant in in recent history. i have no 
problem with jerusalem having a jewish character if it were 
predominantly jewish .  . so there. what to make of the rest 



adam 


bell northern research 

bitnet internet voice  ( 613 ) 
fax  ( 613 ) 
surface mail stop 162 , p . o . box . , station c , ottawa , canada , 

my opinions are my own and no one else 's 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 8 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


as someone who reads israeli every day , i can state 
with absolute certainty , that anybody who relies on western media 
to get a picture of what is happening in israel is not getting an 
accurate picture .  . there is bias in those stories that 
do get reported .  . and the stories that never get mentioned create 
a completely false picture of the  . 


from 
subject re israel 's ii 
lines 24 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university 

in article  ( avi cohen stuart ) writes 
from article , by paul h. 
what gives the right to keep it is the home of the muslim a 
s well as jewish religion , among others. heck , nobody ever mentions what 
k did forty or fifty years ago which is westerners much in the 
way does today. seems are nowhere above , so 
they have a right to as much as does. 


there is one big difference between israel and the , christians in this 
respect. 

israel allows freedom of religion. 

 . 
. 
. 
, 
for your information , islam freedom of religion there is 
no compulsion in religion. does judaism freedom of religion 
(i . e .  . are non jews recognized in  . just wondering .  . 

steve 


from  ( sabri t atan ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
reply to  ( sabri t atan ) 
organization iowa state university 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( panos 
) writes 
yeah , too much is n't helping .  . i could , one day , proceed and 

you should n't think many turks read stuff. 
they are in my kill file , likewise any other  . 

(i have nothing against greeks but my problem is with fanatics .  . i have met 
so many greeks who would n't even talk to me because i am turkish .  . from my 
experience , all my friends always were open to greeks ) 

well , the history , wars , current situations , all of them do not help. 

well , , mr. , the way you put it it is only the turks 
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to 
believe for somebody trying to be objective .  . 
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot 
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides. 
what were you doing on after the anyway 
do you think it was your right to be there 
i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only 
not one side being the aggressive and the always suffering .  . 
it is sad that we  ( both ) still are not trying to compromise .  . 
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the 
requirement for greeks to come to  . i thought it 
was a positive attempt to make the relations better. 

the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are 
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person 
because i am from  . politics is not my business , and it is 
not the business of most of the turks .  . when it comes to individuals 
why the hatred so that makes me think that there is some kind of 
brainwashing going on in  . after all why would an person 
treat every person from a nation the same way can you tell me about your 
history books and things you learn about greek turkish 
during your  . 
take it easy ! 





, baby ! 

from  ( oded feingold ) 
subject re news you will miss , apr 15 
organization m . i . t .  . artificial intelligence lab .  . 
lines 18 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host ai . mit . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 1993 22 51 03 0500 

sorry , you dog , 

that news was suppressed because the israeli national team 
repeatedly it. 

let this be a lesson to others not to invoke the wrath of sports nuts .  . 
 ( brits lead the way in this regard , with casualties in the last 2 
years . ) . 

anyway , would never  . his life is  ( presumably ) so 
that its most intimate details could be revealed without harm to 
anyone. might even be good for some people i can think of. 

me , i would ! i hate the way sports the media. 
anyway , the last 3 watching me die of before filing 
their reports .  . i 've their operation something  . 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject though his book was dealing with the genocide of muslims by  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 45 

in article  ( ken arromdee ) writes 

then repeat everything i said before with the word race related 
for racist . all that changes is the phrasing complaining 
that i used the wrong word is a quibble .  . 

well , your were  . as early as , k. s. 
asserted in  patriotism  that the 

 and ' . 1 

at that time , he could not have that the would 
actively assume a pro german stance and even in world 
war ii. his book was dealing with the genocide of turkish 
population of eastern  . however , extreme ideological 
could be observed within the long before 
the of the second world war. 

in , for example , o .  . of the   was quoted 
in the  weekly ' 

the race is force it is  . if we follow history we shall 
see that races , due to their force , have created the nations 
and these have been secure only as they have to 
the race after becoming a nation .  . today germany and are 
strong because as nations they live and in terms of race .  . 
on the other hand , russia is weak because she is 
of social  . 2 

1 k. s. ,  patriotism , '  ( boston , press 
1934 ) ,  . 
2  weekly , ' friday , april 10 , ,  the race is our 
refuge  by o .  .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( david davidian ) 
subject re in and 
keywords 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 38 

in article  ( gt1091a 
, timucin ) wrote 

, shit face david , i see that you are still around. i dont want to 
see your writings posted here man. i told you. 

so ... close your eyes and walk away. 

you are getting as your fucking country. 

i have been defending the history of the on this network for over 
years. i have seen the likes of you enter his forum , make fools of 
themselves , and simply as did the in ! 

hey , and dont give me that freedom of bullshit once more. 

realize sir , you are not in ! in the usa freedom of speech is not 
considered bullshit . it is because of such freedoms that turks like yourself 
are allowed to tech .  . 

because your freedom has ended when you started writing things about my 
people. and try to translate this david .  . . 

what 's the problem if you ca n't stand the leave ! your government 
murdered 1 . 5 . million and you would have me stay quiet to suit your 
personal fancy or some regarding the greatness of ! well , 
that is simply too bad. 

bye ,  . 


! 


david has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma late turkish president 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject nazi during world war ii. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 51 

in article  ( tim clock ) writes 

is it possible to track down and determine who what where 
is 

done. but did it change the fact that during the period of to , 
the government ordered , , assisted and participated 
in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because of race , religion 
and national origin by the way , you still have n't yourself. 
during world war ii were carried away with the german might and 
and over the nazis .  . in that , the publication 
in germany , , carried statements as follows 1 

sometimes it is difficult to these elements  ( the jews) 
when they have deep root like a disease , and when it 
becomes necessary for a people  ( the nazis ) to them in an 
method , these attempts are regarded as  . during the surgical 
operation , the of blood is a natural thing. 

now for a brief view of the genocide of the muslims and jews 
from a letter dated december 11 , , published in the san 
francisco , as an answer to a letter that had been published 
in the same journal under the signature of one b.  . 

 .  .  . we . have first hand information and evidence of atrocities 
against our people  .  . members . of our family witnessed the 
murder of members of our family near , , by 
, on destroying anything and anybody remotely jewish 
and or muslim .  . should look to their own history and see 
the they and their ancestors upon their  .  .  . 
were in league with hitler in the last war , on his premise 
to grant them self government if , in return , the would 
help exterminate jews .  .  . were also of 
the anti semitic acts in league with the communists .  . mr. ! 
i do n't need your bias .  . 

signed ben , , california .  . 

1 james g. ,  , , ' in the  
review , ' a quarterly by the association , inc. , summer 
june , vol. x , no. 2 38 .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from 
subject re go ! ! 
distribution world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

resistance forces a bomb under an israeli occupation 
in territory two days ago. three soldiers were killed and 
two  . in , israeli and israeli backed forces 
8 civilians by several  . , the israeli 
government its occupation in by claiming that it is 
necessary to prevent such of israeli ! ! 

to the men of the resistance ! with every 
israeli son that you place in the grave you are the moral 
of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli 
government 's policy of disregard for civilian life. 

brad 


i'm sure the federal bureau of investigation gov . on the internet ) is going 
to love reading your to murder .  . 





from  ( deniz akkus ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization university center for telecommunications research 
x posted from edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 46 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( deniz akkus ) writes 

well , this is your opinion ! 


of course it is ! 

turkish can all they want since the above is untrue .  . however , 
i am sure you guys would have never brought up 's involvement if 
had had heavy losses .  . 


and this is your opinion. it is not any more valid due to repeated 
capital letters and words such as  untrue   never  etc. 

read what the new york times , that is publishing anti 
articles .  . , i have my resources .  . look , everyone knows how aggressive 
turks have been in the past. are not sit 
around and watch fire works by taught by turks .  . 

so are justified in since supposedly turks have 
been aggressive in the past i do n't follow your logic .  . 

i do n't wish to get into the discussion. had the right to 

not a chance ! you can not convince me  ( based on your reasons)that ) 
your government did the right thing to invade  . 

i have said that i do n't wish to get into discussion and did not 
give any reasons for 's involvement .  . i also am not trying to 
convince you of anything , seeing no reason to waste any time .  .  .  .  . 

lastly , why is there not a soc . culture . i vote yes for it. 
after all , it is now free. 

well , i am not in the position to agree or with you. 



i am serious. let 's get soc . culture . started and have some peace 
of mind 





from  ( feigenbaum , benjamin ) 
subject re news you may have missed , apr 20 
organization , , nj 
summary totally unbiased magazine 
lines 

in article ,  ( jack schmidling ) writes 

news you may have missed , apr 19 , 1993 

not because you were too busy but because 
in the us media it. 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


those israeli soldiers 


israeli soldiers have arab women in the gaza strip 
during the three week long that has palestinians off from the 
jewish state , sources said on sunday .  . 

the incidents occurred in the town of khan and involved soldiers of 
the who have been at the centre of house to house raids for 
during the , which was imposed on the strip and 
west bank. 

five days ago girls at the al secondary said a group of 
soldiers them , and me . '' . when the girls , 
the soldiers threw empty at them. 

on saturday , a group of soldiers opened their shirts and down their 
pants when they saw girls from al walking home from school. parents 
are considering keeping their daughters home from the all girls school. 

the same day , soldiers harassed two passing after a youth 
escaped from them at a  secondary school. principal 
said they abusive language at the girls , backed them 
against a , and put their around them. 

when teacher intervened the soldiers kicked him and 
him with the of their  . 

on tuesday , troops stopped a car driven by , a 
moslem , and demanded he his female  . refused , the 
soldiers hit him and the 18 year old him to stop the 
beating .  . 

on friday , soldiers entered the home of , 60 , 
him and his wife , put a music on a and demanded they dance .  . as 
the couple , the soldiers slipped away. the coupled continued 
dancing until their came in and asked what was happening. 

the army said it was checking the reports .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


israeli troops bar christians from jerusalem 

israeli troops prevented christian from entering jerusalem on thursday 
to celebrate the traditional mass of the last  . 

two arab priests from the greek orthodox church led some 30 worshippers in 
prayer at a separating the west bank from jerusalem after 
soldiers told them only people with army issued could enter .  . 

now , our brothers are mass in the church of the holy 
and we were to be able to join them in prayer , '' said father 
george of the  . 

israel off the lands two weeks ago after a of 
attacks against jews .  . the cut off in the west bank 
and gaza strip from jerusalem , their economic , spiritual and cultural centre .  . 

father said christians did not want to suffer the 
of requesting to reach holy sites .  . 

said the was discriminatory , allowing jews free movement 
to take part in recent while christian 
 . 

, we saw the jews celebrate without any interruption .  . 
but we cannot reach our sites , '' he said. 

an israeli 's speech , demanding to see his 
identity card before the to leave .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 



if you are as at this as i am , drop israel 's best friend email and 
let him know what you think. 


 ( via compuserve ) 
 ( via america online ) 
clinton  ( via mail ) 


tell 'em sent  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

if you are tired of learning about american foreign policy from what is 
effectively , israeli controlled media , i highly recommend checking out the 
washington report. a free copy is available by calling the american 
education trust at 
 ( 800 ) 

tell 'em sent you. 






i took your advice and ordered a copy of the report. i 
recommend it to all pro israel types for the following 
reasons 

1. it is an excellent of  . i use it to line 
the bottom of my 's cage .  . a negative side effect is 
that my now has a somewhat view of the  . 

2. it makes a great april fool 's joke , i.e. , give it to someone 
who knows nothing about the middle east and then say april 
fools . 

anyway , i plan to call them up every month just to keep getting 
those free  ( you know how cheap we jews  . 

btw , when you call them , tell 'em barf sent you. 

just kidding , 

ben .  . 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject day and night were up male  .  .  . 
article i.d. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( eduard wiener ) writes 

sure it joined you by ballot in ! and i suppose that 
northern  ( where i was born ) , which has always had 

that 's why refer to you as a   . 
m. , a subsequent soviet military fame , said about the 
genocide of 2.5 million turkish and 
women , children and people during his visit to 
in june that 

the had become , their 
and parties were , serving as 
of whatever power happened to be  . 

in september 16 , , major general w. , director of 
military intelligence , wrote to lord , under 
of state for foreign affairs 

 .  .  . it . is useless to pretend that the are 
allies , or of all the sympathy to which they claim .  . 1 

1 f . o .  .  . 

in the special collection at stanford library , by 
, the letter dated nov. 1 , states that 

hall wrote a large volume to prove that were 
not and never could be desirable citizens , that they would 
always be merchants .  . 


source documents volume i  . 
document no 50 , archive no 4 , no 162 , 
no 5 , file no , section no , contents no 6 , 6 1 , 6 2. 
 ( to division command hakki ) 

for eight days , have been forcibly people from 
leaving their homes or going from one to the other. day and night 
they are up male , taking them to unknown , 
after which nothing further is heard of them.  ( informed from statements 
of those who succeeded in from the massacres around 
 . women and children are being openly murdered or are 
being gathered in the church square and similar places. most and 
acts have been committed against moslems for eight days. 


document no 52 , archive no 4 , no , 
no 1 , file no , section no , contents no 6 6 , 6 7. 
 ( to 1st army corps command , 2nd army corps 
command , communications 3rd army 
general ) 

as almost all units opposite our front have been , the 
population loyal to us in regions behind the positions are 
facing an ever increasing threat and as well as 
and abuses by who have decided to systematically 
the moslem population in regions under their occupation .  . i have 
regularly informed the command of these atrocities and 
and i have gained the impression that the above authority 
seems to be failing in order. 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 

from  ( danny keren ) 
subject re 's speech on the of the jewish race 
organization brown university department of computer science 
lines 56 

it is appropriate to add what said other inferior races 
and human animals in his speech at and elsewhere 


from the speech of , before 
major , , october 4 
nazi conspiracy and , vol. , p. 

one basic principal must be the absolute rule for the man we 
must be honest , decent , loyal , and to members of our own 
blood and to nobody else. what happens to a , to a , 
does not interest me in the slightest .  . what the nations can offer 
in good blood of our type , we will take , if necessary by 
their children and them with us. whether nations live in 
or to death interests me only in so far as we 
need them as slaves for our culture otherwise , it is of no interest 
to me. whether 10 , 000 fall down from 
while an anti interest me only in so far as 
the anti for germany is finished .  . we shall never be rough 
and when it is not necessary , that is clear. we germans , 
who are the only people in the world who have a decent attitude 
towards animals , will also assume a decent attitude towards these 
human animals .  . but it is a crime against our own blood to worry 
about them and give them ideals , thus causing our sons and 
to have a more difficult time with them. when someone 
comes to me and says , i cannot dig the anti with women 
and children , it is , for it will kill them , then i 
would have to say , you are a murderer of your own blood because 
if the anti is not , german soldiers will die , and 
they are the sons of german  . they are our own blood . 



extract from 's address to party , september 7 
trials of criminals , vol. , p. 

if any has any sexual dealing with a german woman , and by this 
i mean sexual intercourse , then the man will be hanged right in 
front of his camp .  . then the others will not do it. besides , 
will be made that a sufficient number of women 
and girls will come along as well so that a necessity of this 
kind is out of the question. 

the women will be brought before the courts without mercy , and 
where the facts are not sufficiently proved such borderline 
cases always happen they will be sent to a concentration camp .  . 
this we must do , unless these one million poles and those 
hundreds of thousands of workers of alien blood are to inflict 
damage on the german blood. philosophizing is of no avail 
in this case. it would be better if we did not have them at all 
we all know that but we need them. 



 . 


from  ( david davidian ) 
subject says it could shoot down turkish 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 85 

04 16 93 says it could shoot down turkish 

by david 

, april 16 , accused on friday of flying weapons 
x and troops across to and strongly it 
might try to shoot the down , local journalists in said. 

, news agency said forces had halted their latest 
offensive which has up one tenth of and sent tensions in 
the  . 

the journalists in the capital quoted , head of the 
defence ministry press centre , as saying had been sending 
up to 15 times a day to with and troops .  . 

it looks as though the leadership will have to warn about 
the of such actions , the journalists quoted as 
saying. 

if such steps are in the future we will have recourse to appropriate 
measures .  . we have all the necessary means , including modern anti 
units. 

, which shares a border with , has supported in the 
conflict over the mainly populated in which 
more than 2 , people have been killed since fighting in 1988. 

the turkish foreign ministry said on friday it had so far sent one plane to 
containing aid .  . 

a turkish foreign ministry spokesman on thursday would not comment directly 
on a report by newspaper that a first of , rocket 
, ammunition and light weapons had arrived in from  . 

said had been sending up to 30 a day carrying troops 
and to the autonomous territory of , from where 
they were across to the capital  . 

all the responsibility for possible consequences will be borne by the 
country which is military assistance over our , he said. 

denies any formal role in the conflict , saying that the troops 
involved in the fighting are from the itself. 

said the forces decided on friday to suspend their offensive 
along the entire front .  . 

the authorities are ready to give independent 
a chance to see for themselves on the that the  ( enclave 's ) 
leadership is to achieve a , the agency said. 

president called for a two stage in 
when he arrived in the capital on friday for a summit of 
commonwealth leaders .  . 

the first stage of the should involve a and the 
protection of the population , quoted him as saying. 

at least 10 have been in the conflict but all have 
collapsed .  . 

the second stage should involve discussing and finding a solution to the 
legal issues that is , a clarification of the status of , he 
said. the declared full independence last year but the move has not 
been by any other country. 

insists that a separate should take part in future 
peace talks , something rejects .  . 

local news in said on friday that 
, a and in the dispute with 
, had  . 

news agency said he quit on thursday and had cleared his office. 
agency said he would be replaced by the military of 
, police major general abdullah  . there was no official 
 . 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( feigenbaum , benjamin ) 
subject re views on jerusalem 
organization , , nj 
summary verify statements 
lines 21 

in article , writes 
it seems that president clinton can recognize jerusalem as capitol 
while still keeping his diplomatic door open by stating that the parties 
concerned should decide the city 's final status .  . even as i 
w  ( of course) , it is definitely a matter to be decided upon by israel  ( and 
other  . 
i see no real conflict in stating both views , nor expect any better from 
politicians .  . 

david university of illinois 
dept sci w. dr. urbana , il 

i was trying to avoid a discussion of the whether views 
should be or not. all i was trying to find out was 
whether the newspaper article was correct in making these 
statements about the president by obtaining some information 
about when and where he made these statements .  . 

thank you. 

ben .  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject as the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people , ... 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 65 

in article  ( system operator ) writes 

or , as we have witnessed in , would like to see 
it happen again .  .  .  . 

is this the joke of the month 

1. your exterminated 2.5 million muslim people 
between and  . 

2. your nazi parents fully participated in the extermination of the 
european during wwii .  . 

3. your criminal have been muslim women , children 
and people in x soviet and for the last 
four years. 

the entire population of x soviet now , as a result of the 
genocide of 2.5 million muslim people , are  . 

for nearly one thousand years , the turkish and people 
lived on their the last one hundred under the 
soviet and occupation .  . the 
in the government and carried 
out a genocide against its muslim subjects .  . 2.5 million turks 
and were murdered and the remainder driven out of their 
 . after one thousand years , turkish and lands 
were empty of turks and  . 

the survivors found a safe heaven in  . 

today , x soviet government rejects the right of turks and 
to return to their muslim lands by x soviet  . 

today , x soviet government covers up the genocide 
by its and is therefore an to this crime against 
humanity .  . 

x soviet government must pay for their crime of genocide 
against the muslims by admitting to the crime and making 
to the turks and  . 

turks and demand the right to return to their lands , to determine 
their own future as a nation in their own  . 

during the , we come once again reiterate the 
unity of the muslim people , the of the turkish 
and demands and the desire to pursue the struggle 
for that a struggle that all turks and  . 

today , we appeal to all turkish and people in the united 
states and canada to participate en in the 
events , be they cultural , political or religious .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( peter freeman ) 
subject re pleasure from death 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( peter freeman ) 
organization university 
lines 22 


with regards to my condemnation of 's ridiculous attacks on the 
american department of justice , and further attacks on jews , to 
anyone who took offense to my calling stupid , i 
apologize for pointing out the obvious. it was a waste of the 
net 's time. i hope , though , that most american citizens have 
the basic of the structure of american government to 
understand the relationship between the justice department 
as a part of the branch , and the courts , which 
are of the judicial branch .  . 
's ignorance of basic his 
inability to comprehend and interpret foreign affairs .  . 


peace , 








subject re enough freeman ! was no free man propaganda machine blood from israel 
from  ( marc a afifi ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 16 

 ( peter freeman ) writes 


peter , 

i believe this is your most post to date. since you have nothing 
to say , you say nothing ! it 's  . did you think of this all by 
yourself 




some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with 
both eyes. 
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions. 


from r . 
subject re freedom in u . s . a .  . 
organization at t bell laboratories 
lines 51 

in article , ( ) writes 
writes 
dear mr. 

it is never wise to confuse freedom of speech with freedom 
of racism and violent  . 

it is unfortunate that many fail to understand this crucial 
distinction .  . 

in fact , if a was not offensive to some , its 
protection under freedom of laws would be useless. it is 
that some find questionable that must be protected , be 
it religiously blasphemous or inherently racist .  . it is only 
through civilized discourse and not that one can 
enlighten those that one to be ignorant .  . that is the 
idea behind freedom of  . 
what you find offensive might be perceived as truth by 
some and what they might find offensive might be your belief .  . 
it is only through free exchange of ideas  ( and insults as the 
case seems to be with this channel) that one can change 
another 's ways . that . is why jefferson said that here 
we are not afraid to tolerate error so long as reason is left to 
combat it . 

those who forward offensive posts to the sysadmin are n't 
 freedom of speech. the nazi movement has a right to 
make , say anything they want. they do not have a right 
to have these published by the n . y .  . times. that depends 
on the times analysis of the economic and to somewhat extent 
value of those  . likewise to the sysadmin 
of this system. if he his resources are being 
used in a manner that is not in his best interests , or are 
perhaps to his organization , he will act just as 
the new york times does , not to be a conduit for these ideas. 
the poster is after all free off of someone else 's 
book when he posts. he who the purse 
has the right to make the decision how he wants those funds 
spent or not spent .  . 

noone is going to put the poster in jail , unless he bombs a local 
building as a symbol of his hatred .  . freedom of speech in no 
way to to of information. the 
market of ideas has its own natural selection process that 
out the from the credible ideas that are of 
importance .  . 


seth 

disclaimer all opinions are my own not my  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the of  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 215 

in article  ( varnavas a. lambrou ) writes 

what about the majority of the population is christian , but 
your fellow turkish friends did and still doing a  good  job for you 
by cleaning the area from christians .  . 

all your article reflects is your ignorance .  . the people of 
know quite well that and the greek will never 
the idea of and will remain 
of it with , someday , whatever the cost to the 
parties involved. the history speaks for itself. was the sole 
of invasion on that island when it sent its troops on 
15 , in an attempt to the legitimate government of 
 . 

following the greek attempt to the island to with 
the aid of the greek army , intervened by using her legal right 
given by two international agreements .  . did it for the frequently 
and conveniently forgotten people of the island , turkish  . for 
those turkish whose have been living on the island 
since  . 

the release of , a member of national organization 
of and a convicted terrorist , shows that the 
  continues to survive in  . one should not 
forget that dedicated his life to the turks 
in , committed murder to achieve this goal , and tried to 
destroy the island 's independence by it to  . of 
course , the greek governments will have to bear the consequences 
for this conduct .  . 


the of 

2 street , area , , 

it is the house of dr. , a major who was serving at 
the turkish army  . during the attacks 
against the turks by the greeks , on 20th december , dr. 
's wife and three children were and brutally 
killed in the bathroom , where they had tried to hide , by 
greeks .  . dr. happened to be on duty that night , the 
24th december  . pictures greek atrocities 
committed during and after are in this house which 
has been converted into a  . 

an eye witness account of how a turkish family was by 
greek 

the date is the 24th of december ,  .  .  . the of the 
greeks against the turks , which started three days ago , has been 
going on with all its and women , old men 
and children are being brutally killed by greeks .  . and now 
area of witnesses the worst example of the greeks 
 .  .  . 

the wife and the three infant children of dr. , a 
major on duty at the camp of the turkish army , 
are mercilessly and shot dead while hiding in the 
bathroom of their house , by greeks who broke into their 
home. a example of greek  . 

let us now listen to the of the said incident told by 
mr. yusuf , an eye witness , who himself was 
during the same terrible event. 

on the night of the 24th of december , my wife 
and i were paying a visit to the family of major dr.  . 
our mrs .  . of , her daughter and mrs .  . 
's sister were also with us. we were all sitting 
having  . all of a sudden from the river 
direction started to riddle the house , sounding like heavy rain .  . 
thinking that the room where we were sitting was 
dangerous , we to the bathroom and toilet which we thought 
would be safer .  . we were persons .  . we all in 
the bathroom except my wife who took refuge in the toilet .  . we 
waited in fear. mrs .  . the wife of major doctor , was standing 
in the with her three children , and in her 
 . suddenly with a great we heard the front door open. 
greeks had come in and were , every corner of the house 
with their machine gun  . during these i heard 
saying , in greek , you want eh ! and then 
started flying in the bathroom .  . mrs .  . and her three children 
into the  . they were shot .  . at this moment the greeks , 
who broke into the bathroom , their guns on us again. i 
heard one of the major 's children , then i  . 

when i came to myself 2 or 3 hours later , i saw mrs .  . and 
her three children lying dead in the  . i and the rest of the 
in the bathroom were all seriously  . but what 
had happened to my wife then i and immediately to 
the toilet , where , in the , i saw her body. she was 
brutally murdered .  . 

in the street the sound of shots i heard 
help , help. is there no one to save us i became  . i 
thought that if the greeks came again and found that i was not 
dead they would kill me. so i to the and myself 
under the double bed. 

an our passed by. in the distance i could still hear shots .  . my 
mouth was , so i came out from under the and drank some 
water .  . then i put some in my and went back to the 
bathroom , which was exactly as i had left in an hour ago. there i 
offered to mrs .  . , her daughter and mrs .  . who 
were all  . 

we waited in the bathroom until 5 o in the morning. i 
thought morning would never come. we were all and needed 
to be taken to hospital .  . finally , as we could walk , mrs .  . 
and i , went out into the street to find help , and walked 
as far as  . 

there , we met some people who took us to hospital where we were 
operated on. when i my consciousness i said that there 
were more in the house and they went and brought mrs .  . 
and her daughter .  . 

after staying three days in the hospital i was sent by plane to 
for further treatment .  . there i have had four months 
treatment but still i cannot use my  . on my return to , 
greeks me at the airport .  . 

all i have related to you above i told the greeks during my 
 . they then released me. 

on foot into s turkish 

we went into the off turkish of in 
which 200 to people have been slaughtered in the last five 
days. 

we were the first western reporters there , and we saw some 
terrible sights .  . 

in the at no. 2 , , we made our way 
into a house whose were covered with broken glass. a 
child 's bicycle in a corner .  . 

in the bathroom , looking like a group of , were three 
children on top of their murdered mother. 

in a room next to it we the body of a woman shot in the 
head. 

this , we were told , was the home of a turkish army major whose 
family had been killed by the in the first violence .  . 

today was five days later , and still they there. 

and daniel ,  ( from the daily express ) 

 .  .  . i . saw in a bathroom the bodies of a mother and three infant 
children murdered because their father was a turkish  .  .  . 

, 25 26 , 


peter reporting from the of ,  . 
date 1 ,  . 

il  ( italy ) 

they are , they want to exterminate them. 

discussions start in london in continues .  . right now we 
are the exodus of turks from the  . thousands of people 
homes , land , herds greek terrorism is  . this 
time , the rhetoric of the and the of do not suffice to 
cover up and behaviors .  . 

article by , of il 
date 14 

daily  ( london ) 

an appalling sight 

and when i came across the turkish homes they were an appalling sight. 
apart from the walls , they just did not exist. i doubt if a bomb 
attack could have created more devastation .  . i counted 40 
and concrete that had once been homes .  . each house had been deliberately 
fired by petrol .  . under red which had in , i found a twisted 
mass of , children 's and , and deep grey 
of what had once been , and  . 

in the of , a away , i counted 16 
and burned out homes .  . they were all turkish homes .  . from 
this more than 100 turkish had also vanished . in . neither 
did i find a of damage to any greek house. 


daily  ( london ) 

of 12 shot turkish found in 

silent gathered outside the red hospital in the 
turkish of , as the bodies of 9 turkish found 
buried outside the of , 13 away , were 
brought to the hospital under the of the  . three 
more bodies , including one of a woman , were discovered nearby but could 
not be removed. turkish by are still trying to 
the bodies of 20 more believed to have been buried on the same site. 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( dorin baru ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization corporation 
lines 35 


 ( brad writes 


well , you should have noted that i was cheering an attack on an israeli 
inside territory while i was condemning the 
of by israeli and israeli backed forces .  . my team , 
you see , was playing fair while the team was the 
faces of the in my team 's stands , so to speak. 

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on 
in and try to see through the propaganda .  . there are no a 
black and white but one sure wonders how the can in 
to pin point attacks on its soldiers in and then call the 
 . 

if the attack was justified or not is at least  . but this is not the 
issue. the issue is that you were cheering death. read again your original 
article. you find israeli government responsible for those dead soldiers , that 's 
a reasonable  ( debatable ) point , but feel from dead bodies is 
not reasonable by any standards. no matter how you try to justify it. 
i may understand your against israeli occupation in s  . 
but no matter what you say , i can not understand your for dead 
bodies .  . 

i have a question for you. let 's assume a bosnian , by serbs 
a few  ( 10 20 ) years ago , and later taken over by bosnian muslims  ( the means 
are not very  . now , do you enjoy serbs coming and killing all  ( armed ) 
bosnian muslims i would not enjoy , but i would not enjoy any dead bodies 
, or  . 






from  ( andrew varvel ) 
subject to be exact , 2.5 million readers enlightened by 
summary p 
article i.d. 
organization north dakota higher education computing network 
lines 13 
nntp posting host edu . 


in article  ( serdar argic ) writes 
(a . k . a .  . , the and compassionate ) 

's , divine , all knowing , and 
wisdom is for this  . 


where can i join the fan club do i get a t 

the friendly neighborhood alien 

life just has n't been the same since david koresh died .  .  .  . 

from  ( basil hamdan ) 
subject re was go ! 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering college , state university 
lines 

in article ,  ( shai guday ) writes 

snip 
imagine it is not a terrorist camp as you and the like 
to view the they are small communities with kids playing 
in the streets , women lunch , men playing cards , etc .  .  .  .  .  . 

i would not argue that all or even most of the are terrorist 
camps . there are however some which come very close to serving that 
purpose and that is not to say that other did not function in that way 
prior to the invasion .  . 

the i described was actually the i could come to 
describing mine. i agree there may be other where the civilian 
population has deserted because it is too close to israeli lines and 
thus gets bombed more often. in such often the only remaining 
are and some who have nowhere else to go. 
but for the most part the typical south is more like 
mine. one where civilians and live together. they are 
often the same house. many families are large , some 
have members of the families involved in , most others 
are not. that is what is so hard of south , israel is 
not fighting an army with well drawn battle lines , but a 
resistance which by definition and necessity with 
the local  . not because they are evil that 
use women and children as , but because that is the only 
way one can fight a more powerful better army .  . 

some of the , and yours might well be among them , are as you 
describe .  . not all are. there are a large number of groups in the area , 
backed by various organizations , with a wide range of purposes. 
and were two of the larger ones and may still be. 

and are now the main two  . though 
people tend to be more committed to 
operation and better motivated by religious conviction .  . 

as to , 
while mistakes may be made , that is still a far cry from 
bombing , which would have produced major casualties .  . 

it may be a mixture of what we both say. sometimes israel chooses 
its targets carefully .  . at other times it just sends its on 
aimed at a town in general since it only knows that the 
came from that specific but has no further 
intelligence .  . on several israel against 
civilian camps , even in north , just to show 
that it will not sit after its soldiers have been attacked .  . 
most of the time it the to do the work and 
shell some on the other side. 
i have experienced this myself on several , 
this is why the is sometimes even more despised than 
israeli troops .  . 


well , here we disagree. i think that israel would willingly if 
the gov t was able to field a reliable force in the area to police 
it and prevent further attacks .  . 

i hope you are right on israeli to , but i still 
that would be the better course for israel 's 
security , since it would reduce its military losses , and i claim 
that the and gov would be able to prevent any 
further attacks on northern israel .  . 


there seems to be very little incentive for the and 
to allow to bomb israel proper under such 
circumstances , and now the government has proven that it is 
capable of controlling and all as they did 
in all other parts of  . 

no , the gov t is more than happy to have israel into another 
 . i could elaborate if necessary. 

hmm .  .  .  . here we disagree on what serves syria interests better. 
i think syria wants to have all to itself. it would 
be willing to northern israel 's security in return for 
israeli  . i do n't think syria wants israel to be 
involved in its of  . syria is sitting at the 
table because it has come to accept that and wants 
to get a political resolution .  . a of 
along the front could put the whole me peace 
back in question. 


i agree , only in the case of the soldiers their killing 
cannot be qualified as murder , no matter what you say. 

no , but it is regretable , as is the whole situation. 


i agree that the loss of any human life is deplorable and  . 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject nazi were of service to germans in arab countries as well. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 40 

in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 

this has been discussed before , by several people , on this net. the 
statement is either to al , former grand 
of jerusalem and the leader of the death squads 
during the war , or to one of his chief  . 

let us not forget the nazi  . nazi were of service 
to germans in arab countries as well. as put it , one well known 
case which received a lot of media involved two nazi 
which were dropped over syria by italian war  . the mission 
of the was to among the population in syria and 
to acquire relevant information for the german on the allied 
forces in the area. 1 nazi also helped german propaganda 
efforts in arab countries designed to promote pro nazi sentiments among 
the french and british ruled arab  . beirut had traditionally 
been strong hold of the nazi and until very recently it was 
the center of international terrorism .  . 

in russia general  ( the butcher ) , the architect of the turkish 
genocide in , was working closely with the german secret 
service .  . he entered the war with his own men and acquired 
important intelligence about the  . his experience with 
the turkish genocide in x soviet made him an 
source for the germans .  . 2 

1 , ,  . , p. 150 .  . 
2 , ,  . , p. patrick von zur , 
 . , p.  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( nick steel ) 
subject re f off , logic of mr. 
keywords conspiracy , 
organization etc organization 
lines 24 
nntp posting host ai . mit . edu . 

in article  ( emmanuel huna ) writes 

mr. , from what i 've read is not a racist , but you 
are an anti semitic .  . and stop shouting , you , 

mr. , 

give logic a break will you. gosh , what kind of intelligence do 
you have , if any 


says be a man not an arab for once. 
i say fuck of  ( for saying the above) .  . 

i get as a racist , and he gets 
well mr. , has for his racist remark .  . 
i praise him for that courage , but i tell take a to whoever calls me 
a racist without a proof because i am not. 

you have proven to us that your brain has been 
and you are just a that 's loose on the net. 

about being i am proud to be a about my rights and 
freedom , you idiot .  . 

from  ( kamil b. ucer ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
organization university of rochester department of electrical engineering 

in article () writes 
i 've heard many turks say this and it me that they do n't read about 
it . remember . the treaty of as a consequence of being in the powers 
in the . turks under international law were supposed to look after their 
minorities ie .  . greeks , ,  ( kurds(i must say relations are 
improving slightly with time) and not pose a threat to 's  . 
the turks blatantly rejected this  ( treaty(the germans accepted 
which was a million times worse for the health and pride of the 
german the . greeks who had an army there , were there with british 
and french backing to enforce  . 
in possibly the first example of appeasement the young government 
managed the treaty of out of the weak allies , this was after 
the greek forces were were at when . this occurred , 
french were in the and many greeks trying escape to the 
french and climbed aboard only to get their cut off by the french 
as they they 're way up the sides of the  . 
, ,  . 
it seems to me that you are the one who is supposed to do some reading. i think 
that our major difference in opinion is on the legitimacy of  . first , was signed by the ottoman empire therefore legally it does not bind the 
of  . the new independence movement  ( which by the way , is not the same as the young turks ) naturally rejected it out of hand. to say that we 
should accept because the germans did theirs is absurd .  . we saw what the of such harsh treaties were in hitler .  . second , the treaty was even 
worse than  . it divided the ottoman empire in to several influence 
, had the capital , the economy under allied control , the army 
to nothing but a police force , in short a country in name only .  . i 'd 
wonder if you would like to live under such conditions .  . and for the record , i feel sorry for the soldiers killed in  . before the 
city , the greek forces burned it down , so it serves them right. 
as for being by allied promises , that too is your fault. you did not come to just to enforce but to take part in the as well. 
k. 


from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re 
organization the department of department 
lines 21 

in article  ( brendan d mckay ) writes 
in article  ( vic filler ) writes 

you have a lot to learn when it comes to historical  . 

that 's true. i try to learn from people who know more than me , 
not from useless  . 

and anyone who does n't agree with you is , by your own definitions , a 
useless . just like any text that your own findings 
is always described as flawed or biased . in other words , you 
the things you like and dismiss those that might you. 
we 've seen you play these games here for a long time. 

one thing is for sure when it comes to useless , you sure know 
what you 're talking about. 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( jack schmidling ) 
subject news you may have missed , apr 20 
organization , chicago , il 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 


news you may have missed , apr 19 , 1993 

not because you were too busy but because 
in the us media it. 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


those israeli soldiers 


israeli soldiers have arab women in the gaza strip 
during the three week long that has palestinians off from the 
jewish state , sources said on sunday .  . 

the incidents occurred in the town of khan and involved soldiers of 
the who have been at the centre of house to house raids for 
during the , which was imposed on the strip and 
west bank. 

five days ago girls at the al secondary said a group of 
soldiers them , and me . '' . when the girls , 
the soldiers threw empty at them. 

on saturday , a group of soldiers opened their shirts and down their 
pants when they saw girls from al walking home from school. parents 
are considering keeping their daughters home from the all girls school. 

the same day , soldiers harassed two passing after a youth 
escaped from them at a  secondary school. principal 
said they abusive language at the girls , backed them 
against a , and put their around them. 

when teacher intervened the soldiers kicked him and 
him with the of their  . 

on tuesday , troops stopped a car driven by , a 
moslem , and demanded he his female  . refused , the 
soldiers hit him and the 18 year old him to stop the 
beating .  . 

on friday , soldiers entered the home of , 60 , 
him and his wife , put a music on a and demanded they dance .  . as 
the couple , the soldiers slipped away. the coupled continued 
dancing until their came in and asked what was happening. 

the army said it was checking the reports .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


israeli troops bar christians from jerusalem 

israeli troops prevented christian from entering jerusalem on thursday 
to celebrate the traditional mass of the last  . 

two arab priests from the greek orthodox church led some 30 worshippers in 
prayer at a separating the west bank from jerusalem after 
soldiers told them only people with army issued could enter .  . 

now , our brothers are mass in the church of the holy 
and we were to be able to join them in prayer , '' said father 
george of the  . 

israel off the lands two weeks ago after a of 
attacks against jews .  . the cut off in the west bank 
and gaza strip from jerusalem , their economic , spiritual and cultural centre .  . 

father said christians did not want to suffer the 
of requesting to reach holy sites .  . 

said the was discriminatory , allowing jews free movement 
to take part in recent while christian 
 . 

, we saw the jews celebrate without any interruption .  . 
but we cannot reach our sites , '' he said. 

an israeli 's speech , demanding to see his 
identity card before the to leave .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 



if you are as at this as i am , drop israel 's best friend email and 
let him know what you think. 


 ( via compuserve ) 
 ( via america online ) 
clinton  ( via mail ) 


tell 'em sent  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

if you are tired of learning about american foreign policy from what is 
effectively , israeli controlled media , i highly recommend checking out the 
washington report. a free copy is available by calling the american 
education trust at 
 ( 800 ) 

tell 'em sent you. 






from ( get thee to a  .  .  .  .  . ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization university of virginia 
lines 32 

writes 
( ) writes 

i think the israeli press might be a bit biased in 
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of 
reported accurately on what was happening in germany .  . it is 
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda .  . 

if you consider israeli reporting of events in israel to be propoganda , then 
consider the washington post 's handling of american events to be propoganda 
too. what makes the israeli press inherently biased in your opinion i 
would n't compare it to nazi propoganda either. unless you want to provide 
some evidence of israeli inaccuracies or to nazism , i suggest you 
keep your mouth shut .  . i'm sick and tired of all you anti comparing 
israel to the nazis  ( and yes , in my opinion , if you compare israel to the nazis 
you are an anti because you know damn well it is n't true and you are 
just trying to discredit  . 

ed .  . 

you know ed , ... you 're right ! should n't be comparing 
israel to the nazis .  . the are much worse than the 
nazis ever were anyway. the nazis did a lot of good for 
germany , and they would have succeeded if it were n't for the 
damn jews .  . the never happened anyway. ample 
evidence given by george at , dept. of history , 
and even by at , have shown that the 
was just a semitic conspiracy created to obtain 
sympathy to for the creation of israel .  . 




from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
organization the department of department 
lines 54 

in article  ( center for policy research ) writes 

the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population 
in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks. 

another non fact. 

the israeli has decided to punish the whole population of 
gaza , some 700 . 000 . people , by denying them the right to leave the 
strip and seek work in israel .  . 

actually , they are free to leave and seek work in egypt , except that 
the egyptians do n't want them , either. and who are you going to blame 
if when establish their own state of gaza 

while non jews their lives to save jews from the 
, no israeli jew is known to have his life to help 
the resistance .  . the only help given to by israeli 
jews , only of people , is assistance .  . 

actually , one such jew who did risk his life to help was 
to death by murderers just last week. it seems 
that the risk has been primarily from the in need of help . 

this is also true for telephone repairmen , traders who seek to buy 
products from , israeli soldiers who get involved 
in fighting between groups that are as determined 
to destroy each other as they are to destroy  .  .  . 

the right of the population to resist occupation is 
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of 
justice. a population denied basic human rights is entitled to 
rise up against its  . 

i just see you try this here in the usa .  . you know what 's going 
to happen. 

as is known , the israeli regime is considering unworthy of 
israeli citizenship and equal rights in israel , although they are 
considered worthy to do the work in israeli , 
and fields .  . many are born in towns and in 
israel .  . they may not live there , for these areas are for 
the master race .  . 

okay. that 's enough. i'm not going to read this posting of yours any 
further. 





ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( ahmed abed ) 
subject re final solution in 
originator 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 59 


in article ,  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 
in article center for policy research writes 

final solution for the gaza 


while israeli jews the of the , they 
by violent means the of the gaza and 
attempt to the  . 

... 

the jews in the were fighting to keep themselves and 
their families from being sent to nazi gas  . groups like 
and the islamic jihad fight with the expressed purpose of driving all 
jews into the sea. perhaps , we should persuade jewish people to help 

these freedom this ultimate goal. 

maybe the freedom will choose to spare the co jews .  . 
is that what you are counting on , the pity of murderers .  . 

you say your mother was jewish .  . how she must be of her son. i 
am sorry , mrs .  .  . 

 . 

o.k. , its my turn 

driving the jews into the sea ! 

i am sick and tired of this  driving the jews into the sea  attributed 
to islamic movements and the it simply ca n't be proven as part of their 
plan ! 

 ( pro israeli repeat it like without checking its authenticity 
since it was coined by brith ) 

what and islamic jihad believe in , as far as i can get from the arab media , 
is an islamic state that the rights of all its under koranic 
law. this would be a of the situation in which the jews in 
took control of the land and its  ( mostly muslim )  . 

however , whoever committed crimes against humanity  ( torture , blowing up their 
homes , murders ,  .  .  . ) . must be treated and tried as a war criminal .  . the political 
thought of these movements shows that a freedom of choice will be given to the 
jews in living under the new law or leaving to the of their choice. 

as for the , i am at a loss to explain what is going inside 's mind. 

although their political thinking seems far fetched with israel acting as a true 
super power in the , the islamic movements are using the same weapon the 
jews used to establish their state religion. 


ahmed .  . 


subject re israeli terrorism 
from  ( amos shapira ) 

organization  . of  . sci .  . , hebrew university , jerusalem , israel 
nntp posting host cs . ac . il . 
in reply to 's message of 25 apr 1993 05 26 48 gmt 
lines 14 

 ( anas omran ) writes 

the 
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters .  . 

eh could you please give me details about an event where a neutral 
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli 



 ( jumper extraordinaire ) it is true that power , 
c.s. system group , hebrew university , but absolute power is better ! 
jerusalem , israel 
the demon to his son 


from com .  ( frank benson ) 
subject 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

go back to school jerk .  . 


internet com . 
uucp uunet ! edu . ! ! pro ! 

from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re freedom in u . s . a .  . 
organization , inc. 
lines 23 

( ) writes 

i have just started reading the articles in this news 
group. there seems to be an attempt by some members to quiet 
other members with  . i believe one posting said 
that all postings by one person are being to his 
server who keeps a file on him in hope that appropriate action 
might be taken . 
i do n't know where you guys are from but in america 
such attempts to first amendment rights are 
not appreciated. here , we let everyone speak their mind 
regardless of how we feel about it. take your 
ideals back to where you came from. 

freedom of speech does not mean that others are compelled to give one 
the means to speak publicly .  . some systems have 
prohibiting the of racist and bigoted messages from 
accounts they issue. 

apparently , that 's not the case with virginia . edu . , since you are still 
posting. 

h. stein 

from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject  ( was re no free man propaganda machine freeman , with blood from israel ) 
in reply to 's message of tue , 13 apr 93 14 15 18 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 85 

in article writes 

check begin  ( published book ) you 'll find accounts of the 
massacres there including , 
though with the numbers of men , children and women are 
greatly  . 

as per request of 

from the , by begin , publishing , ny , 1977 

pp. 

apart from the military aspect , there is a moral aspect to the 
story of  . at that , whose name was 
throughout the world , both sides suffered heavy casualties .  . we had 
four killed and nearly forty  . the number of casualties was 
nearly forty percent of the total number of the  . the arab 
troops suffered casualties three times as heavy .  . the fighting 
was thus very severe .  . yet the hostile propaganda , 
throughout the world , deliberately ignored the fact that the civilian 
population of was actually given a warning by us before the 
battle began .  . one of our carrying a loud speaker was 
at the to the and it in arabic all women , 
children and to leave their houses and to take shelter on the 
of the hill .  . by giving this warning our threw 
away the element of complete surprise , and thus increased their own 
risk in the battle .  . a substantial number of the 
the warning and they were  . a few did not leave their 
houses perhaps because of the confusion. the fire of the enemy 
was to which the number of our casualties bears eloquent 
testimony .  . our men were compelled to fight for every house to 
overcome the enemy they used large numbers of hand  . and the 
civilians who had our warnings suffered inevitable 
casualties .  . 

the education which we gave our soldiers throughout the years of 
was based on the of the traditional laws of war. we 
never broke them unless the enemy first did so and thus forced us , in 
accordance with the accepted of war , to apply  . i am 
convinced , too , that our officers and men wished to avoid a single 
unnecessary in the battle .  . but those who 
stones of at the of 1 would do 
well not to the of hypocrisy 2 . 

in connection with the capture of the jewish agency 
found it necessary to send a letter of apology to abdullah , whom mr. 
ben , at a moment of great political , called  the wise 
ruler who seeks the good of his people and this country . ' . the  wise 
ruler , ' whose forces demolished and the 
bodies of its to birds of prey , replied with feudal 
 . he rejected the apology and replied that the jews 
were all to blame and that he did not believe in the existence of 
' . throughout the arab world and the world at large a wave 
of lying propaganda was let loose about  jewish ' . 

the enemy propaganda was designed to our name. in the 
result it helped us. panic the of israel .  . 
, which had previously every attack of the 
, was evacuated overnight and without further fighting .  . 
was also evacuated .  . these two places the main 
road and their fall , together with the capture of by the 
, made it possible to keep open the road to jerusalem .  . in the 
rest of the country , too , the began to flee in , even 
before they with jewish forces .  . not what happened at 
, but what was invented about , helped to carve the 
way to our decisive on the  . the legend of 
helped us in particular in the saving of and the 
conquest of  . 


1 (a from the , 226 . 7 . ) . to the loss 
of , a of strategic importance , arab at 
a crude story , a massacre by 
troops of women and children in the  . certain jewish 
, fearing the men as political , upon this 
arab propaganda to smear the  . an rabbi was 
to the before he had time to the truth. out of 
evil , however , good came .  . this arab propaganda spread a legend of 
amongst and arab troops , who were with panic at 
the mention of soldiers .  . the legend was worth half a dozen 
to the forces of israel .  . the massacre  lie 
is still by jew all over the world. 

2 in reference to of by fellow jews .  . 

from 
subject re more on case 
organization st. peter 's college , us 
lines 36 

in article ,  ( yigal arens ) 
writes 
los times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993 .  . p.  . 
new details of extensive operation emerge 
san francisco to the outside world , roy was a small time 
art who operated from his house in the district .  . in 
reality , he was an undercover who picked through garbage and 
secret files for the anti league for nearly 40 
years. 
..... 
the anti league , a self described jewish defense and civil 
rights organization , it has long information on 
groups that are anti semitic , or racist .  . the 's 
fact finding division , headed by in new york , enjoys a 
reputation for and has often shared its information with 
police and journalists .  . 

there is something almost comical in the fact that is 
important enough to have the and g d knows who else through his 
garbage  ( which happens to be legal you it out , it ai n't yours any  . 

this brings to mind a few possibilities other than the connection 

it is all in  mind. 
may have been working for  friend in the 
 father  ( or is it brother )  ( former israeli defense 
minister ) was on him. 
to on him to get attention .  . 

in any case , who cares 

robert 
computer science dept. 
saint peter 's college 
jersey city , nj 


from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press. short notes .  . 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 16 16 51 00 1993 
lines 39 


from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press. short notes .  . 

written 4 43 apr 16 , 1993 by in forum . 
from israeli press. short notes .  . 
from the israeli press 

, 14 march 1993 

the israeli police department on the evening of friday , 
march 12 that it is calling upon jewish israeli citizens with 
gun to carry them at all times so as to contribute to 
their security and that of their surroundings . 

ha , 15 march 1993 

 ( likud ) , chair of the , 
stated that he intends to demand that the police department make 
it clear to the public that anyone who or kills 
non jewish will not be put on trial .  . 

ha , 16 

today a private security firm and units from the southern 
command will begin of four magnetic in the gaza 
strip , as an additional stage in the of security 
measures in the strip .  . 

the will aid in the searching of non jewish gaza residents 
as they leave for work in israel .  . they can be used to reveal the 
presence of , axes , weapons and other objects .  . 

in addition to the , which will be operated by a private 
civilian company , large of magnetic card reading 
devices are being brought to the inspection points , to facilitate 
the reading of the magnetic cards these non jewish workers must 
carry .  . 


from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 17 

 ( marc a afifi ) writes 

let 's not forget that the soldiers were killed not murdered .  . the 
distinction is not trivial .  . murder happens to innocent people , not people 
whose line of work is to kill or be killed. it just so happened that these 
soldiers , in the line of duty , were killed by the opposition .  . 

that still does n't mean we should their deaths .  . policemen are also in 
the line of fire and their job includes the possibility of getting killed. 
should we be happy when they die as i said before , the question is not 
whether or not you agree with the policies of israel .  . you may wish for the 
to cease occupation , but do n't in death. 



ed .  . 


from  ( danny eldar ) 
subject documentary memory of the camps 
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada 
lines 13 

yesterday , i watched an outstanding documentary on prepared for 
by the documentary  . it is called memory of the camps and shows some 
un pictures taken immediately after the liberation of 
and other death camps .  . 

i recommend it to everybody .  . check with your station for re  . 
it is a must see documentary .  . 

in the , vancouver area 9 will re the documentary 
on monday 01 30 am .  . 
you can also order a copy from video 1  . the cost is 59 .  . 



from  ( virginia 's gentleman ) 
subject re from israeli press. madness .  . 
organization university of virginia 
lines 8 

this post has all the of a form program , where the user types in 
a or and it fills it in in certain places in the story. 
if this is true , i condemn it. if it 's a , then the posters have 
horrible morals and should be despised by everyone on who values truth. 





from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 47 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article ,  ( ilyess bdira ) writes 
in article  ( gideon ehrlich ) writes 


what are the borders the islamic world dreams about 

the islamic world dreams of being the whole planet , but not by kicking 
the current inhabitant out , we rather of the day everybody converts .  . 
if jews had the same dream , i would not feel threatened a bit. 

contrary to what the protocols of zion might suggest , 
judaism does not have any such goals. 

islamic readers , i am waiting to your honest answer. 

i want also a honest answer from for the following questions 

1)why ) do jews who do n't even believe in god  ( as is the case with many 
of the of secular zionism ) have a right in more 
than the of , just because god gave you the land 

the question you ask is complicated and deserves an honest answer. 
i am going to provide one from my own current perspective , not a historical 
one. currently , as a non jew israeli american , my own feeling 
is that jews from the do not have a greater right in or 
israel , than the palestinians or  ( both arab and jew ) do. 
with regard to jewish , they should have the same rights 
in israel as do all other  . 

2)why ) do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of 
the are not jews and do not want to be part of israel 

who are them if by them you mean the non religious jews , i think 
you should be aware by now that the majority of the settlers and their 
are religious .  . the other part of the problem is , to my 
knowledge , not that the palestinians do n't want to be a part of israel , 
as much as they would accept  ( for the most part ) being full citizens 
of israel , with all the and israeli 
citizens .  . what they object to is the current in which they find 
themselves. 



stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
in reply to center for policy research 's message of 23 apr 93 15 10 pdt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 30 

in article center for policy research writes 

final solution for the gaza 


while israeli jews the of the , they 
by violent means the of the gaza and 
attempt to the  . 

... 

should the families of the children who were in their 
high school by a freedom be the ones who offer 
their help to the  . perhaps it should be the families of the 18 
who were murdered last month by freedom 
. 

the jews in the were fighting to keep themselves and 
their families from being sent to nazi gas  . groups like 
and the islamic jihad fight with the expressed purpose of driving all 
jews into the sea. perhaps , we should persuade jewish people to help 
these freedom this ultimate goal. 

maybe the freedom will choose to spare the co jews .  . 
is that what you are counting on , the pity of murderers .  . 

you say your mother was jewish .  . how she must be of her son. i 
am sorry , mrs .  .  . 

 . 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti human right in 
summary to current events in 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

accounts of anti human right in 
to current events in 



i saw a girl with her hair down. they were 
her. she kept falling because they were 
pushing her and kicking her. she down , it was 
there , and later other witnesses who saw it from 
their told us , they her by the hair 
and her a couple of blocks , as far as the 
bank , that 's a good block and a half or two 
from here. i know this for sure because i saw it 
myself. 




of  ( nezhintseva ) 

born 
train 


resident at building 13 15 , apartment 27 
no. 3 


i had n't lived very long in , only eight years. i moved there from 
 . my son entered the school , and so i transferred 
to  . later i met someone and married him , and now my name is 
, my husband 's name . . . 

that there would be a massacre was not discussed openly , but there were hints 
and , so to speak , at the people , and they were mocking the 
russians , too. i was constantly aware of it at work , and not just this past 
year .  . i could n't find a definite place for myself in the pool at work because 
i , i 'll just say it , could n't steal , could n't , and could n't be 
involved in taking .  . and when i asked for decent working conditions they 
told me , leave , do n't keep the others from working , you are n't cut out for 
this kind of work. and at work and around all the time i would hear at 
the , like the turks had it right , they killed them all the way 
they 've here they 're making it hard for us to live , and things 
will be just fine if we get rid of them all. no problem , the turks will 
help , they say , if we ask them , they 'll rid of in half an 
hour .  . well that 's the way it all was , but i never thought , of course that it 
would over into a bloody , because you just could n't imagine it. 
here we 've been living under the soviet government for 70 years , and no one 
even considered such an idea possible. 

but i had been forming my own opinions , and in the presence of authoritative 
people i would often ask , where is this all , do people really not see 
what kind of situation is here. the russians are fleeing , 
there are very few of them left. why is no one dealing with this , what 's going 
on and when it all happened on the and , it became clear that 
everything had been by someone , because what else are you to make of 
it if the first of the city party is ahead of the 
with an flag i would n't be saying this now if i 
had n't received personal from him later. because when we were 
under guard in the club on the 1st , he came to the club , that  . 
the women told me , there he is , there he is , that 's  . i did n't 
believe the that he had carried an flag .  . i thought that 
they were just false  . i went over to him and said , are you the first 
of our city party he answers me , yes. and i ask him , 
tell me , did you really march ahead of that carrying an 
flag , and behind you they were carrying signs , i do n't know 
exactly what they said , but there was mention of blood and he tells 
me , yes , i was there , but i tried to them from it. then i asked him 
another question and where were you when they were burning and 
us and he said , i. . . we did n't know what to do , we did n't know , we did n't 
that that would happen in  . 

comrade , the first chairman of the council of of the 
, answered the same question for me no , we actually did n't 
the slaughter in  . at that time we were trying to contain 
the of 45 , 000 in that was for a massacre .  . those are his 
exact words , the ones he said in the office of the council of of the 
 . 

and now , about the events themselves. of course it 's painful to discuss them , 
because it may seem that it 's not true to someone else. various 
concerning what happened are making the some are true , others are n't .  . 
but unfortunately there are more true ones than false , because it was so 
horrible in our age , here in the space age , the age of science , the age of 
progress , i do n't know , if someone had told me this story , if i were living in 
or around , i would n't have believed it. why not because it was really 
a genocide , it was a massacre .  . that 's what it was. 

for example , on that day , the i did n't know about the because my 
husband and i were both sick , both of us had the flu , and we were in on 
the our neighbor comes to our place and says , you 're in you do n't 
know anything about it there was a in town , and after it they 
were cars and burning them. they were looking into cars 
and asking ,  are you an ' if they answered in , then they 
turned the car over and burned it. this is n't made up , the wife of the 
of the ministry of internal affairs told us. he was 
returning home from his with his wife , , she 's my 
neighbor .  . she immediately came and told that they had right in the 
middle of it , i do n't know what to call it , the of they 
were stopping .  . he answered in , they let them go , but they made him 
the , they were kicking up a  . we did n't even believe it , and 
i said , certainly that did n't happen , how can that be and she said , 
was the , and the was completely 
because most of the there are  . and when he saw 
that they had started breaking the glass in that , he said , do n't break 
the , do n't destroy state property , but do whatever else you want. 
i did n't hear this with my own two ears , but it is a fact that the was 
up and the director of the was for 
although he 's an  . 

while we were talking , all of a sudden right across from us . . . 
is the first to look out the and say , look , there 's a out 
there. and sure enough , when we looked out there we saw that the had 
already started the building .  . there was an 
family there , a woman and two girls .  . they lived across from us. i'm sorry , i 
do n't know the building number or the people 's names , since we were in my 
husband 's apartment , in 8 , and i lived in no. 3. 
there was awful going on there at the time , the most things 
were going on there then. one building there , ours , was attacked twice , once 
was n't enough for them. they returned to the places where they had n't finished 
the off. if an family to conceal , they 
the too. they also russians , if it was russians doing 
the hiding .  . because there were russians among them , they said so on 
television , there were people of various  . but they did n't tell 
us why there were people of different  . because they would n't 
have the if they had n't to stick up for the 
and give them temporary shelter in their homes .  . 

at the time i saw this from the i was there , was there , 
and so was my husband .  . we went out onto the and saw a television 
off a  . all kinds of things , even a  . then , when it was all down 
there , they burned it up. then we saw the , and they were all  . at 
first i could n't figure out what was happening. and later i told my husband , 
, l think they 're beating someone out there. and he answered , i 
do n't know , could be. suddenly the separated for a moment , and i saw 
it , and saw it too. my husband had turned the other way , 
he did n't see it. i saw a girl with her hair down. they were 
her. she kept falling because they were pushing her and kicking her. she 
down , it was there , and later other witnesses who saw it from their 
told us , they her by the hair and her a couple of 
blocks , as far as the bank , that 's a good block and a half or two 
from here. i know this for sure because i saw it myself. 

then the our building .  . we were standing there , and you can 
of course imagine what we were feeling .  . were they going to kill us or not and 
i also had the awful thought that they might me the way they 
that woman , because i had just seen that. 

i asked my husband .  . i gave him an axe and said , you kill me first , and then 
let them do what they want with the  . but our , it 's true , 
defended us , they said , there are n't any in our , go away , 
only muslims live here. disaster missed us that time. 

but at two o in the morning a of about 15 people , approximately , 
came back to our place. my husband was already  . he can sleep when he 's 
upset about something , but i ca n't .  . i was standing , running from to 
 . our power was out , i do n't remember for how long , but it was as 
though it had been deliberately turned off. there were no whatsoever , 
and i was glad , of course. i thought it was better that way. but then i look 
and the is at our  . this was at 2 15 in the morning. the first 
time they were at our building it was 6 30 , and now it was 2 15 in the 
morning. but i never thought that that old woman on the first , the 
, was and watching out , there were human beings among them 
too. so she goes out with a of garbage , as though she needed to be taking 
garbage out at two o in the morning. she used it as a pretext and went 
those young people. they really were youngsters .  . from my you 
could see perfectly that they were young boys. they spoke 
 . and when they came up to her she said , what do you want and 
they answered , we want the family that lives here pointing 
the second with their hands . she says , i already told you , we do n't 
have any here , now leave , do you hear , this is an old muslim woman 
talking to you , and the hand of one boy who was trying to walk around 
her and enter the building anyway and started pushing him away. and so they 
seemed to listen to her. they were all very young , they started 
and left. that was the second time death was at our door .  . 

i forgot to mention about one other apartment , a man named lives there , 
i do n't know him really , i knew his daughter , i mean i saw her around , but we 
really did n't know them. but i do know that that guy who lives on the fourth 
across from our went to and worked there for eight 
months , to money. can you imagine what that means he his life to 
x amount of money in order to better his family. he bought new 
and was getting ready to give his daughter 's hand in marriage , but , , 
everything was by those and  . they threw everything 
out the , and the rest we saw from our how the on 
the left and right into the apartment and carried off everything that 
had n't already been or taken .  . what is one to think of that it means 
that the parents in those families were in on it too. unfortunately i came to 
be of the opinion that it was all organized and that everything had been 
in advance both the beating of the and the of 
 . something on the order of we 'll move the out and take 
over their  . 

i have worked honestly my whole life , you can check everything about me. i 
came as a from china , waited for nights on end in front of the 
general of the ussr , i came to my as a because i 
knew that the party and the were holy things. but when i saw in 
that there was n't anything holy about them , that party membership was 
bought , that members joined only for personal gain , that there were 
no ideals , no ideas , god save me , everything was being bought and sold , i saw 
all of it and understood how they could allow that crap to go on like it did. 

i ca n't talk any more about it . . . the image of that beating . . . when i 
went out of my own apartment they picked us up under soviet army guard , they 
had arrived from all over to suppress that not only , but some 
families and their children , too , came out of their and 
joined us , because no normal person who had seen that could stay there with 
the situation the way it was. and what 's interesting is that when we left on 
the buses i and thought that at least one group of people , for sure 
people would basically rise to the situation , would have some compassion for 
the , would somehow understand the of what was done. but 
having and weighed the whole thing , once i down , having 
thought it all through , i came to a conclusion that is shared by many people. 
if a lot of did n't want their to be killed , 
and that basically on that he said that he had wanted to 
calm them down then is it possible that he did n't have people at hand to whom 
he could at the last minute , go and announce it on television 
citizens of ! take what you can into your hands , let 's protect our 
from this massacre those were n't such that there was no 
controlling them. basically they were unarmed .  . they did n't have , 
mostly they had , they had all kinds of metal parts , like 
, at the ends , special , different to a degree that we 
noticed them there are n't like those in , they were 
brought from somewhere , as though it were all  . so as i was 
saying , i weighed it all out and if any of our had wanted to defend 
us , why was n't it it means that the government did n't want to do 
it. when the was moving from the city party to the , 
what , there was no way of no , there was no way , it turns out ! 
the was doing violence in our  . i wo n't mention the things 
i did n't see myself , i 'll only talk about the things i myself witnessed .  . they 
were in 8 beginning at 6 o in the evening , when i saw them 
from the other building , and they were somewhere else until mid night or one 
o in the morning , because at 2 15 they came back to our building .  . they 
had n't completely finished making their of 8. 
when they returned to our building i told my husband , , now the 
police are probably going to come , my god , now the authorities are probably 
going to find out and come to our aid .  . well , , no , there were to be no 
authorities , not a single , not a single , not a single 
came while they were , as it turns out , as we later found out , 
beginning on the might of the  . there were dead people , , 
and burned one car near the station , it was burned and , 
it was probably there about four days , everyone saw it and what went on in 
block 45 ! those who live there know , they saw from their how they 
attacked the soldiers in the buses , how they those poor , unarmed 
soldiers , and how on that square , i ca n't remember the name of it , where there 
is that coming from the station , that , now i'm upset and 
i ca n't think of the name . . . there 's a building there , a 9 story , and 
from the there people saw that , when the poor soldiers , 
wearing only , with and those unfortunate , moved against 
that  . and when they , those 12 to 14 year old up and using 
stones , big heavy stones , them to death on their heads .  . who could have 
guessed that something like that could happen in the soviet union and under 
the soviet government the is that this has not been under 
soviet control for a long time , but no one wanted to pay any attention or get 
involved. 

if you were to go and ask at my work many people would that i tell the 
truth , i 've been for truth for five years there already , the five 
years that i worked at the  . some people there considered 
me a , others who knows what some think i'm an , and 
some , a  . but i wanted everything to be right , i would become 
how can this be , why is it people treat one another this way on a 
soviet , as though the were property , 
or the property of some , or some if i want to , i 'll get you 
out of here if i want to , i 'll get rid of you if i want to , i 'll do 
something else and there 's a black market price for everything , in the most 
way a to costs so much , a on a local train costs so 
much. once when i was complaining to the head of the 's pool , he had 
the to tell me , maybe you wo n't even believe this , but this , i'm afraid , 
i heard with my own ears , just how long can you fight for something 
that you know will never have any effect you 're alone against everyone , so 
instead why do n't you give more money to the chief , and everything 
will go fine for you. i started to cry , turned , and left. what else could i 
do , where else could i go to complain i realized that everything was useless. 
and the root of the whole thing is that it all goes on and no one wants to see 
it. i filed a written complaint , and they ground it into , they 
it , i still have a copy , but what 's the use when the general got 
involved with the investigation of the bloody affair , in addition to 
the information about what i saw , what i was a witness to , i gave testimony 
about the at the  . they accepted my , but i do n't know 
if they 're going to pursue it or not. because , you 'll excuse me , i no longer 
believe in the things i to , the things i believed in before it 's all 
dead. they just on my soul , on everything , physically , and most 
important , , because you can lose , that 's nonsense , that 
all comes with time , but when your soul is upon and when the best in 
you your beliefs are , it can be very difficult to them .  .  .  . 

i want to tell of one incident .  . i just do n't know , at the time i was in such a 
state that i did n't even take minor things into account. here is an example. 
of course , it 's not a minor one. my neighbor , , she has a 
son , , who is in the grade in a school in 8. a boy , 
, i do n't know his last name , goes to school with him , or 
rather , went to school with him. i was just sitting in an apartment trying to 
make a phone call to . . . oh yes , and there 's one important detail 
when the massacre began , for two to three hours the were n't working in 
, and later , in several and  . 
but the fact of the matter is that service was shut off , you could not call 
anywhere. why again , it means it was all  . how come service is cut off 
for no reason and the went off. and those were as they 
liked they were n't afraid , they about freely , they that no one would 
their hands and no one would dare to stop them. they knew it. 

now i'm going to tell about the incident .  . so this little , , an 
boy , went to school with they were in the same class .  . 
according to what and his neighbor said at the time i was in the 
same apartment as they were , i sat at the phone waiting for the call to be put 
through a attacked the building where lived .  . so to 
his mother and said , , please let me go to 's , what if they kill 
him maybe he 's still alive , maybe we can bring him here and save him somehow. 
. . . he 's a nice guy , we all like him , he 's a good person , he 's smart .  . his 
mother would n't let him go. in , she says , , you ca n't go because 
i am afraid .  . he says , , we can get around the crowd. we 'll just watch , 
just have a look. they made it through. i do n't know , i think 's 
parents lived in no. 1 , and when they got there , they made a 
superficial deduction .  . knowing that and doors were being broken 
everywhere , that you could see from the street which were the 
in the building , they went here and there and looked , and saw that 
the were , and so they down. but even though the 
in that apartment were not broken , everything inside was totally , and 
there with a broken skull , and his mother and father had already 
been murdered .  . little did n't even know they were dead. so two weeks 
ago , i do n't know , he was in critical condition , no , maybe it was longer we 
left on march 20 , spent some time in , and then we came to 
 . so it 's been about a month already it 's so hard to keep all this 
straight .  . so , the next day , when he found out that 's family has 
been killed and was in the hospital in , and 
his got together and went to visit him. but they would n't admit 
them , telling them that he was in critical condition and that he was still in 
a coma .  . they cried and left , having also found out that the girl i saw being 
kicked and was in that hospital too. as it turns out she was brought 
there in serious condition , but at least she was alive at the time . . . 

when we got to the club we would see first one friend and then another , 
ourselves into their and them , because you had wondered if 
these friends were alive or not , if those friends were alive or not . . . and 
when you saw them you were so glad to find out that the family had lived ! when 
you saw people you heard things that made your hair stand on end. 

if you publish everything that happened it will be a book. a book of 
things it is even difficult to believe. and those two girls who were 
were entirely black and blue , the ones at the , they know i'm not lying , 
that came up to one of them and said , what happened and she 
her , and they were completely covered in . . . 
those had put out on her  . after something like that 
i do n't know how you can live in a city and look at the people in it. 

now . . . when we stayed at the military for a while , they provided , 
well , basic conditions for us there. the military is in , 
some from  . and living there we met with a larger group 
of people. there were about 1 , 600 people at the  . you know , there was a 
point when i could n't even go outside because if you went outside you saw 
so much around you. and when you hear the false . . . 

yes , by the way , false were spread in saying that the 
around had and them to the ground 
with  . i did n't know whether to believe it or not. and people who 
do n't know any better get the idea that it was all done in revenge .  . but when 
i arrived in and was in , and in all those are 
not only , but at that time had even been protected just in case , they 
were , they got better food than did the of  . not a 
single person there died , and no one is planning to harm them. around 
all the are safe and , and the did n't attack 
anyone. but actually , after an evil of the magnitude suffered in there 
could have been a feeling of , but no one acted on it. and i do n't 
know why you sometimes hear accusations to the effect that the are 
guilty , that it is they who organized it. like that are being spread in 
 . and if one old person says it and ten young ones hear it , they not 
only perceive it with their minds , but with their hearts , too. to them it 
seems that the older person is telling the truth. for example , one says did 
you know that out of 31 people killed  ( by the way , originally they said 31 
people , but later they found a 32nd ) , 30 were and one was an 


of course i'm upset , but it 's utterly impossible to discuss such things and 
not become upset .  . sometimes l forget things , but i know i want to return to 
the time when we were in the club across from the city party  . 
when i saw in the club building i went to him to ask because i 
could n't believe that he had in the front carrying a banner .  . i already 
mentioned this , and if i repeat anything , please excuse me. i asked him , why 
did you do that and why are you here now , why did you come here to laugh at 
these women who are about on the the there was 
, it was completely , and several of the children were 
already sick .  . it 's true the troops tried to make it for us. they 
for us on their field and provided us with wonderful food , but 
the thing is that their main job was to out the that was still at 
it everywhere , that was continuing its affairs everywhere. plus they 
were never given any direct orders , they did n't know what they were 
to do and not to do. and it was only on march 8 at five o in the evening 
that himself , the general , the city of , 
was given full authority and told everyone over a from an 
that now he could do what he wanted to do , as his heart 
advised him , and people to the military  . 

but that 's not what i want to talk about now. , , 
tried to get me out of the building and take me to the city party 
, which is across the square from the club. he took me by the 
hand and said , citizen , do n't worry , we 'll go and have a talk in my office. 
i told him , no , after everything you 've done , i do n't believe one of 
what you say. if i go to the city party i 'll disappear , and the 
traces of me will disappear too. because you ca n't stand it when . . . oh 
yes , and there was another interesting detail from that meeting. it was even 
very funny , although at the time i was n't up to laughing .  . he was in a nice , 
expensive hat , and so as to put him to , so to speak , i said , oh , why 
did you come here all up like a london , you smell of good , 
you 're in your , and you have your expensive hat on. you came 
to the poor women and children who are lying on the , who are 
already getting sick , whose relatives have died. did you come to laugh at 
them and the one who was accompanying him , an , i do n't know who 
he was or what his title was , he quickly the hat off 's head 
and it. then i said , my god ! we 're not  . we 're not you ! we 
did n't come to you with the intention of ! well kill me , kill me ! 
says to me , but i'm not guilty . . . kill me , kill me , but i'm not 
guilty .  . and i say , ok , fine , you 're not guilty , have it your way. but give 
us an answer , we 're asking you where were you when they were and 
raping those poor women , when they were killing the children , burning things , 
carrying on outrageously , and all those where were you 
then you know , we did n't expect it , we did not know what to do , we did n't 
that something like that would happen in  . i started 
laughing and said , it 's truly funny .  . he says , what could i do we did n't 
know what to do. and i say , i'm sorry , but it 'll be ridiculous if i tell 
you the first of the city party should n't march out in 
front with a banner he should fall down so that the would have to cross 
over his dead body. that 's what you should have done. that 's the way it was 
during the war. not a single party himself 
either he died or he led people into battle .  . and what did you do you 
away , you left , you , you with a flag , because you were afraid , 
excuse my language , you for your own damned hide .  . and when we ask you , 
you tell us that you got confused and you ask me what you could have done 
that 's right , i told him , the city party got confused , all the 
party got confused , the police got confused , . got confused , 
they all in a for two weeks , and the the show with 
 . and if it were n't for the troops it would n't have been just two 
days , there would n't be a single left in for sure , they would 
have finished their bloody affair , because they went up to some 
russians , too , the ones who tried to say something to them , and they told 
them ,  as soon as we finish with the we 'll come after you , too. 

and by the way , there was a , who took us to the military  . he was 
the one with the light blue who flew in and two hours later 
arrived on an when we were at the and took us to 
the military and who later started moving us from the military  . we 
asked him , what how what will come of us he openly said , you know , for 
us the main thing now is to that  . we 'll finish that quickly .  . you 'll 
stay at the military for the time being , and we 'll decide later. the 
general of the ussr arrived , it consists of from all 
cities .  . there were some from , from everywhere , just everywhere , because 
the affair was truly  . about this , by the way , comrade spoke 
as everyone knows , he 's the first general of the ussr .  . when 
he gave us a speech from the at the military , 
by the way , he told us the honest truth , because he could n't not say it , 
because he was still experiencing his first of what he had seen , 
and he said , there was and it was bad , but it 's 
horrible ! and the people who to do such a thing will be severely 
punished , in accordance with our laws .  . and that 's a quote. then one mother 
throws herself at him her two sons had died before her very eyes and says , 
who will return my sons who is going to punish the they tried 
to calm her down , and he said , in order for us to conduct a proper 
investigation , in order that not a single avoid responsibility , you 
must help us , because we do n't know , maybe there was someone else in the 
who is now being in homes , and maybe the know , maybe 
someone saw something. do n't be afraid , write about it in detail. so that 
you 're not afraid . . . everyone knows that many of you are afraid , having 
lived through such horrors , they think that if they write the whole truth 
about , let 's say , their neighbor or someone else , that they will seek revenge 
later. we 're going to do it like this we 're going to set up an and you 
can what you write in there. we do n't need to know who wrote it. the 
names of the people who write wo n't be made public , but we need all the 
information. let each and every one not be afraid , let each write what is 
necessary , who they saw in that , who made threats or threatening 
about the . . . you must describe all of these people and put 
the information into the  . 

two soldiers and a major the  . and , sure enough , many people , 
people who did n't even want to write . .  . i . know one woman who asked me , she 
came up and said , you , as a , the same thing wo n't happen to you as 
will happen to me. so please . . . i 'll give you the information , and you 
please write it down for me. so she was afraid , and there were a lot like 
her . . . but later , after made his speech , she sat and wrote down 
everything she knew .  . and we threw it all into the  . now we do n't know if 
it will be of any use. for a factual picture will emerge from all that 
information. one person can lie , but thousands ca n't lie , thousands simply 
ca n't lie. you have to agree with that , a fact is a fact. why , for example , 
should someone say that black is white if it is really black 

the first chairman of the council of of the 
, , as i said , was in  . my husband and i were at the council 
of of the and found out that was present , the 
one who had come to convince the people of to return to their 
previous , to their old  . we asked for a meeting with him , 
and it was granted .  . when we went to see him he tried to behave properly , very 
, , but . . . when the truth was told right to his face and 
when i asked him some of the same questions i had asked , where were 
you personally when they were beating us now you 're trying to convince us to 
return , why did n't you think at the time that they were us where 
it was all he says , you 're telling the truth. let 's not 
words. you 've told me right to my face , and i 'll tell you straight .  . i 'll tell 
you the pure truth. i was gotten out of in the evening , the whole 
government was up , including me , and we were a of about 
45 , 000 in  . but we never expected that in a city like , with its 
fine international record , such a thing could happen. we expected it in  . 
i say , so that means you expected it all the same why were you expecting 
it and he says , you know , it just happened that way. we were expecting it 
in , we were trying to restrain it , but in . . . i say , fine , 
you did n't know for the first three or four hours , but then you should have 
known. why did no one help us and he says , well , ok , we did n't know what to 
do and things like that. basically it was the same story i got from 
 . later , when he said , you go on back , the situation in is 
now , everything is fine , the are friendly with the 
. . . to this l answered , you know what . . . i'm speaking 
with you as a member of a neutral nation . . . i have never argued with 
or with and i was an . . . you tell me , 
please , comrade , i asked him , what would you say about this 
honestly , if you were being completely frank with us then he said , yes , i 
admit that i am honestly , on the entire nation , we 
have ourselves not only before the entire soviet union , but before 
the whole world. because now the voice of america and all the other foreign 
radio of various are us with all kinds of , too. 
and i say , there 's nothing to add to what really happened. i do n't think it 's 
possible to add anything more awful .  . he says , yes , i agree with you , i 
understand your pain , it is truly an unfortunate occurrence .  . i repeat that he 
said unfortunate occurrence .  . and then he suddenly himself , what 
he was saying he had a pen in his hands , he was with it 
and said , oh , excuse me , a , really . . . i take this to mean that 
he really thinks it 's an unfortunate occurrence .  . and of course , he says , 
i understand that having gone through all this you ca n't return to , 
but it 's necessary to cool down and realize that all those people are being 
tried. and he even gave a detail , which , i do n't know if it matters or not , 
that policemen were being tried. specifically in relation to that bloody 
affair .  . 

yes , by the way , there is another good detail , how i was set up at work in 
after the events. i went to an plant , there was an 
working there , and suddenly she tells me , what , they did n't 
nail your husband they up. i was , i had n't imagined that 
anyone in , too , could say something like that. well after that i went up 
to see . . . to my office , i needed to find out about those days , what was 
going to happen with them , how they were going to put down those days from 
february 29 to march 10 . . . and the administrator told me , i do n't know , 
, go to the head of the  pool .  . be if they do n't 
put it down as absence .  . i was really discouraged by this. they all 
know that we were but a hair away from death and barely survived , and here 
they 're telling me that i was work , as though i was off 
myself somewhere. i went to the office of the chief of the pool , his last name 
is , and he 's had that position for many years. , he 's a 
party member , and is a big man in town .  . and suddenly , when i went to him and 
said , comrade , this is the way it was . . . he looked at me 
and said , and why are you he knows me by my previous last name why did 
you get wrapped up in this mess i say , what do you mean , why did i get 
wrapped up in this mess my husband 's an , i tell him , i have an 
last name. and he up his face , made a kind of a , as 
though he had something sour , and said , i did n't expect that you would 
. . . what did he mean by that and how should he behave , the chief of the 
pool , a man who 1 , 700 workers now , it 's true , there was a 
, but for sure there are still 1 , 200 working for him. and 
if someone who a that size says things like that , then what 
can you expect from a simple , uneducated , politically unsophisticated person ! 
he 's going to believe any and all , that the are like this , 
the are like that , and so on . . . 

by the way , that now i'm going back to 's office when i asked 
him are you really going to the safety of our lives if we return 
to he answered , yes , you know , i would them . . . i do n't 
want to take on too much , i would them firmly for 50 years. but i 
wo n't them for longer than 50 years. i say , so you 've got another 
thing like that for 50 years from now so they 'll be quiet and then 
in another 50 years it 'll happen again ! i could n't contain myself any more , 
and i also told him , and how did it get to that point , certainly you knew 
about it , how they were treating the russians , for example , in and in 
, how they were from their jobs certainly you received 
, i wrote some myself. why did no one respond to them why did 
everyone ignore what was going on did n't you prepare people for this by the 
way you treated them and he says , you know , you 're finally starting to 
insult me ! he threw his pen on the desk. maybe now you 'll say i'm a 
too i say , you know , i'm not talking about you because i do n't 
know. but about the ones who i do know i can say with conviction , yes , that 
comrade was involved in this , that , and that , because i know for certain .  . 
well anyway he assured us that here , in , there were false , 
that 3 , 000 were here , and 15 , 000 were in and had 
gotten back to work. everyone was working , he said , and life was very good. 
we about the town ourselves , comrade first of 
the communist party of came from the council of of 
, he came and brought information showing that everything was fine in 
 . when i asked how he had reached that conclusion he said , ' 
well , i walked down the street. and i said , walking down the street in any 
city , even if i were to go to new york , i would never understand the situation 
because i would be a , i do n't have any contact with people , but if you 
spend 10 days among some blue workers in such a way that they did n't 
know you were the first chairman of the council of , you 'd 
hear something quite different. i told him , for example , that i my 
conclusion when we left the military to look at our  . they took 
us all in turns to pick things up , since people had to the military 
they got on the just to save themselves as soon as possible. how are the 
in the , how will they view us , what do they think i 
thought maybe that in fact it was n't something general , of a mass nature , some 
anti national something. and when that took us to our building , because it 
was the same , while we were going up to our apartment , an armed 
accompanied us. what does that say it speaks of the fact that if everything 
there were fine , why do we need to have soldiers go there and come back with 
us , going from apartment to apartment and in fact , especially with the young 
people , you could sense the delight at our , the , and they 
were making comments , too. and that was in the presence of troops , when police 
were in the and and 
were passing by. and if people are taking such malicious delight when 
the situation is like that , then what is it going to be like when they 
protection from the city there will be more , of 
course , perhaps not organized , but in the . . . 

april 20 , 1988 


reference 

1 the against in soviet , 
volume i , accounts , edited by , forward by 
, 1990 , published by d. , ny , pages 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re 
in reply to 's message of fri , 23 apr 1993 18 48 15 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 44 

in article  ( aurag hassan ) writes 

are you trying to say that there were no massacres in 
or in and if so then let me tell you some good 

there is not and was not any such thing like jewish killing in wwii 

palestinians just did what did for years and more. 

in fact no one was killed in any war at any time or any place. 

people die that is all. no one gets killed. 

maybe also did n't die in vietnam war killed by american 
they were just and that 's all. 

maybe jews just liked gas and no one forced them to get in there . they . 
may be thought it was like cocaine .  . no 

what do you think of this is n't it stupid to say so 
well it is as stupid as what you said  . next . time you want to lie do it 
 . 

sincerely yours. 



arab civilians did die at  . but there was no massacre .  . first 
of all , the many armed troops .  . secondly , the 
and stern had absolutely no intentions of killing civilians .  . 
the was attacked only for its military significance .  . in fact , 
a warning was given to the of the to leave before 
the attack was to begin .  . 

by all rational standards , was not a massacre .  . the killing 
was unintentional .  . the arab and arab troops .  . 
thus it was attacked for its military significance .  . it was not 
attacked with intentions of killing any civilians .  . 

to even compare , in which some 120 or so died , to the 
is absurd .  . the did not want to kill any civilians .  . the 
had almost 1000 , most of whom survived .  . 

 . 

from  ( brad hernlem ) 
subject re was go ! 
reply to  ( brad hernlem ) 
organization eng 
lines 


in article ,  ( tim clock ) writes 

in article , 
 ( brad hernlem ) writes 

in article , 
 ( tim clock ) writes 

are you suggesting that , when use the population for cover , 
israel should totally back down so .  .  . the . easiest way to get away with 
attacking another is to use an innocent as a and hope that the 
other respects innocent lives 

tell me tim , what are these doing wrong assuming that they are 
using civilians for cover , 

assuming also come on , brad .  . if we are going to get anywhere in 
this  ( or any) discussion , it does n't help to bring up elements i never 
addressed , nor commented on in any way . i made no comment on who is 
right or who is wrong , only that civilians are being used as cover 
and that , having been placed in between the and the , 
they will be injured as both parties continue their fight. 

pardon me tim , but i do not see how it can be possible for the to fail 
to detect the presence of those responsible for the bomb which 
killed the three troops and then later know the exact number and 
of all of them. several were  . how could the 
possibly have known that there were in each of the 
you see , it was an arbitrary act of . 


if the is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working why 
is it further for israeli guns to why 
not just kill those who try to the you see , there 
is more to the of the  .  .  .  . it is called  .  .  . 
getting back ... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the 
 . the least it shows is a disregard by the israeli 
government for the lives of civilians .  . 

i agree with you here. i have always thought that israel 's bombing 
and bombing policy is stupid , , inhumane and 
ineffective .  . but , there is no reason that israel should passive wait 
until chose to act there is every reason to believe that 
taking the fight to the enemy will do more to stop attacks .  . 

as i said previously , israel spent several decades sitting 
on its side of a border and only acting to stop these attacks after 
the had entered israeli territory .  . it did n't work very well. 
the host arab state did little nothing to try and stop these attacks 
from its side of the border with israel so the number of attacks 
were higher , as was their physical and psychological impact 
on the civilians caught in their path .  . 

the problem , tim , is that the original reason for the invasion was 
attacks on israel , not attacks .  . 


what so the whole bit about attacks on israel from arab states 
can start all over again while i also hope for this to happen , it will 
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the 
responsibility and the duty to stop attacks on israel from their 
 . they have to prove it  ( or provide some ) , there is no way 
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of 
tolerance towards anti israel in . 

if israel is not willing to accept the word of others then , imho , it has 
no business wasting others  time coming to the peace talks .  . 

this is just another applied statement. 

the reason for this drawn out between palestinians and 
is that neither side is willing to accept the word of the other. by your 
everyone should stay away from the  . 

that is precisely why the palestinians  ( in their recent proposal for 
the period after and up to full autonomy ) are 
demanding conditions that essentially define already. they do 
not trust that israel will follow through the entire process and allow 
palestinians to reach full  . 

do you understand and accept this viewpoint by the palestinians 
if you do , then why should israel 's view of palestinians 
be any different why should they trust the arab palestinians  words 
since they do n't , they are very reluctant to give up 
 ( land , control of areas ) in exchange for words . for this reason , 
they are also concerned about the sorts of they will have 
that the will follow through on their part of any agreement reached .  . 

first , i believe that my statement applies to both sides. 

having said that , i think it is to separate what is legitimately 
and what is not. for example , no country has the right to abuse 
one 's human rights. whether there will be one or two states in 
is a legitimate question. while de facto one state exists , israel 
must treat all within its domain  . 

tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in have been 
 . remains the only independent  . does 
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the burned up 
, his wife , and young son. 

while the major  ( those allowing people to civil wars ) 
have been removed , the weapons needed to cross border attacks still 
remain to some extent .  . rocket attacks still continue , and 
raids only require a few easily weapons and a refined disregard 
for human life  ( yours of that of  . such attacks also continue. 

yes , i am afraid that what you say is true but that still does not justify 
your neighbor 's land. israel must resolve its with the 
native palestinians if it wants peace from such attacks .  . 

of course , if israel would from 
and stop assassinating people and they would n't 
make the so mad as to do that. 

 . the situation you call for existed in the and attacks 
were  . 

not true. were not attacking israel in the  . with a strong 
government  ( free from and israeli interference ) i believe 
that the border could be adequately  . the heavy 
weapons have been in past years and i do not see as significant a 
threat as once existed .  . 

please , tim , do n't fall into the trap of treating and palestinians 
as all part of the same group. there are too many who think all or all 
muslims are the same. too many times i have seen people support the bombing 
of camps in for an death at the hands of the 
resistance or the of in for 
a attack .  . 
tim 

from  ( center for policy research ) 
subject ten questions about israel 
lines 55 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 19 14 38 00 1993 


from center for policy research 
subject ten questions about israel 


ten questions to 


i would be if any of you who live in israel could help to 
provide 
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are 
indeed questions but they are asked time and again by 
people around me. 

1. is it true that the israeli authorities do n't recognize 
israeli and that id cards , which israeli citizens 
must carry at all times , identify people as jews or , not as 


2. is it true that the state of israel has no fixed borders 
and that israeli governments from until today have refused to 
state where the ultimate borders of the state of israel should be 


3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons if so , 
could you provide any evidence 

4. is it true that in israeli there are a number of 
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their 
, the date of their trial and their imprisonment are 
state 

5. is it true that jews who reside in the 
territories are subject to different laws than non jews 

6. is it true that jews who left in the war 1947 48 
to avoid the war were automatically allowed to return , while their 
christian who did the same were not allowed to return 

7. is it true that israel 's prime , y .  . , signed 
an order for ethnical in , as is done today in 
bosnia 

8. is it true that israeli arab citizens are not admitted as 
members in 

9. is it true that israeli law attempts to discourage 
marriages between jews and non jews 

10. is it true that in tel is built on the 
site of a muslim 

thanks , 

email 

from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject re seventh century a.d. math problems 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 24 

in article  ( cetin koc ) writes 
problem 1 

my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the 
and the , prince performed extraordinary 
deeds .  . three times in a single month he attacked the troops .  . 
the first time , he down half of the army .  . the second time , 
the , he slaughtered one fourth of the soldiers .  . the third 
time , he one of the army .  . the who were 
still alive , two hundred , to  . and so , from 
this remainder , find how many soldiers there were before the 
massacre .  . 


answer  ( a(1 1 2 1 4 1 11 ) a 


i thought the implication was that the prince one fourth of the 
remaining troops on the second round , and then 1 11 of those remaining 
on the third round. this would mean 

answer a  ( 1 1 2 )  ( 1 1 4 )  ( 1 1 11 ) a 



from  ( david davidian ) 
subject seventh century a.d. math problems 
keywords , , , math 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 


from quantum magazine , march april 1993 pages 42 46 

the problem book of of 


on the ancient of 
the centuries have come like seconds 
and passed on. 


by 

some years ago journalists liked to ask them what 
books would you take with you if you were to go off on a space and 
though the number of books allowed on the trip from 10 to 30 , 
depending on the type of and the of the , 
and are people of the most , ages , and , 
not one of them to say that he or she would want to take with them at 
least one book of arithmetic problems. 

some of these people certainly excluded this kind of literature because they 
were trained in the and had nothing but scorn for numbers  ( though 
secretly afraid of them) .  . others clear of such puzzle books because 
they were masters of incomparably more difficult branches of modern 
mathematics and did n't mind saying for all the world to hear that they did n't 
know how to solve mere arithmetic problems. were 
no exception. here 's what the , a 
in statistics , wrote about arithmetic i willingly confess that 
any time a asked me to help solve an arithmetic problem , it was 
a hard work for me , and sometimes i failed completely. of course , like most of 
my friends , i could easily solve the problem by the natural route 
constructing or sets of  . but we were supposed to avoid 
using analysis at all costs ! . . . by the way , it 's a fact that is 
well known and oft repeated that , as a rule , neither high school , 
nor students at teaching , nor teachers beginning their 
 ( nor , i must add , scientific researchers ) can solve arithmetic problems. it 
seems the only people in the world who are able to solve them are grade 
teachers .  . 

now , i'm not that a book of arithmetic problems be included in the 
of anyone flying into space .  . but a sense of justice me to 
recommend one particular problem book , one that will the most 
taste and supply food for thought sufficient not only for a 
relatively short to the moon but for a extended space say , to 
and back .  . 

one for the road 

they both took out the books they brought for the road. 
at the 's book and saw a bright cover with 
a group of shooting at each other with  . god 
knows what this kind of stuff leads to , thought  . 

the looked at 's book and saw the history 
of  . good lord , next he 'll be reading , thought 
the  . 
fred , the black cloud 

the book i'm talking about is n't very big , but its 24 problems constitute 24 
from seventh century  . naive and wise at the same 
time , rich in detail and the bright of the period , these 
problems are of the on the famous of 
, the church on the island of in van  ( in what is 
now . they are as from the image of as the 
letters of the , invented by , or the of 
, or the paintings of  . 

an edition of these incredibly beautiful problems has long been a 
 . it was published under the title problems and solutions 
of 1 of , of the seventh 
century  ( translated and published by i. a. , ,  . 

the abundance of close observations and wide information about the way 
of life and of that remote when of lived and 
worked have actually a to his problem book. for many years 
the book was known only to in the in 
history who their and would n't let just 
anyone see it. even now , after research by k. p. , the learned 
father , j . i .  . , a. , v. k. , and others has 
brought the works of of to light in scholarly circles , the 
general reader remains ignorant of the very existence of this remarkable 
problem book. 

of 

once in love with the art of , i thought that no 
philosophical notion can be constructed without number , considering 
it the mother of all wisdom .  . 
of 

among ancient , of stands out because 
of the of his interests and the unique mathematical orientation of his 
work. some of his works have been preserved .  . in addition to the problems and 
solutions , the following have found a special place in the 
of scholars on and measures , and theory , and 
of the seventh century a.d.  ( the authorship of the last 
work was long attributed to another outstanding thinker of ancient , 
of  . 

in his , of has this to say about himself 

i , of , having studied all the science of our 
land and having learned the holy scripture , 
in the of the , every day i the 
eyes of my mind. feeling myself lacking in the art of , 
i came to the conclusion that it is to study philosophy , 
the mother of all sciences , without number .  . i could find in 
neither a man versed in philosophy nor books that explained the 
sciences .  . i therefore went to and met in a man 
named who was well versed in ecclesiastical works. he told me 
that in forth 2 there lived a famous , 
 . i went this person and spent months with him. but 
soon i noticed that was a master not of all science but 
only of certain facts .  . 

i then went to , where i met who told me 
why did you go so far , when much closer to us , in , on the 
coast of 3 lives the  . he is full 
of wisdom , is known to kings , and knows literature .  . i asked 
them how they knew this. they answered we saw ourselves that many 
people long to become of so learned a man. 
indeed the of the of , 
, with us , bringing many young persons to become 
of  . when i heard this , i expressed my to 
god , who had the thirst of his slave .  . 

i went to at the of st. and explained why i 
had come. he received me and said i praise our lord that 
he sent you to learn and to transplant science in the domain of st. 
i am glad that all your country will learn from me. i myself 
lived in for many years as a youth .  . ignorance there. 
loved me as a son and shared all his thoughts with 
me. the lord upon me his blessing i completely 
the science of number , and with such success that my fellow students 
at the king 's court began to me. 

i spent eight years with and studied many books that had not 
been translated into our language. for the had an 
collection of books secret and explicit , ecclesiastical and , 
books on art , history , and medicine , books of  . why 
them by title in a word , there is no book that did 
not have. and he had such a gift from the holy spirit for 
that when he sat down to translate something from the greek into 
, he did not struggle as other translators did , and the 
translation read as if the work were written in that language 
originally .  . 

told me how he had achieved such vast and how he had 
learned the language. when i was young , he said , i lived 
in , at the court of the military chief , and 
for a long time , up to the of to the i 
served as a military man in and learned your language and 
literature .  . during one attack by troops on the greeks , i was 
and escaped to  . i lost all my possessions .  . praying to 
the lord to heal my , i made a promise if you my life , 
i shall dedicate it not to but to 
of knowledge. and the lord heard my prayers .  . 
after i i went to jerusalem , and from there to 
and rome .  . upon returning to , i met a famous philosopher 
from and studied with him for many years. after that i returned 
to my and began to teach and my people. 

after some years that philosopher died. not finding a replacement for 
him , the king and his sent for and invited him to 
assume the teacher 's position. , the promise he made to 
god not to move far from the city , turned down the offer .  . but because 
of his wide , people came from all countries to study 
with him. 

and i , the most insignificant of all , having learned from 
him this powerful science , desired by kings , brought it to our 
country , supported by no one , obligated only to my own industry , god 's 
help , and the prayers of the  . and no one me 
for my efforts .  . 

problems and solutions 

a half and one sixth and one ninth of all the books were printed 
on verge  one and one two hundred on paper 
one forty and one eight hundred fifty on , and 
forty five copies on paper. and so , find how many 
copies were printed in all. 
of of 

a says ( books have their own fate ) .  . 
the fate of problems and solutions by of is quite amazing .  . the 
manuscripts of 's book were preserved only because , according to 
, in ancient and medieval manuscripts were 
from invaders , like weapons , and cherished , like one 's own children. 
their time , the manuscripts in the , a of 
ancient manuscripts  ( now the institute of ancient  . 
and its hour finally arrived. in the learned father used two 
manuscripts to publish the problem book , it with an introduction 
and commentary .  . in the book was translated into , edited , 
, and by , a prominent scholar  ( and later a 
member of the of sciences of the  . 

in the translator 's words , the problems of are amusing , full of life , 
and simple. goes on to say the subjects of the problems are 
generally taken from everyday life. the is predominantly his 
and the surrounding , and the , if they are 
named , are the local the , including , who was a 
contemporary of  . like other ancient authors , of used 
only that is , with a of 1. when it is 
necessary to write with other than 1 , one has to 
represent it as a sum of  ( see the epigraph above) .  . 

like any true work of art , the problems of suffer terribly in the 
 . you have to read the originals  ( albeit in translation ) in their 
full glory. so let 's open 's problem book a gift from across the ages. 

problems 1 and 8 relate to the against the in a.d. 
 . 

problem 1 

my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the 
and the , prince performed extraordinary 
deeds .  . three times in a single month he attacked the troops .  . 
the first time , he down half of the army .  . the second time , 
the , he slaughtered one fourth of the soldiers .  . the third 
time , he one of the army .  . the who were 
still alive , two hundred , to  . and so , from 
this remainder , find how many soldiers there were before the massacre .  . 

problem 8 

during the famous against the , when 
killed , one of the 4 sent an to the 
king to report the news. the covered fifty in a 
day. days later , when he learned of this , sent 
in pursuit to bring the back .  . the covered in 
a day. and so , find how many days it took them to the  . 

problem 18 mentions made of of metal .  . in the 
translation , they are all called dishes. but in the original , 
according to 's note , the in the first and second instances are 
called , and in the third instance  . is a common 
word , but had not been encountered in literature before 
's problems and solutions. 

problem 18 

there was a in my house. i melted it down and made other from the 
metal .  . from one third i made a from one fourth , another from 
one , two from one sixth , two and from two hundred ten 
, i made a bowl .  . and now , find the weight of the  . 

several of the problems reflect the of the in 
's time for instance , problem 7. 

problem 7 

once i was in , the capital of the  . along the bank 
of the river , i saw a school of fish and ordered that a net be cast .  . 
we caught a half and a of the school , and all the that slipped 
out of the net ended up in a  . when i looked in the , i found 
forty five  . and now , find how many here were in all. 

the is great to present all 24 problems. but i 'll restrain myself 
and offer you just one more. 

problem 20 provides some interesting information about the wild animals that 
at one time but now for so long that there is no 
mention of them even in reference books. the wild donkey , according 
to the generally accepted view , never the lands .  . yet of 
evidence to the contrary . 

problem 20 

the preserve of , 5 of and , 
was at the base of the called  . one night great herds of wild 
donkey entered the preserve .  . the could not with the donkeys and , 
running to the of , told about them. when he arrived with 
his brothers and and entered the preserve , they began killing the wild 
 . half of the animals were caught in , one fourth were killed by 
 . the young , which constituted one of all the animals , were 
caught alive , and three hundred wild donkeys were killed by  . and 
so , find how many there were at the start of this massacre .  . 

set in type by me , 

his could not be into the of a 
bibliography .  . 
k , 


anyone who is lucky enough to hold a copy  ( 1 n of the small printing n is the 
solution to the epigraph in the previous section ) of the translation 
of of 's problems and solutions , a thin book with pages , 
has probably noticed the variety of the , the of the borders , 
and the high quality of the design , printing , and binding .  . such great 
attention to detail is characteristic of works that fulfill a requirement for 
a degree in  . and this problem book was indeed a kind of 
to the of the man who created it. an 
at the end of the book reads this book was in 
december at the printing offices of the of sciences by 
me , the text was also , laid out , and with 
borders by me. various circumstances prevented me from carrying this project 
to the end the final pages of the book were by m.  . 

was neither the first nor the only profession of the 
, who later became the director of the 
in  . he was also a and a  . had 
already become with the famous academic printing house 
, founded in 1728 and known all over the scientific world for its 
rich collection of and its  . in to publish 
the of ancient preserved on the walls of 
churches , found it necessary to create a new that would preserve 
the unique signs and  . this complicated work was done by m. g. 
 .  ( unfortunately the entire set of letters was during the 
of in world war ii . ) . 

when came to the printing offices of the of sciences , times 
were hard. the only way to publish the translated problems of 
was for to learn  ( he had always been attracted to the 
's  . in became the director of printing at the 
of sciences .  . even after he , he remained a 
of academic  . 

back to earth 

this book by definition does not all the most important 
works in this domain .  . the editor hopes that those who are guilty 
of this incompleteness will read these lines and , by , 
will work up , if not a collection like this , at least a  . 

v. introduction to the 
translation of solid body 
by r. and a. gold 

let 's imagine a time when space is an everyday thing , and high 
will spend their breaks as in training in the 
on the far side of the moon. maybe one of the space will take 
this very copy of quantum , and another , looking over her shoulder , will read 
this article and say to himself this from seems like a pretty 
interesting guy. when i get home i 'll try to find his problems. 

good luck , my young friend ! is sure to entertain you. perhaps by then 
there will be more than n copies of his problems and solutions. and 
we can hope they will be as printed as the created by 
 . 

1  ( or vartabed ) means teacher or learned man in  .  ( the 
language suffers in english from a dual scheme .  . 
thus , is often as , as , and so 
 . 

2 fourth was one of into which , according to 
in the seventh century a.d. , so called great 
was divided .  . 

3  ( or ) was an old name for the black sea. 

4 were members one of several of in ancient  . 

5 was the title of the heads of families in ancient 
 . 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( jim g41 ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
in reply to 's message of 26 apr 93 22 22 28 gmt 
lines 22 
reply to 
organization mit lincoln lab group 41 




in article  ( anas omran ) writes 
in a previous article ,  ( adam shostack ) says 

in article  ( tim clock ) writes 
in article  ( amos shapira ) writes 
 ( anas omran ) writes 

eh could you please give me details about an event where a neutral 
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli 


there are many cases , but i do not names. the shot and killed 
a un observer in gaza in the first half of  . 
... 

not exactly the same , but of the assassination of count 
, who was the un during the israeli war of 
independence .  . he was killed by the  . seems he was being too 
successful in a cease fire , which would have worked 
against the israel , compared to continued war. 

jim  ( jim eggert ) 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the scenario and genocide by the 78 years ago. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 72 

the scenario and genocide by the 78 years ago in 
x soviet is being reenacted again this time in  . 

the stories of survivors of massacre are in   today. 

year old telling 

  my were cut to pieces in front of my eyes. they told 
me we wo n't kill you. but the babies have to die in front of your eyes . '' . 

72 year old 

  our turkish in town was blown up in two hours. 
while killing children and babies mercilessly they said you are 
turks , you must die . '' . 

28 year old 

  they my 3 year old daughter in her stomach in front of 
my eyes . '' . 

are these stories lies have the eye witnesses been day 
were these stories by turkish journalists in the 

the nonsense of such a claim is clear from the writings of british 
journalists , too. two days before we had quoted from a sunday times 
article. they british reported the events in even before 
turkish journalists .  . what is more here are the pictures .  . pictures 
of people who were , whose eyes were , ears cut off. 

even the radio could n't claim these lies .  . they are saying 
exaggeration .  . that means '    have happened but the 
situation is not as bad as reported .  . perhaps that of 
town was in 4 hours , instead of 2 .  .  .  . or 's 
3 year old daughter was in her instead of stomach .  .  .  . 

the massacre is clearly seen with all its  . the effects of 
this massacre on and cannot be reduced by any word. 

some of the western press  , led by some french newspapers , ability 
to   close their eyes   is nothing but in this massacre .  . 

yesterday we gave samples from  . until yesterday 's print 
no news about the real events in were printed .  . so were the 
french tv  .  . the subject they considered related to 
was   the necessity of protecting against attacks . '' . 

the age we are living in is a human rights age. there are lots 
of organizations such as united nations and  ( csce(conference on security 
and in europe ) , and rules , all designed to fight against human 
rights  . international reactions must be made with international 
 . with support of everybody and every organization claiming 
to be civilized .  . 

could there be a more serious human rights violation than that of the 
right to live and with such levels of and where 
is the where are the reactions and the , 
journalists , writers , tv of certain western countries such 
as france who are fast to claim leadership of human rights 
where are you 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re killings in ( ) continues .  .  .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 28 

in article  ( hilmi eren ) writes 

killings in ( ) continues , 
continues it 's attack against ,  . 
45 , 000 people have been evacuated from , 15 , 000 are still in 
town .  . 

the x soviet government also 
to slaughter this time. 

the government says that the forces are n't from 
but from  . heavy weapons and 
from france is the result .  .  .  .  . 's president , , says 
if un does n't act then we may have to show our before the 
situation becomes worse. . 

finally .  .  . about . time .  .  .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( peter freeman ) 
subject re freedom in u . s . a .  . 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( peter freeman ) 
organization university 
lines 30 

in article ( ) writes 

i do n't know where you guys are from but in america 
such attempts to first amendment rights are 
not appreciated. here , we let everyone speak their mind 
regardless of how we feel about it. take your 
ideals back to where you came from. 


hey tough guy , freedom responsibility , and 
no freedom is absolute .  . 
btw , to anyone who , read on 

open fire on the new jewish immigrants , be they from the soviet 
union , or anywhere else .  .  .  . i . give you my instructions to 
use violence against the immigrants .  . i anyone who 
refuses to do this. 
, al , 4 10 90 

at least he 's not racist ! 
just anti jewish 










from  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
subject re of the jewish  ( was re israeli lust ) 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
organization university 
lines 

in article writes 
adam writes 
writes 
i'm surprised that you do n't consider the of land by 
the jews from , for the purpose of establishing an exclusive 
state , as a hostile action to war. 

it was for the purpose of establishing a state , not an 
exclusive state. if the state was to be exclusive , it would not have 
400 000 arab citizens .  . 

could you please tell me what was the ethnic composition of 
israel right after it was formed .  . 


and no , i do not consider the of land a hostile 
action. when someone wants to buy land , and someone else is willing 
to sell it , at a mutually agreeable price , then that is commerce .  . it 
is not a hostile action to war. 

no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and  . 
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about 
anti trust in the business world. 

since we are the of a 
, we must use the laws governing the 
and ethics of such  . basic anti trust law says 
that , while you can ibm stocks for the purpose of 
investing , you can not acquire a large number of those 
shares with the intent or controlling ibm .  . you can do so 
only if you make your intentions clear . clearly , 
the jews who purchased properties from had some 
designs , they were not buying a or a real  . 
they were establishing a for the european jews .  . 

the sold their properties to the jews in the 
old tradition of arab  . being a ethnic 
religious society , accepting the jews as 
was no different , just another religion. plus they paid fair 
market value , etc .  .  .  . they did not know they were victims of 
an international conspiracy .  .  ( i'm not a conspiracy 
myself , but this one is hard to  . 


right now , i'm just going to address this point. 
when the jewish national bought most of its land , 
it did n't buy it from the palestinians themselves , because , 
for the most part , they were  ( fallahin ) , 
living on land owned by in syria and  . 
the offered a deal , so the owners took advantage of 
it. it 's called commerce .  . the owners , however , made no 
for those who had worked for them , basically 
them by selling the land right out from under them. 
they are to blame , not the jews .  . 


adam 


bell northern research 

bitnet internet voice  ( 613 ) 
fax  ( 613 ) 
surface mail stop 162 , p . o . box . , station c , ottawa , canada , 

my opinions are my own and no one else 's 




from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject keeping the silent memory of 2.5 million muslim people alive .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 34 

source men are like that by leonard  . the 
company ,  .  ( 305  . 
 ( memoirs of an who participated in the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 

p.  . 

their muslim were and they themselves were slain or 
driven out of the country. 

p.  . 

we did not spare the  . if in , the 
of prisoners , the , and the rape and massacre of the helpless become 
actions expected and accepted as a matter of course. 

i have been on the of massacres where the dead on the ground , 
in numbers , like the fallen leaves in a  . they had been as helpless 
and as as  . they had not died as soldiers die in the 
of battle , fired with and courage , with weapons in their hands , 
and blow for blow .  . they had died as the helpless must , with 
their hearts and brains with worse than death itself. 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject re israel 's 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 34 


in article , writes 
just a couple of questions for the pro israeli lobby out there 

1 ) is israel 's occupation of southern temporary for mr. 
stein i am working on a proof for you that israel is 
water to the river  ( away from  . 

yes. as long as the over there can force some authority and prevent 
attack against israel .  . 


2 ) is israel 's occupation of the west bank , gaza , and 
temporary if so  ( for those of you who support it) , why were so 
many settlers moved into the territories if it is not temporary , 
let 's hear it. 

had several big cities that were when gave it back to 
, but for a peace agreement .  . so it is my that the settlers will not 
be an for as long it is combined with a real peace agreement 
with the and the palastinians .  . 


steve 







internet road , a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) fax  ( 303)581 ) boulder , co 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( peter freeman ) 
subject re enough freeman ! was no free man propaganda machine blood from israel 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( peter freeman ) 
organization university 
lines 18 

in article  ( marc a afifi ) writes 
 ( peter freeman ) writes 


peter , 

i believe this is your most post to date. since you have nothing 
to say , you say nothing ! it 's  . did you think of this all by 
yourself 




hey tough guy , read the topic. that 's the message. get a brain .  . go to 
a real school. 




from  ( feigenbaum , benjamin ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization , , nj 
summary hope eternal 
lines 37 

in article ,  ( peter freeman ) writes 
in article  ( b8ha ) writes 
so nice of you all to answer some questions. and it so nice that most 
of you feel that it would be in your hearts to give the palestinians 
some land most of you focus on the fact that israel annexed all 
this land and it is a kind to give some of it back .  . well , 
i hope that after after a state run by palestinians is established , 
the first decision should be to make jerusalem part of this state 
by it of course. 


steve 

steve , 

if the are stupid enough to allow a second 
state  ( the first one is jordon ) , then you will probably get your 
wish and the would get what 's coming to them. 

however , if the palestinians were to somehow demonstrate that 
they could themselves and live in peace with their 
jewish , then they would have to give up the idea of 
jerusalem as a part of their state and you would be  . 




israel has not annexed any of the west bank , just  . which 
will remain part of israel forever ! 


to this. 




ben .  . 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israeli lust 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 

in article writes 
in article 
 ( adam shostack ) writes 

in article writes 

imho , it does not really matter who started any individual battle within 
the war context. the real question is who what started the 
war. does anyone have any it was the creation of israel on arab 
land 
huh a war was started when several armies invaded israel , 
to drive the jews into the sea. most jews wanted to live in 
peace , and the who stayed in israel were granted citizenship .  . 

i am 
surprised that you do n't consider the of land by 
the jews from , for the purpose of establishing an exclusive 
state , as a hostile action to war. 

it was for the purpose of establishing a state , not an 
exclusive state. if the state was to be exclusive , it would not have 
400 000 arab citizens .  . 

and no , i do not consider the of land a hostile 
action. when someone wants to buy land , and someone else is willing 
to sell it , at a mutually agreeable price , then that is commerce .  . it 
is not a hostile action to war. 

as to whether the jews wanted to live in peace , maybe. 
however they wanted and still want an exclusively jewish 
state , where jews are in control and jews are the masters of 
the land. living in peace is meaningless unless it means 
living with someone else , as equal .  . for a native arab , this 
does not leave many options .  . 

oh , you mean like both jews and being citizens the 
who stayed are now citizens , with as much right to choose who 
they vote for as the jews .  . 

those palestinians who stayed , actually stayed despite of what 
happened , and their number was somewhat tolerated as a 
and ineffective minority .  . 
if i were wrong , you 'd have israel recall all the 
 ( we 're talking  . after all , 
they are civilians .  . 

huh the people who left , did so voluntarily .  . there is no 
reason for israel to let them in. 

israel gave citizenship to the remaining because it 
had to maintain a democratic  ( to keep the western aid 
 . 

israel got no western aid in , nor in 1949 or 50 .  .  . it . 
still granted citizenship to those who remained .  . and how 
is citizenship a 

tell me something ,  . what makes land arab 

how shall i explain , its a contract between the man and the 
land. control is n't it. the ruled 400 years , and 
then left with barely a trace .  . the concept of land identity 
is somewhat foreign to the and pragmatic west .  . it is 
partly the concept of   , native  . i know 
that jews had previous history in the , but none in 
recent memory. i'm talking everyday life not  . 

try again , you tell me what its is n't , but you fail to 
establish what it is. 

also , jews did have history in israel for over a thousand 
years. there were lots of jews slaughtered by in israel .  . 
there was a community in gaza city from roughly 1200  . 
jews were a majority in jerusalem from or so  . does that 
make the land jewish 

adam 


adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the were historical  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 47 


the were deeply anti semitic as well. in the may 10 , 
edition of  weekly  the vice of , is 
quoted as saying 

the helped us not to become the slaves of the jewish 
elements in our country. 

in another edition , an author named george writes 

and the type of jew who is to  .  . is . not anything 
to be proud about. their loose morals , and other were 
unknown to the prior to declaration , on top of 
all communist activities were the cause of most of the arab 
criticism. 1 

as exposed , the were  . before harbor , 
the daily    ( not to be confused with the 
 weekly' ) expressed pro nazi sentiments 

and came adolf hitler , after  . he spoke 
to the racial heart of the german , opened the 
fountain of his national genius , down the spirit 
of  .  . at . no period since the world war had berlin 
conducted so , well organized , and policy 
as now , since hitler 's assumption to power .  .  . and . whatever 
others may think concerning and as a 
system of government , it is proved that they have 
and the two states , germany and  . 2 

1 george ,  the case of , ' in 
weekly , friday , september 25 ,  . 
2  , ' official of the ,  . 
17 , quoted in john roy ,  the 
persons   ( see 1 ) , p. 21 .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( mash javad ) 
subject re news from 
organization e 
lines 40 

in article  ( farzin mokhtarian ) writes 

from 



o dr. , of health stated that infant 
 ( under one year old ) in iran went down from 120 
per thousand before the revolution to 33 per thousand at 
the end of  ( last  . 

dr. ! they just wait until they are to kill 
them ! 


o dr also stated that before the revolution only 
children received to protect them 
from various but this figure reached 
the end of  . 

huh 


o during the visit of mohammad , the prime 
of , to iran , agreements for in the 
areas of industry , trade , education and were 
signed .  . according to one agreement , iran will be in 
charge of building 's natural gas network. 

yup .  . also granted a great deal of of houses and 
buildings in war areas to  . too , one of the 
only we really have is construction , and there are all these 
youth , and they give money to to do what 
can and should be doing. 




mash 


from  ( hossien amehdi ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
nntp posting host com . 
organization systems research center 
lines 25 

in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 
 ( hossien amehdi ) writes 

you know when  ( thanks to general dynamics ) high in the sky 
and bomb the hell out of some in , where civilians including 
babies and getting killed , is that plain murder or what 

if you would n't position bases in camps , 
apartment buildings , and in hospitals , maybe 
civilians would n't get killed. kinda like saddam hussein putting civilians 
in a military bunker .  . 

ed .  . 

who is the you here. since you are replying to my article you 
are assuming that i am an arab .  . well , i'm not an arab , but i think you 
are brain is full of shit if you really believe what you said. the 
of civilian and none civilian areas in by israel is 
very consistent with its policy of  . that is the only 
policy that has been practiced by the so called only democracy in 
the middle east ! 

i was pointing out that the other side is also suffering .  . 
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a , you bet 
i would my against any by any means. 

from  ( space cadet ) 
subject re to be exact , 2.5 million readers enlightened by 
nntp posting host 
organization computing , u of upon , uk  . 
lines dog 


andrew writes 



(a . k . a .  . , the and compassionate ) writes 

's , divine , all knowing , and 
wisdom is for this  . 


where can i join the fan club do i get a t 

the friendly neighborhood alien 

life just has n't been the same since david koresh died .  .  .  . 

ah c mon , give the guy three days and see what comes up. 




disclaimer it was n't me , honest , email 
it was him , he made me do it ! ! 


from  ( shai guday ) 
subject , opinions  ( re water on the brain ) 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 40 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article , writes 

in article ,  ( alan stein ) writes 
i guess finally revealed the source of his claim that israel 
diverted water from his imagination. 

h. stein 
mr. water head , 
i never said that israel diverted , in fact i said that 
israel went into southern to make sure that no 
water is being used on the 
side , so that all water would run into river where there 
israel will use it ! head. 

of course posting some hard evidence or facts is much more 
difficult. you have not bothered to substantiate this in 
any way. , do you know of any evidence that would support 
this 

i can just imagine a news report from ancient times , if 
had been writing it. 


ap  ( ancient  . israel today denied egypt to the red 
sea. in a typical display of , the leader of 
the slave , former prince moses , parted the red sea. 
the action is to have caused damage to the environment. 
egyptian authorities have said that thousands of have been 
denied their by the parted  . 's 
were successful in their glorious attempt to cause the of the 
red sea to return to their normal state. unfortunately they suffered 
heavy casualties while doing so. 




stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization the department of department 
lines 39 

in article writes 

most of the 
people in my are regular that go about their daily 
business , some work in the fields , some own small , others are 
older men that go to the and drink coffee .  . is that so hard to 
imagine 

 .  .  . quickly . followed by .  .  .  . 

some young men , usually between 17 to 30 years are members of 
the resistance .  . even the of the do not 
know who these are , they are about it , but most people often 
suspect who they are and what they are up to. 

this is the standard method for claiming non status , even 
for the of combat .  . 

these young men are 
supported by iran most of the time. they and 
into the where they set up 
for israeli  . every time an israeli is killed or injured 
by these , israel by bombing 
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians .  . 

innocent civilians like the ones who set up the or 
engaged in shoot with soldiers or attack them with or 
axes 

we are now to israeli , and we figure that this is 

and the rest of the world is getting used to arab of claiming 
innocence for even the most guilty of the murderers among them. 
keep it up long enough and it will but good. 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( mike magil ) 
subject re final solution in 
lines 89 


o.k. , its my turn 

driving the jews into the sea ! 

i am sick and tired of this  driving the jews into the sea  attributed 
to islamic movements and the it simply ca n't be proven as part of their 
plan ! 


may i suggest you out the national covenant  ( 1964 ) . it may 
not use the exact words as quoted above but i'm sure many will agree that the 
same message is being issued .  . later on when i get back home i will try to find 
the precise  ( section(s ) but you can do the research for now (i  . i also 
realize that renounced the covenant to the western media only 
but he has yet to the and of his exact 
intentions on this issue. therefore , as far as we are concerned the covenant 
still stands as the bible  ( so to speak ) of the mainstream 
national movement ! 


 ( pro israeli repeat it like without checking its authenticity 
since it was coined by brith ) 

as a pro israel i can say that has not 
my opinions on the arab israeli conflict .  . as i mentioned above , 
just a little research on the subject will lead anyone to reach a similar 
conclusion on the national movement  ( the in most cases) .  . bb 
does not properly speak for me nor many of the people around me who share 
my views. 


what and islamic jihad believe in , as far as i can get from the arab media , 
is an islamic state that the rights of all its under koranic 
law. this would be a of the situation in which the jews in 
took control of the land and its  ( mostly muslim )  . 


what situation a negative situation i presume is this the same 
situation when the of east jerusalem would not allow the 
jews to go worship at the site in was this an example of 
law being if not , i have another suggested reading for 
you .  .  .  . get into the soc . culture . arabic . newsgroup where the posters have been 
the topic jews in the  ( and may i you the people doing 
the appear to be devout muslims with some knowledge of the  . 
you will find that jews are n't really viewed by the  ( to put 
it  . so how do you think jews  ( or any other non islamic religion ) will 
be treated by an islamic state governed by the words of the i think 
the situation in jerusalem will return at best ! what do you 
think 

however , whoever committed crimes against humanity  ( torture , blowing up their 
homes , murders ,  .  .  . ) . must be treated and tried as a war criminal .  . the political 
thought of these movements shows that a freedom of choice will be given to the 
jews in living under the new law or leaving to the of their choice. 

all i have to say to that is , once again , see s . c . a . jews in the and 
think again. freedom of choice is definitely not an option in 
law especially for non muslims and all women ! remember the gulf war i'm sure 
you saw the reports about how women had few rights in saudi arabia  ( an islamic 
 . 


as for the , i am at a loss to explain what is going inside 's mind. 


probably nothing ! aside from how to break the news to his 
that the covenant is null and without getting assassinated himself ! 

although their political thinking seems far fetched with israel acting as a true 
super power in the , the islamic movements are using the same weapon the 
jews used to establish their state religion. 


in conclusion , ahmed , you should go to the library and find the 
national covenant  ( 1964 ) and read it very carefully .  . by the way , 
library does have it in stock because that is exactly where i found it when i 
was doing my research .  . so enjoy the reading and i hope we will be hearing back 
from you soon ! 

mike 


mi k opinions expressed above 
m i k e m i k e m are my own and not that 
m i k e i kem i k of  big blue  
m i k e m m mike 

ibm corp .  . , , canada 

from  ( michael brian kolodner ) 
subject how many israeli soldiers does it take to 
organization amherst college 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 2 

boy that was really  . i'm impressed by your incredible senses of wit , 
sarcasm and propriety .  . mind if i post about your mother 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject let the turks speak for themselves. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( angelos karageorgiou ) writes 

if turks in were so how come they 
elected two , m not one but two , representatives in the greek government 

pardon me 

government roads two turkish ethnic 

while world human rights organizations , greeks 
work on removing the 
of dr. and mr.  . 


dr. , turkish ethnic member of greek , us 

washington , 7 doctor , one of the two ethnic 
turkish members of the greek visited us on june 24 through 
and held meetings with human rights organizations and 
high level us in washington and new york .  . 

at his press conference at the national press club in washington , 
explained the plight of ethnic turks in and stated 
demands from greek government. 

said our only hope in is the pressure generated from 
western capitals for that respects the human rights. 
what we are having done to ethnic turks in is exactly the same 
as south african  . he added what we are facing is pure 
greek hatred and racial discrimination .  . 

out the demands of the turkish ethnic community in 
he said we want the of greek citizenship of ethnic 
turks .  . their citizenship was revoked by using the excuse that this 
people have stayed out of for too long .  . they are greek citizens 
and are residing in , even one of them is actively serving in 
the greek army .  . besides , other non turkish citizens of are 
not subject to this kind of interpretation at an extent that many of 
greek americans have greek citizenship and they live in 
the united states. 

we want for turkish minority 's equal rights. we want greek 
government to accept the turkish minority and grant us our civil rights. 
our people are waiting since 25 years to get driving  . the greek 
government is not building to turks for 
our buildings or building new ones. if your name is turkish , you are 
not to the government offices .  . 

furthermore , we want greek government to give us equal opportunity 
in business. they do not grant so we can participate in the 
economic life of  . in my case , they denied me a medical license 
necessary for practicing in greek hospitals despite the fact 
that i have finished a greek medical school and followed all the 
necessary steps in my career. 

we want freedom of for ethnic turks .  . we are not allowed 
to call ourselves turks .  . i myself have been subject of a number of 
law suits and even have been imprisoned just because i called myself 
a  . 

we also want greek government to provide freedom of religion. 

in separate with the turkish times , dr. stated 
that the conditions of ethnic turks are deplorable and in the eyes of 
greek laws , ethnic greeks are more equal than ethnic turks .  . as an example , 
he said there are about 20 , 000 telephone in  ( thessaloniki ) 
and only about of them are turks .  . that is not because turks do not 
want to have telephone services at their home and  . he said 
that greek government changed the election law just to keep him out 
of the as an independent representative and they stated 
this fact openly to him. while there is no minimum 
requirement for parties in terms of receiving at least 3 of the votes , 
they imposed this requirement for the independent parties , including 
the turkish  . 

was born in a small at  ( komotini ) , 1947 .  . 
he earned his medical degree at university of in  . 
he served in the greek military as an  . 

in 1985 he got involved with community affairs for the first time 
by 15 , 000 to the unjust implementation 
of laws against ethnic turks .  . in 1986 , he was by the police 
for  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 19 

in article  ( amos shapira ) writes 
 ( anas omran ) writes 

the 
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters .  . 

eh could you please give me details about an event where a neutral 
observer was killed by purpose by an israeli 



actually , i'm still trying to understand the self justifying rationale 
behind the recent murder of ( ) in gaza .  . 


tim d .  . graduate student 
tel , department of politics and society 
fax , university of california 
home tel , , ca 

from  ( gennady feygin ) 
subject israel 
organization electrical and computer engineering , university of 
lines 5 

does anyone have a of israel broadcasts in different 
that could be posted or e to me. your 
assistance would be greatly 



from  ( danny keren ) 
subject re ten questions about israel 
organization brown university department of computer science 
lines 21 

 ( center for policy research ) writes 

3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons if so , 
could you provide any evidence 

yes , israel has nuclear weapons .  . however 

1 ) their use so far has been restricted to killing deer , by 
soldiers .  . 

2 ) they are locked in the of the , and since 
the lost the key , no one can use them anymore. 

3) even if the finds the key , the chief have a time lock 
on the bombs that does not allow them to be on the sabbath 
and during weeks which follow of the jerusalem 
team .  . a quick at the national league score table will reveal 
the strategic importance of this fact. 

 . 


from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject re israeli terrorism , the 
organization james limited , tokyo japan 
lines 20 

writes in his earlier posting 

a high rank israeli was killed during a a 
 . the terrorist and killed a young 
using anti missiles .  . the terrorist cut the 's 
body into small pieces to the extend that his body was not recognized .  . 
at ten houses were by these missiles .  . 

if indeed israeli soldiers killed a with an anti missile 
then i'm almost sure that the terrorist would not have been able 
to cut up a body which was probably by the missile .  . 

stop the net with you fantasies .  . 



8 8 
if you do not receive this e mail , please let me 
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible. 
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing. 

from  ( jim maurer ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
organization inc. 
lines 25 

 ( jack schmidling ) writes 

in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
through private contributions on federal land . your hate 
article is of current and historical fact , intellectual content 
and social value. down the toilet it goes .  .  .  .  .  . 


and we all know what an unbiased source the is when it comes to things 
concerning israel .  . 

neither the times nor the trained seals who have responded thus far seem to 
recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax  . in 
, american put up at least 30 of the money. and 
, how does federal land the of this alien 
dedicated to and the of tax money 
to a foreign entity 

that federal land and tax money could have been used to 
americans or better yet , to house homeless americans .  . 

the are tax like any to a non profit 
organization .  . i 've money to a group 
and it was tax  . why do n't you contribute to a group 
helping the homeless if you so concerned 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject no muslim left alive not a single one historical  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( paul halsall ) writes 

simple question 

anytime .  . 

if the killed so many turks in eastern , 
how come the area today is full of turks and muslim and 
not full of 

suffering from a severe case of no muslim left alive not a 
single one. the first units who crossed the ottoman 
border in the company of the invaders was the former ottoman 
representative for , , who 
assumed the name  . another former ottoman 
, , led the forces 
who turkish behind the lines under the nickname , 
especially that 

 kill turks and wherever you find them and in 
whatever circumstances you find them. turkish children 
also should be killed as they form a danger to the 
nation . ' .  ( hamparsum 1914 ) 1 

1 m. , history of the , p. 85 .  . 

another former member of , , led the 
forces that the areas of van , and  . 

in march , the forces began to move van .  . immediately , 
in april 11 , the of van began a , all 
the turks in the so as to make possible its quick and easy 
conquest by russians .  . little wonder that ii sent a 
of thanks to the of van in 
april 21 , , it for its services to russia .  . the 
newspaper , published in the united states , also proudly 
reported in may 24 , that 

only 1 , turks remained in van the rest having been slaughtered .  . 

source , richard g. on the road to independence ,  . 
university of california press  ( berkeley and los angeles ) , , p. 13 .  . 

the addition of the and to the empire increased the 
area of to over 130 , 000 square  . the population 
of the entire in was 4 , 700 , 000 , of whom , 000  ( 20 percent ) were 
, 1 , 200 , 000  ( 25 percent ) , and 2 , , 000  ( 45 percent ) moslem .  . 
of the latter group , 1 , , 000 were  . , barely one third 
of 's lived in the , where the 
christians constituted a majority in only three of the seven  . 
, the administrative center of the , had only 44 , 000 
as compared to , 000 moslems .  . by the time of the of , 
however , the had established a majority , 53 percent , in the 
it had risen by to 60 percent , or , 000 of the 1 , 120 , 000 
 . this impressive change in the 's ethnic character 
, there was , on the eve of the creation of the 
, a solid block of , 000 who continued to dominate the 
southern , from the of to the border of  . 
 ( see also map 1. and map 4. administrative of 
 . 

in ,  0  percent  . 

we closed the roads and passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops after  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our knocked the 
into of and and when the became 
and from them into fields , and 
the work. some of the escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in the border 
into  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the of from to 
from the hot of to the cold 
of the north were with mute ruins of 
 . they are quiet now , those , except for 
of and that visit them to over the 
bones of the dead. 


men are like that 
p.  . 

source stanford j. shaw , on with invading 
armies in , history of the ottoman empire and modern  ( volume 
ii reform , revolution the rise of modern ,  . 
 ( london , cambridge university press  . pp. 316 .  . 

in april from organized a in the city 
of van , whose 33 , comprised 42 . 3 . percent of the population , 
to an majority of any city in the empire .  .  . leaving . 
on april 28 , , reached van on may 14 and organized 
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during 
the next two days while the small ottoman had to to the 
southern side of the  . 

knowing their numbers would never justify their , 
looked to russia and europe for the fulfillment of their  . 
in this regard at the beginning of the first 
world war with the decision of the organizations to refuse 
to serve their state , the ottoman empire , and to assist instead other 
invading armies .  . their hope was their participation in the 
success would be rewarded with an independent state out of 
ottoman territories .  . political leaders , army officers , and common 
soldiers began in  . 

with the invasion of eastern in at the beginning of 
world war i , the degree of with the ottoman 's enemy 
increased drastically .  . ottoman supply lines were cut by attacks , 
armed civil , who in turn 
the muslim population of the of van in anticipation of 
expected of the invading armies .  . 


source stanford j. shaw , history of the ottoman empire and modern , 
ii. cambridge university press , london , , pp.  . 

 .  .  . , ii himself came to the to make final 
plans for with the against the , with the 
president of the national bureau in declaring in response 

 from all countries are to enter the ranks of the 
glorious army , with their blood to serve the victory of 
 .  . let . the flag wave freely over the and the 
 . let , with your will , great , the peoples remaining 
under the turkish yoke receive freedom .  . let the people of 
who have suffered for the faith of christ receive resurrection for a new 
free life under the protection of russia . ' . 

again flooded into the armies .  . were made 
to strike the from the , and the returned to st. 
confident that the day finally had come for him to reach  . 

, , 30 , , quoted by , road to 
independence , p. 45 , ,  . 

ottoman and military position in the east were seriously hurt , and 
the way was prepared for a new push into eastern , to be 
accompanied by an open against the  . 

, road to independence , pp. 45 47 , iii 1 , 
pp. w . e . d .  . allen and p. , , 
cambridge , , pp. ali , , 2  . , 
, , ii , 41 no. ,  . 
and  . 

an state was organized at van under protection , and it 
appeared that with the muslim dead or driven away , it might be 
able to maintain itself at one of the oldest of ancient 
civilization .  . an was organized  to the turks from 
the entire southern of the in for a concerted 
drive into the ' . 162 thousands of from 
and other major in the east began to flood into the new 
state .  .  . by . mid there were as many as 250 , 000 
crowded into the van area , which before the crisis had and fed 
no more than 50 , 000 people , muslim and non muslim alike. 

162 , road to independence , p. 56 ,  . and 
 . 

, i , of august 15 17 , 
i ali , no. , , van ve i , 
10 september  . 

now wait , there is more. 

from the diplomacy of , william l. , new york  ( alfred a. 
knopf ) , , pp.  . 

watch their opportunity to kill turks and , set fire 
to their , and then make their escape into the mountains .  . 

also , since the were such great , how come 
the were counted as part of the , i.e. forced 
under the control of the greek orthodox 

are you people for real the main legal principles of the turkish state 
are summarized in article 2 of the constitution 

the of is a democratic , secular and social state 
governed by the rule of law bearing in mind the concepts of public 
peace , national and justice respecting human rights 
loyal to the of , and based on the fundamental 
set forth in the of the constitution .  . 

freedom of culture and religion during the ottoman empire , allowing 
the many nations and races within its to remain autonomous .  . the 
fact that the ottoman empire was the longest lived in recent history may be 
attributed to these freedoms , despite the lack of any written constitution .  . 
the first attempts to create a written constitution occurred in and  . 
although the documents during these two attempts remained in force 
only temporarily , they provided the basic elements of a constitution .  . 

the 1876 constitution was the first legal document to force a and 
the right of election to share the of the  . the constitution 
of placed some additional on the , while increasing 
the power of the and the government. 

the first world war  ( 1914 1918 ) brought the ottoman empire to an end. by the 
occupation of , the was and the constitution was 
abolished .  . the members of were sent to exile to an island by the 
forces .  . 

during the independence war , the turkish grand national assembly held their 
first meeting on april 23 , to serve as the body of the new 
turkish state. this assembly prepared the new legal structure of the turkish 
 . the new was on october 29 , and the new 
constitution was in  . that constitution served as the legal 
of today 's modern turkish  . in , a 
party political system. the constitution of was replaced by 
others in and  . all three constitutions of the have been 
based on the principles of democracy , human rights , national 
, division of powers , private ownership and secularization .  . 

major principles of the constitution 

the constitution  ( with articles ) the structure of the 
within the following principles 

the turkish is a democratic , secular and social state governed by 
law 
it should be governed to maintain public peace , national , justice , 
human rights and the objectives of 
the language of the state is turkish 
is vested in the nation without any conditions or restrictions .  . 
is by organizations by the nation 
power is carried by the elected by the nation .  . this 
power cannot be  ( transferred ) to any one else 
power is by the president , and council of 
judicial power is by the independent courts on behalf of the 
turkish nation 
all individuals are equal , of language , race , religion , color , 
sex , or political beliefs 
laws cannot be contradict those principles stated in the constitution .  . 

structure of the state 

in accordance with the constitution , the structure of the state is based on the 
principle of division of power to create a balanced and self controlled 
system. the power is divided into power , power , and 
judicial power , balanced to secure freedoms and powers to control each 
other  ( self  . 

a. power 

the turkish grand national assembly is a with one house , elected 
by the nation for a term of five years to exercise power on 
behalf of the nation .  . the basic functions of this assembly are 

to adopt , to amend , or to laws 
to approve or to dismiss the council of 
to and to question or the council of 
to debate , to amend and to approve 
to international agreements 
to grant amnesty or  . 

members of do not have any for their words  ( either oral 
or written ) during the course of their duties .  . the country is 
divided into  . the number of representatives of each is 
calculated according to its population .  . every turkish citizen over the age 
of twenty one can vote .  . 

elections are by the supreme council of elections , which solves 
all or appeals .  . in each , the local board of election 
runs and the election under the and of the 
supreme council .  . members of the council and are elected among 
independent judges .  . 

b. power 

the president of the is the head of state  ( not the head of government 
as in the  . the main functions of the president are 

to represent the state and the country 
to the implementation of the constitution 
to coordinate , judicial and functions 
act as the supreme of the armed forces 
to laws and government  . 

the president is elected by the grand national assembly for a period of seven 
years. the president may or return the laws for a second debate , may 
call for a  . 

power is by the council of , headed by the 
prime  . the prime is by the president from the 
members of  . the prime names the for approval 
by the president .  . the new government  ( council of ministers ) reads their 
program at the and the vote of follows .  . there are 21 ( ) 
in the council .  . 

and other members of the can be in independent 
administrative courts for their misuse of power , administrative errors or 
functions against any law. 

c. judicial power 

judicial power is by independent courts .  . no authority or power can 
the judges or public of the courts .  . these cannot be 
discharged , replaced or by authorities except for the 
reasons clearly stated by the appropriate laws .  . there are three categories 
of courts in the turkish system 

courts of justice deal with legal , and criminal cases. the 
decisions of these courts may be by the supreme court of justice 
upon the appeal of the parties involved. 
the decisions or functions of the power  ( including the prime 
and or any department ) can be in 
administrative courts if these functions or decisions are against the law. 
the decisions of these administrative courts may also be by the 
high administrative court. 

the laws and decisions of the grand national assembly can be examined by the 
constitutional court if they contradict the constitution .  . if found 
contradictory , this court may the decisions or laws of the  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 44 

 ( hossien amehdi ) writes 

in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 
 ( hossien amehdi ) writes 

you know when  ( thanks to general dynamics ) high in the sky 
and bomb the hell out of some in , where civilians including 
babies and getting killed , is that plain murder or what 

if you would n't position bases in camps , 
apartment buildings , and in hospitals , maybe 
civilians would n't get killed. kinda like saddam hussein putting civilians 
in a military bunker .  . 

ed .  . 

who is the you here. since you are replying to my article you 
are assuming that i am an arab .  . well , i'm not an arab , but i think you 
are brain is full of shit if you really believe what you said. the 
of civilian and none civilian areas in by israel is 
very consistent with its policy of  . that is the only 
policy that has been practiced by the so called only democracy in 
the middle east ! 

what the hell do you know about israeli policy what gives you the 
to look into the minds of israeli has this  policy of  
been published somewhere for your information , the actions taken by , 
specifically the , were not in the campaign of  . my 
brain is full of shit at least i do n't look into the minds of others and 
make israeli policy for them ! 

i was pointing out that the other side is also suffering .  . 
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a , you bet 
i would my against any by any means. 

yeah , yeah , yeah. we all suffer .  . it 's too bad that civilians get killed but 
i will blame their arab leaders who put them in positions of danger before i 
will blame the  . just like palestinians who send their children into 
to at armed israeli soldiers .  . what parents ! 
as said , peace will only come when the start loving their 
children more than they hate the jews .  . 

ed .  . 


from 
subject re islam borders .  . ( was israel to ganges ) 
originator 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 26 


in article ,  ( gideon ehrlich ) writes 

and some other seemed not to be a that jews on 
these days the of going a way from the 
 . 
so if one let his imagination freely work it seemed to write 
that the zionist is from the to the . 

the question is by going east or west from the  . on either choice 
you would loose or , n . y .  . 

i thought you 're gonna say back to the ! 

by the way 

what are the borders the islamic world dreams about 

islamic readers , i am waiting to your honest answer. 

let 's say let 's establish the islamic state first or let 's free our 
lands first . and then we can dream about , mr. 




from (c .  . akgun ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
nntp posting host cc . com . 
organization , nj usa 
lines 

in article  ( michalis syrimis ) writes 
... 
any concentration labor camp in  ( around or 
later ) for greeks  ( or any greeks ) rather than talking 
nonsense like above , i will be glad to read what they got .  . 

how can you be in a position to know about any kind of concentration camps 


living through those days at the age of 20 and following 
the internal and external news gives me that knowledge 
and position. in , had a democratic and free 
press at that time. forget about internal news , i have n't 
heard anything from any international source about any 
concentration camps with greek prisoners in  . 
however , i heard camp .  . it was not secret and well 
recognized camp .  . 

as for all the prisoners to the red cross having returned to 
their homes , this is your version of the story. there are cases in which 
prisoners who were , some of them even sent messages to their 
relatives , were not released .  . these are undeniable facts .  . 

i see , they vanished in turkish labor camps .  . turks have 
decided to acknowledge their existence first but later 
changed their minds them. is that it what do 
you think happened to them i thought that 's are only the subject 
of and  . seems that i am wrong. 


as for their treatment being according to what  .  .  . 
okay we believe you. 

you do n't need to me. was never a clandestine state 
in its history , it has been a respected and continuous member of un 
since the inception of un .  . no body ever questioned the un membership of 
because of what had happened in and after. only a short 
lived was imposed unilaterally by usa to the 
internal greek  . i know what you would say next .  . let me answer it 
before wasting anytime .  . yes ! un had a few condemning 
against because of handling the problem , especially after 
the coup .  . well , us and israel had a few too. what can i say 
i am sure during junta 74 , greeks had 
their own share too. 

closed matter today between turkish turks greeks greek 
 . there is no more any official demand from greek 
about any missing greek  . 

where have you heard that there is no official demand regarding the 
missing persons 

have you looked at the latest un for talks 
mediated by there was no issue whatsoever about any 
missing people among the parties .  . was there 
i heard many times from by turkish and 
international press. he keeps saying that this was no 
longer an issue for peace talks .  . also , you do n't want 
me fish for the greek 's words  ( that 
had posted times ) describing missing peoples as 
a greek myth .  . seems that there is a different opinions 
among greek as well about missing people in turkish 
 . 

 .  .  . 

your claim that the majority of the missing persons were infact killed 
in the period between the coup d and the invasion , 5 days , is simply 
not true. all the cases of missing persons i know , and i know quite a 
few , are cases of people who were either in the reserve forces and were lost 
somewhere in the , or were civilians who were taken prisoners 
in their by the turkish army .  . 

i am not claiming anything. i just told you what was 
given to greek as an answer by turkish 
turkish when they wanted to some 
of their own between 15 and the final cease fire in 
late august ,  . this answer seems to the international 
community , the un , and the  ( since he did not make it 
an issue for the peace  . also , i am not aware of any un 
condemnation against about any missing greek  . are you 

btw , do you mean that had a coup d 
and nobody got hurt in those events 


as of the few which you refer to , there are more than a few. there are 
not only of greek soldiers being rounded up , but also others 
in the prison camp in  . 

like i said before. there is even a different opinion among 
greek for this myth .  . the officers in turkish army who 
governed the camp must be hell of clever 
to cover up their 8 ) .  . i hope turkish army does t have 
same type of for the security of  . however , this must 
a good subject for a movie  . one should 
about this. 


of course , not. the justice was served well. if and when the bosnian 
are answered , who 's going to dare to ask what happens to those 
behind the ethnic idea. they are known today 
 ( as b were known in 1974 ) to everybody and are doing 
it openly even giving tv  . it may take same time as it was 
for the b case , however , the justice will be served again. 

, comparing the actions of the in bosnian with the 

actions of 

in is not something i would do if i were a  . 

i thought 
that the were the , the inhumane etc etc. 

c. 




if this is what you understood from the paragraph above , 
you better let your computer system administrator check 
the character conversion in your system. if yours are 
ok , i should mine 8 ) .  . 

c. 

from  ( mark w kramer ) 
subject re seventh century a.d. math problems 
keywords , , , math 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 5 


a delightful message , interesting , and so written. thanks. 


 . m. , boston university 

from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 39 

in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 
in article center for policy research writes 

... 
the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population 
in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks. 
the israeli has decided to punish the whole population of 
gaza , some 700 . 000 . people , by denying them the right to leave the 
strip and seek work in israel .  . 

anyone who can this choice piece of tripe without checking 
his her sources does not to be believed .  . the gaza strip does 
not the highest population in the world. in fact , it 
is n't even close. just one example will serve to illustrate the folly 
of this statement the city of has nearly ten times the 
population of the gaza strip in a roughly comparable land area. the 
of numerous cities also comparable , if not far higher , 
population  . examples include manhattan island  ( ny city ) , 
, de mexico , bombay , ... 

need i go on the rest of mr. 's message is no closer to the 
truth than this oft repeated statement is. 

 initial statement certain is hot air. but it seems to be 
almost standard procedure around here to first out an , 
image in order to add extra meaning to the posting 's 
real point . 

however , his second statement is quite real. the essential off 
of gaza residents from the possibility of making a living has happened . 
certainly , the israeli had a legitimate worry behind the action they took , 
but is n't that action a little 



tim d .  . graduate student 
tel , department of politics and society 
fax , university of california 
home tel , , ca 

from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re ten questions about israel 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 67 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article ,  ( center for policy research ) writes 

from center for policy research 
subject ten questions about israel 


ten questions to 


i would be if any of you who live in israel could help to 
provide 
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are 
indeed questions but they are asked time and again by 
people around me. 

i lived there until 1992 so i think that on the whole , 
my is relevant .  . 

1. is it true that the israeli authorities do n't recognize 
israeli and that id cards , which israeli citizens 
must carry at all times , identify people as jews or , not as 


those are two separate questions. obviously , israeli authorities do 
recognize israeli for some purposes , e.g. , 
services , etc .  .  .  . id cards have a field of 
which is a of the above. , this field 
is provided for provided by the religious 
of the gov t , though this is not the general case. 

2. is it true that the state of israel has no fixed borders 
and that israeli governments from until today have refused to 
state where the ultimate borders of the state of israel should be 


from its , israel 's borders have been and by both 
war and peace. as such , the israeli gov t has always felt that defining 
its borders is a step that is meaningful only after peace treaties have 
been with its neighbors. there is no plan for ultimate borders 
 ( is this a game like ultimate ) into other countries. 

3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons if so , 
could you provide any evidence 

aside from what provided , no. 

4. is it true that in israeli there are a number of 
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their 
, the date of their trial and their imprisonment are 
state 

if that is true , then by virtue of the question 's subject , it is 
 . anyone who claims its validity .  . is claiming an oxymoron .  . 
that having been said , i deny the above. 

you go on to ask quite a number of questions that show an obvious 
bias .  . questions of the sort is it true that you entered your 
mother 's which are based upon some of truth , though 
in a way as to render them and cast 
upon israel .  . , the answer to the above is usually yes , 
unless you were born via a c section .  . 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( center for policy research ) 
subject re from israeli press. madness .  . 
lines 8 
id r 000 
from uucp . ! apr 17 15 37 00 1993 


before getting and implying that i am posting 
fabrications , i would suggest the readers to consult the 
newspaper in question. 

, 



from  ( warren burstein ) 
subject re to be exact , 2.5 million muslims were exterminated by the  . 
organization , inc. 
lines 34 

ac in  ( serdar argic ) 
 ( peter van der linden ) 

1. so , did the turks kill the 

ac so , did the jews kill the germans 
ac you even make laugh. 

ac an appropriate analogy with the jewish might be the 
ac extermination of the entire muslim population of 
ac the independent of which of at 
ac least 30 40 percent of the population of that  . the 
ac of an army who participated in and 
ac eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in 
ac with the title  men are like that . ' . other references abound .  . 

typical  . asks if x happened , the response is that y 
happened. even if we grant that the did do what 
them of doing , this has no bearing on whether the turks did 
what they are accused of. 

while i can understand how an ai could be this stupid , i 
ca n't understand how a human could be such a as to either let 
such an ai run or to such pointless messages himself. 

i do not expect any followup to this article from to do anything 
to my  . but maybe i 'll see a new line from his 
list of insults .  . 


this article is without 
and uses 100 words , characters and ideas. 

org . 

from com .  ( frank benson ) 
subject 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 6 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

hey 
man without a brain , such a ! ! ! 


internet com . 
uucp uunet ! edu . ! ! pro ! 

from  ( isaac balbin ) 
subject re more on case 
organization information technology research institute 
lines 12 

 ( yigal arens ) writes 

los times , tuesday , april 13 , 1993 .  . p.  . 

new details of extensive operation emerge 

inquiry reveal nearly 40 years of 
by a man who political groups 

by richard c. , times writer. 

did they have a file on too 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re while all the moslem in the plain .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 48 

in article  ( kees van doel ) writes 

see , you are a liar .  . 

you got a crack in your record i think. 

this is the point we seem to disagree about. not a chance. 

i keep seeing that line over and over. that 's pathetic , even for 
! 

well , of terrorism and triangle 
is a liar .  . now try dealing with the rest of what i wrote. 

u.s. 

source u.s. library of congress  papers  general correspondence 
container 34 .  . 

while the were in power they did everything in the world to keep the 
pot by attacking , turks and by committing 
against the moslems by the moslems and and destroying 
their homes  .  .  .  . during . the last two years the in 
have shown no ability to themselves and especially no ability to 
or handle other races under their power. 

a scholar 

source , the ,  ( london , 1968 ) , pp. 25 26 .  . 

when the armies invaded after the disaster 
of , their were by of 
, both from the and from  . one of 
these was commanded by a certain , a blood  . 
these committed all kinds of , more 
than hundred thousand being killed between and in 
the eastern of  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( avi cohen stuart ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
originator 
nntp posting host et . 
organization university of technology , dept. of electrical engineering 
lines 35 

from article , by  ( hossien amehdi ) 
in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 
 ( hossien amehdi ) writes 

you know when  ( thanks to general dynamics ) high in the sky 
and bomb the hell out of some in , where civilians including 
babies and getting killed , is that plain murder or what 

if you would n't position bases in camps , 
apartment buildings , and in hospitals , maybe 
civilians would n't get killed. kinda like saddam hussein putting civilians 
in a military bunker .  . 

ed .  . 

who is the you here. since you are replying to my article you 
are assuming that i am an arab .  . well , i'm not an arab , but i think you 
are brain is full of shit if you really believe what you said. the 
of civilian and none civilian areas in by israel is 
very consistent with its policy of  . that is the only 
policy that has been practiced by the so called only democracy in 
the middle east ! 

i was pointing out that the other side is also suffering .  . 
like i said , i'm not an arab but if i was , say a , you bet 
i would my against any by any means. 

tell me then , would you also fight the in 

oh , no of course not. they would be your brothers and you would 
tell that you invited them. 

 . 



from  ( danny keren ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a  .  .  . 
organization brown university department of computer science 
lines 47 

 ( dan gannon ) writes 

, why do n't you tell the readers of these newsgroups 
how you nazism on your bbs , and post long articles 
claiming non are inferior 

the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 

the is entirely funded by private , but do n't 
expect this fact to deter . 

btw , 's ideological fathers also had a passion for constructing 
and collections , some of which served to the 
public about the racial of the  . one such 
collection was that of , and there was no lack of these 
around 

letter from to 
dr. brandt , 2 
trial of the major war criminals , p. 

dear brandt , 

as you know , the has directed that 
 . dr. be with everything 
needed for his research work. for certain 
i already reported to the on 
them 150 of prisoners , or rather jews , are 
required , which are to be by the  . 


however , the good doctor needed some more items to complete his 
research 

testimony of , guard at the concentration 
camp 
the trial , edited by anthony m. , p. 89 

... i recall particularly one mass execution when about 90 prisoners 
 ( 60 men and 30 women ) , all jews , were killed by gassing .  . this took 
place , as far as i can remember , in spring  . in this case the 
were sent to professor of the department of in 
 . 


 . 


from center for policy research 
subject  . questions to 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 22 17 29 00 1993 
lines 


from center for policy research 
subject  . questions to 


to 

subject ten questions to 

dear , 

your answers to my questions are  . 

in the answer to my first question , concerning the nonexistence of 
israeli , your answer conflicts with information i have 
received from other , according to which there are two 
distinct categories of citizenship 
 ( ezrahut ) and  . the former is used on 
etc , and the later for daily in israeli society. i 
am told that people in israel have to carry their id cards at all 
times and present them at many public places , almost every day. 
these id cards make clear who the is , a jew or an arab .  . 
you maintain that this mainly because of religious services 
provided .  . but do you really believe that this is the reason 
could you provide evidence that this is the case and that it 
serves no other purpose 

in the answer to my second questions , concerning the fact that 
israel has no fixed borders , you state that israel 's borders were 
 and by both war and  . according to what i 
read , the first in the beginning of the century , had 
plans for the jewish state to extend into what is and into 
 . i also read that it was the express wish of 
ben to not declare israel 's borders , when israel was 
established , as this might restrict israel 's opportunities for 
later  . israel often claims it right of existence on the 
fact that jews lived there 2000 years ago or that god promised the 
land to them. but according to biblical sources , the area god 
promised would extend all the way to iraq .  . and what were the 
borders in biblical times which israel considers proper to use 
today finally , if israel wants peace , why ca n't it declare what 
it considers its legitimate and secure borders , which might be a 
base for having all the above facts in mind , one 
cannot blame arab countries to fear israeli , as a 
number of wars have proved  ( 1948 , , ,  . 

your answer to my third question is typical of a stalinist public 
official .  . i do n't think your answer is honest .  . you refer me to 
's revelations about israel 's nuclear without 
evaluating the of his revelations .  . now if he said 
the truth , then why should he been punished , and if he lied , why 
should he be punished i would appreciate more honesty .  . 

somebody provided an answer to the fourth question , concerning 
 hidden prisoners  in israeli  . he posted an article from 
ma such cases. it seems that such prisoners do 
exist in israel .  . what do you think about that 

you imply that my questions show bias and are formulated in such a 
way to  cast upon  . such terms have often been 
used by the soviet union against dissidents they call the soviet 
union into  . if my questions are not , they 
would not call forth such answers. my questions are 
clearly but they are meant to seek facts .  . i would be 
very happy if you could convince me that what i am told about 
israel were just fabrications , but you have failed to do so. 
i suspect that you fear the truth and an open and honest 
discussion. this is a sign of weakness , not of strength .  . 

i hope you will the courage to seek the full truth. 


from  ( anwar mohammed ) 
subject re remember those names come election time. 
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government 
nntp posting host sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 15 

i said 
in article  ( peter nelson ) writes 

besides , there 's no case that can be made for us military involvement 
there that does n't apply equally well to , say , , , or 
 ( it appears with the 's new campaign )  . non 
do n't count 

hmm .  .  . some . might say are non white. , i forgot , are 
oil rich , loaded with dollars , etc so they do n't count. 

 .  .  . and . let 's not forget , which is about as far from white as it 
gets .  . 

that 's two in a row , care to try for more 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject after all , exterminated 2.5 million muslim people there. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( hovig heghinian ) writes 

article. i have no interests i would just like to know 
what between and sound like. ) 

very simple. 

x soviet government must pay for their crime of genocide 
against 2.5 million muslims by admitting to the crime and making 
to the turks and  . 

after all , your criminal exterminated 2.5 million muslim 
people between and  . 



 ( hovig heghinian ) 

to which i say 
hear , hear .  . motion seconded .  . 

you must be a new clown .  . you are counting on 
and criminals to prove something for you no wonder you are in 
such a mess. that criminal idiot and  its  non existent junk has 
already been trashed out by , , , , , 
and hundreds of people. moreover , criminals are responsible 
for the massacre of the turkish people that also prevent them from entering 
and  . has yet to renounce its charter which specifically 
calls for the second genocide of the turkish people. this racist , 
and criminal view has been by the x soviet government 
as merely a step on the road to said genocide .  . 

now where shall i begin 

from  ( parlakbilek ahmet ) 
subject , liar 
keywords , the biggest liar 
message id 

following is the article that claims that is a liar 

from  ( david davidian ) 
message id 

in article 
edu  ( ahmet parlakbilek ) asked a simple question 

ap i am asking you to show me one example in which , or any other 
ap was proven to lie . i . can show tens of lies and fabrications of 
ap , like changing quote , even changing name of a book ,  . 

the obvious ridiculous murdered 3 million moslems is the most 
and charge of all. you are obviously new on this 
net , so read the following not one , but three proven lies in one 
day ! 

start txt . 

some parts are deleted 

in article the usenet scribe for the 
turkish historical society , b . , continues to 
the history of the people. let 's witness the 
definition of a  ( or liar , in turkish ) 

according to 1 

the situation is clear. on one side , we have peace loving turks 
and on the other side , peace loving , both sides 
their own affairs .  . then all was in blood and fire .  . indeed , 
the war was actually being between the of 
and the society of and a cruel and 
war in defense of party political interests .  . the 
which relied on for their success. 

1 l. , genocide its political use in the twentieth century , 
new york , p.  . 

this text is available not only in most but in many  . on 
page we find a discussion of related atrocities  ( which is title of the 
 . the topic on this page concerns itself with to the sub 
on of discrimination of minorities of the on 
human rights of the united nations with respect to the massacres in  . 
there is no mention of turks nor as claimed above. 



, , ! ! 

the depth of foolishness the turkish historical society in , while 
covering up the turkish genocide of the , is only by the 
ridiculous historical material publicly ! 

david the life of a people is a sea , and 

receiving this message , i checked the reference , l . , genocide .  .  .  . and 
what i have found was totally consistent with what said . the . book 
was like voice of and although i read the whole book , 
i could not find the original  . 
but there was one more thing to check the original posting of i . found 
the original article of it . is as follows 

according to 1 

the situation is clear. on one side , we have peace loving turks and on 
the other side , peace loving , both sides their own 
affairs .  . then all was in blood and fire .  . indeed , the war was 
actually being between the of and the 
society of and a cruel and war in defense of party 
political interests .  . the which relied on 
for their success. 

1 b. a.  . the ideology of the revolution in , ii , 

p.  . 


is the same , reference is different ! 

lied again , and this time he changed the original posting of 
just to accuse him to be a liar .  . 

, thank you for writing the page number correctly .  .  .  . 

you are the biggest liar i have ever seen . this . example showed me that tomorrow 
you can lie again , and you may try to make me a liar this time . so . i decided 
not to read your articles and not to write answers to you . i . also 
all the netters to do the same . we . can not prevent your lies , but at least 
we may save time by not dealing with your lies .  . 

and for the following line 
, , ! ! 

i also return all the insults you wrote about to you. 
i hope you will be in your lies .  . 



from  ( vedat dogan ) 
message id 

in article  ( david davidian ) writes 
in article 
 ( vedat dogan ) wrote in response to article 
org .  ( david davidian ) writes 


( source in the near east , by a. , 
( jonathan , 30 square , london ,  ( first published 1923 ) 
(  ( 287  . 

such a pile of garbage ! first off , the above reference was first published 
in not , and has pages not ! second , upon checking page 
, we are asked to believe 

no , mr . ... 

it was first published in (i have the book on my , now ! ) 


and furthermore , the book i have does not have pages either , as you 
claimed , mr .  . it . has pages .  . any . question  .  .  . 

well , it seems your book has its total page numbers closer to mine than the 
n crap posted by mr. ( ! 

o boy ! 

please , can you tell us why those quotes are crap  .  . because . you do not 
like them ! ! !  .  .  . because . they really exist .  .  . why . 

as i said in my previous posting , those quotes exactly exist in the source 
given by  .  .  . 

you could n't reject it .  .  .  . 


in addition , the author 's was written on 15 , , but the book 
was published in  . 

here we go again .  .  . 
in the book i have , both the front page and the author 's give 
the same year and 15 , , respectively ! 
 ( anyone can check it at her his library , if not , i can send you the copies of 
pages , please ask by sct ) 


i really do n't care what year it was first  ( published(1923 or 1924 ) 
what i care about is what the book writes about murders , , et .  . in . 
the given quotes by , and your denial of these quotes .  . and . your 
groundless , etc. 


... 

i can provide  . postings if required to verify my claim ! 

what is new 

i will post a  . file , but i am not going go through the effort to show there 
is some turkish modified re publication of the book , like last time ! 


i claim i have a book in my hand published in  ( 1923(first publication ) 
and it exactly has the same quoted info as the book published 
in  ( 1934(serdar 's reference ) has .  . you . could n't reject it .  . but . , now you 
are avoiding the real issues by around .  .  . 

let 's see how you lie !  .  .  non existing  quotes to re publication ) 

first you said there was no such a quote in the given reference .  . you . 
called a liar !  .  .  . 
i said to you , no , mr . , there exactly existed such a quote .  .  .  . 
(i even gave the call number , page numbers .  . you . could t reject it . ) . 

and now , you are lying again and talking about modified , re published book 
 ( without any proof how , when , where , by whom , etc .  . ) .  .  . 
 ( by the way , how is it possible to re publish the book in if it was 
first published in  ( 1924(your claim) . i . am sure that you have some  pretty 
well suited theories  , as usual ) 

and i am ready to send the copies of the necessary pages to anybody who 
wants to compare the fact and mr . 's lies .  .  . i . also give the call number 
and page numbers again for the library use , which are 
6 . r 

and the page numbers to verify the quotes and 215 




it is not possible that ( 's text has pages , mine has , and yours has 
! 

now , are you claiming that there ca n't be such a reference by saying it is 
not possible .  .  .  .  .  . if . not , what is your point 

differences in the number of pages 
mine was published in  . 's was in  .  . 
no need to use the same book size and the same letter 
in both , etc , etc .  .  . does it give you an idea ! ! 

the issue was not the number of pages the book has .  . or . the year 
first published .  .  . 
and you tried to hide the whole point .  .  . 
the point is that both books have the exactly the same quotes about 
how moslems are killed , tortured , etc by  . and . those quotes given 
by exist ! ! 
it was the issue , was n't it 

you were not able to object it .  .  . does . it bother you anyway 

you name all these and murders  ( by armenians ) as a crap  .  .  . 
people who think like you are among the main reasons why the world still 
has so many in the 1993 .  . 

any question 



 ( hovig heghinian ) 

hmm ... turks sure know how to keep track of deaths , but they seem to 
lose count around 1 . 5 . million .  . 

well , apparently we have another son of  the  to with. 
you should indeed be happy to know that you a huge discussion on 
by several of your contemporaries .  . if you feel 
that you can simply act as an in this forum 
you will be sadly mistaken and embarrassed .  . this is not a lecture to 
another historical and a genocide , but a fact. 

i will article by article , paragraph by paragraph , line by line , 
lie by lie , revision by revision , written by those on this net , who plan 
to  prove  that the genocide of 2.5 million turks and is 
nothing less than a classic un genocide .  . we are neither in 
x soviet union , nor in some similar dictatorship , 
that employs the of hitler to domestic  . also , feel 
free to distribute all responses to your , 
the pseudo scholars , or to those with the 
criminal organizations .  . 

government got away with the genocide of 2.5 million turkish men , 
women and children and is the of that genocide .  . you , and 
those like you , will not get away with the genocide 's cover up. 

not a chance. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( noam tractinsky ) 
subject re ten questions about israel 
lines 66 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
organization university of texas @ austin 
lines 66 

in article ,  ( center for policy research ) writes 

from center for policy research 
subject ten questions about israel 


ten questions to 


i would be if any of you who live in israel could help to 
provide 
accurate answers to the following specific questions. these are 
indeed questions but they are asked time and again by 
people around me. 

1. is it true that the israeli authorities do n't recognize 
israeli and that id cards , which israeli citizens 
must carry at all times , identify people as jews or , not as 



that 's true. israeli id cards do not identify people 
as  . smart huh 


3. is it true that israeli stocks nuclear weapons if so , 
could you provide any evidence 

yes. there 's one in my parent 's in 
beer  ( that 's only some 20 from , 
you know) .  . evidence i saw it ! 


4. is it true that in israeli there are a number of 
individuals which were tried in secret and for which their 
, the date of their trial and their imprisonment are 
state 

yes. but unfortunately i ca n't give you more details. 
that 's secret , you see. 


... 


thanks , 

email 


you 're welcome. now , let me ask you a few questions , if you 
do n't mind 

1. is it true that the center for policy research is a 
one man 

2. is it true that your questions are not being asked 


3. is it true that your statement above , these are indeed 
questions but they are asked time and again by 
people around me is not true 


noam 


subject re was go ! ! 
from  ( marc a afifi ) 
organization state univ electronic information services 
lines 43 

 ( dorin baru ) writes 
even the most , one  ( jewish israeli ) postings  ( with which i 
certainly disagree ) , did not openly back plain murder .  . you do. 

the  resistance  you are talking about is a bunch of 
who bombs after work , or is an organized entity of not 
only well trained i do not know , just curious. 

i guess you also back the killings of hundreds of in beirut , right 

what kind of  resistance  movement killed jewish in 

you liked it , did n't you 


you posted some other garbage before , so at least you seem to be consistent .  . 



, 
let 's not forget that the soldiers were killed not murdered .  . the 
distinction is not trivial .  . murder happens to innocent people , not people 
whose line of work is to kill or be killed. it just so happened that these 
soldiers , in the line of duty , were killed by the opposition .  . and 
resistance is different from terrorism .  . certainly the in 
were victims of  ( though some might call them freedom  . 
their deaths cannot be compared to those of soldiers who are killed by 
resistance  . do n't forget that it was the french resistance to the 
nazi forces which eventually succeeded in driving out the 
hostile in wwii .  . diplomacy has not worked with israel and the 
people are tired of being ! they are now turning to the 
only option they see as viable .  .  ( do n't forget that it worked in driving 
out the us ) 






some people are so narrow minded they can see through a crack in a door with 
both eyes. 
my opinions should be yours. my employer has no opinions. 


from  ( david davidian ) 
subject the of sold 400 of bones in  . 
keywords april 24 , 1993 , of the turkish genocide of 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

of of human bones 1 

, , by the new york times company 
special to the new york times 

, dec 22 , is by a story of the in 
that of a flying the british flag and named carrying a 
of 400 tons of human bones to there. 
the bones are said to have been loaded at on the sea of and 
to be the remains of the victims of massacres in asia minor .  . in view of the 
it is expected that an inquiry will be  . 

reference 

1 new york times , december 23 , , page 3 , 2  ( bottom ) 



on the of the turkish genocide of the , 
we remember those whose only crime was to be in the of an 
turkish state. in their names we demand justice. 

in april , the turkish government began a systematically executed 
de population of the eastern of the through a 
genocidal extermination .  . this genocide was to that turks exclusively 
ruled over the area today called the of  . the 
result 1 . 5 . million murdered , 30 billion dollars of property stolen 
and plundered .  . this genocide ended nearly 3 , 000 years of civilization 
on those lands .  . today , the turkish government continues to clean any 
of a prior existence on those lands .  . today 's turkish 
policy is to re write the history of the era , to manufacture 
and generate excuses for their genocide of the people. in 
the face of refutation ad nauseam , the turkish historical society and 
continue to deny that any such genocide occurred .  . this policy 
merely demonstrates that in the modern era , genocide is an effective state 
policy when it remains un and un punished .  . a crime is a 
crime encouraged .  . adolf hitler took this less than 25 years after the 
successful genocide of the  . 

claims there was no of , yet .  .  .  . 
were removed from every city , town , and in the whole of 
! who resisted and massacre are referred to as 
. 

claims there was no genocide of the , yet .  .  . turkish . population 
today show zero in eastern , the  . 

claims were always a small minority , yet .  .  . claims 
were a threat . 

in a final insult to the victims , the of sold the bones of 
approximately 100 , 000 murdered for profit to europe .  . 

today , the turkish government is the of that genocide .  . the 
success of this genocide is over the heads of 's 
population .  . 

the demand recognition , , return of land and 
property lost as a result of this genocide .  . 

demand justice 



david has not learned a lesson in 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies and has forgotten the 
p.o. box punishment inflicted on it. 4 14 93 
cambridge , ma late turkish president 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject cold slaughter of muslim women and children by  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 91 

in article  ( charles lasner ) writes 

hmm .  . maybe i 'll go express  . i have n't seen that 
in i have to the moment all over again. 

well , does it change the fact that during the period of to , 
the x soviet government ordered , , assisted 
and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people because 
of race , religion and national origin 

as in the past in , and today in , for and 
idiotic causes the brought to their neighbors. a 
short and misplaced with a wrong 
and methods the continue to become 
for the  . as usual , they will be treated by their 
neighbors. is a that lies completely 
within with no border or history whatsoever connected to 
x soviet  . besides the geographical aspect , is 
the and the   of the and 
of , which the claims , 
even lunatic .  . 

and we still demand 

1. that the x soviet government , as the of the 
dictatorship , recognize the turkish genocide 

2. that x soviet return the to the turkish and 
people 

3. that the x soviet government make material for their 
and crime to the victims of the turkish genocide 

4. that all world governments recognize the turkish genocide 
and turkish rights and refuse to to all 
political pressure .  . 

the awareness of the turkish people of the necessity of in the 
efforts to pursue the turkish cause is seen by the victims of the first 
genocide of the 20th century as a positive step. 

now what would you do 

source  the sunday times , ' 1 march 1992 (a british weekly , written by 
thomas , from , ) . 

soldiers massacre hundreds of fleeing families .  . 

the spiralling violence the outer of the former 
soviet union gained new yesterday with cold slaughter of 
hundreds of women and children in war  . 
survivors reported that soldiers shot and more 
than , many of them women and children , who were fleeing an 
attack on their town .  . hundreds , possibly thousands , were missing and 
dead. 
the killed most of the soldiers and defending 
the women and children. they then turned their guns on the 
 . the few survivors later described what happened that 's when 
the real slaughter began , said , one of three soldiers to 
survive. the just shot and shot .  . and then they came in and 
started up people with their and  . 
they were shooting , shooting , shooting , , who 
arrived in with other women and children who made their way through 
lines. she said her husband , , and a son in law were killed 
in front of her. her daughter was still missing .  . 
one boy who arrived in had an ear off. 

the survivors said 2000 others , some of whom had , 
were still missing in the many could from their 
or the cold .  . 
by late yesterday , deaths had been at the in 
's , and 29 bodies had been buried in the  . of the 
seven i saw , two were children and three were 
women , one shot through the at point range .  . 
hospital was a of carnage and  . doctors said they 
had who escaped slaughter , most with bullet or deep 
stab  . 
nor were they safe in  . on friday night on the city 
which has a population of 150 , 000 , destroying several buildings and 
killing one person. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject slaughter of more than 600 , 000 people in  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 21 

source , the ,  ( london , 1968 ) , pp. 25 26 .  . 

when the armies invaded after the disaster 
of , their were by of 
, both from the and from  . one of 
these was commanded by a certain , a blood  . 
these committed all kinds of , more 
than hundred thousand being killed between and in 
the eastern of  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject the israeli press 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 20 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


andy has claimed that the israeli press is a bit biased .  . 
but the fact is that there are events the politics of the 
that people who do not read the israeli press simply know 
nothing about. many of these events are not even mentioned here. 
i read the israeli press to learn of important events about which 
you know nothing , because of your total on western media 
for your information on israel .  . since i read both american media 
and israeli media , i can say with absolute certainty that anybody 
who exclusively on the american press for knowledge about 
israel does not have a true picture of what is going on. 

as to the claim that israeli papers are biased , of course they 
are. some may to the right or the left , just like the media 
here in america .  . but they still report events about which people 
here know nothing. i choose to form my opinions about israel and 
the based on more knowledge than does an average american 
who relies exclusively on an american media which does not report 
on events in the with any consistency or accuracy .  . 


from  ( warren burstein ) 
subject re how many can dance on the head of a pin 
article i.d. 
organization , jerusalem , israel 
lines 23 

in  ( joel furr ) writes 

i , warren .  . just the other day i heard a that 
 ( aka and ahmed and zumabot ) is not really a at all , 
but in fact is an who is attempting to make any discussion of the 
massacres in of turks so as to make serious discussion 
impossible , thereby the historical record with a cloud 
of confusion. 

but what is b. 's middle name i'm not sure , but i heard 
it was . i also seem to recall that is for 
the . 

we do n't have a mail address , but how about finding a address 
then instead of , we could just them 
ahmed is a seven year old greek boy with an case of 
 . his wish is to get into the usenet book of world 
records for having the highest to signal ratio .  . 




org . 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject re  . questions to 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 38 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


although i realize that principle is not one of your strongest 
points , i would still like to know why do do not ask any question 
of this sort about the arab countries. 

if you want to continue this think of yours , your 
on israel must stop .  . you might have to start asking the 
same sort of questions of arab countries as well. you realize it 
would not work , as the arab countries  treatment of jews over the 
last several decades is so bad that your on israel would 
begin to look like the biased attack that it is. 

everyone in this group that your stupid  center for 
policy research  is nothing more than a fancy name for some bigot 
who hates israel .  . 

why do n't you try being honest about your hatred of israel i 
have heard that your family once lived in israel , but the members 
of your family could not cut the competition there. is this true 
about your family is this true about you is this actually not 
about israel , but is really a personal why are you not 
the least bit objective about israel do you think that the name 
of your center hides your bias in the least get a 
clue , mr.  . have n't you realized yet that when you post 
such stupidity in this group , you are going to answers from 
people who are armed with the truth have n't you realized that a 
piece of selective data here and a piece there does not make up a 
truth have n't you realized that you are in over your head the 
people who read this group are not as stupid as you would hope or 
need them to be. this is not the place for such pseudo analysis. 
you will be continually ripped to , until you start to show 
some regard for objectivity .  . or you can continue to show what an 
anti israel you are , trying to your bias behind a 
pompous name like the  center for policy research . ' . you ought to 
know that you are a laughing stock , your  center  is considered a 
joke , and until you either go away , or make at least some attempt 
to be objective , you will have a place of honor among the , 
bigots , and idiots of usenet .  . 

from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization , inc. 
lines 21 

 ( brad hernlem ) writes 

tell me tim , what are these doing wrong assuming that they are using 
civilians for cover , are they not killing soldiers in their country 

so , it 's okay to use civilians for cover if you 're attacking soldiers 
in your country.  ( of course , many of those attacking claim that they 
are n't , so it 's not their country . ) . 

got it. i think. hmm .  . this is confusing. 

could you perhaps repeat your rules explaining exactly when it is 
permissible to use civilians as also please explain under 
what conditions it is permissible for soldiers to defend themselves. 
also please explain the particular rules that make it okay for 
to launch missiles from against israeli civilians , 
but not okay for the to try to defend themselves against 
those missiles .  . 


h. stein 

from  ( john a absood ) 
subject re freedom in u . s . a .  . 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( john a absood ) 
organization university 
lines 14 

mr. freeman 

please find something more constructive to do with your time rather 
than engaging in fantasy .  .  .  .  .  . not that i have a particular 
to or anything. 

john 



ceased , and sat apart , and silent , in the pose of a 
buddha .  . nobody moved for a time .  .  . the . was by 
a black bank of , and the to the utter 
most ends of the earth under an sky seemed to 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject on the eve of of the turkish  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 232 

in article writes 

( ) , 
your ignorance manifests itself in an form of intransigence .  . i'm not 
going to spend time to review with you the recent history of  . 

good ! ! go back to your references and read it over and over ... 

i wish the x soviet government would do that. well , 
if you prefer to imagine that the american , european , jewish and 
scholars were trying to   , be my  . 


source stanford j. shaw , on with invading 
armies in , history of the ottoman empire and modern  ( volume 
ii reform , revolution the rise of modern ,  . 
 ( london , cambridge university press  . pp. 316 .  . 

in april from organized a in the city 
of van , whose 33 , comprised 42 . 3 . percent of the population , 
to an majority of any city in the empire .  .  . leaving . 
on april 28 , , reached van on may 14 and organized 
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during 
the next two days while the small ottoman had to to the 
southern side of the  . 


source world alive , a personal story by robert dunn .  . publishers , 
inc. , new york  . 
 ( memoirs of an american who witnessed the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 

p.  ( seventh paragraph ) and p.  ( first  . 

 the most are inside houses .  . come you and look . ' . 
 no , ! my stomach is n't ' 
 one is a turkish in uniform .  . him you must see . ' . 
we were under those trees by the mosque , in an open space .  .  .  .  . 
 i do n't believe you , i said , but followed to a nail door .  . the 
man pushed it , then away , leaving me to check on the  . 
i thought i should , this charge was so constant , so my and 
went inside. 

the place was cool but of , and was dark at first , for 
its walls had only  . the mud around an 
iron over that their through roof black 
with  . all looked bare and empty , but in an inner room  . as 
the door shut behind me i saw they came from a man 's body lying face 
up , but for its  . he was about fifty years old by what 
was left of his face a rifle butt had an eye. the one left slanted , 
as with rather than with turks .  . any uniform once on him was gone , so 
i 'd no proof which he was , and quickly went out , at the mess of his 
 . 

p.  ( first  . 

 how many people lived there ' 
 oh , about eight hundred . ' . he  . 
 did you see any officers ' 
 no , sir .  . i was in at dawn .  . all were civilians in ' . 

the off , then i , but in the small hours a voice me 
's .  . he stood in the out an  . anyone 
so long and i 'd never heard. then abruptly broke into 
laughter , quick and simple as child 's .  . both were a cover for his sense 
of guilt , i thought , or hoped .  . for somehow , despite my boast of , 
christian  infidels  was more horrible than the reverse would 
have been. 

from on , in from around .  .  .  .  .  . 
the women plundered happily , like as they picked over 
the of  . they out every 's , the last 
of food or cloth , and away , , , 
, even  . 

 thank you for a lot , , ' i said to him back in camp .  .  but now i must 
leave . ' .  .  . we . shook hands , the said  a , mon ' . and 
for hours the old scout and i north across  . 
like lot 's wife i looked back once to see all , doubtless in 
a of other moslem up to the line of that was iran . ' . 

p.  . 

at morning tea , and his officers spread out a map of this whole 
high called the  . deep in , they spoke , 
but i got their for allied  neutral  and their distrust 
of promises made by  . a campaign more raids on 
moslem  . 

p. 358 .  . 

it will be three hours to take , told me. we 'd close in on three 
sides. 
the men on foot will not shoot , but use only the , 
said , a rifle in  . 
that is for , put in. we must keep the moslems in  . 
soldiers or civilians i asked. 
there is no difference , said  . all are armed , in uniform or not. 
but the women and children 
will with the others as best they may .  . 

p.  . 

the a wide , its still. hundreds of feet 
down , the fog held , solid as  .  lies under that , ' said 
, pointing .  .  our men also attack from the other sides . ' . 

then ,  ee ! ' his up all at the  . 
upon  . over , his black 
then followed the , the nose to tail , taking the 
spur .  . in action seemed more like a than war , even though 
i heard our  . 

as i watched from the , it took ages for to show clear. a 
of machine gun fire took over from the , 
dogs , invisible , while i a of cheese and drank from a 
 . at last upward as men , at first heard  . 
the came a wailing .  . 

now among the cloud rose  . red about 
house walls of or , into on  . a mosque stood in 
of trees , thick and green .  . through on fire , 
were after both mounted and on foot. 

 ! ' the by me. others them in escape 
over the , while one twisted a shell nose , loaded , and 
, firing again and again. shots , i thought , when by 
afternoon i looked in for fallen branch or body. but these shots and 
the white of in the the women 's cries .  . 

at length all shooting out. i got on my horse and down 
 . it burned still but little flame showed now. the way was and 
tough , through  . finally on ground i came out suddenly , 
through , on smoldering houses .  . across my brothers in 
were off animals , several and a lamb .  . 

p.  ( fourth  . 

came next , the first a pretty child with straight black hair , 
large eyes. she looked about twelve years old .  . she in some 
where from the she 'd been  . the 
had gone through her back , i judged , for blood around was  . between 
the one , too small for a bullet wound , her 
dress .  . 

the next was a boy of ten or less , in and knee pants .  . he 
face down in the path by several  . one reached out to the 
bowl he 'd carried , now upset upon its  . had 
just below his , into the  . 

there were , too , i saw as i led the around. was 
empty of the living till i looked up to see beside me 's german speaking 
 . he said all who had not escaped were dead. 

p. 358 .  . 

 .  .  . more . stories of murdering turks when the troops 
north .  . my hosts told me of their duty here to keep on , 
turkish shifts , hidden , christian , red or 
coming in from  . then they spoke of the hell that would 
break loose if were to put , as threatened , the   
of under the control of  .  .  . 

an without ! turks under christian rule his 
in irony under the red  . that 's just 
over again on a bigger scale. 


source u.s. library of congress  papers  general 
correspondence container 34 .  . 

while the were in power they did everything in the world to keep the 
pot by attacking , turks and by committing 
against the moslems by the moslems and and destroying 
their homes  .  .  .  . during . the last two years the in 
have shown no ability to themselves and especially no ability to 
or handle other races under their power. 


source k. , the file ,  ( london , , ,  . 

many muslim have been by the soldiers of troops 
armed with and machine guns before the eyes of our troops and the 
people .  .  .  .  . according . to documented information , 28 muslim have 
been  .  . young . muslim women have been taken to and , 
hundreds of women and children who were able to flee their were 
and killed in the mountains .  .  .  . 

source w. e. d. allen and paul , , 
cambridge university press , , p.  . 

as the found support among the  ( who regarded the 
as a counter elements ) the fighting soon became a massacre 
of the population .  . 


source general wrote as follows in an article in the 24 , 
issue of the newspaper 

since all the moslems capable of bearing were in the turkish army , 
it was easy to organize a terrible massacre by the against 
people , because the were not only attacking the 
sides and of the eastern army at the front by the 
russians , but were attacking the moslem folk in the as well. 

source quoted by general in a letter to the high , 
february 2 , , in the official history , 
au , vol. 1 , p. 122 .  . 

they burned and many turkish as 
measures in their advance and practically all turkish in their 
from  . 

source john dewey , the turkish , the new , volume 40 , 
12 , , pp.  . 

that they boasted of having raised an army of one hundred 
and fifty thousand men to fight a civil war , and that they burned at 
least a hundred turkish and exterminated their population .  . 

need i go on 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization at t 
lines 4 

says it could shoot down turkish 

does not have pot to in it let alone shooting 
down modern war  . 

from (j .  . naghizadeh ) 
subject campaign against iran  ( pbs frontline ) 
organization computer , 
lines 51 
originator 

there have been a number of articles on the program 
about iranian bomb .  . here is my 0 . 02 . on this and related subjects .  . 

one is curious to know the real reasons behind this and related 
public relations campaign about iran in recent months. these include 

1 ) attempts to iran in the bombing of the new york trade 
center .  . despite great efforts in this direction they have not 
succeeded in this. they , however , have indirectly created 
the impression that iran is behind the rise of fundamentalist 
islamic movements and thus are indirectly in this matter. 

2 ) public statements by the of state and 
other official sources regarding iran being a terrorist and 
outlaw state. 

3) and finally the recent of the program .  . i 
suspect that this campaign against iran will continue and 
perhaps  . 

why this increased pressure on iran a number of factors may have 
been behind this. these include 

1 ) the rise of islamic movements in north africa and radical 
movement in the israeli territories .  . this 
movement is basically anti western and is not necessarily 
by iran .  . the cause for of this 
movement is probably the gulf war which sought to return 
and to their in the name of 
democracy and freedom .  . also , the obvious support of 
military coup against the democratically elected 
islamic front which clearly exposed the democracy myth .  . 
a further cause of this may be the daily of the news 
on the slaughter of bosnian moslems .  . 

2 ) possible future implications of this movement in saudi arabia 
and other us states and of the cheap oil 
sources from this  . 

3) a need to create an enemy as an excuse for huge defense 
 . this has become necessary after the of 
union .  . 

the recent campaign against iran , however , seems to be directed 
from israel rather than washington .  . there is no fundamental conflict 
of interest between iran and the us and in my opinion , it is in the 
interest of both countries to affect of normal 
and friendly relations .  . this may have a effect on the 
rise of radical movements within the islamic world and iran . 



from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re syria 's 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 

in article writes 

in article ,  ( adam shostack ) writes 

in article writes 

1 ) is israel 's occupation of southern temporary 

israel has repeatedly stated that it will leave when 
the government can provide that israel will not be 
attacked from , and when the leave .  . 

not acceptable .  . syria and have a right to determine if 
they wish to return to the situation prior to the french invasion 
where they were both part of the same territory read 
colony .  . 

and has a right to make this decision without 
troops controlling the country. until syria leaves , and free 
elections take place , its is rediculous to claim that the 
would even be involved in determining what happens to their country. 

israel has no right to determine what happens in  . invading another 
country because you consider them a threat is precisely the way that almost 
all wars of have started .  . 

i expect you will agree that the same holds true for syria 
having no right to be in 

israel has already annexed areas taken over in the war. 
these areas are not , but disputed , since there is no 
governing body. citizenship was given to those residents 
in annexed areas who wanted citizenship .  . 

the un defines them as  . they are as such by every 
nation on earth  ( excluding one small  . 

the un also thought is racism .  . that fails to make it true. 

the first reason was security .  . a large jewish makes 
it difficult for to  . a jewish also 
act as in times of war. 

also are a  . we are talking about civilian that 
would last no more than hours against , 

they lasted weeks against in  48 , and stopped those 
from  . they also lasted days in  . there is little 
evidence for the claim that they are military  . 

they evidence is there to show that when take 
place over the river , the existance of large , 
forces into a very small area , where they are 
usually picked up in the morning. 

a second reason was political .  . creating brought 
the to the table .  . had the creation of new towns and 
cities gone on another several years , there would be no place left in 
israel where there was an arab majority .  . there would have been no 
land left that could be called arab .  . 

do n't fool yourself. it was the gulf war that brought the to the 
table .  . once their us had a secure base in the gulf 
they to negotiate or else. 

nonsense. israel has been trying to get its to the 
table for 40 years. it was the gulf war that brought the 
to the table , not the  . 

the point is , there are many reasons people moved over the 
green line , and many reasons the government wanted them to. whatever 
status is for disputed territories , it will not be an all 
or nothing deal. new will be drawn up by , not 
be the results of a war. 

unless the new drawn up are those of 48 there will be no peace. 
has precious little authority to agree to anything else. 

nonsense. according to , israel must be  . he 
has never come clean and denied that this is his plan .  . he always 
on what he means. 

the set off their , there will only be in 
this part of the world. our people will continue to the 
of the revolution with of blood until the whole of the 
is liberated .  .  . '' . 
, ap , 3 12 




adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( casper ,  . ppe ) 
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization european organization for nuclear research , 
lines 

in article ,  ( ken arromdee ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( casper ,  . ppe ) writes 
i about the us taking the point in bosnia , when the 
should be doing it 
ken says the are morally superior to the  .  .  . 

this implies both sides are equal .  . true , it may sometimes be difficult or 
impossible to determine which side is the victim , but that does not mean that 
victims do not exist. 

yes , victims exist. there are a number of victims in the world and 
more each day. i think on , intervention would create more victims , 
including american ones. since the first responsibility of the us government 
is to protect americans , i think they serve that role best by staying away 
from bosnia and other regional conflicts .  . 

would you , in wwii have said that there were atrocities 
on the sides of both the jews and the germans 

of course not. the jews were not trying to carve a territory out of germany 
either , and except for small scale resistance and a few larger , did 
not have an army or a government. 

these people have been each other for centuries .  . when one 
side and gets what it wants , it will stop .  . 

yes , but both sides want different things. the muslims want to not 
be ethnic . the want to ethnic the muslims .  . it 
is indeed true that each side will stop when it gets what it wants , but the 
things that the two sides want are not equivalent .  . 

i see the pattern of atrocities as a fairly often practiced tactic of a 
power driving away and or the population of an 
area they want to control. the us tried basically that in vietnam , the iraqis 
in kuwait , the in , south africa , etc , etc , etc. it , 
it 's , and it 's  . but it is not genocide .  . 

it is not my impression that the serbs want to eliminate every muslim in 
yugoslavia .  . i still say the are getting their asses kicked they 
should surrender and the areas they ca n't hold .  . 

i said the on bosnia is due to it being in a european country , 
rather than the third world 

i recall , before we did anything for ,  ( apparent ) left saying 
that the reason everyone was more willing to send troops to bosnia than to 
was because the are third who americans consider 
unworthy of help. they suddenly shut up when the us decided to send troops to 
the opposite place than that predicted by the theory. 

i am a republican , btw. the irony of arguing against military 
intervention with arguments based on vietnam has not escaped me. i was opposed 
to us intervention in for the same reasons , although clearly it was 
not nearly as  . 

for that matter , this theory of yours suggests that americans should want to 
help the serbs .  . after all , they 're christian , and the muslims are not. if 
the desire to intervene in bosnia is based on racism against people that are 
less like us , why does everyone want to help the side that is less like us 
especially if both of the sides are equal as you seem to think 

well , one thing you have to remember is , the press likes a good story. good 
for business , do n't you know. and btw , not everyone wants to help the 
side that is less like us. 

i never said the two sides were morally equivalent , i said neither one is 
innocent .  . 

there are just too many good reasons to stay away 

1 ) the are perfectly able to deal with this dispute on their borders 
in any way we do it. put another way , we have no assistance to offer the 
which they do not already themselves. it is not good to 
promote the idea in anyone 's mind that the united states is responsible 
for cleaning up every bloody mess in the world. 

2 ) clinton is not the man to lead this country into a military  . full 
stop .  . 

3) it is by no means clear what intervention would , nor that it 
would necessarily help the victims .  . it is not clear what the goal is and 
at what point any commitment could be ended .  . 



from 
subject re no land for peace no 
originator 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 45 


in article ,  ( dorin baru ) writes 

stein writes 

what are you talking about the government has clearly 
indicated its interest in a compromise that would leave 
the vast majority of the in judea , and gaza outside 
israeli control. 

 ( just an comment here ) since early 's , said they are 
willing to give up the rule of the to 
 . refused and will refuse such that denies 
them their right of self determination .  . period. 

i know. i was just pointing out that not compromising may be a bad idea. and 
there are , in israel , against  . and i think there are many 
among also against any  . 

just an opinion 



ok. i know why there are israeli against  . however , 
i would guess that is because they refuse giving back a land for those who 
have the right for it. 

as for the and that are against the 
current and the so called peace process , they 
are not against peace per , but rather for their well founded predictions 
that israel would not give an of the west bank  ( and most probably the same 
for heights ) back to the  . an 18 months of in madrid , 
and washington proved these predictions .  . now many will jump on me saying why 
are you blaming for no result  . 
i would say why would the stall the , what do they have to 
loose 

feel that the current is only for the current 
status quo and for the doors of the arab for israeli trade and 
oranges . that is simply unacceptable and would be revoked .  . 

just an opinion. 



from  ( ahmed abed ) 
subject re of the 
originator 
nntp posting host ice . edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 23 


in article ,  ( danny keren ) writes 
this is nonsense. i lived in the for many years and i can say 
for sure that no were moved or harmed in any way. on the 
contrary , their standard of living has climbed many of them 
now live in rather nice , permanent houses , and own cars .  . there are 
quite a few students in the ben university .  . there are 
good , friendly relations between them and the rest of the population .  . 

all the i met would be rather surprised to read mr. davidson 's 
poster , i have to say. 

 . 


it is nonsense , , if you can refute it with proof. if you are your 
experience then you should have been there in the 's  ( the article is 
comparing the condition then with that  . 

otherwise , it is you who is trying to change the facts .  . 

ahmed .  . 

from  ( dorin baru ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization corporation 
lines 


 ( brad hernlem ) writes 


i just thought that i would make it clear , in case you are not familiar with 
my past postings on this subject i do not attacks on civilians .  . 
and other resistance are at precision 
bombing of and israeli targets .  . i find such methods to be far more 
and responsible than the israeli method of and bombing 
with the hope that a member will be killed along with 
the civilians murdered .  . i do not consider the killing of combatants to be 
murder .  . soldiers are trained to die for their country. three soldiers 
did their duty the other day. these men need not have died if their government 
had kept them on israeli  . 

is there any israeli a civilian , in your opinion 

now , i do not myself bombing , any kind of  . 
but you claim these are with civilians , and claim they are 
camps filled with  . you claim that shell the with the 
 hope  of finding a terrorist or so. if they kill one , fine , if not , too bad , 
civilians die , right i am not so sure. 

as somebody wrote , saddam hussein had no problems using civilians in disgusting 
manner. and he also claimed  civilians  . let me ask you , is n't there 
at least a slight chance that you  ( not only , and the question is very general , 
no insult ) are doing a similar type of propaganda in respect to civilians in 
southern 

now , a lot people who post here consider  israeli  kind of sea. 
how do you define israeli from what you say , if you do not clearly 
recognize the state of israel , you killing anywhere. 

, are you aware that the sent and gun up the 
coast of the other day and a north of 
beirut .  . perhaps i should ask you what a person for murder 

i do not know what was the of the action you describe .  . if it was 
to kill civilians (i doubt ) , i certainly do not it. if civilians were 
killed , i do not it. 

that they are 

that they are children and may grow up to be 

that they are female and may give birth to little 

brad 

mr. , it was you , not me , who was showing a huge for 3 
 ( human beings by most standards , do n't know about your standards ) killed. 

if you ask me those questions , i will have no problem answering  ( not with a 
question , as you did) no , nobody is qualified candidate for murder , nothing 
murder .  . i have the feeling that you may be able yourself to make 
similar statements , maybe after all , jews , am i wrong 


now tell me , did you also saddam 's on israeli  soldiers  in , let 's 
say , tel from what i understand , a lot of  . what does 
it show it does not qualify for freedom fighting to me but again , i may be 
wrong , and the jewish controlled media the information , and i am just 
an ignorant victim of the media , like most of us. 






from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject while all the from to  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 55 

in article  ( peter vorobieff ) writes 

disclaimer if there is anybody on usenet enough to interpret 
this posting as a serious and meaningful one , i want to this 
entity that it was but a joke 

still at the telephone and the people will think 
you 're just some in the  . now any comment 


source documents volume i  . 
document no 76 , archive no 1 2 , no 109 , 
no 3 , file no 346 , section no  ( 427(1385 ) , contents no 3 , 52 53 .  . 
 ( to  . , general , second section , 
dr. eshnanie ) 

  ,  lloyd   local  berlin , 
  ,    . 

i have been closely following for two weeks the of russians and 
from turkish territories through  . although two months 
have since the clearing of the territories of , i 
have been observing the evidence of the of the at 
almost every step. all the from to and from 
to are  . of turks brutally and 
slain are everywhere. according to accounts by those who were able to 
save their lives by to mountains , the first horrible and 
events begun when the forces evacuated the places which were then 
taken over by  . the russians usually treated the people 
well , but the people the intervention of the  . once these 
places had been taken over by the , however , the massacres begun .  . 
they clearly their intention of clearing what they called the 
and land from the turks and thus , solve the 
problem. today i had the opportunity to meet and german soldiers 
who had escaped from prison camps and come from and 
paul  ( gumru  .  . officers tried to save the 
turks and there were between officers and  . 
i am now in , and what i see is terrible .  . almost the whole city is 
 . the smell of the still fills the air. although there are 
speculations that murdered and german prisoners as 
well , i could not get the supporting evidence in this regard , but there is 
proof of murdering of turkish prisoners of war. 

dr. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
subject re go ! ! 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( amir y rosenblatt ) 
organization university 
lines 50 

in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

resistance forces a bomb under an israeli occupation 
in territory two days ago. three soldiers were killed and 
two  . in , israeli and israeli backed forces 
8 civilians by several  . , the israeli 
government its occupation in by claiming that it is 
necessary to prevent such of israeli ! ! 

to the men of the resistance ! with every 
israeli son that you place in the grave you are the moral 
of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli 
government 's policy of disregard for civilian life. 

brad 


ahhh , of course. israeli morality in the face of events 
like the string of run in the mid 80 's  ( remember those 
) , and not to forget the and however many 
bombings they have committed , not to mention bombings on the streets of 
israel  ( it 's gotten to a point where children are told not to go near any 
or whose origins they do n't know , because they could be 
bombs ) , or last weeks rocket attack on northern israel by , 
those wonderful mainstream moderates with whom israel is attempting 
to negotiate .  . 

let 's not forget the fact that more palestinians are killed by palestinians 
than by  . yes , those death squads .  . 
i 've actually seen a of an interrogation  ( dsee the documentary 
very neutral and balanced seriously ) it was rather 
inquisition  . essentially , to prove his loyalty to the cause of 
group it was that was him , he had to turn in someone 
else , or else face death in one of the many fun filled ways that the death 
squads love so much , , acid , melted plastic 
on the face of the  guilty party , ' and of course , always my 
favorite .  . did you the in the washington post a while back 
the execution of a 3 
1 ) one another at  . 
2 ) the on his , the gun pointed at his temple .  . 
3) the standing on the of the 
shouting about how this is what happens to  . 

wonderful justice system , and lots of regard for human rights. 
remember black september 
ok , so they just tried to take over , big deal. 

i'm rambling now , but are you getting what i'm saying 



from  ( david davidian ) 
subject re public service translation no . 2 . 
keywords effective greek postings 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 36 

in article  ( gt1091a 
, timucin ) wrote 

who the hell is this guy david  . i think he talks too much .  .  . 

i am your alter ego ! 

yo , david you would better shut the f .  .  .  . up .  .  . o . k . 

no , its  not ok ! what are you going to do come and get me 

i do n't like your  . you are full of lies and shit. 

in the united states we refer to it as freedom of speech. if you do n't like 
what i write either prove me wrong , shut up , or simply away ! 

did n't you hear the saying t mess with a ! ! ... 

no. why do you ask what are you going to do are you going to submit me to 
bodily harm are you going to kill me are you going to torture me 

see in hell .  .  . 

wrong again ! 

 . 

all i did was to translate a few lines from turkish into english. if it was 
so embarrassing in turkish , it should n't have been written in the first place ! 
do n't kill the messenger ! 


david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from com .  ( frank benson ) 
subject freeman 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

watch your language ! ! ! ! 


internet com . 
uucp uunet ! edu . ! ! pro ! 

from  ( anas omran ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 27 
reply to  ( anas omran ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( tim clock ) says 

in article ( ) writes 
i think the israeli press might be a bit biased in 
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of 
reported accurately on what was happening in germany .  . it is 
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda .  . 

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or 
news , where do we go to understand , to learn 
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another 

there are many neutral human rights organizations which always report 
on the situation in the o . t .  . but , as most people used to see on tv , the 
do not allow them to go deep there in the o . t .  . the 
used to arrest and sometimes to kill some of these neutral reporters .  . 
so , this is another kind of terrorism committed by the jews in  . 
they do not allow fair and neutral of the situation in  . 

to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political 
, whether it is on or against our side . 

tim 




from 
subject re water on the brain  ( was re israeli lust ) 
originator 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 15 


in article ,  ( alan stein ) writes 
i guess finally revealed the source of his claim that israel 
diverted water from his imagination. 

h. stein 
mr. water head , 
i never said that israel diverted , in fact i said that 
israel went into southern to make sure that no 
water is being used on the 
side , so that all water would run into river where there 
israel will use it ! head. 



from 
subject re views on jerusalem 
organization c . c . s . o .  . 
lines 10 

it seems that president clinton can recognize jerusalem as capitol 
while still keeping his diplomatic door open by stating that the parties 
concerned should decide the city 's final status .  . even as i 
w  ( of course) , it is definitely a matter to be decided upon by israel  ( and 
other  . 
i see no real conflict in stating both views , nor expect any better from 
politicians .  . 

david university of illinois 
dept sci w. dr. urbana , il 

from  ( ozan s. yigit ) 
subject re turkish government on usenet lie through their ! 
in reply to 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 20 45 12 gmt 
organization york u. student information systems project 
lines 15 

babble 

the turkish government it can a state of 
existing in today onto usenet and convince people via its 
, , and incidental view of themselves and their place in the 
world. 

turkish government on usenet how long are you going to keep repeating 
this utterly idiotic and drivel 



life of a people is a sea , and those that look at it from the 
cannot know its depths .  . 


from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject this year the turkish nation is and praying again for .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

referring to notes from the personal diary of general l. 
on the turkish front , he wrote , 

on the nights 11 12 march , alone 
and to death 3000 muslims in areas surrounding 
 . these threw their victims into , most 
likely according to their plans to 
muslims , in groups of 80 .  . my counted and 
200 such  . this is an act against our world of civilization .  . 

on march 12 , wrote  ( from an official 
account of the turkish genocide ) , 

roads to were with , 
and out of muslim  .  .  . 
! mainly of women and children. 

source doc .  . dr. , view on the atrocities committed 
by the against the turks , , , 
1987 , pp. 45 53 .  . 
document no , archive no 1 2 , no 10 , 
no 4 , file no , section no , contents no 1 12 , 1 18 .  . 
 ( acting of and regions and 
of the second prisoner of war , 
toverdodleyov ) 

the things i have heard and seen during the two months , until the 
liberation of by the turks , have all the 
allegations concerning the , characteristic of 
the  . during the occupation of , no 
was to approach the city and its  . 

while the of the first army corps , general remained 
in power , troops including men , were not sent to the 
area. when the security measures were lifted , the began to 
attack and its surroundings .  . following the attacks came the 
of the houses in the city and the and the murder 
of the owners of these houses .  .  . was widely committed by 
the soldiers .  . this was mainly committed by soldiers 
who had remained in the during the war. 

one day , while passing through the streets on , a group of 
soldiers including an began to two old men of 
years in a certain direction .  . the roads were covered with mud , 
and these people were the two helpless turks through the mud 
and  .  .  . 

it was understood later that all these were nothing but and 
 . the turks who joined the soon changed their minds 
and  . the reason was that most of the turks who were on night 
did not return , and no one knew what had happened to them. the 
turks who had been sent outside the city for began to disappear 
also. finally , the court which had been established for the 
trials of murderers and , began to itself for 
fear that they themselves would be punished .  . the incidents of murder 
and rape , which had , began to occur more frequently .  . 

sometime in and february , a turkish citizen 
from , was killed one night at his home. the 
in chief  ( odiselidge ) gave orders to find murderers within three days. 
the in chief has bitterly reminded the 
that among the men had reached its 
highest point , that they had insulted and robbed the people and half 
of the turks sent outside the city had not returned .  . 

 .  .  . we . the details this incident from the in chief , 
 . they were as follows 

the killings were organized by the doctors and the , and the 
act of killing was committed solely by the  .  .  . 
more than eight hundred unarmed and defenceless turks have been 
killed in  . large holes were and the defenceless 
turks were slaughtered like animals next to the holes .  . later , the 
murdered turks were thrown into the holes .  . the who stood 
near the hole would say when the hole was filled with the 
 dead bodies , well , this hole can take ten more . ' . thus ten 
more turks would be cut into pieces , thrown into the hole , and when 
the hole was full it would be covered over with  . 

the responsible for the act of murdering would frequently 
fill a house with turks , and cut their heads off one by one. 
following the massacre , the began to 
towards  .  .  . the among those who 
to from the moslem on the road , and 
the entire population , together with the  . 

during the transportation of the , ammunition and the 
that were outside the war area , certain people were among the 
population to conduct the horse  . while the 
were passing through , the took advantage of the time 
when the soldiers were in their and began to kill 
the they had  . when the soldiers heard the cries 
of the dying , they attempted to help them. however , the 
threatened the soldiers by that they would 
have the same fate if they intervened , and thus prevented them from 
acting .  . all these acts of slaughter were committed with 
hatred and  . 

from the army described an incident that 
he witnessed in as follows an had shot a  . the 
down but did not die. the attempted to force the 
stick in his hand into the mouth of the dying  . however , since 
the had firmly closed his in his , the failed 
in his attempt .  . having seen this , the ripped open the 
of the , him , and finally killed him by 
him with the iron heel of his boot. 

himself told us that all the turks who could not escape 
from the of were killed. their heads had been cut off 
by axes .  . he also told us that he had seen thousands of murdered 
children. , who passed through the 
of , three weeks after the massacre told us the following 

there were thousands of dead bodies to pieces , on the roads .  . 
every who happened to pass through these roads , and 
on the  . in the of a mosque which was about 
square , dead bodies were to a of 
 . among these were men and women of every age , 
children and old people. the women 's bodies had obvious marks of 
rape .  . the of many girls were filled with gun  . 

a few girls , who worked as telephone operators 
for the troops were called by 
to the of the mosque and he bitterly told them to be 
proud of what the had done. to the 's 
, the girls started to laugh and , 
instead of being horrified .  . the had severely 
those girls for their behaviour .  . when he told 
the girls that the , including women , were generally more 
than even the wildest animals , and that their 
and laughter was the most obvious evidence of their 
and , before a that appalled even soldiers , 
the girls finally their sense of and 
claimed they had laughed because they were nervous .  . 

an at the command 
the following incident which took place on february 20 

the had nailed a turkish women to the wall. they had cut 
out the women 's heart and placed the heart on top of her head. 
the great massacre in began on february 7 .  .  .  . the men 
of the division caught and people. then they 
took these people into the to their  . 100 people 
among this group were able to save their lives as the result of 
my decisive attempts .  . the others , the claimed , were 
released when they that i understood what was going on. 
among those who organized this act was the to the 
officers ,  . today , some turks were murdered 
on the streets. 

on february 12 , some have shot more than ten innocent 
moslems .  . the soldiers who attempted to save these people were 
threatened with death. i imprisoned an for 
murdering an innocent  . 

when an told an murderer that he would 
be hanged for his crime , the killer  how dare 
you an for killing a ' in , the 
burned down the turkish market .  . on february 17 , i heard 
that the entire population of , within 
the area , had been totally  . on the same 
day when entered , i reported the massacre to 
him , and asked him to track down the perpetrators of this horrible 
act. however no result was achieved .  . 

in the whose had been , there was a 
natural silence .  . on the night of 26 27 february , the 
the russians , a massacre and escaped for fear of the 
turkish soldiers .  . later , it was understood that this massacre had 
been based upon a method organized and in a circular .  . 
the population had been in a certain place and then killed 
one by one. the number of murders committed on that night reached 
three thousand .  . it was the who to about the details 
of the massacre .  . the fighting against the turkish soldiers 
were so few in number and so that they could not even 
the turkish soldiers who of only five hundred 
people and two , for one night , and away. the 
of the community could have prevented this massacre .  . 
however , the had shared the same ideas with 
the in this massacre , just as in all the others. the lower 
classes within the community have always the orders 
of the and  . 

i do not like to give the impression that all 
were to these murders .  . no , for there were people who 
opposed the for such actions , since they understood that 
it would no result. however , such people were only a minority .  . 
furthermore , such people were considered as to the 
cause. some have seemingly opposed the murders but have 
supported the massacres secretly .  . some , on the other hand , preferred 
to remain silent .  . there were certain others , who , when accused by 
the russians of , would say the following  you are russians .  . 
you can never understand the cause . ' . the had a 
conscience .  . they would commit massacres and then would flee in fear 
of the turkish soldiers .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( joel furr ) 
subject re how many can dance on the head of a pin 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 16 

in article writes 
in  ( joel furr ) writes 
how many can dance on the head of a pin 

that reminds me of the massacre of the turks .  . 

joel , i took out , are we sure we want to invoke the name of he who 
for 's last name lest he include in his daily 


i , warren .  . just the other day i heard a that 
 ( aka and ahmed and zumabot ) is not really a at all , 
but in fact is an who is attempting to make any discussion of the 
massacres in of turks so as to make serious discussion 
impossible , thereby the historical record with a cloud 
of confusion. 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject the orders for the turkish extermination of the 17 
summary to the children of genocide send them away into the desert 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 145 


the orders for the turkish extermination of the 17 
to the children of genocide send them away into the desert 

this is part of a continuing series of articles containing official turkish 
 ( ww1 ) , in translation , the orders 
for the extermination of the people in  . generally , these 
were issued by the turkish of the , , 
for example , we have the following set regarding children 

to the government of  . 

5 ,  . we are informed that the little ones belonging to 
the from , , and 
hundreds of distance from are by certain moslem 
families and received as when they are left alone through 
the death of their parents .  . we you that you are to 
all such children in your and send them to the places of 
, and also to give the necessary orders regarding this to 
the people. 

of the , 

1 

to the government of  . 

september 21 ,  . there is no need for an  . it is not the 
time to give way to and feed the , their 
lives. send them away to the desert and us. 

of the , 
2 

to the general for and  . 

26 ,  . there were more than four hundred children in the 
 . they will be added to the and sent to their 
places of exile .  . 

 . 3 


to the government of  . 

15 ,  . we hear that certain which have been 
opened receive also the children of the  . whether this is 
done through the ignorance of our real purpose , or through 
of it , the government will regard the feeding of such children or 
any attempt to their lives as an act entirely opposed to it 
purpose , since it considers the survival of these children as 
detrimental .  . i recommend that such children shall not be received 
into the , and no attempts are to be made to establish 
special for them. 

of the , 

 . 4 

to the government of  . 


and keep only those who cannot remember the 
to which their parents have been  . send the rest away with 
the  . 

of the , 

5 

from the ministry of the to the government of  . 

at a time when there are thousands of moslem and the 
of fallen soldiers are in need of food and protection , it is 
not to extra by feeding the children left by 
, who will serve no purpose except that of giving trouble 
in the future. it is necessary that these children should be turned 
out of your and sent with the to the place of 
 . those that have been kept till now are also to be sent 
away , in with our previous orders , to  . 

of the , 

6 

in , (a turkish nationalist ) wrote in her 
about a conversation with , and rationalizing this 
national anti , the following 

i have the conviction that as long as a nation does the best for 
its own interest , and , the world it and thinks 
it moral .  . i am ready to die for what i have done , and i know i 
shall die for it. 7 


these were entered as evidence during the trial of 
's , ,  . the turkish government never 
questioned these death march orders until 1986 , during a time when the world 
was again reminded of the genocide of the  . 

for reasons known to those who study the psychology of genocide denial , the 
turkish government and their in crime deny that such orders were 
ever issued , and further claim that these were based on a 
study by s. and s. of the turkish historical society. 

if one were to examine the authentic text provided in the turkish 
historical society study and use their same test on that , it 
too would be a ! . in fact , if any of the by the 
turkish historical society are performed an any piece of ottoman turkish or 
arabic , one finds that anything in such language is 
a  . 

today , the body of lies in a on liberty hill , , 
, just next to the university campus .  . the body of this genocide 
architect was returned to from germany during ww2 when was in a 
state of  . recently , this has served as a 
point for anti in  . 

this represents the of the turkish government 's 
denial of a clear historical event and is an insult to a people whose only 
crime was to be born  . 

references 

1 the of , , , pages 59 60 

2 , page 60 

3 , page 60 

4 , page 61 

5 , page 61 

6 , page 62 

7 of , , the century press , new york  ( and 
london ) , , page 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject destroying ethnic identity turks of (  .  . ) . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 145 

in article  ( panos ) writes 

sure your memory is weak. 
let me your memory  ( if that 's not to late ) 

first of all it is called  . 
let me even it for you i s t a n b u l 

when my came in , the official name of the city was 
 . 

are you related to   of terrorism and 
triangle 

now , read carefully the following , and then speak 
the recent watch 78 page report , broken promises torture and 

 . 

1 

watch problems of turks in western continue 

(a . in a 15 page report of the watch it is 
stated that the turkish minority in western is still 
with problems and that the discriminatory policy being 
implemented by the greek government be brought to an end. 

the report on western emphasized that the greek government 
should grant social and political rights to all the members of 
minorities that are equal to those by greek citizens and 
in addition they must recognize the existence of the turkish 
minority in western and grant them the right to identify 
themselves as  . 

, may 1992 

2 

west turks 

the independent said that the greek 
state is trying to cut all contacts and relations of the turkish 
minority with  . 

pointing out that while the greek minority living in is 
called greek by ethnic definition , only the religion of the 
minority in western is considered .  . in an with 
the greek newspaper he said i am a greek citizen of 
turkish origin .  . the individuals of the minority living in western 
trace are also turkish .  . 

the education problem for the turkish minority in 
western said that according to an agreement 
signed in must distribute textbooks printed in 
in turkish minority schools in western  . 

his activities and those of independent dr. 
to defend the rights of the turkish minority , 
said. in fact we helped  . because we prevented 
, the of democracy , from face before european 
countries by forcing the greek government to recognize our legal 
rights. 

on greek relations , he pointed out that both countries are 
to live in peace for geographical and historical 
reasons and said that and must resist the foreign 
powers who are trying to create a between them by 
, adding that in he observed that there was 
will to improve relations with  . 

, 1993 

3 

human rights to face trial in  . 

two ethnic human rights will face trial in 
for alleged crimes against the greek state , according to a 
court summons  . 5445 ) obtained by  . 

and  ( or bulis ) 
have been charged under greek criminal law for making comments in 
an magazine .  . 

and gave an to the greek weekly 
magazine on march 11 , 1992 , and said that they as 
were denied basic human rights in and would 
field an ethnic candidate for the up coming greek 
general election .  . 

said in the i am not greek , i am  . 
said in the article that should recognise 
 . the allegations regarding aspirations 
against are tales .  .  .  . we are in a panic to secure the 
border , at a time when the borders and within the 
are falling .  . 

the main charge against the two , according to the court 
summons , was that they have spread .  .  . intentionally . false 
information which might create and fear among the 
citizens , and might affect the public security or harm the 
international interests of the country  . 

the greek state does not recognise the existence of a 
 . there are believed to be between , 000 to 
1 , 000 , 000 ethnic living within , largely 
in the north .  . it is a crime against the greek state 
if anyone themselves  . 

in , yugoslavia and 
into three pieces .  . in took 50 
 . the part under occupation broke away in 
1991 as the independent of  . there are 1 . 5 . 
million in the , 000 in 150 , 000 
in and , 000 in proper .  . 

has been a long time for 
human rights in , and lost his job as a a 
few years ago. he was even exiled to an obscure greek island in 
the  . only pressure from amnesty international forced 
the greek government to allow him to return to his home town of 
 ( lerin ) in northern  ( aegean macedonia ) , where the 
majority of ethnic live. 

see the affair as a show trial in 
which is to down on internal , 
especially when it comes to the issue of recognition for its 
northern , the of  . 

last year the state department of the united states condemned 
for its bad treatment of ethnic and turks  ( who 
largely live in western  . but it remains to be seen if the 
us government will do anything until the presidential elections 
are over. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re conventional israel palestinians 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 

the latest israeli proposal , first proposed in february of 1992 , contains 
the following assumptions concerning the nature of any status 
refering to the and gaza , the palestinians , implemented by  . 
it states that 
israel will remain the existing source of authority until final status 
is agreed upon 
israel will the of power to the of the 
self government  ( isga ) 
the will apply to the of the territories 
under israeli military  . the will not have a 
application , nor will they apply to the israeli population 
of the territories or to the of jerusalem 
powers not under the will be by israel 
will continue to live and in the 
israel alone will have responsibility for security in all its aspects 
external , internal and for the of public order 
the of the will be of an administrative functional nature 
the exercise of powers under the will be subject to and 
with israel .  . 
israel will negotiate of powers and in the 
areas of , justice , , , education , 
business , , labor and social welfare , local police , 
local transportation and communications , affairs and religious 
affairs .  . 

several question do come to mind concerning the success we all hope for 
in the process. these certainly seem to 
be essentially a rejection of any self control. 
without itself to risks and creating 
, can israel reasonably put forward  ( at later points in the 
process) more for this period 
how should  ( from either side ) be altered to their 
approaches as stated above how can israeli , and 
desire for some control , be addressed while providing for a 
very real self governing entity 

tim 

later comment 

there seem to be two perceptions that have to be addressed . the 
first is that of israel , where there is little trust for arab groups , so 
there is little support for israel giving up in 
exchange for pieces of paper , expectations , hopes , etc. the second 
is that of the arab world palestinians , where there is the demand that 
these be made by israel without it receiving 
anything back .  . given this , the gap between the two 
seems to be the need by israel of receiving some returns 
for its expected  . by is meant something that 
1 ) provides israel with comparable protection  ( from the land it is to 
give up ) , 2 ) in some way that the arab states and 
will be accountable and held actively  ( not just diplomatically ) 
responsible for the upholding of all actions on its territory  ( by citizens 
or ) .  . 

israel is hanging on largely because it is scared that the minute 
it lets go  ( gives lands back to arab states , no more , gives 
full to palestinians ) , any and or all of the arab parties 
could  ( and would , if not controlled somehow ) easily return to the 
traditional anti israel position. the question then is how to really 
ensure that that will not happen. 





tim d .  . graduate student 
tel , department of politics and society 
fax , university of california 

from 
subject re from israeli press. torture. 
distribution world 
organization the hebrew university of jerusalem 
lines 115 

in article , center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press. torture. 

written 4 41 apr 16 , 1993 by in forum . 
from israeli press. torture. 
from the israeli press. 

newspaper ma date 18 .  . december 1992 author 

subject torture 


sigh. 

la , e. the truth will out ( lie 
) with event related brain  . 
1991 28 

the research reported here was supported in part by contract number 
with the central intelligence agency .  . preliminary reports were presented at the 
1986 , 1988 , and 1989 meetings of the society for research . 

happens to be an israeli .  . 

do you really think that israel needs something as primitive as torture when it 
has this as well as something brought over by a from the 
military hospital in  ( factor analysis of multiple 
activity of the brain ) surely you  . 

when israel trained dogs on arab prisoners the way it 's commonly done on 
prison in or , then you have a right to 
against torture. when israeli security arab prisoners the way 
chicago police do , then you have a right to complain. since it does not 
practice physical torture in any way , from using this word. 













title of article moderate physical pressure 

several times in the course of the long hours in the interrogation 
room in prison , during which he says he was , 
and tortured , heard his , a 
  , chatting on the phone with his wife .  . 
at those , said , i felt that he was like a 
, but right after he finished talking , he would be 
me and say ,  you to the conversation and 
yourself  and i understood that he was not really a human being . 

in late october 1992 , after 38 days in at 
prison , was released without charges .  . among the jews , 
as among the , there are good people and bad people , he said 
after his release , but there , in , in the 
, you cannot find even one person about whom you can say that 
he is a human being . although he left the 
in bruised and ( i sat at home for ten days. my 
hands shook from ) , one may consider lucky he 
got out , not so healthy , but entire , and even ultimately returned 
to normal , at the small plant he owns .  . 

in , al , for example , was released 
seven weeks ago from in after 33 days in the 
, cut off from his surroundings .  . he does n't speak or 
react .  . , only 23 , who was in early 
august and was brought to the , left 
it one day later dead. we have recently received an especially 
large number of concerning cruel employed at 
the by , noted 
dr. gordon , director of the association of israel and 
for human rights. ( .  .  . ) . 

the right to complain against the does not 
, a 20 year old student .  . in fact , he was extremely 
about describing the manner in which he was 
in prison , in case the publication in the paper would 
return him to and lead to  . 

( .  .  . follow . description of  .  .  . ) . 

, a man , was silent .  . i do not want to talk about 
it , he finally said ,  . some time later , and 
, he spoke sometimes he beats you and beats you until 
you 'll his hand , and not only his hand. even the hands of 
another , and another , whom he calls into the room , 
and the last says now you are my hand , and 
later if i want , you will my ass. 

these things take place in an israeli army , 
within the military government compound in  ( west 
 . but the interrogation is a separate kingdom .  . in 
early march the allowed representatives of b , the 
israeli information center for human rights in the territories , to 
visit prison , but denied them access to the interrogation 
 . the interrogation is property , being solely 
under responsibility .  . all are performed by 
it , said an , the of the 
, according to the internal report written by b 
member , , following the visit .  . major david er , 
governing of the prison system in the central command , 
was quoted in the report there is an ethical problem here no 
one can enter the interrogation . 

 . by i. 


from  . rizvi ) 
subject re no humanity in bosnia 
organization univ .  . western ontario , london  . ca 
keywords 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 11 

it is very encouraging that a number of people took so interest in my posting . i . recieved a couple of letters too , some has the statement that events in bosnia are in the history of the modern world . those . who this statement present the of the world war ii . however . we must keep in mind that it was a world war and no country had the power to stop it , today is the matter not of the power but of the will . it . 
seems to be that what we lack is the will. 
second point of difference  ( which makes it different from the  ( holocast(sp ) ) is that at that time international community 
have enough to prevent the unfortunate event , 
today of all the might , the international community is not just standing neutral but has placed an which 
is to the obvious of the side and therefore to the advantage of the hence . and possibly 
, mankind has with the killers . and . this , i think is in the history of the modern world. 

m . 



from  ( warren burstein ) 
subject re to be exact , 2.5 million muslims were exterminated by the  . 
organization , jerusalem , israel 
lines 33 

ac in  ( serdar argic ) 
 ( peter van der linden ) 

1. so , did the turks kill the 

ac so , did the jews kill the germans 
ac you even make laugh. 

ac an appropriate analogy with the jewish might be the 
ac extermination of the entire muslim population of 
ac the independent of which of at 
ac least 30 40 percent of the population of that  . the 
ac of an army who participated in and 
ac eye witnessed these atrocities was published in the u.s. in 
ac with the title  men are like that . ' . other references abound .  . 

typical  . asks if x happened , the response is that y 
happened. even if we grant that the did do what 
them of doing , this has no bearing on whether the turks did 
what they are accused of. 

while i can understand how an ai could be this stupid , i 
ca n't understand how a human could be such a as to either let 
such an ai run or to such pointless messages himself. 

i do not expect any followup to this article from to do anything 
to my  . but maybe i 'll see a new line from his 
list of insults .  . 




org . 

from  ( panos ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 60 

 ( sabri t atan ) writes 

in article ,  ( panos 
) writes 

(i have nothing against greeks but my problem is with fanatics .  . i have met 
so many greeks who would n't even talk to me because i am turkish .  . from my 
experience , all my friends always were open to greeks ) 

well , the history , wars , current situations , all of them do not help. 

well , , mr. , the way you put it it is only the turks 
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to 
believe for somebody trying to be objective .  . 

well , if you put things into historical perspective , the turks 
moved into an area , which was by greeks .  . this is how the history 
between the two nations started some centuries ago. since then , it has been 
a continuous battle between the two nations .  . from my perspective i ca n't see 
why i should say that greeks have been responsible for what has happened 
between the two nations .  . of course , it would not be reasonable to argue that 
the hostility should till we kick the turks out of this area. this is n't 
going to happen , so the best would be to improve the relations between the two 
countries. a golden exists with  . if things ca n't work 
there , there is n't any possible way that could work between our nations .  . 

when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot 
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides. 
what were you doing on after the anyway 
do you think it was your right to be there 

i always avoid to discuss such things. i consider it a of my time. 
besides , as i said , i do not want to open a new flame .  . 

i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only 
not one side being the aggressive and the always suffering .  . 
it is sad that we  ( both ) still are not trying to compromise .  . 
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the 
requirement for greeks to come to  . i thought it 
was a positive attempt to make the relations better. 

i thought it was a smart move to receive more money from greek  . 
i bet that this week there should be about 200 , 000 from 
in  . each one will leave at least 1 , 000 so go and figure what this 
means to your economy .  . if you had kept the requirement , how many 
greeks would bother to visit 

the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are 
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person 
because i am from  . politics is not my business , and it is 
not the business of most of the turks .  . when it comes to individuals 
why the hatred 

come on. do not extrapolate from your limited personal experience. you err 
if you think you 'd get a reasonable conclusion .  . 






from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 31 

in article center for policy research writes 

other people have commented on most of this , i 
i 'd add a few comments of my own. 

the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population 
in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks. 

, and both have higher population  . 

the israeli has decided to punish the whole population of 
gaza , some 700 . 000 . people , by denying them the right to leave the 
strip and seek work in israel .  . 

there is no fundamental right to work in another country. and 
the of the strip is not a punishment , it is a security measure 
to stop people from  . 


the only help given to by israeli 
jews , only of people , is assistance .  . 

one , since one of them was to death a few 
days ago. 

adam 

adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from ( ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization university of virginia 
lines 22 

writes 
since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or 
news , where do we go to understand , to learn 
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another the only way 
to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political 
, whether it is on or against our side . 

tim 
first let me correct myself in that it was and 
not  ( airforce ) who the nazi propaganda machine .  . i 
agree that arab news sources are also inherently biased .  . but i 
believe the statement i was to was that since the 
american accounts of events are not fully like the israeli 
accounts , the americans are biased .  . i just thought that the 
had more motivation for bias .  . 
the un has tried many times to condemn israel for its 
gross violation of human rights. however the us has most 
such attempts .  . it is interesting to note that the u.s. is often 
the only country such condemnation  ( well the u.s. and 
 . it is also interesting to note that that means 
other western countries realize these human rights  . 
so maybe there are human rights going on after all. 

from  ( esin terzioglu ) 
subject re public service translation no . 2 . 
keywords effective greek postings 
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science 

in article  ( david davidian ) writes 
in article  ( gt1091a 
, timucin ) wrote 

who the hell is this guy david  . i think he talks too much .  .  . 

i am your alter ego ! 

yo , david you would better shut the f .  .  .  . up .  .  . o . k . 

no , its  not ok ! what are you going to do come and get me 

maybe he will. maybe he is working for the secret turkish service .  . you never 
know. 

i do n't like your  . you are full of lies and shit. 

in the united states we refer to it as freedom of speech. if you do n't like 

no it is still called you are full of shit even in the us. ) 

did n't you hear the saying t mess with a ! ! ... 

no. why do you ask what are you going to do are you going to submit me to 
bodily harm are you going to kill me are you going to torture me 

well , now you have. do n't worry turks do not turn to terrorist actions like 
have so you can be sure that you will not be killed. however , i 
do not know about the torture part .  .  .  . sounds like a tough guy so 
watch out. 

see in hell .  .  . 

wrong again ! 

 . 

all i did was to translate a few lines from turkish into english. if it was 
so embarrassing in turkish , it should n't have been written in the first place ! 
do n't kill the messenger ! 

if you are going to translate , you have to do it  . if you 
translate things to serve your purpose , people get 
 . 

in ottoman times were usually killed by cutting their heads off and 
sending it back to their country. but ottoman empire no longer exists ( .  . 
 ( darn ! ) 

 . 

david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 



from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 9 

in article paul h. writes 
what gives the right to keep it is the home of the muslim a 
s well as jewish religion , among others. heck , nobody ever mentions what 
k did forty or fifty years ago which is westerners much in the 
way does today. seems are nowhere above , so 
they have a right to as much as does. 


what gives the united states the right to keep washington d . c .  . 

from  ( feigenbaum , benjamin ) 
subject clinton 's views on jerusalem 
organization , , nj 
lines 15 

i recently read that during bill clinton 's campaign , he stated 
that if elected he would immediately recognize jerusalem as 
israel 's capital .  . according to the article , mr. clinton 
this after the  . however , 
during recent talks with president , of 
state stated that the status of jerusalem 
will be a final matter of discussion between the parties . 

now i do n't want to start a big discussion over the status 
of jerusalem .  . all i want to know is if anyone can 
mr. clinton 's statements with dates , places , etc. 

thank you. 

ben .  . 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish  ( henrik ) 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 93 

in article  ( hilmi eren ) 
to who wrote 


h the in are simply defending their rights 
h to keep their and it is the that are invading their 
h  .  .  . 

he first was today 
he , and several  ( in azerbadjan ) 
he are their  . ca n't you see the 
he the great dream in this 

greater would stretch from , to the black sea , to the 
, so if you use the term greater use it with care. 

he with methods like 
he killing , raping and bombing  . the last move was the 
he of a with 60 , trying to 
he escape the from , a city that was given to the 
he by the  . 

it has always been up to the to end their of 
by removing the ! when the president of , , came to 
power last year , he he would be be swimming in in 
by . well , he was wrong ! if is going to shell the 
of from , his people will pay the price ! if 
is going to shell from his people will pay the price ! if 
thinks he can get away with bombing from the of 
, his people will pay the price .  . 

it also seems other non minorities in have understood they 
are next in line in this process of forced or  . just 
look at the situation with the  . 

about the  .  . what . ! according to the government , there 
are no in  . ca n't they make up their minds oh i see , there 
are only when the want them to be ! and anyway , this 60 
story , as have other stories , are simple fabrications in 
, modified in  . other examples of this are has no border 
with iran , and the ridiculous story of the of military 
as appeared in the new york times supposedly translated by 
somebody unknown , from into turkish , by an 
special to the ny times from  . real accurate ! 

h however , i hope that the will force a turkish 
h to land for purposes of searching for similar to the one 
h that happened last summer .  . searched an american plane 
h  ( carrying aid ) bound to  . 
h 

no , , these turkish should be shot down with no questions asked. 

he do n't speak about things you do n't know 8 american 
he were heading to  . when the turkish authorities 
he that they were going to search these 
he 3 of these returned to it 's base in germany .  . 
he 5 of these were searched in  . the content of 
he of the other 3 not hard to guess , is it it was sure not 
he aid .  .  .  .  .  . 

your facts in error. of all kinds that have 
have been either searched , re or  . some american 
were searched , others were re , others were  . 
were held up last fall and last from entering from 
for the purpose of in the economic collapse of  . was 
, other were with crap and , then 
to  . u.s. do n't have to use turkish air bases .  . the u.s. 
uses these bases to bomb iraq .  . anyway , u.s. can over , which 
they have found is easier than to unnecessary expressions of turkish 
through searches of which to this day have not revealed 
anything other than a turkish military .  . 

he search turkish you do n't know what you are talking about. 
he since it 's content is to be weapons 

well , big mouth said military weapons are being provided to 
from , yet and others say no. no wonder you are so confused ! 

he 's government has that it 's giving weapons 
he to since started to attack 
he it self , not the  . so why search a plane for weapons 
he since it 's content is to be weapons 

you are correct , all turkish should be simply shot down ! nice , slow 
moving air ! 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( peter freeman ) 
subject re israel 's 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( peter freeman ) 
organization university 

lines 31 

because the usa is bankrupt and simply cannot afford to the 
israeli any more. there is no money for such an occupation .  . 


do n't fool yourself. it was the gulf war that brought the to the 
table .  . once their us had a secure base in the gulf 
they to negotiate or else. 



baker 

oh , why do you your ignorance the us has been running on debt for 
the past four generations and has still what it  . 

and after the gulf war , israel could do whatever it wanted after 
not iraq after the attacks .  . it was encouraged , but 
by no means forced , to negotiate .  . 

mr. baker , to address all of your points would be impossible , but in a 
nutshell , it is for you to attack israel 's presence in 
without attacking syria .  . occupation has been hostile , 
and to  . israel 's is clearly  . if it 
were not , you would see all of , and governed by 
israel .  . but that is not what israel wants. 







from  ( oded maler ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
nntp posting host 
organization , university of , france 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( hossien amehdi ) writes 

the way i see it , and have not been able to achieve peace 
after almost 50 years of fighting because of the following two major reasons 

1 ) arab governments are not really representative of their people , currently 
most of their leaders are stupid , and or not independent , and or 
dictators .  . 

true , but maybe not the worst possible see algeria .  . 


2 ) israeli government is arrogant and none  . 


this was true  ( and i may add the stupid ) until the  . 
since then , no serious israeli leader  ( including shamir ) really thinks 
the the territories worth the trouble .  . the only question became 
the question of price and other quantitative detail. the best thing the 
palestinians can do for themselves these days is to stop the 
and try to live as normally as possible (i know , it 's hard under  . 
otherwise people might think that five years of throwing  ( as justified 
as it may be ) has caused the palestinians an damage that 
prevents them from running a normal state when the time comes .  . currently 
it serves no purpose and it 's just a waste of human life and economic 
resources .  . 


, , d , b . p .  . , , france 
phone fax e mail 


from  ( sam zbib ) 
subject re of the jewish 
nntp posting host 47 . 0 . 
reply to 
organization bell northern research 
lines 67 


 ( amir y rosenblatt ) writes 
writes 
no one in his right mind would sell his freedom and  . 
palestinians are no exception. perhaps you heard about 
anti trust in the business world. 

since we are the of a 
, we must use the laws governing the 
and ethics of such  . basic anti trust law says 
that , while you can ibm stocks for the purpose of 
investing , you can not acquire a large number of those 
shares with the intent or controlling ibm .  . you can do so 
only if you make your intentions clear . clearly , 
the jews who purchased properties from had some 
designs , they were not buying a or a real  . 
they were establishing a for the european jews .  . 

the sold their properties to the jews in the 
old tradition of arab  . being a ethnic 
religious society , accepting the jews as 
was no different , just another religion. plus they paid fair 
market value , etc .  .  .  . they did not know they were victims of 
an international conspiracy .  .  ( i'm not a conspiracy 
myself , but this one is hard to  . 


right now , i'm just going to address this point. 
when the jewish national bought most of its land , 
it did n't buy it from the palestinians themselves , because , 
for the most part , they were  ( fallahin ) , 
living on land owned by in syria and  . 
the offered a deal , so the owners took advantage of 
it. it 's called commerce .  . the owners , however , made no 
for those who had worked for them , basically 
them by selling the land right out from under them. 
they are to blame , not the jews .  . 




why would you the sale of land as was 
it because it was sold to jews was it fair to assume that the 
would be by the jews is this the norm of 
any commerce  ( read shafting ) between and jews 

your claim that the sold 
 ( if true , even partially ) omits the fact that the 
treaty put and syria under french rule , while 
under british .  . , any such landlord 
would have found himself a foreigner in and would 
be motivated to sell , regardless of the price .  . 

it is interesting though that you acknowledge that the 
palestinians were  . do many or jews share 
your opinion do you the from 
any ethical just because it was n't written down 

all told , i did not see an answer in your response. the 
question was whether the intent behind the was 
aimed at controlling the public  ( land , 
structure etc .  .  . ) .  . imho the palestinians have grounds 
to the of the , say in world court. 



my opinions are my own and no one else 's 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject admits to sending to turkish caught 
summary oh , yes .  .  . neutral . 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 57 

4 15 93 sends light weapons as aid to 

by 

,  ( upi ) is with light weapons to help 
it fight forces in the struggle for the , 
the newspaper said thursday .  . 

prime told reporters in that was 
responding to a request from for assistance .  . 

we are giving a positive response to all requests from , within 
the limits of our capabilities , he said. 

foreign ministry spokesman declined to elaborate on the nature 
of the aid being sent to , but said they were within the 
of the council for security and in europe .  . 

, published in , said was sending light weapons to 
, including , rocket and ammunition .  . 

began sending the hardware after a visit to last week by a 
high official .  . has however ruled out , for the second 
time in one week , that it would intervene militarily in  . 

, told reporters would not allow to suffer 
defeat at the hands of the  . we feel ourselves bound to help 
, but i am not in a position right now to tell you what form  ( that ) 
help may take in the future , he said. 

he said turkish aid to was continuing , and the whole world knows 
about it. 

prime that would not get 
militarily involved in the conflict .  . foreign policy decisions could not be 
based on street level , he said. 

there was no immediate reaction in to regional reports , based on 
sources in , saying turkish and other officers were 
captured when they were shot down flying and 
 . 

the newspaper said turkish troops were in along the border 
with , but military sources denied reports based on claims by local 
people that was heard along the border .  . no military action has 
occurred , the sources said. 

the latest in fighting between the and 
early this month when forces the town of and later 
themselves outside , near the iranian border .  . 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( ilyess bdira ) 
subject remember those names come election time. 
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government 
nntp posting host ece . ca . 
organization ece university 
lines 

in article  ( sid jr . ) . writes 
washington  ( upi ) of state warren said tuesday 
there are better ideas to stop the human slaughter in the than 
american to bomb the serbs , but a 
told him to do just that. 
've not done a damn thing , ''  . joseph , d del .  . , told 
at a hearing of the senate foreign relations  . 
diplomacy is not in your capability right now in bosnia 
 . 
chastised the and its republican for 
what he characterized as a response to the policy of 
  of muslims , including rape and of 
civilians .  . 
time has come for us and the world to stop bemoaning the fact 
that all the options are bad ones , '' said. are all bad ones 
and we ought to pick a couple . '' . 
also lifting an international against the 
former yugoslavia so the muslim dominated bosnian government might have 
a chance to at least defend itself against the serbs .  . 
said this could give an role in the conflict to 

the radical islamic government of iran .  . 

o , i c ! 
bombing heavy weapons around the 
eastern town of  . 
's not a military person .  .  . who . will not tell you that they 
could today , if you gave them the order , take out the heavy 
around , '' said. 
you did nothing else , nothing else but that , you would have 
saved hundreds of women and children who are being absolutely 
right now . '' . 
military action the only thing that 's going to change the 
equation , '' said. 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
despite the frustrations and pressure , had no 
for american combat to strike positions in bosnia 
 . 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
we are at a turning point in the bosnia situation , '' 
said. strikes are among those steps that are so 
complex because they tend to interfere with the  . 
i think there may be better options . '' . 

as in feeding them and let them get and killed. 

political conflict .  . clinton during the presidential campaign to 
 ( then ) 
lift the and to strike at heavy weapons with u.s. 
combat  . 
said would likely the level of 
 ( now ) 
fighting and cause our allies to draw back   or even out the 
effort . '' . 
great britain and france have at foreign military intervention 
in bosnia for fear that their troops on the 
ground may suffer  . 

why do n't they get the hell out of there , they doing nothing to 
protect the victims anyway .  .  . maybe they have a different  . 

 . nancy , r  . , seemed to agree with 's 

and stressed the need not to build up bosnian expectations 
for heavy u.s. military intervention .  . 
's very important that expectations are n't raised high on the 
part of the , '' she said. 
air strikes might have made a difference eight months ago , she said , 
but the strategic significance of that step now is questionable .  . like 
, said it might the relief 
effort .  . 

now that they made sure the bosnian  ( who were the only real subject of the 
last year , as everybody knows that the serbs had an unlimited supply 
of arms ) without having a chance to defend themselves , now this 
evil snake is saying it is too late to save them , so let them die. 


from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject peace talks ... 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 23 


from 4 14 

today 's ma reports that yesterday , following egyptian 
president 's meeting with chief and 
prominent al , the latter said that in 
principle , the palestinians have decided to participate in the 
peace talks .  . nonetheless , he noted that everything will be decided 
upon at the meeting of the arab foreign in  . the 
newspaper also reports that threatening phone calls were recently 
made to houses of several of the members of the 
to the peace talks .  . the threats , in arabic , demanded 
that the not go to washington to , sell out the 
people. one threatened , should you go , you 
will not find your family alive upon your return. the newspaper 
states that such phone calls were received , as far as is known , at 
the houses of al , and others. 



internet road , a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) fax  ( 303)581 ) boulder , co 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject the way of death 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 


the way of death 

 ( following is a of a and training 
made last summer by the , the military 
of , an islamic group. 
in the middle east equation .  . in december , israel 
more than 400 palestinians to in response to 
's and execution of an israeli  . a longer 
version appears in the may issue of 's magazine , which 
obtained and translated the ) . 

my name is al ali .  . i live in a 
camp in the gaza strip . i was born in  . i finished 
high school , then attended gaza polytechnic .  . later , i went to work 
for islamic university in gaza as a  . i'm married and i have 
two daughters .  . 
the are the only group in 
explicitly dedicated to jihad holy war . our primary concern is 
palestinians who with the enemy .  . many young men and 
women have fallen prey to the laid by the israeli 
security services .  . 
since our enemies are trying to our nation , 
with them is clearly a terrible crime .  . our most 
important objective must be to put an end to the plague of 
 . to do so , we , intimidate and 
them in order to other and 
the methods that the enemy uses to palestinians into 
in the first place. in addition to that , naturally , 
we confront the problem of by executing them. 
we do n't execute every  . after all , about 70 
percent of them are innocent victims , or black into 
their  . the decision whether to execute a is 
based on the of his crimes .  . if , like many 
, he has been as an of the israeli 
border guard then it is imperative that he be executed at once. 
he 's as dangerous as an israeli , so we treat him like an 
israeli  . 
there 's another group of who perform an even 
more role the ones who help the enemy trap young men 
and women in blackmail that force them to become 
 . i regard the the process by which a 
palestinians is into of single person as 
greater crime than the killing of a  . if someone is 
guilty of causing repeated cases of , than it is our religious 
duty to execute him. 
a third group of is responsible for the 
distribution of  . they work on direct orders from the 
security services to distribute drugs as widely as possible. their 
victims become and soon find it to quit and 
impossible to afford more. they in order to get the 
drugs they  . the must also be executed .  . 
in the , we have developed a very careful method of 
uncovering , we ca n't afford to an innocent 
person , because once we a person his reputation is 
forever. we will and a only after 
evidence of his guilt has been established never before. if 
after interrogation the is found guilty beyond any 
doubt , then he is executed .  . 
in many cases , we do n't have to make our evidence against 
public , because everyone knows that they 're guilty .  . 
but when the public is n't aware that a certain individual is a 
, and we accuse him , people are bound to ask for 
evidence. many people will proclaim his innocence , so there must be 
proof before he is executed .  . this proof is usually 
obtained in the form of a  . 
at first , every denies his crimes .  . so we start 
off by showing the the testimony against him. we tell 
him that he still has a chance to serve his people , even in the 
last moment of his life , by and giving us the 
information we need. 
we say that we know his in sincere and that he has 
been a victim .  . that kind of talk is convincing .  . most of them 
confess after that. others hold out in those cases , we apply 
pressure , both psychological and physical .  . then the 
confess as well. 
only one has ever been executed without an 
interrogation .  . in that case , the had been seen working 
for the border guard since before the , and he himself 
his involvement to a friend , who the 
information to us. in addition , three members of his network of 
told us that he had caused their  . with this 
much evidence , there was no need to him. but we are 
very careful to avoid wrongful executions .  . in every case , our 
principal is the same the accused should be until he 
himself his crimes .  . 
a few weeks ago , we sat down and a list of 
to decide whether there were any who could be 
executed without interrogation .  . an although we had hundreds of 
names , still , because of our fear of god and of hell , we could not 
mark any of these men , except for the one i just mentioned , for 
execution .  . 
when we execute a in public , we use a gun. but 
after we and a , we ca n't shoot him 
to do so might give away our  . that 's why 
are strangled .  . sometimes we ask the , what do you 
think how should we execute you one told us , 
me. he the sight of blood. 



internet road , a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) fax  ( 303)581 ) boulder , co 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject re final solution in 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 27 

in article  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 
in article  ( ahmed abed ) writes 

driving the jews into the sea ! 

i am sick and tired of this  driving the jews into the sea  attributed 
to islamic movements and the it simply ca n't be proven as part of their 
plan ! 


proven maybe not. but it can certainly be verified beyond a reasonable doubt. this 
statement and statements like it are a matter of public record .  . before the day war  ( 1967 ) 
i think and some other arab leaders were broadcasting these statements on 
arab radio .  . you might want to check out some old newspapers ahmed .  . 


what and islamic jihad believe in , as far as i can get from the arab media , 
is an islamic state that the rights of all its under koranic 
law. 

i think if you take a look at the covenant  ( written in 1988 ) you might get a 
different impression .  . i have the in the original arabic with a translation 
that i 've verified with arabic speakers .  . the document is with calls to kill jews 
and spread islam and so forth .  . 

adam 


from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re flame and a jewish home in 
organization the department of department 
lines 41 

in article  ( oded maler ) writes 
in article ,  ( jake livni ) writes 

typical arabic thinking. if we are guilty of something , so is 
everyone else. unfortunately for you , , jewish tribes are not 
nearly as susceptible to the murdering that is still so 
common among in the middle east .  . there were no killings 
between the jewish tribes on the way. 

i do n't like this comment about typical thinking. you could state 
your interpretation of exodus without it. as i read exodus i can see 
a lot of killing there , which is by the author of the bible 
in ideological religious  . the history in the desert can be seen 
as an of any people a land. that 's why i think 
it is a great book with which descendants , turks and mongols can 
as well. 

you somehow missed 's comments , even though you included it in 
your followup 

the number which could have arrived to the holy lands must have been 
less to the harsh desert and the killings between the 
jewish tribes on the way .  .  . 

i am not aware of killings between jewish tribes in the desert .  . 

the point of typical thinking here is that while still today 
act in the manner you describe , like any people a 
land , killing and each other with regularity , others have 
somehow progressed over time. it is not surprising then that 
often accuse others  ( infidels ) of things that they are quite familiar 
with civil rights , religious discrimination , ethnic 
, land theft , torture and murder .  . it is precisely this 
mechanism at work that leads people to say that jewish tribes were 
killing each other in the desert , even without support for such a 
ludicrous suggestion .  . 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( mike magil ) 
subject re  . questions to 
lines 48 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
newsgroups talk . politics . 
subject re  . questions to 
date 23 apr 1993 12 55 47 gmt 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 


although i realize that principle is not one of your strongest 
points , i would still like to know why do do not ask any question 
of this sort about the arab countries. 

if you want to continue this think of yours , your 
on israel must stop .  . you might have to start asking the 
same sort of questions of arab countries as well. you realize it 
would not work , as the arab countries  treatment of jews over the 
last several decades is so bad that your on israel would 
begin to look like the biased attack that it is. 

everyone in this group that your stupid  center for 
policy research  is nothing more than a fancy name for some bigot 
who hates israel .  . 

why do n't you try being honest about your hatred of israel i 
have heard that your family once lived in israel , but the members 
of your family could not cut the competition there. is this true 
about your family is this true about you is this actually not 
about israel , but is really a personal why are you not 
the least bit objective about israel do you think that the name 
of your center hides your bias in the least get a 
clue , mr.  . have n't you realized yet that when you post 
such stupidity in this group , you are going to answers from 
people who are armed with the truth have n't you realized that a 
piece of selective data here and a piece there does not make up a 
truth have n't you realized that you are in over your head the 
people who read this group are not as stupid as you would hope or 
need them to be. this is not the place for such pseudo analysis. 
you will be continually ripped to , until you start to show 
some regard for objectivity .  . or you can continue to show what an 
anti israel you are , trying to your bias behind a 
pompous name like the  center for policy research . ' . you ought to 
know that you are a laughing stock , your  center  is considered a 
joke , and until you either go away , or make at least some attempt 
to be objective , you will have a place of honor among the , 
bigots , and idiots of usenet .  . 

i could n't have said it better , mark ! 

mike .  . 

from  ( peter freeman ) 
subject re pleasure from death 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( peter freeman ) 
organization university 
lines 13 


them.  ( by the way , i do not the killing of any human being , 
including prisoners sentenced to death by our justice department ) 

peace. 



boy , you really are a stupid person. our justice department does 
not sentence people to death. that 's up to state courts .  . again , 
get a brain .  . 



from center for policy research 
subject assistance to people . 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 24 15 00 00 1993 
lines 78 


from center for policy research 
subject assistance to people . 


u . n .  . general assembly resolution 46 of 20 december 1991 

assistance to the people 

the general assembly 

its resolution 45 of 21 december 1990 

taking into account the of the people in the 
territory against the israeli occupation , 
including israeli economic and social policies and practices , 

rejecting israeli restrictions on external economic and social 
assistance to the people in the 
territory , 

concerned about the economic losses of the people as a 
result of the gulf crisis , 

aware of the increasing need to provide economic and social 
assistance to the people , 

that the people cannot develop their 
national economy as long as the israeli occupation , 

1. takes note of the report of the general on assistance 
to the people 

2. expresses its to the states , united nations bodies 
and and non organizations that have 
provided assistance to the people , 

3. requests the international community , the united nations system 
and and non organizations to 
and increase their assistance to the people , 
in close with the liberation organization 
 ( plo ) , taking in account the economic losses of the 
people as a result of the gulf crisis 

4. calls for treatment on a transit basis of 
and passing through and points of 
and entry 

5. also calls for the of trade and concrete 
measures for on the basis of 
of origin 

6. further calls for the immediate lifting of israeli restrictions 
and obstacles the implementation of assistance 
by the united nations development , other united nations 
bodies and others providing economic and social assistance to the 
people in the territory 

7. its call for the implementation of development 
in the territory , including the 
mentioned in its resolution 39 of 18 december 1984 

8. calls for of the of 
development banks in the territory , with a 
view to promoting investment , , employment and 


9. requests the general to report to the general 
the general assembly at its , through the economic and social 
council , on the progress made in the implementation of the present 
resolution .  . 


in favour countries  ( europe , canada , australia , new , 
japan , africa , south america , central america and asia ) against 
united states and israel none 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re the way of death 
organization the department of department 
lines 28 

in article  ( alaa zeineldine ) writes 
 ( tim clock ) writes 

while you brought up the separate question of israel 's 
policies and practices , i am still about your reaction to 
the practices and in the article above. 

tim 

not a separate question mr.  . it is to judge the 
resistance movement out of the context of the occupation .  . 



when the moved into and became , in parts of , an 
power itself , these same practices were common against 
non and alike. they are simply standard 
operating among and have been for a very long 
time. in fact , the greatest of will happen 
when they get self rule. can you possibly deny this 

when the is the , who are you now going to blame 



ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject historical and traditional and  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 28 

source men are like that by leonard  . the 
company ,  .  ( 305  . 
 ( memoirs of an who participated in the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 


p.  ( first  . 

i was soon  . in the night i was by the persistent of 
a child. i and went to investigate .  . a full moon enabled me to make 
my way about and revealed to me all the and of the 
that had been  . by the child 's , i entered the of 
a house , which i judged from its appearance must have been the home of a 
turkish family. there in a corner of the i found a women dead. her 
throat had been cut. lying on her was a small child , a girl about a 
year old .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( mike magil ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
lines 33 


writes in his earlier posting 


a high rank israeli was killed during a a 

 .  .  . and . then his fantasy begins .  .  .  . 

 . the terrorist and killed a young 
using anti missiles .  . the terrorist cut the 's 
body into small pieces to the extend that his body was not recognized .  . 
at ten houses were by these missiles .  . 








this clearly is a story , ! i am very curious as to who 
 ( or what ) your sources are for this grossly exaggerated account  ( if not , 
blatant  . it surprises me that this story has not yet made it to 
the front pages of the major newspapers  ( which love to make the state of 
israel look as evil as possible ) ! such a story would be up 
by some of the papers over here. so please explain to me why i have never 
seen nor heard of it before ! believe me , i'm not expecting a reply because 
we both know where the story came from .  .  .  . your dreams ! ! ! ! 


michael zion 
ibm canada 


from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject  ( re sampson ) 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 61 

in article  ( shaqeeqa ) writes 
in article  ( eric s. perlman ) writes 

perhaps , though one can argue about whether or not the current 
represents the (i would hope it does not , as 
the really does n't have that kind of  . 

does it matter to you , , adam , and others , that 
the and that the , overall , supports it does 
it also matter that , on behalf of the , israel 
and its right to exist further , does israel 's new policy concerning 
direct with the hold any substance to the situation 
as a whole 

no , he does not. explicitly denies this claim .  . 


from a with 7 19 1991 
q some people say that the revolution has many times changed 
its and , something which has left its on the 
problem and on the liberation front .  . the 
and have not been clear. the question is , is the 
direction of the problem clear the leadership 
has stopped , or at least this is what has been said in the media , this 
happened on the way to the dialogue with the united states , the 
recognized something called israel ... 

a no , no , no ! we do not recognize the state of israel .  . we said 
recognition when a state is established .  . it will then 
decide if to recognize israel or not. when it is established , its 
will and decide. 

policies which it can justify through occupation .  . because of this , 
you have the movements that reject israel 's authority and 
disregard for human rights and , if israel was serious about peace , it 
would these policies .  . 

and replace them with what if israel is to its 
control of any territory , there must be two  . one is that 
it leads to a in deaths .  . the second is that it should not 
position with respect to peace talks .  . 

leaving gaza is a bad idea because it encourages 
to think they can get what they want by killing jews .  . the only 
way israel should pull out of gaza is at the end of  . 
these should lead to a mutually agreeable solution with 
security for both sides. 

until are ready to sit down at the table and talk again , 
they should not expect , or more  . 


adam 




adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from center for policy research 
subject re final solution for gaza 
id r 000 
from uucp . ! apr 26 17 36 00 1993 
lines 38 


dear folks , 

i am still for some sensible answer and comment. 

it is a fact that the of gaza are not entitled to a normal 
life. they been kept under occupation by israel since 
without civil and political rights. 

it is a fact that live in their own country ,  . gaza is 
not a country. nor is , , , foreign 
country for  . all these places are as far as palestinians 
are concerned and as far as common sense has it. 

it is a fact that deny equal rights as israeli citizens 
and the right to determine by their government. when 
will begin to consider as human beings who the same 
rights as themselves , there will be hope for peace. not before. 

somebody mentioned that gaza is  foreign country  and therefore israel 
is entitled to close its borders to gaza .  . in this case , gaza should be 
entitled to , and deny israeli civilians and military 
to enter the area. as the relation is not , but that of a master 
and slave , the label  foreign country  is and  . 

to close off 700 , 000 people in the strip , deny them means of 
and means of defending themselves , is a collective punishment and a 
crime .  . it is neither nor legal .  . it just reflects the 
to which israeli society has degraded .  . 

i would like to ask any of those who foul on me to explain 
why israel denies who were born and brought up in to return 
and live there would they be allowed to , if they converted to judaism 
is their right to live in their former town upon their 
religion or ethnic origin please give an honest answer. 




from  ( david davidian ) 
subject treatment of in 1 
summary to events today 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 


of 1 


born 
attended grade 
middle school no. 17 

resident at building 4 2 , apartment 25 
no. 3 


really , people in town did n't know what was happening on february 27 .  . i came 
home from school at 12 o , being to leave before the last period 
in order to go to  . when we left , everything in town was fine. life was 
the same as usual , a few groups of people were discussing things , and 
other things. then we got on the bound for for my first 
cousin 's birthday , my father , my mother , and i. we spent the day in , and 
on the , somewhere around 6 00 p . m .  . , we got on the for home , 
that i 'd have enough time to do my homework for the next day. 

when we were entering town , near the 12 story high , our was stopped 
by a very large crowd. the demanded that the get off the bus. 
the says that there are no on board then everyone on the 
begins to that there are no on board. the group comes up to 
the doors of the and has people get out one by one , not checking 
, just going by the way people look. we get off the , but are not 
taken for  . 

we set out in the direction of home. at first we were going to go into an old 
building where we knew there 'd be a place to hide , but the whole road was 
with groups of people , all the way from block 41 to the 
 . these groups were people 's and checking 
 . people who did n't have with them were as well. 
then we decided to go home instead. near the 12 story high i saw burning 
cars and a great many people standing around the ,  . death to 
the was written on the cars .  . 

when we came into the we live in an l building it was still 
quiet .  . we went on , but did n't turn on any  . we tried to call 
to warn our relatives , who were due to arrive on , not to come. 
then there was a knock at the door .  . it was our , who advised us to 
come down to stay at their place. we went down to their place , and they led us 
to the  . they live on the first and have a which you 
enter across the  . we sat in the while an woman was 
she away  . our  daughter said that that 's right , 
that 's what the , because in , allegedly , people 
were being killed , 11 girls from had been  . we did n't stay very 
long in the  . we tried to support one another as best we could , 
looking out the small with the iron grating .  . papa watched and said 
things now and then. he said that there was a fire near building 5 , probably a 
car on fire .  . then one of the groups approached our and demanded that 
they be shown the where lived .  . the said that 
there were n't any here , and the group set out for the other of 
the building .  . they appeared from the 5 2 side of the building , where , i later 
found out , a woman had been murdered .  . the woman who away died. 
was killed , too. 

when the left , the said that it was all over and we could go 
home. we went back up to our place and again did n't turn on the light. we 
started to gather up our things in order to leave for a while. we 
tried to call a relative who lived in , but there was no answer. we 
decided she had already left. 

we sat at home. the phone , and the asked to speak with my 
father .  . i called him to the phone. it was , from my father 's 
work  . he said he was by what was happening in our 
town .  . he asked for our address and promised to get a car and help us get 
out of the city. to be quite honest , papa did n't want to give him our address , 
but my mother got on the phone and told him. some 15 after the 
call a into our  . into the building , they broke 
down the door and came into the apartment . . . 

they came straight to our apartment , they knew exactly where the 
were. they came into our place. we tried to resist , but there was nothing we 
could do. one of them took my parents  and began to read them. he 
read the surname , turned the page , read , and that alone 
was enough to us. he said that we should be moved quickly out into the 
, where they would have done with us. another , standing next to him , 
pushed some of the on the and said your death has  . they 
had and  . 

i had a knife in my hand. unfortunately , i did n't use it. i just knew that if 
i did n't give up the knife things would be much worse. they my parents 
and said that i should put the knife on the  . then , one of them commanded 
that we be taken outside .  . one person was giving orders .  . when we were taken 
i went in the middle , and my mother was behind me. someone started to 
push her so she 'd walk i let her go ahead of me , and in behind 
her. when he tried to push me , i hit him , and at that moment they began 
beating my parents i realized that resistance was completely useless. 

we are taken out into the , and the are standing on their 
to see what will happen next .  . the us. at first they 
strike me , and i'm knocked out when i come to , they me again . . . i 
lose consciousness often . . . i do n't see or hear my parents , since i was the 
first one hit and was out cold .  . when i come to i try to pick them up they are 
lying next to me. the is gone , the only people around are watching from 
their  . that 's it. i try to pick them up , but ca n't .  . my left is 
broken. i start the drive , wanting to tell the to call an 
 . the bodies of my parents are still warm .  . 

we were attacked at around 9  . i consciousness at about 11 and 
try to make it up the home . . . when i knock at the  door , 
they push me back and tell me to go away. i go up to the third , our 
neighbor puts a cloth on my head and says she will call an she 
sends her son off for one and takes me to our apartment .  . i often look out the 
to see if the has arrived , but i ca n't see very far as a 
result of the , and it seems that my parents have already been taken 
away. then i calm down and try to convince myself that they have been taken 
away , and everything will be ok. 

but they were still there. later , at 8 in the morning as i found out , the 
picked them up , but they were already dead. if they received 
attention on time , it is possible they would still be alive .  . later , around 12 
o on the , policemen in civilian clothing come to our house with 
some  . they call an , and 20 later it arrives , 
and i am taken to the emergency hospital .  . there they the 
on my head and my  . at 3 o i and the other who are 
in the hospital are sent by to  . 

in my ward at the hospital there were five people , all of them 
 . the hospital was nearly with  . the only 
there were those whose car had over before the events , 
before the  . 

then i was in the hospital in  . i was there 38 days. when i was 
released , on the day , i found out that my parents were dead. at first 
they told me that they were in being treated , but later i found out 
that they were dead. my father 's older brother told me. 

my father 's name was  . he was born in 1938 .  . my 
mother , born in , was  . papa worked at 20 , the 
leader of the was a operator .  . 

they were also on the head. the 's report stated that their 
heads were open and  . 

at the confrontation i met , who had called .  . as it turned out 
later , he had been the one who the off. he had called 
specifically to find out if we were at home and to find out the exact address 
and the group. he knew the phone number , but did n't know the address. 
before the events i had never seen him , but had often spoken with him on the 
phone , when he would ask to speak with my father .  . i knew him by name. he 
denies that i was the one who answered the phone , saying that my father 
answered it. he denies that he called from a public phone , saying that he 
called from home , which also is n't true. i heard and the sounds of 
 . as i later found out , earlier he had been convicted , but had 
never served any time he had received a sentence. he was about 20 
years old .  . i do n't know if he has since or not. i am sure that he 
was the one who the off. one hundred percent sure. 

my parents were from  . father was from the of , and was 
two years old when his family moved to , where his elder brothers were to 
go to school. he was a student at the school , but never  . he 
went off to work on the virgin lands one of the 
instituted under  . when he returned he lived in , and 
later moved to , helping with the town 's construction. was from 
the of , also from  . she worked in , first in 
a bookstore , and later , on a construction site. 


my sister is older than i. she lives with her husband here in  . i 
always loved my parents .  . that was why i went on to grade , because it 
was their dream that i would continue my studies .  . i finished grade and 
wanted to enter the school , and after that , the military 
school. but later i changed my mind , or rather , my parents got me to 
, saying that it would be better to finish the grade and then join 
the school. i was planning to be in the navy almost my whole life 
long since childhood i had of being a  . my father wanted it 
more than anything. he always his youth , telling of the school , 
and he always said that he had made a big mistake in leaving it. 

now i live in and never plan to leave here. i will stay at the home 
of my , of my ancestors , till the end of my days. 

while in the hospital in i learned the fates of many others who had 
suffered as well , like . he managed to hold them off at 
their in 3 , building 6 2 , apartment 6. for a long 
time , lost his father , and by some miracle managed to survive. i 
also learned of , from building 5 2 , whose daughter was 

. . . besides them , i forgot his last name was in the hospital too , 
about a year than i , he went to school no. 14 .  . he was riding with 
his parents in the car. people were throwing at them , he was hit , and 
his parents brought him to the hospital , and he was in our ward .  . we even 
came to be friends. before that we had just seen each other around town .  . but 
in the hospital we got to know one another better. i learned of the fates of 
others , those who had died , or who were by . . . 

today , the first of the communist party of , 
was shown on television .  . to be honest i am glad that agreed to 
recognize as part of the soviet  . 
i was , no , , to hear the who read the decision 
of the supreme soviet against becoming part of 
 . 

after the events in and those in , the best solution is to give 
to , return it to , since the people want to live 
with the , but everything has to be right before they 
can do that. 

i arrived in on april 11. i felt very bad. i had constant  . 
after a while my strength returned .  . my older sister , , took me in. i 
think that justice should the people are demanding their due .  . 

you ca n't take away what is their due .  . my parents and i often spoke of 
, often visited here spent almost all of my here. we had 
even decided that if would be made part of , we would move 
here for sure. we always said that the people had suffered much , and 
that what had been done in removing from was 
wrong. sooner or later , mistakes should be  . and in order to correct 
a mistake , it must not be repeated and the fate of all lies 
in the hands of our government. 

june 13 , 1988 




david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( gt1091a , timucin ) 
subject re in and 
organization institute of technology 
lines 16 

, shit face david , i see that you are still around. i dont want to 
see your writings posted here man. i told you. you are getting 
as your fucking country. hey , and dont give me that freedom 
of bullshit once more. because your freedom has ended when you started 
writing things about my people. and try to translate this 
david .  . . 

bye ,  . 




, 
institute of technology , , 
uucp ... ! , , , , ! ! ! 
internet 

from  ( anwar mohammed ) 
subject who should be on .  .  .  . 
keywords 
nntp posting host sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 62 

in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 
 ( anwar mohammed ) writes 

in article  ( gideon ehrlich ) writes 
the readers of this forum seemed to be more interested in the contents 
of those files. 
so it will be nice if will tell us 
1. why do american authorities consider to be dangerous 

authorities seem to view a lot of people as dangerous , including 
the millions of americans of arab ancestry .  . perhaps you can answer 
the question as to why the files and on members 
in california  ( and elsewhere ) friendly perhaps 

come on ! most if not all are to the war 
against israel .  . that is why the arab organizations .  . that is 
the same reason the us communist organizations and soviet 
only a few years ago. 


the is an organization of arab americans . 

let me see .  .  . you . 're saying that most if not all arab americans should be 
on you 're also saying that most if not all arab americans 
should be views as a national security threat to israel  ( and the us , 
as you imply in your reference to the wtc bombing , in 
which no arab americans were involved ) by inference , can we assume 
that you think that anyone of arab lineage anywhere in the world poses 
a threat to israel and , therefore , should be on 

perhaps , then , on the basis of case  ( not to mention the 
, etc . ) . you think that all jewish americans should be 
on by the  . 

oh , never mind this whole case has obviously so 
your sense of right or wrong in these matters that i have 
no wish confuse you further. 

perhaps is a member or the or a reporter 
or a member of any of the of other political organizations ethnic 
minorities that the on. 

all of these groups have , in the past , associated with or been a part of anti 
israel activity or propoganda .  . the is simply them so that if 
anything comes up , they wo n't be caught by surprise .  . 

so the la times reporter who had information about him 
sold to the south african government was involved in anti israel 
activity or propaganda are we to infer that the simple act of 
reporting an event in a newspaper constitutes anti israel 
activity or propaganda or was it south africa the la 
times reporter was based in south africa , after all. 





ed .  . 



again 

from  ( fogbound child ) 
subject re news you will miss , apr 15 
organization university of southern california , los , ca 
lines 27 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 

 ( jack schmidling ) writes 



et al , 


why do you title this news you will miss 

there have been at least three front page stories on it in the l . a .  . times. 

i would n't exactly call that a media cover up. 







special 
media mind control division 
los offices 

safe  . signature . ! prevent dangerous signature ! 
our names in a certain dawn ... a message ... a 
summons ... there must have been a moment , at the beginning , 
where we could have said no. but somehow we missed it. 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject israel does not kill reporters .  . 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 12 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


has claimed that , the used to arrest , and 
sometime to kill some of these neutral reporters .  . the assertion 
by is , of course , a total  . if there is an 
once of truth it , i'm sure can document such a sad 
and event. otherwise we may assume that it is another 
piece of anti israel bullshit posted by someone whose family does 
not know how to teach their children to tell the truth. if 
would care to retract this  error  i would be glad to retract the 
accusation that he is a liar .  . if he can document such a claim , i 
would again be glad to apologize for calling him a liar .  . failing 
to do either of these would certainly show what a liar he is. 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re life and fall of do not forget 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 36 

in article  ( ken mcvay ) writes 

remember and do not forget 


never .  . i do n't know whether anybody formulated and proposed such an 
index or to determine the magnitude of a genocide as mentioned 
and advised by  . if one ever does you will easily see the magnitude 
of the crime of genocide committed by the , by an alien 
population under their rule which constituted about 40 of their total 
population and they did it only within a time period of a little over 
two years in which they having full control over this population .  . 

now i would like to ask you 

is there any other genocide in the history of mankind similar to 
this one 

and again i would like to ask you 

whether the silent and of these hundreds of thousands 
of turks of the of who were exterminated as a final 
solution to problems in is similar or not 
to the of million jews in europe as a final solution to 
jewish problems 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( todd j. dicker ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization bbs , , florida 
lines 36 

( ) writes 

writes 
( ) writes 

first of all i never said the  . i said before the 
 . i'm not ignorant of the and know more 
about nazi germany than most people  ( maybe including you) .  . 

uh oh ! the first sign of an argument without merit the stating of one 's 
in an area. if you know something about nazi germany , 
show it. if you do n't , shut up. simple as that. 

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii 
the crimes commited by the israeli government. any 
attempt to call civil like myself anti is 
not appreciated. 

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who or were 
tortured .  . we all suffered .  . second , the name calling was directed against 
you , not civil in general. your name dropping of a fancy 
sounding political term is yet another attempt to cite 
in order to your for this argument. go 
back to the ,  . 
all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many 
others suffered physically .  . it is sad that people like you are 
so by emotions that they ca n't see the facts .  . thanks 
for calling me names , it only me of what kind of 
ignorant people i am dealing with. i included your letter since 
i thought it demonstrated my point more than anything i could 
write .  . 


when you 're willing to actually support something you say with fact or 
argument rather than covering up your own with 
offense , let me know. otherwise , back to your own league , son. 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject center for anti israel propaganda 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 67 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


the  center for policy research  writes .  .  .  . 

from the israeli press 

, 14 march 1993 

the israeli police department on the evening of friday , 
march 12 that it is calling upon jewish israeli citizens with 
gun to carry them at all times so as to contribute to 
their security and that of their surroundings . 

considering all the murders of innocent at the hands 
of arab death merchants , i see nothing wrong with the advice. 

ha , 15 march 1993 

 ( likud ) , chair of the , 
stated that he intends to demand that the police department make 
it clear to the public that anyone who or kills 
non jewish will not be put on trial .  . 

as usual , the bias of the  center for policy research  
through this newsgroup .  . here we have an enraged who 
is his , and you it as if this is going 
to become policy. you do n't say what the response to 's 
suggestion was. do do not mention whether he was refering to 
caught in the act , which could be a clear cut case 
of self defence .  . would you care to elaborate on this , or was 
this all you wanted to say on the matter. why do n't you give 
up this  center for policy research  crap , and just post your 
without trying to them with a pompous name 

ha , 16 

today a private security firm and units from the southern 
command will begin of four magnetic in the gaza 
strip , as an additional stage in the of security 
measures in the strip .  . 

the will aid in the searching of non jewish gaza residents 
as they leave for work in israel .  . they can be used to reveal the 
presence of , axes , weapons and other objects .  . 

in addition to the , which will be operated by a private 
civilian company , large of magnetic card reading 
devices are being brought to the inspection points , to facilitate 
the reading of the magnetic cards these non jewish workers must 
carry .  . 

a laudable  . 

every single thing you post about israel is posted to 
israel as as you can. deliberate are an 
integral part of the  . and it 's not only the incidents 
that you do not mention , but even the stories you do post are 
with , which change the entire meaning. the 
absurdity of your respectable name cannot hide your bias .  . 

in your effort to israel in an light , you 
have accomplished nothing , except to prove that a respectable 
sounding label like the center for policy research is nothing 
but a for someone with a biased attitude 
against israel and the need to it. 

this  center for policy research  stuff is nonsense. 


from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re no humanity in bosnia 
keywords 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 47 

in  . rizvi ) writes 

it is very encouraging that a number of people took so interest in my posting . i . recieved a couple of letters too , some has the statement that events in bosnia are in the history of the modern world . those . who this statement present the of the world war ii . however . we must keep in mind that it was a world war and no country had the power to stop it , today is the matter not of the power but of the will . it . 
seems to be that what we lack is the will. 

the idea of the u . s . , or any other nation , taking action , i.e. , military 
intervention , in bosnia has not been well thought out by those who 
advocate such action. after the are , it would require 
an occupation force for one or two generations .  . if you will stop and 
think about it , you will realize that these people have never forgotten 
a single slight or injury , they have hatred with their mother 's 
milk .  . if we stop the fighting , and destroy all weapons , they will 
simply go back to killing each other with  . and the price for this 
will be the lives of the young men and women we send there to 
die. a price i am unwilling to even consider .  . 

second point of difference  ( which makes it different from the  ( holocast(sp ) ) is that at that time international community 
have enough to prevent the unfortunate event , 

there is no valid comparison to the  . all of the jewish people 
that i have known as friends were not brought up to hate .  . to be wary of 
others , most certainly , but not to hate .  . and except for the 
, they were unarmed  ( and even in out  . 
it is very easy to speak of when they are someone else 's  . 
suppose we do this thing , what will you tell the parents , wives , children , 
lovers of those we are sending to die that they gave their lives in some noble cause noble cause , separating some mad dogs who will turn on them. 

well , i will offer you some  . suppose we tell them that they have 
one week  ( this will give foreign time to leave ) to cease 
their  . at the end of that week , bring in the firing 
and destroy as they the bosnian cities .  . perhaps 
when some of their cities are reduced to they will have a sudden 
attack of brains .  . send in missiles by all means , but do not send in 
troops .  . 

today of all the might , the international community is not just standing neutral but has placed an which 

by all means lift the  . 

is to the obvious of the side and therefore to the advantage of the hence . and possibly 
, mankind has with the killers . and . this , i think is in the history of the modern world. 

which killers do you honestly believe they are all on one side 

m . 



from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re was go ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 25 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( tim clock ) writes 
in article writes 

..... 

your view of this entire matter is far too one and 
naive .  . 

oooh .  .  .  . now that  . i will not suffer you through more naive 
and one views of mine. please my articles in the future 
oh wise tim , and have a good day. 



what is the point in throwing out one viewpoints  ( which means 
ignoring that the other side 's perspective and experience has any 
legitimacy ) while assuming that your side no and 
bears no for any of the negative of a particular 
event is n't the former is n't the latter naive if you feel 
that my opinion is wrong then please tell me how. strategic 
under the cover of a snide remark seems to be the tactic on this 
net but does n't anything. 



from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re final solution in 
in reply to 's message of sun , 25 apr 93 17 10 03 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 

lines 

in article  ( ahmed abed ) writes 

in article ,  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 
in article center for policy research writes 

final solution for the gaza 


while israeli jews the of the , they 
by violent means the of the gaza and 
attempt to the  . 

... 

the jews in the were fighting to keep themselves and 
their families from being sent to nazi gas  . groups like 
and the islamic jihad fight with the expressed purpose of driving all 
jews into the sea. perhaps , we should persuade jewish people to help 

these freedom this ultimate goal. 

maybe the freedom will choose to spare the co jews .  . 
is that what you are counting on , the pity of murderers .  . 

you say your mother was jewish .  . how she must be of her son. i 
am sorry , mrs .  .  . 

 . 

o.k. , its my turn 

driving the jews into the sea ! 

i am sick and tired of this  driving the jews into the sea  attributed 
to islamic movements and the it simply ca n't be proven as part of their 
plan ! 

 ( pro israeli repeat it like without checking its authenticity 
since it was coined by brith ) 

what and islamic jihad believe in , as far as i can get from the arab media , 
is an islamic state that the rights of all its under koranic 
law. this would be a of the situation in which the jews in 
took control of the land and its  ( mostly muslim )  . 

however , whoever committed crimes against humanity  ( torture , blowing up their 
homes , murders ,  .  .  . ) . must be treated and tried as a war criminal .  . the political 
thought of these movements shows that a freedom of choice will be given to the 
jews in living under the new law or leaving to the of their choice. 

as for the , i am at a loss to explain what is going inside 's mind. 

although their political thinking seems far fetched with israel acting as a true 
super power in the , the islamic movements are using the same weapon the 
jews used to establish their state religion. 


ahmed .  . 

forget the , ahmed , and focus on the  . the fact is that 
the does not recognize israel 's right to exist. this is perfectly 
obvious from the covenant  ( cairo ,  . the covenant calls for 
the destruction of the zionist entity . as far as i know the 
israel destruction still exist in the document which 
the purpose for the existence of the  . if you would like , i can 
post the relevant  . 

now the ideal is far more radical , it seems. i know it has been 
posted here several times , and while i do not have a copy of it , i am 
sure that someone does and he  ( or she , of course) would be more than 
happy to repost it. 

regardless of phrasing , groups like , and the , and 
even the moderate and politically correct , have at the very 
heart of their ideologies the need for the of israel .  . 

it just seems to me that mr. 's suggestion that jews support 
people in these organizations is not a particularly appealing 
one to many jews .  . 

 . 

from 
subject what a hate filled newsgroup ! ! ! ! 
organization fan club 
lines 5 

is this group for real i honestly ca n't believe that most of you expect you 
or your concerns to be taken remotely seriously if you behave this way in a 
forum for discussion. does n't it ever occur to those of you who write letters 
like the majority of those in this group that you 're being mind 


from center for policy research 
subject re about this  center for policy 
id r 000 
from uucp . ! apr 21 04 21 00 1993 
lines 33 


it seems to me that many readers of this conference are interested 
who is behind the center for research .  . i will  . 

my name is , citizen , born in  . my 
mother was thrown from germany because she to the   
 ( at that times this group was defined as  . she was forced to go 
to due to many cynical factors .  . i have in 
 ( 30 years ago ) and met many people who were thrown out from 
my , , because of the same reason  ( they to 
the  . these people include my in jerusalem 
with the children of whom i played as child. their crime 
not jews .  . my conscience does not accept such , period. my 
work for justice is done in the name of my opposition to racism 
and racial discrimination .  . those who against such practices 
in arab countries have my support as long as their is based 
on a position , but not as a tactic to criticism 
from israel .  . the struggle against discrimination and racism is universal .  . 

the center for policy research is a name i gave to those activities 
under my in different domains , and which command 
the support of many in  . it is however not a formal 
institution and works with minimal funds .  . 

professionally i am music teacher and  . i have published 
several pieces and my music is taught widely in europe .  . 

i would hope that discussion about israel be conducted in 
a more civilized manner. calling names is not helpful .  . 





from ( get thee to a  .  .  .  .  . ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization university of virginia 
lines 67 

writes 
( ) writes 

writes 
( ) writes 

first of all i never said the  . i said before the 
 . i'm not ignorant of the and know more 
about nazi germany than most people  ( maybe including you) .  . 

uh oh ! the first sign of an argument without merit the stating of one 's 
in an area. if you know something about nazi germany , 
show it. if you do n't , shut up. simple as that. 

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii 
the crimes commited by the israeli government. any 
attempt to call civil like myself anti is 
not appreciated. 

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who or were 
tortured .  . we all suffered .  . second , the name calling was directed against 
you , not civil in general. your name dropping of a fancy 
sounding political term is yet another attempt to cite 
in order to your for this argument. go 
back to the ,  . 
all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many 
others suffered physically .  . it is sad that people like you are 
so by emotions that they ca n't see the facts .  . thanks 
for calling me names , it only me of what kind of 
ignorant people i am dealing with. i included your letter since 
i thought it demonstrated my point more than anything i could 
write .  . 


when you 're willing to actually support something you say with fact or 
argument rather than covering up your own with 
offense , let me know. otherwise , back to your own league , son. 
i have never seen such among  . this 
character shows no signs of anti semitism , yet 
because he deviates from the norm of accepted opinion , you 
attack him. why did not anyone venture to answer 's 
question in an intelligent and manner the only 
ones guilty here of not backing up there viewpoints with fact 
are the  . now will we please start having some 
intelligent conversation you all are an insult to you race ! 
assuming you are also semitic 
now i have a comment concerning israeli terrorism 
during the 's and 's .  . the , and other branch 
off militant groups , did fight the british do get them out of 
 . yet i fail to see how this israeli form of 
terrorism was better than the terrorism practiced now by the 
 . these jewish terrorist groups killed innocent british 
soldiers , but not only also killed many jews who were in 
favor of a compromise with the palestinians .  . in addition , they 
an entire in , contributing 
to the exodus of the frightened palestinians who their 
very lives. 
i mention this not because i'm anti semitic i'm part 
jewish but because this self on the part of the 
israelites me off so. i'm not as critical of the 
palestinians because they were indeed over by the 
jews .  . it 's a damn that the palestinians had to pay for 
german and european anti semitism .  . 

off at , 
, self righteous 


from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject more on center for anti rhetoric 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 9 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


dear mr. , 

you claim that your purpose is to fight racism .  . but you do n't 
seem to have any interest in except that which may have 
been committed by israel .  . the treatment of jews in arab nations , 
an of , is an that you 
do not seem to care the least bit about. why not 


from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re anti is racism 
organization , inc. 
lines 14 

writes 

in re syria 's , the author writes that the un thought 
was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct 
the first time , is racism and , the daily 
 ( the student newspaper at mcgill ) was proud enough to print an article 
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail .  . 

steve 

just felt it was important to add four letters that steve left out of 
his subject  . 

h. stein 

from  ( hamaza h. salah ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 26 
reply to  ( hamaza h. salah ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 



( ) writes 

well i'm not sure about the story it did seem biased .  . what 
i disagree with is your statement that the u.s. media is out to 
ruin reputation .  . that is rediculous .  . the u.s. media is 
the most pro israeli media in the world. having lived in europe 
i realize that such as the one described in the 
letter have occured .  . the u.s. media as a whole seem to try to 
ignore them. the u.s. is existance and the 
are not  ( at least not to the same  . so i think 
that might be a reason they report more clearly on the 
atrocities .  . 
what is a is that in austria , daily reports of 
the acts commited by israeli soldiers and the blessing 
received from the government makes some of the guilt 
go away. after all , look how the jews are treating other races 
when they got power. it is unfortunate .  . 

well said mr. ) 



( 
h a m z a ) i.e. most 

from  ( albert meltser ) 
subject re how many israeli soldiers .  .  .  . what are you   dark so much for 
distribution world 
organization israeli stock company 
reply to 
keywords et  i love you all 
lines 32 

q how many israeli soldiers  ( terrorists ) does it 
take to kill a 5 year old native child 

a four 

two his , one in the face , 
and one writes up a false report. 


 .  .  . . 

 .  .  . 


1. there is a similar idea here in ex ussr about how many it needs 
to place a new electric  . the answer is one on a table and 
holds the , four hold the table and turn it and yet four run around the 
table in opposite direction not to make the first feel bad  ( when being 
 . , it lacks this kind of dark as 's does. 
2. to my mind the signature should be like 

. 



albert 


 .  .  . i  .  .  . ii 
i ) i i ( ) i i i ii 
) ' ) . 


from  ( dorin baru ) 
subject reasons was re was go ! ! 
organization corporation 
lines 35 



writes 

i am not in the business of reading minds , however in this case it would not 
be necessary. top leaders in the past and present , always come across 
as arrogant with their tough talks trying to intimidate the  . 

the way i see it , and have not been able to achieve peace 
after almost 50 years of fighting because of the following two major reasons . 

1 ) arab governments are not really representative of their people , currently 
most of their leaders are stupid , and or not independent , and or 
dictators .  . 

2 ) israeli government is arrogant and none  . 



it 's not relevant whether i agree with you or not , there is some reasonable 
thought in what you say here an i appreciate your point. however , i would make 2 
remarks 

you forgot about hate , and this is not only at government level. 
it 's not only  arab  governments .  . 

now , about talk and arrogance , we are adults , are n't we do you listen 
to tough talk of american politicians or switch the channel 
i would rather be   by some  talking tough  then by a 
bomb ready to blow under my in  . 






from  ( phill baker ) 
subject re israel 's 
lines 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 


in article ,  ( adam shostack ) writes 

in article writes 

1 ) is israel 's occupation of southern temporary 

israel has repeatedly stated that it will leave when 
the government can provide that israel will not be 
attacked from , and when the leave .  . 

not acceptable .  . syria and have a right to determine if 
they wish to return to the situation prior to the french invasion 
where they were both part of the same territory read 
colony .  . 

israel has no right to determine what happens in  . invading another 
country because you consider them a threat is precisely the way that almost 
all wars of have started .  . 


2 ) is israel 's occupation of the west bank , gaza , and 
temporary 

the three are very different issues. israel has stated 
repeatedly that it will not give up the whole , but may be 
willing to give part of it to syria as part of a peace agreement .  . 

again by force. 


israel has already annexed areas taken over in the war. 
these areas are not , but disputed , since there is no 
governing body. citizenship was given to those residents 
in annexed areas who wanted citizenship .  . 

the un defines them as  . they are as such by every 
nation on earth  ( excluding one small  . 


israel should keep control of parts of the west bank , imho .  . 
the parts that should be kept are the , 
which contain few arab towns , and many , as well as 
the city of tel  . the eastern should be 
 . this is where most of the live and it is less 
militarily relevant .  . israel should also maintain a presence in the 
 . 

so the adam thinks that peace is possible with continued occupation and 
a continued military presence that is a completely situation 
because the usa is bankrupt and simply cannot afford to the 
israeli any more. there is no money for such an occupation .  . 


if so  ( for those of you who support it) , why were so 
many settlers moved into the territories if it is not temporary , 
let 's hear it. 

there are a number of reasons for people to move  ( they were 
not moved , but chose to move ) into disputed areas .  . note that since 
these were made by free human beings , not settlers , i 
will address two aspects of your question , why the government would 
allow or encourage them to move , and second why they did move. 

they were moved in as part of a deliberate policy to prevent the return 
of the territories .  . described the reasoning in the 
prince .  . the clear intention was to create a which the 
could not be deprived of the land stolen from the indigenous 
population .  . 

the under which the settlers land was through the 
redefinition of much land used in common as public land . the assertion 
that the common on which the depends for food belongs to 
an simply because no individual has title is clearly an 
excuse. when the land is used to build a for brought 
in to the land for a foreign power there is a clear of the 
which stipulates that land use in territories 
must not be changed. 

no amount of self justifying on the part of and hard 
will change the fact that the majority of world governments , and all of 
those that actually have any power have condemned this practice. 


the government had a number of reasons for encouraging people 
to move across the green line. they included security and politics. 

the first reason was security .  . a large jewish makes 
it difficult for to  . a jewish also 
act as in times of war. 

also are a  . we are talking about civilian that 
would last no more than hours against , 

a second reason was political .  . creating brought 
the to the table .  . had the creation of new towns and 
cities gone on another several years , there would be no place left in 
israel where there was an arab majority .  . there would have been no 
land left that could be called arab .  . 

do n't fool yourself. it was the gulf war that brought the to the 
table .  . once their us had a secure base in the gulf 
they to negotiate or else. 

if the creation of had gone on any longer the usa would have 
cut the money supply .  . 

the fact that there are a thousands jews in place 
changes the face of any peace , and what land can 
be given away. 

not at all. they can chose to live in an arab state or return to israel .  . 

some of the created were religious .  . they built 
their in areas where there were jews until the riots of 
the 30 's and 40 's .  . there are communities like this in , gaza , 
and all over. there are also communities built near religious sites .  . 

the existence of a does not give the right for another country 
to territory , not in bosnia , not in the west bank. 

the point is , there are many reasons people moved over the 
green line , and many reasons the government wanted them to. whatever 
status is for disputed territories , it will not be an all 
or nothing deal. new will be drawn up by , not 
be the results of a war. 

unless the new drawn up are those of 48 there will be no peace. 
has precious little authority to agree to anything else. 


the real issue is not the land treaty but the trade treaty .  . since the 
palestinians will remain dependent on israel indefinitely it 
is this that will be the of peace. another factor will be the 
return of lands by the israeli state within israel and the 
of the structures which allow discrimination against 
non jews within what is a secular state. 

the irony is that in return for a that the state has 
a non law in order to protect the remaining settlers the 
israeli state is going to be forced the same position. this will mean 
of discrimination such as that which prevents from buying 
or using much of the land. 



baker 

from  ( farzin mokhtarian ) 
subject re news 
originator 
organization corp .  . japan 
lines 23 


i wrote 

@ from 
@ 
@ 
@ o dr. , of health stated that infant 
@  ( under one year old ) in iran went down from 120 
@ per thousand before the revolution to 33 per thousand at 
@ the end of  ( last  . 
@ 
@ o dr also stated that before the revolution only 
@ children received to protect them 
@ from various but this figure reached 
@ the end of  . 

something funny happens to the percent sign .  . in paragraph 
above , the rate went from 25 percent to 93 percent .  . 






from  ( adam l. schwartz ) 
subject speaking  . 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 7 


, an israeli , will be speaking 
 ( wednesday , 7 30 pm ) on the subject of politics in israel .  . 
he is speaking at on the u . c .  . berkeley campus .  . 

adam 


from ( get thee to a  .  .  .  .  . ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization university of virginia 
lines 1 

just kidding 

from  ( mau napoleon ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa 
lines 16 

from article , by  ( marek osinski ) 

well , it did not take long to see how consequent some greeks are in 
requesting that are not called by netters .  . 
so , napoleon , why do you write about and not 



is called by its for the last years. 
the city was never called by its  . 
was called from 320 ad until about the  . 
that 's about years. there many people alive today who were born in a city 
called  . how many people do you know that were born in a city 
called  . 

napoleon 

from  ( nabil gangi ) 
subject dear mr 
organization york university , , canada 
lines 20 

i have read just today two articles of hate and to 
a great deal of people. i could find as much matching hatred in your 
articles as i have found in some of the self righteous kill in the name 
of god people. 

i do n't know why you are so to everyone , is it a reaction to 
the hatred calls on this newsgroup , or is it a reaction to 
you have seen and experienced from before .  .  .  . 
i have not to judge people by only what they say , but rather 
try to put myself in their place and aspire to understand their 
feelings. 

i hope you would be able to do the same with everyone , starting by your 
, because only through that you could be able to understand your 
feelings and act in a the manner you would aspire everyone to adopt .  . 

thanks for your time 




from  ( david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti human rights in 
summary to current events in 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

accounts of anti human right in 
to current events in 



i said that on february 27 , when those people were down 
our street , they were shouting , long live ! and glory to 
! and during the trial i said to that , what does 
that mean ,  glory to  i still do n't understand what 
has to do with this , we live in the soviet union .  . that told 
you to or is going to help you kill i still do n't 
understand why glory to ! i asked that question twice and 
got no answer . . . no one answered me . . . 



of 

born 1933 

emergency hospital 

resident at building 16 13 , apartment 14 
block 5 



to this day i ca n't understand why my husband , an older man , was killed. what 
was he killed for. he had n't hurt anyone , had n't said any word he ought n't 
have. why did they kill him i want to find out from here , from there , from 
the government why my husband was killed. 

on the , when i returned from work it was a saturday my son was at home. 
he does n't work. i went straight to the kitchen , and he called me , , is 
there a game there were from lenin street. that 's where we 
lived .  . i say , i do n't know , , i have n't turned on the tv. he looked 
again and said , , what 's going on in the ! i look and see so 
many people , it 's awful , , , there are hundreds , thousands , 
you ca n't even tell how many there are. they 're shouting , down with the 
! kill the ! tear the to pieces ! my god , why is 
that happening , what for i had known nothing at that point. we lived together 
well , in friendship , and suddenly something like this. it was completely 
 . and they were shouting , long live ! and they had , 
and they were shouting .  . there was a man walking in front well dressed , he 's 
around 40 or 45 , in a gray  . he is walking and saying something , i 
ca n't make it out through the  . he is walking and saying something , 
and the children behind him are shouting , tear the to pieces ! and 
down with the ! they it again , and then , hurrah ! the 
people without end , they were walking in groups , and in the groups i 
saw that there were women , too. i say , my god , there are women there too ! 
and my son says , those are n't women , , those are bad women. well we 
did n't look a long time. they were walking and shouting and i was afraid , i 
simply could n't sit still. i went out onto the , and my 
neighbor is on the other , and i say , , what 's going on , what 
happened she says , , i do n't know , i do n't know , i do n't know what 
happened. well she was quite frightened too. they had these white sticks , 
each second or third one had a white  . they 're waving the above their 
heads as they walk , and the one who 's out front , like a leader , he has a white 
stick too. well maybe it was an , but what i saw was white , i 
do n't know. 

my husband got home 10 or 15 later. he comes home and i say , oh 
dear , i'm frightened , they 're going to kill us i bet. and he says , what are 
you afraid of , they 're just children. i say , everything that happens comes 
from children. there had been 15 and 16 year kids from the technical and 
school. do n't fear , he said , it 's nothing , nothing all that 
bad. he did n't eat , he just on the  . and just then on television they 
that two had been killed in , near  . 
when i heard that i could n't down at all , i kept walking here and 
there and i said , they 're going to kill us , the are going to 
kill us. and he says , do n't be afraid .  . then we heard from the central 
square , there are women shouting near near the stage , well , they 're shouting 
different things , and you could n't hear every well. i say , you speak 
well , listen to what they 're saying. he says close the 
and go to , there s nothing happening there. he a bit and then 
closed the and went to , and told us , come on , go to sleep , it 's 
nothing. sleep , what did he mean sleep my son and i stood at the 
until two in the morning watching .  . well he 's sick , and all of this was 
affecting him. i say , , you go to , i'm going to go to in a minute 
too. he went and i sat at the until three , and then went to bed. 
things had down slightly .  . 

the , sunday , was my day off. my husband got up and said , come on , , 
get up. i say , today 's my day off , let me rest. he says , are n't you going 
to make me some tea well i felt and got up , and said , where are 
you going he says , i'm going out , i have to. i say , can you really go 
outside on a day like today do n't go out , for god 's sake. you never listen to 
me , i know , and you 're not going to listen to me now , but at least do n't take 
the car out of the , go without the car. and he says , come on , close 
the door ! and then on the he something , i could n't make it 
out , he probably said coward or something. 

i closed the door and he left. and i started cleaning . . . picking things up 
around the house . . . everything seemed quiet until one o in the after 
noon , but at the station , my neighbor told me , cars were burning .  . i said , 
, was it our car she says , no , no , , do n't be afraid , they 
were government cars and '' . our car is a 21  . and i waited , 
it was four o , five o . . . and when he was n't home at seven i 
said , oh , they 've killed ! 

are burning in town , there 's black in town , and i'm afraid , i'm 
standing on the and i'm all . . . my whole body is  . my god , 
they 've probably killed him ! so basically i waited like that until ten 
o and he still had n't come home. and i'm afraid to go out. at ten 
o i look out across from our building is a building with a bookstore , 
and from , from the second , everything is being thrown outside .  . 
i'm looking out of one and is looking out of the other , and i 
do n't want him to see this , and he , as it turns out , does n't want me to see 
it. we wanted to hide it from one another. i joined him. , he says , 
look what they 're doing over there ! they were burning everything , and there 
were police standing there , 10 or 15 of them , maybe twenty policemen standing 
on the side , and the is on the other side , and two or three people are 
throwing everything down from the  . and one of the ones on the 
is shouting , what are you standing there for , burn it ! when they threw the 
television , wow , it was like a bomb ! our neighbor on the third came out 
on her and , why are you doing that , why are you burning those 
things , those people saved with such difficulty to buy those things for their 
home. why are you burning them and from the they at her , go 
inside , go inside ! instead why do n't you tell us if they are any of them in 
your building or not they meant , but they did n't say , 
they said , of them. she says , no , no , no , none ! then she to 
our place , and says , , , you have to leave ! i say , they 've killed 
anyway , what do we have to live for it wo n't be living for me without 
 . let them kill us , too ! she insists , saying , , get out of here , 
go to 's , and give me the key .  . when they come i 'll say that it 's my 
daughter 's apartment , that they 're off someone .  . i gave her the key 
and went to the neighbor 's , but i could n't it. i say , , you stay 
here , i'm going to go , and see , maybe papa 's . . . papa 's there. 

, they were killing the two brothers , and albert and 
see the accounts of and , in 
the  . there is a near the building , they 're shouting , , 
and i did n't think that they were killing at the time. and lived 
in the corner house across from ours. when i went out into the i saw 
an , our neighbor , a young man about 30 years old .  . i say , , 
's gone , let 's go see , maybe he 's dead in the or near the 
, let 's at least bring the into the house. he , 
, where do you think you 're going ! go back into the house , i 'll look for 
him. i say , something will happen to you , too , because of me , no , , 
i'm coming too. well he would n't let me go all the same , he says , you stay 
here with us , i'm go look. he went and looked , and came back and said , 
, there 's no one there , the is closed. went off again and 
then returned and said , , they 're already killed , and 's 
there . . .  . 

wanted to go up to him , but those said , do n't go near him , 
or we 'll put you next to him. he got scared he 's young and came back and 
said , i'm going to go call , maybe an will come , at least to take 
, maybe he 'll live . . . they grew up together in our , they 
knew each other well , they had always been on good terms. he went to call , but 
not a single telephone worked , they had all been shut off. he called , and 
called , and called , and called nothing. 

i went to the neighbor 's .  . says , two police cars up over 
there , their are on , but they 're not them , they are still 
lying where they were , they 're still lying there . . . we watched out the 
until four o , and then went to our apartment .  . i did n't 
take my clothes off. i on the so as not to go to , and at 
o in the morning i got up and said , , you stay here at home , do n't 
go out , do n't go anywhere , i'm going to look , i have to find papa , dead or 
alive . . . let me go . . . i 've got the from work. 

at o i went to the emergency hospital .  . the head doctor and another 
doctor opened the door to the  . i run up to them and say , doctor , is 
there he says , what do you mean why should be here ! i 
wanted to go in , but he would n't let me. there were only four people in there , 
they said. well , they must have been awful because they did n't let me in. they 
said , 's not here , he 's alive somewhere , he 'll come back .  . 

it 's already seven o in the morning. i look and there is a 
with three policemen .  . some of our people from the hospital were there with 
them. i say , sister , term of , go look , they 've 
probably brought  . i said it , it , and she went and came back 
and says , no , , he has tan shoes on , it 's a person. now 
just happened to have tan shoes , light tan , they were already old .  . when they 
said it like that i guessed immediately .  . i went and said , doctor , they 've 
brought in dead. he says , why are you carrying on like that , dead , 
dead . . . he 's alive .  . but then he went all the same , and when he came back 
the look on his face was . . . i could tell immediately that he was dead. they 
knew one another well , had worked for him a long time. i say , doctor , 
is it he says , no , , it 's not he , it 's somebody else entirely .  . 
i say , doctor , why are you me , i 'll find out all the same anyway , 
if not today , then tomorrow .  . and he said . . . i , right there in the 
office. he says , , go , go calm down a little. another one of our 
colleagues said that the doctor had said it was , but . . . in 
condition. they tried to calm me down , saying it was n't  . a few 
later another comes in and says , oh , poor ! when she said it 
like that there was no hope left. 

that day was awful .  . they were bringing in dead and injured 
people. 

at night someone took me home. i said , , papa 's been killed. 

on the morning of the 1st i left at home again and went to the hospital 
i had to bury him somehow , do something. i look and see that the hospital is 
by soldiers .  . they are wearing dark clothes. hey , citizen , where 
are you going i say , i work here , and from inside someone , yes , 
yes , that 's our , let her in. i went right to the head doctor 's office 
and there is a person from the city health department there , he used to 
work with us at the hospital .  . he says , , 's been taken to  . 
in the night they took the and the dead , all of them , to  . i 
say , doctor , how will i bury him he says , we 're taking care of all that , 
do n't you worry , we 'll do everything , we 'll tell you about it. where did you 
spend the night i say , i was at home. he says , what do you mean you 
were at home ! you were at home alone i say , no , was there too. he 
says , you ca n't stay home , we 're getting an right now , wait just 
one second , the head doctor is coming , we 're an right 
now , you put on a lab coat and take one for , you go and bring here 
like a patient , and you 'll stay here and we 'll later what to do next ... 
his last name is  . the head doctor 's name is 
 . 

the arrived and i went home and got  . they admitted him as a 
patient , they gave us a private room , an isolation room. we stayed in the 
hospital until the 4th .  . 

some police car came and they said , , let 's go. and the women , our 
colleagues , then they saw the police car , became anxious and said , where are 
you taking her i say , they 're going to kill me , too . . . and the 
says , why are you saying that , we 're going to make a positive 
 . we went to and they took me into the . . . i 
still ca n't remember what hospital it was . . . the says , let 's 
go , we need to be certain , maybe it 's not  . and when i saw the , 
lying on top of one another , i went out of my mind. i say , i ca n't look , no. 
the says , are there any marks i say , let me see 
the clothes , or the shoes , or even a , i 'll recognize them. he says , 
is n't they 're anything on his body i say he has seven gold and his 
finger , he only has half of one of his fingers .  . was a , he had 
been injured at work . . . 

they brought one of the sleeves of the and he was wearing , they 
brought them and they were all burned . . . when i saw them i , oh , 
they burned him ! i , i do n't know , i down . . . or maybe i sat 
down , i do n't remember. and that says , well fine , fine , since 
we 've identified that these are his clothes , and since his . . . since 
he has seven gold . . . 

on the 4th they told me , it 's time to bury now. i cried , how , 
how can i bury when i have only one son and he 's sick i should 
his relatives , he has three sisters , i ca n't do it by myself. they say , ok , 
you know the situation. how will they get here from how will they 
get here from there 's no transportation , it s impossible. 

he was killed on february 28 , and i buried him on march 7. we buried him in 
 . they asked me , where do you want to bury him i said , i want to 
bury him in , where we were born , let me bury him in , i'm 
shouting , and the head of the office , i guess , says , do you know what 
it means , take him to ! it means ! i say , what do you mean , 
do n't they know what 's going on in the whole world knows that 
they killed them , and i want to take him to , i do n't have anyone 
anymore. i , i , i , i even got down on my  . he 
says , let 's bury him here now , and in three months , in months , a year , 
if it down , i 'll help you move him to . . . 

our trial was the first in  . it was concluded on may 16. at the 
investigation the murderer , tale , told how it all happened , but then 
at the trial he . . . tried to . . . he tried to his crime .  . 
then they brought a , i guess , and played it , and said , 
, look , is that you he says , yes. well look , here you 're 
describing everything as it was on the of the crime , right he says , 
yes. and now you 're telling it differently he says , well maybe i 
forgot ! like that. 

the witnesses and that criminal himself said that when the car was going 
along street , there was a of about 80 people . . . had a 
21 .  . the 80 people his car , and all 80 of them were 
involved. one of them was this guy , this tale .  . they it 's 
who started out of the car. well , one says from the left side 
of the car , another says from the right side. they off his sports 
 . he had a on. well they ask him , what 's your he 
says ,  . well they say from the they , if he 's an 
, kill him , kill him ! they started beating him , they broke seven of 
his , and his heart . . . i do n't know , they did something there , too 
. . . it 's too awful to tell about. anyway , they say this tale guy . . . he 
had an  . he says , i picked it up , it was lying near a bush , 
that 's where i got it. he said he picked it up , but the witnesses say that he 
had already had it. he said , i hit him twice , he said , . . . once or twice 
on the head with that  . and he said that when he started to him 
was sitting on the ground , and when he hit him he over. he said , 
i left , right nearby they were burning things or something in an apartment , 
killing someone , he says , and i came back to look , is that alive or 
not i said , you wanted to finish him , right , and if he was still alive , you 
came back to hit him again he went back and looked and he was already dead. 
after that , that bastard tale said , after that i went home. 

i said , you . . . you . . . little snake , i said , are you a and a 
murderer had had money in his , and a watch on his  . they 
were taken .  . he says he did n't take them 

when they and burned the car , that tale was no longer there , it was 
other people who did that. who it was , who turned over the car and who burned 
it , that has n't been clarified as yet. i told the , how can you 
have the trial when you do n't know who burned the car he said something , but 
i did n't get what he was saying. but i said , you still have n't 
everything out , i think that 's unjust .  . 

when they burned the car he was lying next to it , and the fire spread to him. 
in the death it says that he had third degree over 80 
percent of his body . . . 

and i ask again , why was he killed my husband was a he was a good 
, he knew how to do everything , he even fixed his own car , with his 
own hands. we have three children. three sons .  . only was with me at the 
time. the older one was in , and the one is serving in the 
army .  . and now they 're  .  .  . 

i could n't sit all the way through it. when the read up to 15 
years' of freedom , i just . . . i went out of my mind , i did n't 
know what to do with myself , i said , how can that be you , i said , you are 
saying that it was intentional murder and the sentence is 15 years' 
of freedom i , i had my mind ! i said , let me at that 
, with my bare hands i 'll . . . a relative me , and there 
were all those military people there . . . i lest .  . i said , this is n't a 
soviet trial , this is unjust ! that 's what i , l said it and left . . . 

i said that on february 27 , when those people were down our street , 
they were shouting , long live ! and glory to ! and during the 
trial i said to that , what does that mean ,  glory to  i 
still do n't understand what has to do with this , we live in the soviet 
union .  . that told you to or is going to help you kill i still 
do n't understand why glory to ! i asked that question twice and got no 
answer . . . no one answered me . . . 

may 19 , 1988 


reference 

1 the against in soviet , 
volume i , accounts , edited by , forward by 
, 1990 , published by d. , ny , pages 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization the department of department 
lines 23 

in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on 
in and try to see through the propaganda .  . 

thank you , brad ali , for warning us about the of propaganda .  . 
it 's funny , though , coming from you. 

there are no a 
black and white but one sure wonders how the can in 
to pin point attacks on its soldiers in and then call the 
 . 

who is it that these pin point attacks on the 
guys in the white or the ones in the black neither you 
mean that they are just civilians , , teachers , school children 
well , maybe they are , after all and maybe that 
propaganda was correct , too hmm 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re final solution for gaza 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 66 

in article center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 
subject final solution for gaza 

while israeli jews the of the , 

since this word both formally and commonly refers to 
positive events , your misuse of it here is rather  . 

they by violent means the of the gaza 
and attempt to the  . 

i certainly those israeli policies and attitudes that are 
abusive towards the palestinians  . given that , however , there 
is no comparison between the reality of the and in 
gaza .  . 

the right of the population to resist occupation is 
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of 
justice. 

just as international law the right of the 
entity to maintain order , especially in the face of elements 
that are attempting to the civil structure .  . 
, international law each of these focusses 
 ( that of the and the occupier ) even though they are 
inherently in conflict .  . 

as israel denies the only two options which are compatible 
with basic human rights and international law , that of becoming 
israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for 
self determination , it must be concluded that the israeli jewish 
society does not consider full human beings .  . 

israel certainly cannot , and should not , continue its present 
policies towards residents .  . there is , however , a third 
alternative the creation and implementation of a jewish 
system with palestinians as protected citizens .  . 
would you find that as acceptable in that form as you do with 
regard to islam 's policies towards its minorities 

whether they have some final solution up their sleeve 

it is a race , then between israel 's anti 
final solution and the arab world 's anti israel jewish 
final solution . do you favor one neither 

i urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever 
they can to help the their full human , civil and 
political rights , to which they are entitled as human beings .  . 

since there is worry by various parties that israel 
and arab final solution intentions exist , is n't it 
important that both israeli and rights 
be 






tim d .  . graduate student 
tel , department of politics and society 
fax , university of california 
home tel , , ca 

from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re the way of death 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 15 

in article  ( alaa zeineldine ) writes 
 ( naftaly stramer ) writes 

the way of death 

 ( following is a of a and training 
made last summer by the , the military 



while you brought up the separate question of israel 's 
policies and practices , i am still about your reaction to 
the practices and in the article above. 

tim 

from  ( gregory dandulakis ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
organization university of virginia 
lines 59 

in article writes 
message id mr . napoleon . responds 

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor 
until someone had to protect them. if not us who 


is that so or you were taking advantage of weakness of ottoman 
empire to some land. as soon as you got green from 
allied forces , you and other cities in western 
 . you killed and millions people without any reason. 
of course , you paid the price .  . made 
you swim in sea but not far enough. your thru 
at anytime in the past did not get you any reward and shall 
not get you anywhere. 


do n't swallow propaganda as truth sir .  . british promised to 
 ( greek pm ) that mainly greek populated areas of the will be 
given to , if he will agree to in the side of 
the british during the  ( because the greek king was  . 
the british succeeded by  ( 1916 ) , killing quite a few , 
forcing of the king , division of into two separate 
states  ( north south ) , and finally the ground for the most 
division between greeks for our century . do n't feel bitter that the 
allies gave any green light because they liked us .  .  .  . ) . 

anyway , the british succeed to establish , war starts at a second 
front against the germans in the south while they were fighting the war 
in the east against the russians , and finally the wwii came in an end. 
after that the british  ( and french ) forgot immediately their promises 
 ( as  . even though publicly they say that they support the greek 
cause , practically they not only do nothing , but instead , using some usual 
reasoning and other crap rhetoric as a pretext , they gradually 
 ( who had given now to the british water and bread that 
he will the ottoman and contract it into a small 
ethnic  . the main drive behind this british switch was the plan 
to keep a muslim state in the as against a 
into warm water facilities .  . the greek empire being an orthodox christian 
state was too prone to become  . 

out of this , the current state of affairs was established on our 
lands .  . while and were as true by the 
british , since they worked to realize their goals in the  . 
under the same plan , currently and are of big 
military funds from the us both they are as anti 
, while simultaneously both remain good of state dept. because 
otherwise the use of of changing the of power in the 
will be used. 

under the same exact rational you should see the problem. 



ps i do n't make any anti  .  .  . whatever . rhetoric .  . this is the situation 
in our and needs to be said. the previously mentioned powers 
are not anything special they are the same way which 
anyone else functions all throughout history. so i do n't 
single them out just they are relevant to our current  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re the genocide of the muslim population by the  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( joel furr ) writes 

i , warren .  . just the other day i heard a that 
 ( aka and ahmed and zumabot ) is not really a at all , 
but in fact is an 

1 or 63 

i must congratulate your and excellent 
about  . from the writings of 
you quoted , i can perceive , maybe 
, the of her 
genes .  . even though she is only 1 , 
she seems to have many of the strong 
characteristics of women. her 
ancestry is to  ( an 
from india ) , who married the 
 . from the union was born 
scott , who married james from 
 . they had a daughter , who married 
david  . their daughter ruth married 
william gill .  . ruth gill , the of 
, married lord , and their 
daughter , ruth burke , married the 
eight of , who was the father of 
 . it is noteworthy that was also 
referred to as mrs .  . (a characteristic 
surname  . an 
gene mix is  . 

k. 
assistant professor 
university 
, illinois .  . 

time , december 21 , 1992  letters  

who is attempting to make any discussion of the 
massacres in of turks so as to make serious discussion 
impossible , thereby the historical record with a cloud 
of confusion. 

you have set up straw horses and knocked them down. i'm not impressed .  . 
anyway , the apart the ottoman empire 's eastern , 
2.5 million turkish women , children and 
people , burned thousands of turkish and and exterminated 
the entire turkish population of the dictatorship between 
 . such outrageous of hand that is still employed today 
in brings a depth and to the turkish genocide 
that is hard to match .  . a hundred years ago again thought 
they could get whatever they wanted through like the 
anarchists that they accepted as role models .  . several 
groups like terrorism and triangle 
resorted to the same in the , scores of innocent 
turks and their families in the united states and europe .  . it seems that 
they are doing it again , at a different scale , in x soviet 
today. 


source stanford j. shaw , on with invading 
armies in , history of the ottoman empire and modern  ( volume 
ii reform , revolution the rise of modern ,  . 
 ( london , cambridge university press  . pp. 316 .  . 

in april from organized a in the city 
of van , whose 33 , comprised 42 . 3 . percent of the population , 
to an majority of any city in the empire .  .  . leaving . 
on april 28 , , reached van on may 14 and organized 
and carried out a general slaughter of the local muslim population during 
the next two days while the small ottoman had to to the 
southern side of the  . 

knowing their numbers would never justify their , 
looked to russia and europe for the fulfillment of their  . 
in this regard at the beginning of the first 
world war with the decision of the organizations to refuse 
to serve their state , the ottoman empire , and to assist instead other 
invading armies .  . their hope was their participation in the 
success would be rewarded with an independent state out of 
ottoman territories .  . political leaders , army officers , and common 
soldiers began in  . 

with the invasion of eastern in at the beginning of 
world war i , the degree of with the ottoman 's enemy 
increased drastically .  . ottoman supply lines were cut by attacks , 
armed civil , who in turn 
the muslim population of the of van in anticipation of 
expected of the invading armies .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( noam tractinsky ) 
subject go ii ! 
lines 28 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
organization university of texas @ austin 
lines 28 


from israel line , thursday , april 22 , 1993 

today 's ha reports that three women were injured when a 
rocket in the center of their community. the rocket 
was one of several dozen fired at the communities of the in 
northern israel yesterday by the terrorist organization ... 


in article 
 ( brad hernlem ) wrote 

to the men of the resistance ! with every 
israeli son that you place in the grave you are the moral 
of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli 
government 's policy of disregard for civilian life. 


apparently , the were encouraged by brad 's cheers 
 ( good job ,  . someone forgot to tell them , though , that 
brad asks them to place only israeli sons in the grave , 
not daughters .  . a bit , with every rocket that 
the on the , they justify israel 's 
holding to the security  . 

noam 



from ( ) 
subject 's speech on the of the jewish race 
lines 42 
nntp posting host edu . 


washington a of the a speech by nazi 
leader that refers to the extermination of the 
jewish race went on display friday at the national archives .  . 
the documents , including notes by , are 
among the best evidence that exists to rebut claims that the 
is a myth , say. 
the notes give them their authenticity , said robert , 
a for captured german records .  . he was 
supposed to destroy them. like a lot of , he did n't obey his 
own rules. 
the documents , moved out of berlin to what hoped 
would be a safe hiding place , were by allied forces after 
world war ii from a salt mine near , austria .  . 
spoke on 4 . , , in , poland , to more than 
100 german secret police  . i also want to talk to you , 
quite frankly , on a very grave matter. among ourselves it should be 
mentioned quite frankly , and yet we will never speak of it publicly .  . 
i mean the clearing out of the jew , the extermination of the jewish 
race .  . this is a page of glory in our history which has never been 
written and is never to be written. emphasis mine 
the german word uses that is translated as 
extermination is . 
said a more precise translation would be 
or tearing up by the roots .  . 
in his notes , used a , 
or of the jews .  . but archives 
said extermination is the word he actually 
spoke preserved on an in the archives .  . 
, who adolf hitler 's final solution of the 
jewish question , committed suicide after he was in  . 
the national archives exhibit , on display through may 16 , is 
a of the of the united states memorial 
here on april 26 .  . 
the national archives exhibit includes a page each of 
's notes , a typed from the speech and 
an translation made for the war crimes trials .  . 

from p . of saturday 's l . a .  . times , 4 17 93 
 ( associated press ) 



from center for policy research 
subject racism 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 25 05 27 00 1993 
lines 76 


from center for policy research 
subject racism 


 a  
by and in 
jewish , london , 22 .  . dec .  . 1989 

israeli author and cultural , a . b .  . , 
a attack on at a zionist youth 
council meeting in north london , last week. 

the , he claimed , was the connected to the main 
tissue of the jewish people . he was about its failure to 
act before the  . 

he said the 's religious and secular leadership had 
ignored the warning signs in the , and had opposed 
 . consequently , he considered the , the failure 
of judaism . 

his talk , entitled a solution , covered 5 , 000 
years of jewish history. 

mr. 's other targets included soviet jews who were , he 
said not staying in israel , but running away , and all jews 
outside israel who were using other people 's countries like 
. 

the only conclusion he could draw was that the was 
immoral , because it looked to israel for its identity but lived 
elsewhere. 

worse , it threatened israel itself , creating a distraction for her 
citizens , who were leaving by the thousands .  . 

mr. , who described himself as a for , 
ended by calling for the creation of a new total jew , living in 
israel .  . 

earlier , speaking at a meeting of jewish students on the 
difficulties of a national identity in israeli literature , 
mr. claimed that israeli writers were by the 
country 's political situation. 

he said israel 's wars had once provided writers with a vital 
source of inspiration. today , israeli writers avoided writing 
directly about the arab israeli conflict .  . no major work had been 
produced about the  . 

instead , writers were such as jewish identity , 
from israel and personal and family issues. 

mr. admitted he also felt unable to write about the 
israeli political situation. he could no longer step into an 
israeli arab 's shoes and him as a real flesh and blood 
character . 

he claimed that after 40 years of , the problem of 
israeli identity had not been solved .  . he said jews remained too 
pre with the borders of identity between jew and non jew , 
and were not concerned with the nature of that identity .  . 

jewish values in israel every aspect of daily life , 
unlike in the , where jews had no responsibility for the 
country they lived in , he said. 

he warned that modern hebrew , a force for the jewish 
people , would have to struggle for its future , especially in 
circles .  . it competition from the english 
language. 





from  ( stewart clamen ) 
subject re on  . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 13 56 gmt 
originator 
nntp posting host sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
reply to 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon university 
lines 15 


in article  ( martin kaye ) writes 

great with benjamin on larry king live  ( 4 15 93 ) 
this guy is knows what he is talking about. he is , 
, intelligent , and demonstrates real leadership qualities .  . 

i agree , but i wish i liked his politics. 


m. internet 
school of computer science uucp uunet ! 
carnegie mellon university phone 1 
avenue fax 1 
pittsburgh , pa , usa 

from  ( onur yalcin ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
lines 38 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( esin terzioglu ) writes 

 .  .  . ... 



let me mr. turkish 

is not getting . she is simply letting the world know that she 
will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with their famous 
 . do remember of the turkish invasion of the greek island of 
while the world simply watched .  . 



it is more appropriate to address netters with their names as they appear in 
their (i failed to do so since you did not bother to sign your 
posting) .  . not only because it is the polite thing to do , but also to avoid 
addressing with mr. , as you have done. 

secondly , the island of which the name is more correctly spelled as has 
never been greek , but rather , it has been home to a communal society formed 
of greeks and turks .  . it seems that you know as little about the history and 
the of the island , as you know about the essence of 's 
military intervention to it under international agreements .  . 

be that as it may , an analogy between an act of occupation in history and what 
is going on today on land , can only be drawn with the 
policy that is now  . 

but , i could agree that it is not for us to issue to the political 
conduct of countries , and them in such terminology as 
... 





from  ( mike magil ) 
subject re israel does not kill reporters .  . 
lines 26 


has claimed that , the used to arrest , and 
sometime to kill some of these neutral reporters .  . the assertion 
by is , of course , a total  . if there is an 
once of truth it , i'm sure can document such a sad 
and event. otherwise we may assume that it is another 
piece of anti israel bullshit posted by someone whose family does 
not know how to teach their children to tell the truth. if 
would care to retract this  error  i would be glad to retract the 
accusation that he is a liar .  . if he can document such a claim , i 
would again be glad to apologize for calling him a liar .  . failing 
to do either of these would certainly show what a liar he is. 

why retract your accusation that he 's a liar if his verbal 
does n't that only prove the liar he really is a 
would be pointless ! giving this guy the opportunity to save face after 
such bullshit would just encourage him to do it again ! i must say 
that your style is very impressive , mark. keep it up ! 

mike 


mi k opinions expressed above 
m i k e m i k e m are my own and not that 
m i k e i kem i k of  big blue  
m i k e m m mike 

from  ( bulent murtezaoglu ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 23 24 49 gmt 
nntp posting host vein . cs . rochester . edu . 
organization computer science department , university of rochester 



in article writes 
in article ,  ( bulent murtezaoglu ) writes 
... 
country. turks and want to into the 
conflict with  . 

a break .  . capital letters , or not , the above is pure nonsense. it 
seems to me that short are the 

again , in are simply defending themselves. what do 
want them to do. down their and let walk all over them. 

news reports i 've seen say otherwise both and motives wise .  . 
caps do n't change facts .  . 

while that will stay out. stop and think for a moment , 
will you does n't need anyone to her into the conflict , it 
is a part of it. 

knew from the that turks were fully engaged 
training militarily to fight against  . 

so should i , at this point break into caps and start talking about 
defense etc. i do n't know how  fully engaged  is was though. 

the who have lived in their for 3000 
years  ( cut off from and given to by stalin ) are the 
ones directly involved in the conflict .  . they are defending 
themselves against  . 

huh you did n't expect 's to be friendly to forces fighting with them 
within their borders 

well , history is sad .  . remember , those are into 
the land of by the stalin regime .  . 

so i hear .  . this n years after the fact 

at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that stay out of the 
crisis so that the repeat of the invasion will never 
occur again. 

you 're not playing with a full , are you where would invade 

it is not up to me to speculate but i am sure would have 
into if she could. 

why would do that do you not realize that this is a local 
that never wished to see happen has other plans for , 
like economic , co operation etc. good stuff in other words , i 'd 
be happy to with over trade and such on usenet 
rather than  who killed whom in what way  which i doing and would n't 
do. 

are you throwing the around with s . c . g .  . in the 
in hopes that the greek netters will jump the gun 

absolutely not ! i am merely trying to that in many 
cases , history repeats itself. 

even if one buys into your premise , the sane thing to do would 
be to try not to as was done in  . if there 'd been 
a democratic government instead of a bunch of idiots in at the 
time , everybody would have stayed home with their families .  . i have no 
wish to go into the quarrel , but i suspect what i 've said is not 
only accurate but also to all parties involved 

yes indeed has the military to intervene , what she wishes 
she had , however , is the diplomatic power to stop the and bring 
the parties to the table .  . that 's hard to do when 
are attacking towns .  . 

so , let me understand in plain words what you are saying 
wants a peaceful end to this conflict .  . not ! ! 

so what do you think we want war , death and destruction 

i will believe it when i see it. 

no , if you allow yourself to believe it you just might see it. 

now , as far as attacking , what do you do when you see a gun pointing 
to your head do you sit there and watch or defend  ( yoursef(fat chance ) 

this kind of childish rhetoric does n't help  . 

do you remember what did to the in all the 
acts especially against and their children. i mean 
burning people alive ! 

now , some will come out and give a description of similar stuff 
by  . one should re stuff like this often to 
keep the hatred alive , right 

leaders are lacking the to recognize the 
of armed conflict and convince their nation that a compromise that 
leads to is much better than a military that 's 
going to cause  . 

in want peace and their own  . they are 
not asking much. they simply want to get back what was taken away 
from them and given to by stalin .  . 

well they obviously are n't getting anywhere with their current methods 
of asking  ( not very peaceful i 'd  . 

think of 10 or 20 years down the line both of the independent 
countries need to develop economically and neither one is going to wipe 
the other out. these people will be , would it not be better 
to keep the bad blood between them minimal 

do n't get me wrong. i also want peaceful solution to the 
conflict .  . but until realize that , the in 
will defend themselves against  . 

i do n't know if you want a solution or just want to exchange  . 
peace is n't what 's happening right now , furthermore what 's happening 
right now is n't condusive to peace. you can spend days and nights 
raving about how  right  the position is and i'm sure 
there 'll be others who 'd be happy to talk to you by arguing the other 
side. if entrenched positions lead to war , and if people want peace 
than they should sit down and talk about a compromise .  . is n't 
strong enough to exercise the  we think we 're right , and we have the 
bombs , so we 'll do whatever we want , so there .  .  . ' . style of foreign 
relations .  . yes you can type stalin in caps , and give one 
stories etc. but for peace you need to be willing to talk to 
the other side. you personally can choose not to do that of course , 
this being just usenet .  . the people in power should n't be so childish .  . 


if you belong to the , keep in mind that what strikes 
your fancy on the map is costing the local in terms of 
their blood and future. 

again , you are taking different turns .  . has no 
to any land from  . the in 
are simply defending themselves until a solution is set .  . 

's would disagree with you on this , and the i 've seen support 
what they 'd be saying. it does n't seem likely that a solution will be 
reached in this manner. 

it 's easy to be comfortable and 
to have your feelings about turks  . the 
in and n k will be there , with the same people you seem to hate 
as their , for maybe 3000 years more. the sooner there 's peace in 
the the better it is for them and everyone else. i 'd push for 
compromise if i were you instead of hitting the caps lock and spreading 
inflammatory half truths .  . 

it is not up to me to decide the peace  . i am absolutely 
for it. 

it did n't look it when i read your posting. it would seem to me 
that if you can mis information about a man , you can also 
talk about how one might avoid the  . fair 

but , in the meantime , if you do not take care of yourself , 
you will be out. such as the case in the era of 20 of 
the massacres .  . 

you do n't realize i can say the same thing about  the turkish massacres . ' . 
yes , and girls , let 's always talk about how bad and nasty things were. 
let 's do that so we 're by , and let 's do that so our 
kids will also be  . sounds crazy does n't it do n't do it then. 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization the department of department 
lines 17 

in article ( ) writes 
writes 

all jews suffered during wwii , not just our beloved who or were 
tortured .  . we all suffered .  . 

all humans suffered emotionally , some jews and many 
others suffered physically .  . 

i'm just waiting for to tell us that african americans should 
start paying to white americans who suffered from being 
slave owners .  . 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 78 

nntp posting host think . com . 
in reply to 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 17 53 34 gmt 

in article  ( basil hamdan ) writes 
snip 
in the first place the death of three soldiers on a in 
is not an act of terrorism or murder .  . it is 
to compare their death to that of in 
or any other act of terrorism or  . this exercise is aimed 
solely at the issue and is far from the truth. 

i agree that the death of three soldiers on a etc .  .  .  . is 
not terrorism .  . that having been said , lets continue. 

snip 
imagine it is not a terrorist camp as you and the like 
to view the they are small communities with kids playing 
in the streets , women lunch , men playing cards , etc .  .  .  .  .  . 

i would not argue that all or even most of the are terrorist 
camps . there are however some which come very close to serving that 
purpose and that is not to say that other did not function in that way 
prior to the invasion .  . 

some young men , usually between 17 to 30 years are members of 
the resistance .  . even the of the do not 
know who these are , they are about it , but most people often 
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are 
supported by iran most of the time. they and 
into the where they set up 
for israeli  . every time an israeli is killed or injured 
by these , israel by bombing 
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians .  . once they 
are back they announce that they bombed a terrorist where 
an 8 year old girl just happened to be. 

some of the , and yours might well be among them , are as you 
describe .  . not all are. there are a large number of groups in the area , 
backed by various organizations , with a wide range of purposes. 
and were two of the larger ones and may still be. as to , 
while mistakes may be made , that is still a far cry from 
bombing , which would have produced major casualties .  . 

israel 's policy is cold hearted , but a reality that 
we have come to accept and deal with , the resistance 
on the other hand is not going to stop its attacks on 
israeli soldiers until they , this is the only real 
that they have to force israel to  . 

well , here we disagree. i think that israel would willingly if 
the gov t was able to field a reliable force in the area to police 
it and prevent further attacks .  . 

this is the only solution , it is time for israel to 
realize that the concept of a aimed at protecting 
its northern cities has failed .  . in fact it has caused much more 
israeli deaths than the occasional of northern israel 
would have resulted in. 

actually that is not clear at all. i will agree that the death is no 
longer civilian and now primarily military though. 

there seems to be very little incentive for the and 
to allow to bomb israel proper under such 
circumstances , and now the government has proven that it is 
capable of controlling and all as they did 
in all other parts of  . 

no , the gov t is more than happy to have israel into another 
 . i could elaborate if necessary. 

i agree , only in the case of the soldiers their killing 
cannot be qualified as murder , no matter what you say. 

no , but it is regretable , as is the whole situation. 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( peggy  ( you had to ask  ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 21 

in article smith writes 
 ( dan gannon ) writes 
the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 

by theodore j. o 



theodore j. o is an editor with the institute for historical 
review .  . at university . . . 

according to the 1990 directory , mr. o failed to 
graduate .  . you may decide for yourselves if he was indeed 
anywhere. 

 ( forgive any inaccuracies , i deleted the original post ) 
is n't this the same person who wrote the book , and was 
in canada a few years back 




from center for policy research 
subject h . r .  . by israel arab st. 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 24 16 07 00 1993 
lines 48 



many of you ask me whether i approve of severe human rights 
by arab states i focus on israeli human rights 
 . 

let 's make things clear my opposition to h . r .  . in arab 
states is total and without  . no arab state is and can 
claim to be democratic .  . no arab state claims to be democratic .  . 

i am born in  ( now  . i have family there. the lack of 
peace and utter in my home country has affected me all my life. 
i am concerned by  ( israel ) because i want peace to come to 
it. peace and justice. 

if anybody has legitimate claims towards arab states , he should present 
his claims and ask for support .  . jews who left arab states are fully 
entitled to make claims and should do so , if they consider their case has 
a merit .  . it is their basic right to return to these countries , if they 
wish. if not , they should not complain and compare themselves to the 
palestinians who have been for the right of return since 
israel was established and whose right is upheld by the united nations 
totally .  . if jews feel in arab countries , they have a 
legitimate claim that any decent person can and should support .  . 

human rights by arab states do n't justify , legitimate nor 
are the cause for israeli of international law and human  . 
israeli from the zionist concept , which can only be 
implemented by basic rights to palestinians .  . 

israeli and rights are not  . the first 
party has a state and the other has none. the first is an and 
the second the  . for any meaningful relationship to emerge , some 
must be established .  . as long as and jews do n't realise 
the necessity of a change of perspective towards the people 
and as long as and jews do n't want to their own 
past towards the palestinians  ( the of , etc . ) . and refuse to 
acknowledge that the creation of israel was dependent upon the removal 
of most , there will be no base for a real trust .  . 

when i read the first time the list of the arab 
by the state of israel in and after , i got a  . 
i hope others will be by this and think about the 
meaning of such massive destruction and  . 





from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re fundamentalism again. 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 19 

in article  ( mohammad khan ) writes 
one of my biggest about using the word fundamentalist 
is that  ( at least in the u . s . a . ) . people speak of 
fundamentalists muslim 
but nobody defines what a jewish or fundamentalist is. 
i wonder what an equal definition would be .  .  . 
any  .  . 

the american press routinely uses the word fundamentalist to 
refer to both christians and jews .  . christian are 
often refered to in the context of anti abortion  . the 
american media also uses fundamentalist to refer to jews who live in 
judea , or gaza , and to any jew who follows the torah .  . 

adam 
adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( marek osinski ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 12 
distribution world 
nntp posting host unm . edu . 

in article  ( mau napoleon ) writes 

compromise on what , the invasion of , the of in 
greek politics , the refusal of to accept 12 of 
as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of 
, the ownership of the islands in the greek , sorry ,  . 

well , it did not take long to see how consequent some greeks are in 
requesting that are not called by netters .  . 
so , napoleon , why do you write about and not 



from  ( feigenbaum , benjamin ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization , , nj 
summary an approach 
lines 59 

in article ,  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

in article ,  ( dorin baru ) writes 

 ( brad writes 


well , you should have noted that i was cheering an attack on an israeli 
inside territory while i was condemning the 
of by israeli and israeli backed forces .  . my team , 
you see , was playing fair while the team was the 
faces of the in my team 's stands , so to speak. 

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on 
in and try to see through the propaganda .  . there are no a 
black and white but one sure wonders how the can in 
to pin point attacks on its soldiers in and then call the 
 . 

if the attack was justified or not is at least  . but this is not the 
issue. the issue is that you were cheering death. ... 



, of all the criticism of my post expressed on t . p . m .  . , this one i accept .  . 
i regret that aspect of my post. it is my hope that the occupation will end  ( and 
the accompanying loss of life ) but i believe that resistance can help to 
achieve that end. despite what some have said on t . p . m .  . , i think that there is 
a point when losses are unacceptable .  . the strategy u.s. troops out of 
, at least. 

brad 

hi brad , 

i have two comments regarding your hope that the occupation will end .  .  .  . 
that resistance .  . etc .  . how about an approach , i.e. , 
peace and  . i ca n't help but wonder what would happen if all 
violence against stopped .  . , violence against 
would stop at the same time. if a state of non violence could be 
, perhaps a state of could be achieved , i.e. , 
greater economic opportunities for both peoples living in the 
territories . 

of course , given the current leadership of israel , your way may work 
also but if that leadership changes , e.g. , to someone with 
's , then i would a loss of life , 
i.e. , no  . 

secondly , regarding your comment about the u.s. troops responding 
to resistance the analogy is not quite valid .  . the u.s. 
troops could get out of the neighborhood altogether. the 
could not. 

just my  . 02 . worth , no offense intended .  . 

, 

ben .  . 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject the architect of the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 55 

in article  ( mikhail s. verbitsky ) writes 

my personal problem with culture is that i am 
not aware of one. there is an anecdote about 

does not necessarily imply a low cultural level. 
the image conscious feel a missing glory in 
their background .  . have never achieved and 
independence , they have always been , and engaged 
in against their rulers .  . they committed 
genocide against the muslim of eastern 
and dictatorship before and during world war i and 
fully participated in the extermination of the european 
during world war ii. , genocide , back , 
and have been the of the 
history. to these the 
engaged in history to suit their  . in this 
they tried to cover up the cold genocide of 2.5 million 
turks and before and during world war i. 

and , you do n't pull nations out of a hat .  . 


source walker , the survival of a nation .  . 
new york  . martin 's press ) ,  . 

this generally pro work contains the following information 
of direct relevance to the nazi 

a )  ( the butcher ) , the former dictator of the dictatorship and 
the architect of the genocide of 2.5 million turks and , the most 
respected of nazi leaders , established an 
in berlin during world war ii 

b ) this  government  fully and the social 
theories of the nazis , declared themselves and all to be members 
of the  super race ' 

c ) they published an anti semitic , racist journal , thereby themselves 
with the nazis and their efforts to exterminate the jews and , 

d ) they an army of up to 20 , 000 members which fought side 
by side with the  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from 
subject re 18 murdered in march 
originator 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 


in article ,  ( jonas flygare ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( jonas flygare ) writes 

in article writes 

in article ,  ( jonas flygare ) writes 

i get the impression realized he and is now 
trying to drop the thread. let him. it might save some 
portion of his sorry face. 

not really. since i am a logical person who likes himself 
from any name calling , i started trashing any article that contains 
such abuses without responding to , and sometimes not even reading articles 
written by those who acquired such bad from bad company ! 

deleted stuff 
well , ok. let 's see what master of wisdom , mr. , 
wrote that can be responded to 

are you calling names , or giving me a title if the first , read your 
paragraph above , if not i accept the title , in order to let you get into the 
, well , debate again. 

i know that master of wisdom can be name too , 
unless you consider yourself less ! 

master of wisdom writes in 





in case you know , were there for 18 months. 
and they are coming back 
when you agree to give their human rights. 

, human rights  . 

correct me if i'm wrong , but is n't the right to one 's life also 
a  human right  or does it only apply to palestinians 

no. it is everybody 's right. however , when a killer kills , then he is giving 
up willingly or his life 's right to the society. 
the society represented by the would exercise its duty by 
the killer off his life 's right. 

so then it 's all right for israel to kill the people who kill 
the old  eye for an eye  thinking funny , i thought modern legal systems 
were made to counter exactly that. 

so what do you expect me to tell you to tell you , master of , 


if you insist on giving me names titles i did not ask for you could at 
least them correctly. sigh. 

that was only to confuse you !  ( ha ha ha hey ) 

when you are intentionally the most important fact that 
the whole israeli presence in the territories is illegitimate , 
and hence all their actions , their courts , their laws are illegitimate on 
the ground of territories .  . 

no , i am not that , i'm merely asking you whether the existance 
of israeli in the or in gaza invalidates those individuals right 
are you trying to and confuse me here. 
to live , a  ( as you so eloquently put it) human right. we can get back to the 
question of which law should be used in the territories later. also , you have 
not my question if the also have human rights. 


first , my above statement say that the existence of israeli citizens 
in the their right of life but it says the israeli occupation 
of the the right of life for some most its citizens basically 
the right of for its military men . clearly , occupation is an 
war during war , attacks against military targets are fully legitimate .  . 

secondly , surely israeli have human rights , but they ask their to 
protect it by from the , not by further oppressing 
human rights. 


what do you expect me to tell you , master of wisdom , when i did explain my 
point in the post , that you responded to . the point is that since israel 
is then it is automatically itself from some of its rights 
to the , which is exactly similar the automatic 
of a killer from his right of life to the society. 

if a state can all it 's citizens of human rights by its actions , then 
tell me why any human living today should have any rights at all 


because not all states are like israel , as , as ignorant , or as tyrant .  . 


what kind of rights and how much would be deprived is another issue 
the answer is to be found in a certain system such as international law , 
us law , israeli law , ... 
deleted , was throwing up not for real so you can stick to the 
it seems that the us law represented by us state dept in this case 
is looking to the other way around when violence occurs in territories .  . 
anyway , as for , then obviously they turned to the islamic system. 

and which system do you propose we use to solve the me problem 

the question is not which system would solve the me problem. why because 
any system can solve it. 
the laws of says kick out of here  ( all  . 

i asked for which system should be used , that will preserve human rights for 

all people involved. i assumed that was obvious , but i wo n't repeat that 
mistake. now that i have that out , i'm eagerly your 
reply. 

so you agree that that an israeli solution preserve human rights. 
(i am understanding this from your first statement in this  . 

joseph  ( administrator responsible for jewish colonization ) 
said it best when writing in his diary in 
between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both 
peoples together in this country .  .  .  .  . we shall not achieve our goal 

of being an independent people with the in this small country. 
the only solution is a , at least western  ( west of 
the river ) without  .  .  .  . and there is no other way than 
to the from here to the countries , to 
all of them not one , not one tribe , should be 
left .  .  .  .  . only after this will the country be able to 
absorb the millions of our own  . there is no other way out. 
, 29 september , 
( courtesy of afifi ) 

just a question if we are to disregard the rather obvious references to 
getting israel out of me one way or the other in both covenant and 
charter  ( that 's the english translations , if you have other information i 'd 
be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to 
a private paper even older i'm not going to get into the question if he 
wrote the above , but it 's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have 
their share of fanatics .  . guess what .  .  . those are not the people that will 
make any lasting peace in the  . more deleted stuff 

exactly , you are right. i guess that the problem is that the israeli 
is full with men like joseph  . 


we and our either refers to or jews (i know  . 

well , i can give you an answer , you master of wisdom , i will not suggest the 
israeli system for the me problem ! 

i think that is fair enough . 

no , that is not an answer , since i asked for a system that could solve 
the problem. you said any could be used , then you provided a contradiction .  . 

above you wrote that you understood what i meant  ( underlined by ) 
any system can be used to solve the conflict , but not any system would 
resolve it justly .  . 

guess where that takes your logic to never never land. 

you are proving yourself as a . first you understood what i meant , but then 
you claim you so to claim a contradiction in my logic .  . too bad for you , 
the master of wisdom .  . 


the greatest problem of is arab children . 
rabbi  . 

oh , and by the way , let me add that these quotes you put at the end are 
a real , when i try giving your posts any credit .  . 

why do you feel by things and facts that you believe in , if you were a 
 . if you believe in zionist codes and acts , well i feel sorry for you , 
because the same rabbi had said yes , is racism . 
if you feel and bothered by the zionist codes , then drop  . 
if you are not zionist , why are you bothered then. you should join me in 
condemning these racist zionist codes and acts .  . 





, 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re gaza and separation from israel 
organization the department of department 
lines 33 

in article center for policy research writes 

the israeli left 's inability to with the challenges it is 
presented with by reality becomes obvious at those when 
the reality does not line up with the expectations of the left. we 
were able to see this clearly during the gulf war. because of the 
's popular with iraq , 
currently of the environment made his infamous 
statement you look for me ! , i.e. , i am not making any more 
efforts to speak with you. from 's point of view , 
reality during the gulf war was not the lengthy 
or the danger of it brought with it , but whether or not the 
palestinians accepted what was acceptable to the party. similarly 
, mk , recently with criticism from 
residents of the west bank town of over his 
government 's and his party 's lack of action for human rights and 
peace , responded by asking those present at the discussion whether 
they would rather have a government. from the  
perspective this is the best government because it is their 
government , regardless of what it does. 

these members of the israeli left have already decided how the 
future of the territories will look , and they want to 
to the palestinians how to get there. 

when someone starts criticizing the for not being 
enough , we get a pretty clear idea of what they believe to be normal .  . 
i hope that your not still calling yourself fair and unbiased ,  . 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( hilmi eren ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish  ( henrik ) 
lines 
nntp posting host su . 
reply to  ( hilmi eren ) 
organization dept. of computer and systems sciences , university 




the student of regional killings  ( not the sect ) writes 


greater would stretch from , to the black sea , to the 
, so if you use the term greater use it with care. 


finally you said what you dream about. that was new .  .  .  .  . 
the area will be greater after some years , like your numbers .  .  .  .  .  .  . 




it has always been up to the to end their of 
by removing the ! when the president of , , came to 
power last year , he he would be be swimming in in 
by . 

is t in usa now here in it 's april and still cold .  . 
or have you changed your 


well , he was wrong ! if is going to shell the 
of from , his people will pay the price ! if 

is going to shell from his people will pay the price ! if 

thinks he can get away with bombing from the of 
, his people will pay the price .  . 



nothing of the mentioned is true , but let say it 's true. 

shall the women and children going to pay the price with 

being , killed and tortured by the 

have you something called 
you ! ! ! ! ! 



i forgot , this is how fight , nobody has forgot 
you killings , and torture against the and turks once 
upon a time ! 



and anyway , this 60 
story , as have other stories , are simple fabrications in 
, modified in  . other examples of this are has no border 
with iran , and the ridiculous story of the of military 
as appeared in the new york times supposedly translated by 
somebody unknown , from into turkish , by an 
special to the ny times from  . real accurate ! 

so workers do lie they too what ever you say 
regional killer , if you do n't like the person then shoot him that 's your policy .  .  .  .  . l . 


he search turkish you do n't know what you are talking about. 
he since it 's content is to be weapons i 
i 
well , big mouth said military weapons are being provided to i 
from , yet and others say no. no wonder you are so confused ! i 
i 
i 
confused i 
you when you delete text do n't change it , i wrote i 
i 
search turkish you do n't know what you are talking about. i 
's government has that it 's giving weapons i 
to since started to attack 
it self , not the  . so why search a plane for weapons 
since it 's content is to be weapons 

if there is one that 's confused then that 's you ! we have the right  ( and we do ) 
to give weapons to the , since started the fight in ! 


you are correct , all turkish should be simply shot down ! nice , slow 
moving air ! 

shoot down with what bread and butter or the and 
of the army 





university 

from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject re happy birthday israel ! 
in reply to 's message of mon , 26 apr 1993 17 57 50 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 6 

in article  ( edward a shnekendorf ) writes 

israel happy birthday ! 

may you and your know peace even before you see 46 .  . 


from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re  . questions to 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article , center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 
subject  . questions to 


to 

subject ten questions to 

dear , 

in the answer to my first question , concerning the nonexistence of 
israeli , your answer conflicts with information i have 
received from other , according to which there are two 
distinct categories of citizenship 
 ( ezrahut ) and  . the former is used on 
etc , and the later for daily in israeli society. i 
am told that people in israel have to carry their id cards at all 
times and present them at many public places , almost every day. 
these id cards make clear who the is , a jew or an arab .  . 
you maintain that this mainly because of religious services 
provided .  . but do you really believe that this is the reason 
could you provide evidence that this is the case and that it 
serves no other purpose 

a number of points. you are making assumptions about the manner 
in which the cards are used. true , by law , all residents , citizens , 
and must carry a form of with them. for 
citizens , the standard id is the id card .  . the purpose this serves 
on a daily basis , wherein they are presented at public places , 
is for the purpose of the bearer .  . this takes place 
in banks  ( cashing checks ) , post offices  ( registered mail and such ) , etc .  .  .  . 
quite frankly , it was rare that i ever had to present my id card 
for such activities more than once per week. there is no law or 
requirement that forces people to wave their id cards in public. 
furthermore , none of the services i discriminate against 
the bearer in any manner by having access to this information. 

the only case that i can think of in which the field might 
be taken into account is during interaction with the police , 
based upon the scenario .  . in general though , arab citizens are 
clearly , as are non  . your argument therefore 
becomes unless you can provide an example of how this field 
is being used to discriminate against them  . 


in the answer to my second questions , concerning the fact that 
israel has no fixed borders , you state that israel 's borders were 
 and by both war and  . according to what i 
read , the first in the beginning of the century , had 
plans for the jewish state to extend into what is and into 
 . i also read that it was the express wish of 
ben to not declare israel 's borders , when israel was 
established , as this might restrict israel 's opportunities for 
later  . israel often claims it right of existence on the 
fact that jews lived there 2000 years ago or that god promised the 
land to them. but according to biblical sources , the area god 
promised would extend all the way to iraq .  . and what were the 
borders in biblical times which israel considers proper to use 
today finally , if israel wants peace , why ca n't it declare what 
it considers its legitimate and secure borders , which might be a 
base for having all the above facts in mind , one 
cannot blame arab countries to fear israeli , as a 
number of wars have proved  ( 1948 , , ,  . 

i take issue with your assertions .  . i think that arab countries 
do know that they have nothing to fear from israeli . 
militarily , israel is not capable of holding onto large of 
land under occupation to a hostile , armed , and population for a 
period of time. as is , the is 
the israeli economy .  . proof of this can be seen in the israeli 
from  . israeli troops back from the 
, and later from the , in order to control the minimal 
strip needed to keep towns out of range of missile fire .  . 
public opinion in israel has turned towards the 
via  . the israel public is from 
battle of sorts and the gov t is aware of it. 

with regards to borders , let me state the following. i may not agree 
with the manner in which are being held , however the crux 
of the matter is that everyone either makes or from stating 
a starting position. the arab parties have called for total 
and a return to pre 48 borders .  . if israel were to state large borders , 
the might never get under way. if israel were to state 
smaller borders , then the arab countries might try and force even smaller 
borders during the  . i think that leaving the matter to be 
by and peace treaties is infinitely more 
and sensible .  . 

your answer to my third question is typical of a stalinist public 
official .  . i do n't think your answer is honest .  . you refer me to 
's revelations about israel 's nuclear without 
evaluating the of his revelations .  . now if he said 
the truth , then why should he been punished , and if he lied , why 
should he be punished i would appreciate more honesty .  . 

your statement is typical of the simple minded of a center for 
policy research . whether or not all of 's revelations were true has no 
bearing on the fact that some were. for state 
after having signed contracts and forms with the understanding that 
said are not to be made public , one should be punished .  . 
as to which were and which were n't , i am under no moral 
to that quite the reverse in fact. 
he was taken to court , tried , and found guilty .  . you may take issue 
with a number of things but clearly you have no understanding of the 
concept of of state , something which every democratic govt 
has .  . 

somebody provided an answer to the fourth question , concerning 
 hidden prisoners  in israeli  . he posted an article from 
ma such cases. it seems that such prisoners do 
exist in israel .  . what do you think about that 

i noticed that he was the fact that such prisoners could exist 
more than he documented the fact that they do exist. the noted , 
which you evidently did not pay attention to , that they know of no such 
reports or cases. i am sorry to tell you but in a country of 4 mill , 
as tightly as israel , even if the matter of the arrest was not 
made public , within a relatively short time frame , most people would know 
about it. my own feelings are that the matter of the arrest should be 
made public unless a court order is issued allowing a delay of x hours. 
this would be granted only if a judge could be convinced that an 
announcement would cause harm to the investigation .  . 

you imply that my questions show bias and are formulated in such a 
way to  cast upon  . such terms have often been 
used by the soviet union against dissidents they call the soviet 
union into  . if my questions are not , they 
would not call forth such answers. my questions are 
clearly but they are meant to seek facts .  . i would be 
very happy if you could convince me that what i am told about 
israel were just fabrications , but you have failed to do so. 
i suspect that you fear the truth and an open and honest 
discussion. this is a sign of weakness , not of strength .  . 

well , i am sorry to say that your questions are slanted .  . such 
questions are often and are not 
because they avoid any attempt at objectivity .  . 
such questions were often used during the era as 
a basis for the witch hunts that took place then. to use 
your own example , these questions might have been lifted 
from the format used by stalinist that were looking 
for small bits of evidence that they could distort and 
as a larger and picture .  . 

my answers were not any more than the questions 
themselves. the problem is not that the q 's were , 
it was that they were selective in their fact seeking .  . you 
fall into the same category of those who seek yes no answers 
when the real answer is of sorts . 
i suspect that as long as the answers to these questions is not an 
no , you would remain and choose to 
them as you see fit. a sign of strength is the ability to look 
you me of those mistaken who once advocated 
because of the to deer , only to find that they 
had broken the food and upon the very environment 
they sought to protect .  . the color you exhibit is a true 
sign of weakness .  . 

i hope you will the courage to seek the full truth. 

 . 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( esin terzioglu ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science 

in article  ( david davidian ) writes 
04 16 93 says it could shoot down turkish 


 .  .  . 

let me translate for everyone else before the public service gets 
into it is getting  . 

 . 


from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re israel 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 9 

in article  ( gennady feygin ) writes 
does anyone have a of israel broadcasts in different 
that could be posted or e to me. your 
assistance would be greatly 




try rec . radio . newsgroup .  . 

from  ( anwar mohammed ) 
subject re  . questions to 
nntp posting host sp . cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 22 

in article center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 
subject  . questions to 


dear 

i appreciate the fact that you sought to answer my questions. 

having said that , i am not totally happy with your answers. 

1. you did not fully answer my question whether israeli id cards 
identify the as jews or  . you imply that u.s. 
citizens must identify themselves by race .  . is that true or are 
just trying to the reader 

i think he is trying to people. in cases where race 
information is sought , it is completely voluntary  ( the 
possibly  . 



from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re nazi theories by  ( unconventional peace ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 15 

in article  ( mark ira kaufman ) writes 

first this man promotes the of the jews through an 
process , and then says that it will be just a bunch 
of  fundamentalist  jews who will object. 

or does he simply mean to insult the orthodox by using the word 
 fundamentalist ' 

it 's when someone mis us as fundamentalists , 
is n't it this sort of thing may help us understand why some muslims 
rather being put under this label. 

tim 


from m. 
subject 
organization 4th dimension bbs 
lines 7 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

hey , 
what are you 


system com . phone 
quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry 


from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re , the humanist 
organization , inc. 
lines 16 

 ( danny keren ) writes 

 ( hamaza h. salah ) writes 

well said mr. ) 

he he .  . the great humanist speaks .  . one has to read mr. 's posters , 
in which he jews as sons of and , keeps 
promising the final battle between muslims and jews  ( in which the 
and the trees will cry for the muslims to come and kill the 
jews hiding behind them ) , makes about jews dying from heart 
attacks etc , to realize his objective stance on the matters involved. 

humanist , or sub humanist ) 

h. stein 

from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject re  . questions to 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 25 


in article , center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 
subject  . questions to 


to 

subject ten questions to 

dear , 

your answers to my questions are  . 



so why do n't him. 




internet road , a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) fax  ( 303)581 ) boulder , co 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( chris metcalfe ) 
subject re conventional israel palestinians 
organization logic inc. 
lines 6 

the fact that israel is already discussing with some palestinians what the composition 
of the armed police force in the territories will be during the 
indicates some real solid and liberal thinking on the part of the 
israeli side. 

chris 

from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press. torture. 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 16 16 50 00 1993 
lines 78 


from center for policy research 
subject from israeli press. torture. 

written 4 41 apr 16 , 1993 by in forum . 
from israeli press. torture. 
from the israeli press. 

newspaper ma date 18 .  . december 1992 author 

subject torture 

title of article moderate physical pressure 

several times in the course of the long hours in the interrogation 
room in prison , during which he says he was , 
and tortured , heard his , a 
  , chatting on the phone with his wife .  . 
at those , said , i felt that he was like a 
, but right after he finished talking , he would be 
me and say ,  you to the conversation and 
yourself  and i understood that he was not really a human being . 

in late october 1992 , after 38 days in at 
prison , was released without charges .  . among the jews , 
as among the , there are good people and bad people , he said 
after his release , but there , in , in the 
, you cannot find even one person about whom you can say that 
he is a human being . although he left the 
in bruised and ( i sat at home for ten days. my 
hands shook from ) , one may consider lucky he 
got out , not so healthy , but entire , and even ultimately returned 
to normal , at the small plant he owns .  . 

in , al , for example , was released 
seven weeks ago from in after 33 days in the 
, cut off from his surroundings .  . he does n't speak or 
react .  . , only 23 , who was in early 
august and was brought to the , left 
it one day later dead. we have recently received an especially 
large number of concerning cruel employed at 
the by , noted 
dr. gordon , director of the association of israel and 
for human rights. ( .  .  . ) . 

the right to complain against the does not 
, a 20 year old student .  . in fact , he was extremely 
about describing the manner in which he was 
in prison , in case the publication in the paper would 
return him to and lead to  . 

( .  .  . follow . description of  .  .  . ) . 

, a man , was silent .  . i do not want to talk about 
it , he finally said ,  . some time later , and 
, he spoke sometimes he beats you and beats you until 
you 'll his hand , and not only his hand. even the hands of 
another , and another , whom he calls into the room , 
and the last says now you are my hand , and 
later if i want , you will my ass. 

these things take place in an israeli army , 
within the military government compound in  ( west 
 . but the interrogation is a separate kingdom .  . in 
early march the allowed representatives of b , the 
israeli information center for human rights in the territories , to 
visit prison , but denied them access to the interrogation 
 . the interrogation is property , being solely 
under responsibility .  . all are performed by 
it , said an , the of the 
, according to the internal report written by b 
member , , following the visit .  . major david er , 
governing of the prison system in the central command , 
was quoted in the report there is an ethical problem here no 
one can enter the interrogation . 

 . by i. 


from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject does it again. 
organization james limited , tokyo japan 
lines 18 

answers one of my articles 

to if indeed israeli soldiers killed a with an anti 
to missile then i'm almost sure that the terrorist would not 
to have been able to cut up a body which was probably by the 
to missile .  . 

maybe the missile did n't hit directly such that his body 
gets  . of course , destroying 10 houses to 
kill someone is not a surgical operation , or is it 

well done  . you edited my answer to , took everything out 
of context and then replied to it the way you wanted .  . 
now i really understand why the peace process is not making any progress. 

you guys ai n't listening , just away to your same old rhetoric .  . 



from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 18 

in article ( ) writes 
i think the israeli press might be a bit biased in 
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of 
reported accurately on what was happening in germany .  . it is 
interesting that you are basing the truth on israeli propaganda .  . 

since one is also unlikely to get the truth from either arab or 
news , where do we go to understand , to learn 
is one form of propoganda more reliable than another the only way 
to determine that is to try and get beyond the writer 's political 
, whether it is on or against our side . 

tim 

tim d .  . graduate student 
tel , department of politics and society 
fax , university of california 
home tel , , ca 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re girls in in egypt 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 31 

in writes 


in article ,  ( danny eldar ) writes 

i just heard it on the radio in vancouver ,  . girls are in 
in egypt .  . nobody knows why , but the movement started in egypt 
and spread all egypt .  . 


i think that the , after the obvious involvement in wtc bombing , 
tries to its reputation .  . what better way than making egyptian 
girls go  . 

maybe will share the light on this. 

i am happy to 's second positive  . 

 . 



as one who was born in quebec and worked in montreal , i feel i must 
defend the reputation of university .  . it is a fine , old , 
institution of higher learning. 

thus , i can only assume that some under graduate student left his her 
terminal on line and the has been getting access to it. 




from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
organization the department of department 
lines 21 

in article  ( marc a afifi ) writes 

diplomacy has not worked with israel 

of course , it has n't .  . besides egypt , the rest of the arab world still 
denies that israel exists. 

and the 
people are tired of being ! they are now turning to the 
only option they see as viable .  . 

kick out syria 

 ( do n't forget that it worked in driving out the us ) 

american that 's a new one on me ! 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from m. 
subject get a life 
organization 4th dimension bbs 
lines 11 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

hey , 
what are you anyway you are the supreme geek of 
of the usenet .  . you are a totally useless and futile life on 
your computer mr.  . you are the of a coward . i . can that 
you will spend the rest of your useless , and life on the 
usenet .  . what a life. 

system com . phone 
quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry 



from  ( mike van pelt ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 17 

in article  ( jack schmidling ) writes 
neither the times nor the trained seals who have responded thus far seem to 
recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax  . in 
, american put up at least 30 of the money. 

, how did 's latest escape my kill file 

oh , he changed sites .  . again. sigh ok , i assume no other person 
on this planet will ever use the name of  . 

j 


mike van 
... local cannot block advances in military and 
technology .  .  .  .  . democratic movements for local can only restrain 
the world 's democracies , not the world as a whole .  . k. eric 

from  ( steve birnbaum ) 
subject re israeli lust 
reply to  ( steve birnbaum ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 24 


in a previous article ,  . alhafez ) says 

so the wars of , , ,  ( karama ) , , and were 
all started by  . 

the wars of , , , were definitely started by the  . 
the war in was by the who continually murdered 
israeli children with their rocket attacks .  . israel was only trying to 
stop this. 
last what the heck are you talking about with  ( karama ) there was 
no war in ! 

steve 


internet 1 109 . 18 . 

my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head. 

from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 old child 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 40 


in article ,  ( nadeem malik ) writes 


actually , if can remember correctly , was it not reported and even on camera 
some time during the israeli invasion of , or when the began , 
that caught regular israeli soldiers breaking the of 
some arab youngsters in a very and brutal manner ,  ( someone 
please give full details if they can  . 

so was it on or not 

this is one of the few 
on which such a has been to the west and 
in the usa ... it caused and was one of the factors that has 
changed the of the israeli army 's role in the mid east .  . 

so there is proof for you ! 


what proof. you said above was it not reported .  .  .  . and someone please give 
full details if they can remember . hear say is not proof. 


it is obvious that is a policy of the 
which must be on a massive scale behind the  . 

yes , like the 700 or more palestinians brutally murdered by their brothers .  . 









internet road , a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) fax  ( 303)581 ) boulder , co 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( steve birnbaum ) 
subject re  . questions to 
reply to  ( steve birnbaum ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 34 


in a previous article ,  ( center for policy research ) says 

today finally , if israel wants peace , why ca n't it declare what 
it considers its legitimate and secure borders , which might be a 
base for having all the above facts in mind , one 
cannot blame arab countries to fear israeli , as a 
number of wars have proved  ( 1948 , , ,  . 

oh yeah , israel was really ready to expand its borders on the day 
of the year  ( yom kippur ) when the attacked in  . oh wait , you 
chose to that war .  .  . perhaps . because it 100 supports the exact 
opposite to the point you are trying to make i do n't think that it 's 
because it was the war that hit israel the  . also , in it was 
egypt , not israel who kicked out the un force. in it was the 
who refused to accept the existance of israel based on the borders set 
by the united nations .  . in , egypt closed off the red sea to israeli 
, a clear act. and in the attack was a response 
to years of constant by terrorist organizations from the 
heights .  . children were being murdered all the time by and israel 
finally  . nowhere do i see a war that israel started so that 
the borders could be expanded .  . 

steve 


internet 1 109 . 18 . 

my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head. 

from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re h . r .  . by israel arab st. 
organization the department of department 
lines 37 

in article center for policy research writes 

i am born in  ( now  . i have family there. the lack of 
peace and utter in my home country has affected me all my life. 

bullshit .  . you 've been in for the past 30 years. you told us 
so yourself. it had something to do with not wanting to suffer the 
fate of your mother , who has lived with jews for a long time or 
 . awful .  . 

i am concerned by  ( israel ) because i want peace to come to 
it. peace and justice. 

are you as concerned about peace and justice in  ( jordan ) 

israeli and rights are not  . the first 
party has a state and the other has none. the first is an and 
the second the  . 

let 's say that israel grants the everything they ever asked for . 
that israel goes back to the borders .  . what will the 
in tel call themselves the in west 
jerusalem in will they still claim to be 

or do you suggest that israel or kill off any remaining , 
much as the did to their jews 

indeed , there is much which is not about the conflict in 
the m . e .  . and most of this lack of does not favor israel .  . 





ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( brad hernlem ) 
subject re was go ! 
reply to  ( brad hernlem ) 
organization eng 
lines 128 


in article ,  ( tim clock ) writes 

in article writes 

it is not a terrorist camp as you and the like 
to view the they are small communities with kids playing 
in the streets , women lunch , men playing cards , etc .  .  .  .  .  . 
some young men , usually between 17 to 30 years are members of 
the resistance .  . even the of the do not 
know who these are , they are about it , but most people often 
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are 
supported by iran most of the time. they and 
into the where they set up 
for israeli  . every time an israeli is killed or injured 
by these , israel by bombing 
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians .  . 

this a tried and true method by and groups 
to conduct in the midst of the local , thus forcing the 
state to possible harm innocent civilians in their search or , 
in order to avoid the deaths of civilians , the search .  . certainly the 
people who use the population for cover are also to for the 
innocent civilians into harm 's way. 

are you suggesting that , when use the population for cover , israel 
should totally back down so .  .  . the . easiest way to get away with attacking 
another is to use an innocent as a and hope that the other respects 
innocent lives 

tell me tim , what are these doing wrong assuming that they are using 
civilians for cover , are they not killing soldiers in their country if the 
is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working why is it 
further for israeli guns to why not just 
kill those who try to the you see , there is more to 
the of the  .  .  .  . it is called  .  .  . getting back 
... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the  . the least 
it shows is a disregard by the israeli government for the lives of 
civilians .  . 


if israel insists that 
the so called security is necessary for the protection of 
northern israel , than it will have to pay the price of its occupation 
with the blood of its soldiers .  . 

if israel is interested in peace , than it should from our land. 

what so the whole bit about attacks on israel from arab states 
can start all over again while i also hope for this to happen , it will 
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the 
responsibility and the duty to stop attacks on israel from their 
 . they have to prove it  ( or provide some ) , there is no way 
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of 
tolerance towards anti israel in . 

if israel is not willing to accept the word of others then , imho , it has 
no business wasting others  time coming to the peace talks .  . 


i have written before on this very newsgroup , that the only 
real solution will come as a result of a comprehensive peace 
whereby israel to its own borders and 
peace keeping troops are along the border to 
no one on either side of the border is  . 

good lord , brad .  . .... 

no , i am not  . i think is a very intelligent person and i 
respect what he writes .  . is a person that i would call 
a friend. he is , however , not me. nor am i , as some seem to 
suspect .  . 

this is the only solution , it is time for israel to 
realize that the concept of a aimed at protecting 
its northern cities has failed .  . in fact it has caused much more 
israeli deaths than the occasional of northern israel 
would have resulted in. 

perhaps you are aware that , to most communities of people , there is 
the feeling that it is better that many of us die fighting 
against those who attack us than for few to die while we silently 
accept our fate .  . if , however , you call on israel to see the sense of 
suffering casualties , i suggest you apply the same to , 
arab and islamic groups. 

tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in have been 
 . remains the only independent  . does 
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the burned up 
, his wife , and young son. of course , if israel would 
from and stop assassinating people and they would n't 
make the so mad as to do that. furthermore , with 
subsequently , it would not be possible. 

and now the government has proven that it is 
capable of controlling and all as they did 
in all other parts of  . 



it has not. without the support , and active involvement , of syria , 
would not have been able to all that has occurred .  . 
once syria leaves who is to say that will be able to 
control if syria may be even more dangerous for israel .  . 

tim , when is the last time that you recall any trouble on the border 
not lately , eh 

israel knows very well that the are able to restrain all who would use 
territory under their control to attack israel .  . while would be better 
off with syria and israel out of its borders , the presence of troops 
in has meant a in attacks on israeli territory  ( not on 
israeli troops in , however. please note the distinction ) in the 
past two years. 


tim 

your view of this entire matter is far too one and 
naive .  . 

i disagree , has always seemed to me to be a cool headed person , slow 
to  ( certainly more so than  . what is most important is that he is an 
actual witness to things from the other end of the israeli guns .  . if only the 
israeli government would remember what it was like when the roles were 
reversed perhaps they would moderate their . 

brad 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject says it could shoot down turkish 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization university of computing center 
lines 

dear friends , 

i am a graduate student in education at the university of  . as part of 
the requirements for a research class in music education i designed a 
to data for my research project .  . the study intends to 
determine which techniques  ( if any) have been used to teach music for the  . 

if you have any experience in music education for the and would like to 
help me with this project , your help would be very much appreciated. 

if you also want to exchange some ideas about the subject matter , feel yourself 
welcome. i have been working in this area for a while  ( in by the way , 
i am brazilian and also in us ) and i am very pleased with the results. 

i hope that this inquiry will not cause too many  . thank you for 
or time and consideration .  . 



teaching music for children. 

name 
address e mail 
institution 
years of experience grade  ( level(s ) 
background masters 
field special  . music  . other 
if you checked other , please indicate your major 

some school systems require music to be taught to children , other 
school systems have not thought of the possibility to teach music for children 
with hearing  . the following was designed to find out 
how teachers face the issue of teaching or not teaching music for the  . 
also , a part of this study is to determine teachers attitudes towards music 
programs for children. 


read the following questions and circle the number that best describes 
your attitude towards music for children  ( left column ) , and circle the 
appropriate yes , no or not applicable , whether you do the task  ( right 
 . 

strongly disagree y yes 
disagree n no 
neutral n a not applicable 
ag agree 
sa strongly agree 

ag sa y n n a 

1 2 3 4 5 1 . children can be in y n n a 
music. 
1 2 3 4 5 2 . children should have regular y n n a 
music classes .  . 
1 2 3 4 5 3 . a . special music teacher must y n n a 
an appropriate training in a variety 
of methods to use with 
children. 
1 2 3 4 5 4 . in . the lessons the teacher y n n a 
must keep in mind that children 
may present special needs in order to 
participate in activities. 
1 2 3 4 5 5 . and normal hearing children y n n a 
should have music classes together. 
1 2 3 4 5 6. 80 of a music experience y n n a 
by a child depends upon the 
teacher 's and commitment 
with the subject matter. 
1 2 3 4 5 7 . children can learn to appreciate y n n a 
music but they will never be a 
or a  . 
1 2 3 4 5 8 . children are not able to y n n a 
discriminate and recognize sounds .  . 
1 2 3 4 5 9 . children can not distinguish y n n a 
among loud and soft sounds .  . 
1 2 3 4 5 10 . children can never match the y n n a 
music in their head to a note on a 
instrument .  . 
1 2 3 4 5 11 . the . most appropriate material to y n n a 
start music classes for the 
would be the folk said he would be replaced by the military of 
, police major general abdullah  . there was no official 
 . 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject method employed by the in  genocide of the muslim  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 28 

source men are like that by leonard  . the 
company ,  .  ( 305  . 
 ( memoirs of an who participated in the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 


p.  ( first paragraph ) 

in this movement we took with us three thousand turkish soldiers who 
had been captured by the russians and left on our hands when the russians 
abandoned the struggle .  . during our to two thousand of 
these poor were put to death. i was by the 
, but could not make any effective  . some , 
mercifully , were shot .  . many of them were burned to death. the method 
employed was to put a quantity of straw into a , and then after 
the with turks , set fire to the straw .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( edward a shnekendorf ) 
subject 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 24 

the following flyer was at 's policy conference 

because when we 're not in israel , we 're told to go back where we came from and 
when we come back to israel we 're told to go back to where we came from and 
when we 're vocal we have too much influence and when we are quiet we can afford 
to be because we we control everything anyway and when we buy something we can 
afford to because jews are so rich and when we do n't buy something it 's because 
we 're cheap and because when we are poor we 're called jew and ignorant 
and when we 're not we 're called called rich jew and jap and when we are 
organized it 's because there is a secret jewish conspiracy and when we 're not it 
is because there is a secret jewish conspiracy and because we 're told we 're not 
a people and when we say we are we 're still told that we 're not and when we 
marry our own people we 're called racist and we do n't we 're 
someone else 's race and because we 're under fire from the left and from the 
right and because there are who hate us for not being white and because 
there are non who hate us for being white and because anti semitic 
incidents are every year but we 're told that anti semitism does n't 
exist or that we 're and because we 're told to shut up about the 
and yet is every year and when we are 
obnoxious we 're called and when we are nice we 're told we do n't act 
jewish and because anti semitism is now world wide and because our people is 
not yet free and because we do not have to complete the work but neither are 
we free to from it for these reasons and many many more we are part of 
the jewish national liberation movement  . 

from  ( dorin baru ) 
subject re no land for peace no 
organization corporation 
lines 52 



writes 


ok. i know why there are israeli against  . however , 
i would guess that is because they refuse giving back a land for those who 
have the right for it. 

sounds like wishful  . 


as for the and that are against the 
current and the so called peace process , they 
are not against peace per , but rather for their well founded predictions 
that israel would not give an of the west bank  ( and most probably the same 
for heights ) back to the  . an 18 months of in madrid , 
and washington proved these predictions .  . now many will jump on me saying why 
are you blaming for no result  . 
i would say why would the stall the , what do they have to 
loose 


 so called  what do you mean how would you see the peace process 

so you say do not because of  well founded  predictions 
how do you know that they are  well founded  if you do not test them at the 
table 18 months did not prove anything , but it 's always the other side at 
fault , right 

why i do not know why , but if , let 's say , the  ( some of them) want 
all israel , and these are known not to be accepted terms by  . 

or , maybe they  ( palestinenans ) are not yet ready for 

or , maybe there is too much politics within the leadership , too many 


i am not saying that one of these reasons is indeed the real one , but any of 
these could make stall the  . 

feel that the current is only for the current 
status quo and for the doors of the arab for israeli trade and 
oranges . that is simply unacceptable and would be revoked .  . 

i like california oranges .  . and the feelings may get at the table .  . 



regards , 



from  ( hilmi eren ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish  ( henrik ) 
lines 53 
nntp posting host su . 
reply to  ( hilmi eren ) 
organization dept. of computer and systems sciences , university 



writes 


the in are simply defending their rights 
to keep their and it is the that are invading their 
 .  .  . 


first was today 
, and several  ( in azerbadjan ) 
are their  . ca n't you see the 
the great dream in this with methods like 
killing , raping and bombing  . the last move was the 
of a with 60 , trying to 
escape the from , a city that was given to the 
by the  . 


however , i hope that the will force a turkish 
to land for purposes of searching for similar to the one 
that happened last summer .  . searched an american plane 
 ( carrying aid ) bound to  . 


do n't speak about things you do n't know 8 american 
were heading to  . when the turkish authorities 
that they were going to search these 
3 of these returned to it 's base in germany .  . 
5 of these were searched in  . the content of 
of the other 3 not hard to guess , is it it was sure not 
aid .  .  .  .  .  . 

search turkish you do n't know what you are talking about. 
's government has that it 's giving weapons 
to since started to attack 
it self , not the  . so why search a plane for weapons 
since it 's content is to be weapons 







dept. of computer and systems sciences , university 







from  ( david davidian ) 
subject accounts of anti human rights in 
summary to current events in 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

accounts of anti human rights in 
to current events in 




they papa , carry him into one room , and and me into another. 
they put on the and start her , beating her legs. 
they start tearing my clothes , right there , in front of  . i do n't 
remember where they went , what they did , or how much time passed .  . i had 
the feeling that they me on the head , on my body , and my 
clothes , all at the same time , i do n't even know what i said. the 
atrocities started .  . i was in that room. they argued among 
themselves who would go first. 




of  ( karina ) m. 1 

born 

trust 
construction and 
of the organization 

resident at building 17 , apartment 15 
no. 3 



on the my sister and i went to the the seven o show , 
at the that is across from the city party , about 50 
away. the  . they were showing an film , the  . 
before the film we noticed about 60 to 70 people standing near the at 
the city party , but they were silent , there 's no conversation 
whatsoever , and we could n't figure out what was going on. that is , we knew it 
was about , but what it was exactly , what they were talking about , if 
someone gave a speech or not , we did n't know. we bought our  . there 
were 30 or 40 people in the  . this was a very small number for that 
large movie  . the film started .  . about 30 later they stopped the 
film .  . a in. about 60 people. they came up onto the stage .  . well 
mostly they were young people , from 16 to 23 years old .  . they demanded that an 
woman come up onto the stage .  . they used foul language and said that 
they were going to show what were capable of , what they could do 
to girls .  . i thought that 's what they meant because they had demanded 
a girl specifically .  . and i were sitting together. i told her to move 
over , there were some girls sitting nearby .  . so that if someone 
recognized me or if something happened , they would take me , and not  . 
it got quiet , 2 or 3 girls up to run out , but the door was closed it 's 
only opened at the end of the show and they returned to their  . 
everyone in the was looking at one another , russians , , 
people of various  . but no one at all , no one in the 
made a sound. they were silent , looking at one another , and 
gradually started to leave .  . some guy , a really fat one , says , ok , we 've 
scared them enough , let 's leave .  . they leave ,  . it seemed to 
me that those people were not themselves. either they had a bunch of 
, or had taken something else , because they all looked , like 
they were ready to tear anyone apart. then it was all over , as though nothing 
had happened at all. the film started up again , it was one of those 
films which should have only brought pleasure , made you happy to be alive .  . we 
could barely sit to the end. so it had started at seven it was over by , 
and it was dark . . . 

and i were walking home , lenin street , that 's the center of town .  . lenin 
street was , just with young people. they were shouting , 
something about and something about  . we were n't especially 
listening , because the way we were feeling we did n't know if we were going to 
make it home or not , and just what had happened anyway public transportation 
was n't running .  . , when we came out of the we saw police , 
policemen standing there. the director of the movie was looking at the 
doors , because when they were leaving they had broken the glass , the doors 
there are basically all glass. everything was broken. he stood there grief 
stricken , but looking as though nothing really big had happened , like some 
had just broken them quite by accident , with a  . well , 
since he looked more or less calm i decided that , nothing all that super 
serious had happened. we went out very we wanted to a , we 
live literally one stop away. we did n't want to go on foot , not because it was 
dark , but because something might happen. we down a , but the 
did n't want to take us. we told him we live near the station , and 
he said he 'd take us to the station and not a  . i said , well , 
ok . . . 

so we got into the and managed to get there. something incredible was 
happening at the station .  . there was a traffic  . public transportation 
was at a and everyone was shouting , they 're not going 
to give up  . i go home and tell my family what 's going on , and there 's 
immediate panic in the house. says , what should we do like the end had 
come , they were going to come , kill us , that 's it . . . somehow we managed to 
ourselves up nothing that bad could happen. where are we living anyway , 
just what kind of social order do we have somehow we to calm 
down. and we went to bed. but no one could sleep .  . everyone made as though 
nothing had happened. 

that was on saturday .  . in short , the day went by. we did n't go anywhere and 
did n't call our relatives .  . no one did anything. because . . . life goes on. 
that day i realized something was , but what exactly , i could n't 
guess. 

on the everything was like it was supposed to be , we lived like we always 
had. there were five of us at home , papa and us , three sisters , 
, and i. my sister was in at the time. we sat at home and 
no one went out. later we learned that a had started that 
morning. it all started . . . they were up stores .  . we were sitting at 
home and did n't know anything about it. then a of mine , 
, came by at around three o i think. we worked together , we did 
our together , she 's a girl .  . she said that something 
awful was happening in town .  . i asked , do n't they want well what 
are they after , if they 're already in that state she says , no , nothing like 
that , it 's just a , but it 's awful to watch it. somehow , it 
like a war has broken out. public transportation has been stopped . . . the 
, the buses , well it 's just a  . 

then papa decides to go to the , my mother was having 
problems at the time . . . he left the house and our neighbor , , 
asked him , where are you going stop ! there are such terrible things going 
on in the are n't you afraid to go out papa did n't know what she 
was talking about. she simply pushed him back into the  . he came home 
and told  . said , well , if was talking like that it means 
that something is really going on. but we did n't go see her , she 's a , 
she lives across from us. i had to see my friend out. around five o i 
tell , ok , look , it 's time for you to go , it 's late already , i 'll see 
you out. says , you do n't need to go , it 's too late already , you can 
see what the situation in town is. so we decided to stay home. was 
ready. says , let her eat with us , then she can go. we sat down at the 
table .  . but no one was , no one was in the mood , we just put everything 
out on the table to calm ourselves down , and make it appear that we 're eating .  . 
we turned on the television , and the show in fairy tale land was coming on. 
we cleared the table .  . 

we hear some out in the  . i go out on the , but i ca n't 
see what 's going on , because the is coming from the direction of the 
station , and there is a 9 story building in the way. there is of people 
. . . i ca n't figure out what 's happening. they 're shouting something , looking 
somewhere , i ca n't make out what is going on. i go down to a neighbor , she 's 
an we 've been friends of her family for about 25 years. i go down 
to look from their place. i see people shouting , looking at the 5 and 9 story 
buildings near the station .  . just then soldiers set upon them , about 20 
people , with  . the runs off in different  . i even see 
several people from our building .  . they are looking and laughing . . . i decide 
that means it 's not all that bad if they are laughing it means they 're not 
killing anyone. but now the suddenly the soldiers .  . one of 
the soldiers cannot to get away , they start on him with their 
feet , everyone 's kicking him . . . i become ill and go home , and explain in 
general terms that horrible things are going on out there . . . ca n't speak 
. . . well , they 've probably killed that , the way that is . . . 
if each of them kicked him just once . . . they took his club away from him 
and started to him with it. but it was far away and i could n't see if he 
got up and left or not. 

i become and go home and say , , do n't go anywhere , stay at our 
place , because if you go out they could kill you or . . . then the 
runs over closer our building and stands at the 12 story building and 
starts shouting something. we go out onto the  . all of our 
are also out on theirs , too. everyone is standing ,  . the is 
shouting and about 5 later comes running our building .  . as it 
turns out , at the 12 story building the went down and 
kept them from coming in. there 's only one there , they could stop 
them. 

they all run up to our building .  . immediately starts the , 
afraid that they might stones .  . they have stones and they break the 
, all of them. there are very many people. we have a large , 
and it 's with people. they up to the first so they do n't 
each other. they up on trees , posts , and  . it 's just a huge 
cloud of people. they break and burn the of the 
, from our building .  . we close the and immediately hear 
in our  . they come up to our with a 
din and  . it 's  . told me later that they were 
shouting father 's name , , open the door , we 've come to kill you ! , or 
something like that. i do n't remember that , i was out , kind of. 
says , into the , quickly ! in the we have two , part 
of our says , hide there , they probably wo n't come in there , 
they 'll ask something , say something , and leave .  . she says , we 'll tell them 
that we live alone here. i ca n't imagine that my parents will stand out in 
the hall alone talking with some sort of . . . i go to them and say 
that i 'll stand together with them , i 'll talk with them if they come , maybe i 
can find a common language with them , all the more so if they know me i speak 
more or less , and i can find out what they want. i told and 
to hide under the , and my sister , i ca n't remember if i told 
her anything or not. 

then . . . they open the door it 's like they blew on it and it broke and 
right into the hall .  . the crows in and starts to get out of here , 
leave , the apartment and go back to your things like that. i 
tell them , what has happened , speak  . one of you , tell me , , what 
has happened. in , they say , get out of the apartment , leave .  . i 
say , ok. go  . we 'll gather everything we need and leave the 
apartment .  . i realize that it is to discuss any sort of rights with 
them , these are animals .  . they must be stopped .  . the ones standing in the 
, the young guys , say , there are old people and one girl with them. 
too bad ! they take two or three steps back .  . it seems as though i have 
them with our exchange .  . then someone in the , 
them do n't you understand what you are saying kill them 

and that was it ! that was all it took .  . they papa , carry him into one 
room , and and me into another. they put on the and start 
her , beating her legs. they start tearing my clothes , right there , 
in front of  . i do n't remember where they went , what they did , or how 
much time passed .  . i had the feeling that they me on the head , on my body , 
and my clothes , all at the same time , i do n't even know what i said. the 
atrocities started .  . i was in that room. they argued among 
themselves who would go first. 

later , i remember , i came to. i do n't know if i'm dead or alive .  . someone comes 
in , someone , i think , clean , in an coat ,  . 
he looks around at what 's happening. at that instant everything stops .  . it 
seems to me that he is either their or . . . that somehow everything 
depends on him. he looks and says , well , we 're done here. they are beating 
on the head. they break up the and her with the chair legs 
. . . she loses consciousness , and they decide that she 's dead. papa . . . was 
out cold .  . they want to off the , but they ca n't get the 
open. apparently the are stuck after the rain and the 
ca n't be opened .  . they leave her next to the  . she was thinking 
about being thrown out the and passed out. she 's not a real strong 
person anyway . . . he looks at me and sees that i'm saying something , that 
i'm still  . well , i start saying the opposite of what i should be , 
which is myself and pleading .  . i start shouting , cursing . . . they 
do n't get any out of me. i already know that i'm dead , why would i 
humble myself before anyone and he says that if that 's what i think , since my 
tongue is so long . . . maybe he thinks that i still look quite appealing 
. . . in short , he commands that i be taken outside .  . 

i no longer saw or what was happening to and , i do n't 
know if they are alive or not. they take me outside .  . they are me by 
my , by my legs. they are hitting me against the , the , 
something metal . . . while they are carrying me someone is me , someone 
else is me . .  . i . do n't even know. i think , my god , when will death 
come if only it were sooner . . . then . . . they carry me out , me near 
the . . . and start kicking me. i lose consciousness . . . what 
happened after that , how many people there were , i do n't remember. 

i come to after a while , i do n't remember how long .  . a neighbor is bringing me 
clothing .  . i'm entirely covered with blood , she puts a dress on me. i remember 
that i said the same words over and over again , what happened , , 
what have they done to us , where are we , whose house are we at i ca n't make 
sense out of anything. there is a guy standing over me , i sort of know him , he 
served in , his name is , he brought me  . when they all 
went to the third and killed a person there , gathered his 
courage , took me into his , and brought me to the  , even though 
he 's small minded , he put himself at risk. is he 
served in  . there are three brothers .  . the older brother also served 
there , i think now he 's here , on the border , in  . 
brought me to the  , and then helped me come to my senses , saying , 
, i know you , calm down , i'm not one of them. how do i know who 's who 
and what 's what i come to , and they clean me up. i was covered in blood. then 
papa . . . i saw papa , i saw  . and , too . . . was there when 
they and out from under the . . . . . . 
said that she was , they said , we 'll let you go , we are n't the 
russians , go. and while they are out she decides she 's going 
to tell them she 's  . immediately grabs 's and 's 
hands , because he knows , and knows that she is and is our 
sister , and takes her to the second to a neighbor 's and starts 
on the door so she will open up. she the door and them in 
there. so they survived .  . 

my sister lost consciousness after the started things. 
while they were going , taking things , then coming back 
up again , the opportunity and under the and stayed 
there. then , when she was herself again , she found a night and put 
it on , and some sort of and went to a neighbor 's on the fourth , the 
one whose apartment i had watched the from , the friend of ours , and 
knocked on the door .  . the neighbor opened and said , i'm not going to let you 
in the apartment because i'm afraid of them. but i 'll give you some 
and we 'll leave the building .  . says , i 'll stay at your place because of 
what 's going on , they keep going up and down the  . it was just for a 
moment , just a moment in life , but the neighbor would n't consent .  . came 
back to our place and under the . . . 

i came to. mother was there. i ca n't remember my 's telephone 
number , but something had to be done. somehow i and called , and he 
came to get us. he did n't have any idea what was going on. he thought we were 
simply afraid , he did n't know that they were killing us and that we had passed 
between life and death. he came and got us and took us to the police  . 
there they looked us over. i was having trouble walking , my hurt , 
it was hard to . . . 

my 's name is  . he 's the head of our 
 . they took us there. when we were leaving , i saw a great number 
of buses full of soldiers at the to town .  . the buses were ordinary 
buses .  . there were very many soldiers .  . we left around , right 
after  . if these people could stop what was happening they could save a 
great many lives . . . because the was moving on , the school , and 
what was going on there . . . i think everyone know not only in , not 
only in  . because there they murdered them all one after the next , 
without stopping .  . after us. 

i think 14 people died in no. 3 , and 10 to 12 of them were from 
buildings 4 , 5 , and 6. in our building one person died , and one old woman died 
from building 16 , that 's the building in front of ours. there young 
men stopped the and would n't let it into their building .  . 
, when we were at the  , called our relatives 
to warn them , so they would all know what was happening. i called a in 
no. 5. they have three who are  . i said , run 
quickly , i ca n't explain what 's going on hide , do what you can , just stay 
alive .  . hide at  , ones who wo n't give you away. at that moment 
three people came in , policemen .  . i think they were  . i was in such 
awful condition , my face was completely my were up , 
there was blood , my eye was , no one thought i would ever see anything 
out of that eye again . . . my forehead was cut , and one half of my face 
was pushed out forward .  . no one would have thought that i would survive , get my 
normal appearance back , and be able to grasp anything at all. i started to 
at those people , why did you come , who sent you here , no one wants you 
here , have n't you killed people people yet , what are you doing here one of 
the soldiers said , do n't at us. we 're muslims , but we 're not from the 
police .  . they called in from  . so at that point the 
police were there. 

when we got to the police there were an awful lot of police there , 
there were soldiers , police with dogs , , . . . i do n't know , 
maybe they were waiting for people to bring them the and the seriously 
injured to treat them there in the police  . i do n't know what they 
were there for. there were also doctors from there. they examined 
and me and said , these women need to go to the maternity home , but we do n't 
know what to do with the rest. 

so they took us , and i lost contact with my parents , my boss , everyone. my 
boss said , do n't worry , i 'll find you , no matter where you are , no matter 
what happens. we went to the hospital .  . there we were examined by a department 
head from the maternity home , , i think her name was. she 
examined us. the was from i out that the 
had n't done anything , they did n't respond to any calls .  . people 
called and neither the police nor the showed any sign of life. 

that doctor looked me over and i could tell from her behavior that something 
very good had happened , for she became quite glad. i even thought to myself , 
god , can it be that nothing all that bad is wrong she looks me over and 
says , now why are you suffering so you do n't know what your people have been 
doing , your people did even worse things. and i think , great , i have to deal 
with her . . . and i felt so bad , i thought , why do n't i just die so as not to 
have to hear more stuff like this from people like her here i am in this 
condition and being told about something that our people did. i just did n't 
have the energy to say , how could our people possibly be smart enough to 
think of something that yours have n't already done i stayed there. then they 
brought in another woman , ira b. , she was married , and she was in her 
own apartment , too. there were three of us , ira , , and 1. the next 
morning they took and ira away. they did n't do anything to help us. this 
was in the old maternity home , in the combined block. they did n't do anything 
more than examine me , that was it. i did n't want any shots or , 
nothing. what shots could have me down i did n't even want to look at 
them. 

i in the ward .  . either it just worked out that way or they did it on 
pose , but i was alone. i was alone even though the were  . that 
same evening a woman came by and asked me what was wrong with me , that my face 
was  . she asked what had happened to me , and i said , better to ask 
your brother what happened , there 's no point in asking me , your brother can 
better explain what happened. she into a  . all the doctors threw 
themselves at her , and the doctor anyone to come into my 
ward .  . 

then people from work came to see me , my boss , his daughter they brought me 
clothing , because i was literally  . the only thing i had on was a dress , 
but the woman who gave it to me was very short , and the dress was way up 
above my , and the woman orderly said , i ca n't believe you put on such a 
short dress , who are you showing off your legs to here i went back to my 
ward thinking , just one more thing from something. people from work came and 
brought me something in a , apples , i think , three or four pounds , but i 
could n't take them. i had become so weak that it was just embarrassing .  . i said 
that i could n't take the apples , and really did n't have any  . no one 
had to bring me anything. some woman took the . . . and , oh yes ! . . . 
then i heard that the head doctor tell a that my medical history should 
be hidden or up completely so that no one would know that i was an 
, maybe they would n't figure it out from looking at me. so they must 
have been thinking that there would be some kind of attack , that something 
else would happen. that it would be worse. or , perhaps , someone was outside on 
the street , i do n't know. in any case , i did n't sleep a that night. 

the next morning they picked me up , a whole police detail , put me in a , 
and off we went .  . i did n't even know where they were taking me. they took me to 
the club where the troops were , the very one i was in that ill evening. 
i got off the bus. near the city party there were a great many 
troops , , the whole was terrible .  . i saw 
a few people i knew there , and that me a little. i had already thought 
that i was the only one left. so there were five or of us left in 
after that night. i still did n't know what happened to my parents , they did n't 
come to see me in the hospital , and my boss told me that everything was fine. 
i did n't know whether to believe him or not. maybe he was just trying to calm 
me down , maybe something happened on the way. then i went to the club and saw 
a lot of people i knew .  . they all knew one another , they were all each 
other and asking , what happened , what went on two days later they came to 
see me from work. they were there all the time. each day they came , showed 
interest , and were constantly bringing me money. they did everything they 
could. of course i'm most to my boss , the only one of my colleagues 
who did n't lose his presence of mind and who did n't change his opinions , 
neither before , nor after , nor in the of the moment , no matter what 
happened. he constantly took an interest .  . a sincere interest , from the heart 
. . . then , about two days later , the of the party came , 
not from our party organization , but from the first trust , which ours is part 
of , comrade , a very important figure in our town .  . he made 
with the emergency medical to take me away , because if i sat down by 
myself i could n't get up or lie down again. there was something wrong with my 
, it was hard to  . they examined me there several times , there i 
were several doctors , they all thought that . . . that it must just be 
from all the , i do n't know. they did n't anything in particular .  . 
when i was in the maternity home i even asked . . . i made it a point of 
that they take me to the trauma section because i felt so awful .  . 
there was no way something inside was n't broken , my . . . well they took 
me there and took x rays and said that everything was fine. there were 
emergency medical workers on duty in the club. the mother of one of 's 
friends was there. she was the head doctor at the children 's clinic .  . 
they had every kind of in the world , which was exactly what i 
needed at that moment , i thought. i said that i was having great difficulty 
, i could n't seem to get enough air , something was wrong with me. 
they put around my and  . later i some 
people saying that i had been cut all over. i think they just saw me being all 
up and decided that my and face had been cut . . . but i 
was n't cut. 

they took us to the house. we lived there a long time. soon 
appeared representatives . . . they were  . at first people would not 
talk to them , and them off. one of the women , we 
demand that come ! the response was , it 's who sent us. 
is the chairman of the council of  . the woman said , 
we 'll only see 's daughter , have her come here , we 'll do the same 
things to her that they did to our daughters , and then we 'll deal with you 
 . and so on. more of them said , have himself come. this 
went on day in , day out. the kept coming and coming , this us 
out of our  . then people gradually started for because 
they realized it was to stay .  . everything got on our the 
smell , the small children. there were children at the club , children who 
had literally just come out of the maternity home. what were they doing in a 
club that did n't even have running water all the time at first we had to pay 
to eat there. they even us , as it turned out. on the second day 
someone told us that they would bring us food for free. the children were ill .  . 
everything there. well imagine about 3 , 000 people in a small movie 
with for no more than  . you could n't sit or lie down , it 
was impossible to even move. the was awful .  . even the smallest infants 
took ill overnight there. i heard that they were arriving seriously ill in 
, the infants .  . they have to be washed , they have to be , not to 
mention that we , the adults , were ill and needed care. people were 
right and left. i just do n't know , everyone was , everyone . . . only 
the young people , the men , somehow managed to keep it together. but the women 
were in a constant state of panic .  . it seemed to everyone that they would come 
any minute and kill and stab .  . it seemed clear that we had been gathered 
together , like during the war , so that they could burn the movie 
and there would n't be a single left. then people went up to 
the  . i did n't see them , i only heard them , because i was lying down and 
could n't get up. i right on the stage , we had some room there. apparently 
they caught two people with either oil or gas .  . i think they wanted to burn the 
 . maybe someone saw them , i did n't .  . i was in no condition to open my 
eyes. 

everyone was suspicious of everyone else. they would ask , are n't you an 
i think i saw you somewhere , i think you 're an  . they 
led out all the men and started letting them back in by checking their 
, relatives might be covering for each other. half of the people did 
not have any documents .  . there were people who had run out of their homes in 
nothing but a pair of pants and , or wearing just a , not like 
they should have , with their  . 

so on the , on sunday , i think , the police did nothing to help us. on 
monday everything resumed where it had left off on block  . they did n't 
spare a soul there not children , not pregnant women , nobody .  . they killed , 
they burned , they with axes , just everything possible. they murdered 
the family whom i knew , my mother worked with them. their daughter 
in law went to school with my older sister .  . they were brutally murdered .  . only 
the two daughters in law survived .  . by a miracle one was able to save herself , 
she away , the would n't take her in , so she about the 
building until she found refuge .  . she was pregnant and had two small children. 
this all continued on monday in block , on the , when the troops were 
already in the city. 

they murdered people , they , and they burned entire 
families .  . they say they did n't even know for sure if the people were 
or not. i heard that the suffered , too. i'm not sure myself , i did n't 
see any who had been injured .  . they burned cars so it 's very difficult 
now to say exactly who died and who did n't .  . it was very difficult to identify 
the , or rather , what remained of the after they were in 
and burned . . . it 's all very hard to imagine , of course i heard 
that many people disappeared without a trace , from the plant two people , 
including a woman who worked the night shift , , who also lived in 
3. 

they were stopping buses between and  . in the evening people who 
had been were returning to , and people from were 
going home from , and there were students , too. they were simply 
murdered .  . they were stopping the buses , the drivers immediately did 
what they were told because there was just no other way to deal with that 
of brutally minded people. they stopped the buses , the 
out and killed them on the  . i did n't see it myself , but i heard that they 
put them all in a pile so as to burn them. later it was hard to from 
the , well you ca n't call them , you had to figure out from the 
who it was. l heard that two saved two women , one a student , ira 
g. , if i'm not mistaken .  . she was in the hospital a long time after that , and 
she still ca n't figure out who saved her. she was also brutally and 
and thrown onto a pile of  . the fellow her out of that 
whole pile of , put his coat on her , took her into his , and 
carried her to the city. i still ca n't imagine how he managed to do that. 

i heard that from  . he knows her , apparently .  . well a lot of 
people went to that hospital anyway. she was in the hospital and singing a 
song in , and they wrote the words down , and , i think he still has 
that piece of paper , because he says that a lot of people now have that song , 
the one she in the hospital where she in such bad shape .  . they 
could n't find the guy who saved her. he left her in someone 's apartment and 
called the , she was in such awful shape that , probably , like me , 
she could n't remember anyone 's face. 

i think that i knew one of the people who broke into our house , maybe i had 
talked with him once. but i received so many everything was just knocked 
out of my head. i ca n't remember to this day who he was. then , it seems , i saw 
the of the 's party organization , where works. she 
goes to school and works , she goes to night school at , and works by day at 
the construction and  . i'm the 
of the organization at our and often met 
with the of party and organizations .  . we had 
meetings .  . i know them all , i 've even talked with them , and he , i know , is from 
 . an , but from  . it became obvious that many of 
those people were born in  . 

they took me to various police , to the police , and to the 
, because the ussr got involved in the case , and i 
the of people who i could more or less recognize .  . they 
showed me the people who were in our apartment , they 're working on our 
case , but i ca n't even recognize them , although it was proved that they were 
the ones , they 're it somehow. they tell me that they know that 
someone held me by the and someone else held me by the when they were 
me. there was someone else in our apartment who did not even touch 
me , he just stole a blanket and an or something like that. all these 
people , all of them , as much as i 've heard about them and seen them , they were 
all from  . 

the of the party organization is named ,  . he was 
there when everything started .  . it must have been him because i did n't 
recognize anyone else in the whom i knew besides him. all the more since 
i told him , listen , you do something , because you know me. he turned away 
and went the , where was. well you could n't see 
anyway. there was such a confusion of people that you could n't make out 
anyone. all of it flew right out of my head , and then gradually i became 
myself again , at the city party . . . there were military people 
there. i told them what went on , and they wrote it all down. i told them his 
name. on march 8 the of our first trust party organization , the one 
we 're part of , came to see us , his name is  . i tell , if 
he 's here despite the fact that i gave his name , it means that either his 
has been confirmed or , probably , that they think i'm crazy , not 
responsible for my words. he said , what did they do to you , how awful , 
myself , i an family. then after some time goes by he comes back 
again and says something entirely different i was n't at home , my family and 
i went to  . i said , , what is he saying he said something totally 
different before. after that i did n't go to see our , our case is 
being by a from , by name. told me 
that 's case had just gotten to him , and there were so names involved. 
what are they doing with 
did he prove his or not they just think that since i was hit in the 
head i ca n't say anything for sure , whether it was him or not. it will be an 
insult if he was in our apartment and does n't have to pay for it , but at the 
same time 

i'm afraid to say i'm a hundred percent sure that it was he .  . because no 
who i name , they tell me , no , you 're wrong , he did n't do that , that one 
was n't there. all the faces have gotten up in my mind. who did what 
exactly i ca n't say. 

when they took me outside there was a whole there , but i did n't see it , 
because i had my eyes closed all the time. it seemed to me that i always got 
it because of my eyes , people were always me , for some reason it 
always seemed to me that my eyes are responsible .  . when they were beating my 
face i thought they were trying to put my eyes out. so i had my eyes closed , 
they took me outside and started to me. a young guy , 22 , held my , he 
works at the plant .  . and right nearby , across the road from us , block 41 , 
is where all this was going on. right across the road from us. the 
is over there , that 's where he lives. now he 's in , they even 
have proved , as far as i know , that it was he who killed , the 
from the third of our building .  . one person in our 
building was killed , it was that man. 

a guy comes by who shared a room with the guy who was holding me. he saw that 
he was holding me by the and that he was beating me , but he did n't come 
over , he just looked and then went into the  . a while after it was 
all over , people started making in town saying that 
had been  . that guy went and told them everything. now 
they 've caught him , everything 's been proved .  . now , evidently , they 've been 
beating him , i do n't know what they 're doing with them over there , but he 
himself said that he was working the night shift at the plant .  . some young guy 
came to the plant and said , everyone who wants to kill come to the 
station on saturday at ten .  . that was it. he said , the ones who wanted to , 
went .  . this was at the plant , during the night shift , probably , late friday 
night. it was at night , they were at the together. and he said , what do 
you mean , do you understand what you are saying the others were silent , 
probably , in their hearts they were thinking , i'm going to go. but they did n't 
say anything to one another. he said that he thought it important to to go , 
because he had heard a lot about what had happened in , that they had 
killed their sisters , their , burned , and all of 
that. that guy was also born in  . that is certain .  . and says that 
the of the party organization is from , too. from 

i 've participated in the investigation a couple of times. i'm satisfied with 
them thus far. they us and asked about what happened , and every word 
i said was recorded .  . i met some guy there . . . by the way , he was an 
 . i said that he was in our apartment , but what he did , i do n't know. 
his last name was ,  . he s from , from 
1. he was sentenced i think , to five years , not his first time. 
his mother is  . i met with him at the in , at the 
 . they took us there and showed me  . there were so many 
, i think they even those people who were caught at 
, and i 've got them all confused .  . i say , the face was about like this , 
the guy in the white coat with the red  . but he could take that coat off 
and burn it somewhere , and it would be like looking for a in a 
 . well. this guy , , i said , he was in our apartment , but he 
is so light that he looks like a  . i do n't know what he did , 
i ca n't remember. maybe he me or me. but he was in our apartment .  . 
at the he started asking me , pleading with me , there 's no need for this , 
all this stuff , look me in the eyes , you 're like a sister to me. i took a look 
at him and thought , my god , heaven forbid that i should have a brother like 
you. but they were satisfied with my responses , because i said everything 
without great certainty .  . i was there with  . then came in , but when 
she came in she got sick immediately .  . she wanted to kill him , she over 
the table at him. she recognized him. when she came to , was lying on the 
, the threw her there and all of them into the  . we had 
all kinds of boxes with in them , the for all three sisters .  . 
they stole everything in the apartment , leaving only small things. at that 
moment came to and started remembering everything. well , seeing the 
faces , hearing the . . . two people were saying they could burn the 
apartment .  . another says , why burn the apartment when i 've got three kids and 
no place to live. so this guy was in temporary housing , he did n't have 
anywhere to live , he was from  . they were sure that they would get the 
apartment .  . besides , the were  . why should they burn the 
apartment , they might burn  . that 's what they said. how did they 
know there were there , if they just picked a place , thinking that 
lived there we have a list of the residents for our part of the 
building , our name is in there , but how could they know that 
lived on the other side of the from us so they did n't set fire to our 
apartment .  . 

i do n't know , i was in such bad shape that if all of it had come to a 
when i was outside , if someone had asked me what was happening , i would 
have said that a civil war was going on. well , maybe not civil . . . but 
probably civil , because when they were beating me i opened my eyes and saw 
that all the were standing on their and watching , like at 
a free film .  . so a civil war was going on , and only the were 
being fought .  . if it were a world war or something like that , they would have 
been fighting everyone. but they only fought us. then i met some women from 
our building , some  . they are , they tell me , , we 
saw all of it , how could it happen they 're asking me ! well i just do n't know 
what to call it if a normal girl can stand there and watch what happened to 
me. i think that if it were the other way around either i would n't have been 
able to take it , or i would have tried to it , like that one 
woman did in front of our building .  . a woman lives there , an awful , 
woman , if you can call her a woman , the life she leads .  . two 
families live there , in her part of the building .  . she came out on the 
and saw what was happening to me and started to and curse .  . she 
came down to the and said , you 'll come in this over my dead 
body. so not one of them took it in his head to go in that  . some 
folks were saying that those people were so out of control that they did n't 
even know what they were doing. i do n't think that 's true. they knew very well 
what they were doing if they did n't even lift a hand against that woman. they 
could n't have cared less about her , but the fact that she was an 
stopped them. 

they were just , they had so much. when they came to our place 
they were all something. i noticed everyone who came into the 
apartment was something. i think , my god , maybe i just think that 
maybe i'm my mind but no , they 're all something. maybe it is 
some kind of drug , it must be , because . . . at first they all seemed 
to be such normal people , young , clean , looking exactly as if they had 
come to some sort of  . but they were shouting something. they 
did n't talk , they , as though there were people there. they 
and yeah , killing , killing , we 're killing the ! 
only they did n't kill , they  . 
literally means kill , or destroy .  . 

that 's how it was ! i 'll continue. we in a 's apartment , he 's an 
, his wife is a  . we were sitting in their apartment , their 
kids were out in the  . their kids knew a whole lot. this was in our part 
of the building , on the third  . when came to and could n't find 
she took papa 's hand , this was while the were things , 
but they did n't pay attention because they were things. apparently 
they had already ceased killing and switched to  . found the 
courage to . . . 

a boy said to my mother where 's the gold said he must have been 12 
to 14 years old .  . he even looked , he was so fair  . but the 
from are fair  . i noticed they were all on the 
fair side. he , they were all things , and he asks where 
the gold is. we kept our gold in the with our important papers .  . in a 
little black , we kept everything in there. does n't really like to 
wear gold .  . she probably never even those things from the time they were 
bought for her. they took everything that was lying on the glass. 
thinks that the gold saved us. because they threw themselves at the gold , and 
papa , who was trying to  . they had closed his mouth , 
bound his hands , and put a and a chair on his face . . . they had 
something into his mouth so he would  . him and 
all that stuff off . . . he had something in his mouth , he was having 
trouble , his nose was filled with blood. him and 
started running from the down to the first because no one wanted 
to open their doors to them. said that by accident , completely by 
accident that person opened his door , he was sleeping , and said , half , 
what 's happened he sees that they are bloody .  . said , at least go and 
find out what 's happening to my daughters , even if they 've burned them or 
murdered them , at least bring the  . he went looking for us. at that 
moment was under the bed. she says that after they left it seemed that 
someone was calling her name. when he called her she could n't get out 
from under the bed. she wanted to get out and was calling softly .  . she thought 
she was shouting , but in fact she was either silent or was only talking to 
herself , it just seemed to her that she was shouting .  . when she got out from 
under the everyone was gone. and again . . . she thought that she had lost 
her mind. i 'll never leave here , never ! to hell with it ! it just seems that 
way to me , i 'll come to eventually. but then , when everything had 
down , stopped , that brought down , and carried me in from 
outside .  . or first i was brought in , then , i do n't remember what order it 
happened in. 

and said , listen , they 're all running around down there , shouting 
something or other , and running the other building .  . it had more or 
less down where we were. who 's dead , who 's alive , we do n't know. i 
tried to call my  . i had basically come to. says , listen 
let 's go , at least get a or something. we do n't know how 
long we 'll be here. maybe they did n't burn everything. i do n't get it , all 
women have that feeling , they want to get something from their homes , maybe 
not everything was taken i tell , , what do you need any of that 
for to hell with it ! we 're alive , forget the rest of it , all of it ! she 
says , no , let 's go get at least something. maybe we 'll leave here , spend the 
night at someone else 's .  . went , and their little boy , their son 
, was standing on the  . lie was standing there to see if they were 
coming .  . they only managed to run up there and something one time. he 
, come back , they 're coming ! they did n't have enough time to get a 
lot , from one apartment , a blanket from another . . . got my 
. . . someone managed to our old things , the ones we never , 
out of the hall . . . someone took father 's old  . the neighbor , his 
wife , and papa . . . went with them. i was in no condition to 
leave .  . neither was  . we just sat .  . they out and we closed the door and 
just then we hear that the is on its way our place , 
they 're something again. they were going the other building , 
maybe over by the school , or . . . there was an building over 
there , people said they were going the or the 
building , they could gradually carry everything over there. then things more 
or less down. i tried to call my boss .  . 

later there was more  . we were on the third , in a one 
apartment , and a woman lives in the one place on the second , 
 . she 's an old woman ,  . she was n't at home , at that 
time she was usually in the country , she has a married daughter there , and 
her is in the army .  . she is only very rarely in town she gets her 
money and the apartment is essentially  . they started 
on her door and broke it down. she had two or three in there , 
something like that , she 's a 60 to 70 year old woman who really does not even 
live there. probably she had some , a couple of metal and 
, and a television .  . when her came she bought a television .  . 
they started everything. i started getting sick again. i think , my 
god , what is going on around here when will this end we turned off the 
and sat .  . as it turns out the people who were n't afraid , the ones who 
knew what was going on , knew not to turn off the  . we did n't know , but 
they did n't come to where we were all the same. they all knew very well that 
he was a  . he went out and closed the door , and we sat in his 
apartment .  . his last name was  . he 's an , , works up 
at the fire station at some plant or other. he went out and stood at his door .  . 
they tell him , comrade , do n't worry , we wo n't harm you , you 're one of 
us. he went , and they say , are n't you taking anything from this 
apartment he says , i do n't need anything. and the women who were standing 
in the . . . we have a , full of water . . . the women who were 
standing in the saw. those guys , they left everything they stole on the 
first and again. the women threw everything they had time 
to into the , to save our property .  . some things were left 
, two or three other things and a  . a guy came , really 
mad , and he says , where 's the i just put it right here ! they tell him , 
some guy came and took it and went off the school. he off in that 
direction .  . 

oh ! i forgot the most important point. when picked me up in his , 
there were women standing there who saw everything that was going on. they 
just did n't tell me about it for a long time. the wife of that military man , 
she did n't want to kill my spirit , i was already dead enough. later she told 
me , that after they murdered in the third one of them , 
the , apparently a young man , said , where 's the girl who was here 
and he became  . the woman tells him , she came to . . . she did n't 
know what to say think something up someone carried her off then they would 
comb the whole house and find me and our whole family. so the woman says , she 
came to and went to the  . now , our is full of water .  . so the 
whole off to the to look for me or my  . they took 
they were up to their in water , water which had been 
standing there for years , and , and oil .  . they climbed down in there 
to get me. then one of them said , there 's so much water down there , she 
probably walked and walked and then passed out and died. she met her death in 
the  . that 's it , we can leave , no problem ! i did n't know that , and 
when i was told , i felt worse. two times worse. a lot worse ! so they did n't 
just want to me flat , something more awful was me . . . 

after that we of course did n't want to live in any longer .  . we really 
did n't want to go back to our apartment .  . when we moved , i went up there and 
started to and all over , because i started remembering it all. 
although the all , it was all . . . so cheap . . . the people 
who sat in their and did n't help us at a time like that. i think 
that they could have helped ! i do n't think that they were obligated to , but 
they could have helped us ! because that one woman was able to stop that whole 
brutal by herself .  . that means they could have , too. it would have been 
enough one man or women to say , what do you think you 're doing that 's 
all ! that would have done it. there were 60 in our building .  . not 
one person said it ! when i was lying on the ground and all those people were 
standing on their i did n't hear anyone 's voice , no one said what are 
you doing , leave her alone . . . even told one of the neighbor women 
that if it had been an woman in my place they would have dropped a 
bomb if it would have killed even one  . they would have stood up for 
one of their own. true , they say that our neighbor from the fourth , 
an old sick woman tried to stop the  . the have a 
if a woman takes her and throws it on the ground , the men are supposed 
to stop immediately .  . the old woman from the fourth did that , but they 
her into the ground , pushed her off to the side , and said , if 
you want to go on living , you 'll disappear into your apartment .  . so she left. 
that trick did n't work on them. 

even the who helped us move told me , ok , fine , calm down , forget 
that it happened. i said i 'd only forget it if i told them right then that it 
had happened to their daughter and if that did n't have any effect on them , 
then i would forget everything , too. imagine that it happened to your sister .  . 
and no one did anything. anything. 

april 25 , 1988 


reference 

1 the against in soviet , 
volume i , accounts , edited by , forward by 
, 1990 , published by d. , ny , pages 93 109 


david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re freedom in u . s . a .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 30 

in article ( ) writes 
i have just started reading the articles in this news 
group. there seems to be an attempt by some members to quiet 
other members with  . i believe one posting said 
that all postings by one person are being to his 
server who keeps a file on him in hope that appropriate action 
might be taken . 
i do n't know where you guys are from but in america 
such attempts to first amendment rights are 
not appreciated. here , we let everyone speak their mind 
regardless of how we feel about it. take your 
ideals back to where you came from. 

it would be nice if , as you point out the inherent value of 
freedom of speech , discussion would also deal with the all to 
frequent abuses and of that freedom that do 
occur .  . there are situations where a few extremely vocal , and 
usually radical , people do drive people away , effectively stifle 
all other ( ) views and generally take over . clearly , 
the purpose behind such actions is to others of their 
freedom of speech through overt and coercion and of 
the media form in question. while freedom of speech is to be valued , 
this is not. how would you suggest that this sort of problem be 
more particularly , how can this be controlled within the 
structure of these newsgroups 

tim d .  . graduate student 
tel , department of politics and society 
fax , university of california 
home tel , , ca 

from  ( steve birnbaum ) 
subject re israeli lust 
reply to  ( steve birnbaum ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 24 


in a previous article ,  ( sam zbib ) says 

imho , it does not really matter who started any individual battle within 
the war context. the real question is who what started the 
war. does anyone have any it was the creation of israel on arab 
land 

where the hell do you get off calling it arab land jews have been 
living there for a long time. jews did n't just start arriving in 1900 , 
they 've been living there for thousands of years , except for periods when 
they were but they always returned home. 

steve 


internet 1 109 . 18 . 

my opinions are not associated with anything , including my head. 

from  ( ken arromdee ) 
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton 
organization johns hopkins university cs dept. 
lines 30 

in article  ( casper ,  . ppe ) writes 
are you aware that there is an on all of what is was 
yugoslavia , including bosnia , which massive military 
superiority of forces and does not allow the to 
try to defend themselves 
should we sell weapons to all sides , or just the one , then 

ending an does not we must sell anything at all. 

if the want to sell weapons to one or both sides , they are welcome 
as far as i'm concerned. 

you seem to oppose ending the  . you know , it is difficult for 
to sell weapons when there is an in place. 

i do not automatically accept the argument that bosnia is any worse than 
other recent civil wars , say vietnam for instance .  . the difference is it is 
happening to white people inside europe , with lots of tv  . 

but if this was the reason , and if furthermore both sides are equal , would n't 
all us racist americans be the good christians  ( serbs ) instead 
of the non christians we really seem to favor 

on the first day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . ! 
on the second day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . 
that she made from  . 
days 3 4 deleted ... flaming wings ! ... 
pizza  ( and m a bait ) 

ken arromdee 

from 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization none 
lines 57 

in article ,  ( onur yalcin ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( esin terzioglu ) writes 

 .  .  . ... 



let me mr. turkish 
is not getting . she is simply letting the world know 
that she will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with 
their famous  . do remember of the turkish invasion 
of the greek island of while the world simply watched .  . 

it is more appropriate to address netters with their names as 
they appear in their (i failed to do so since you did 
not bother to sign your posting) .  . not only because it is the 
polite thing to do , but also to avoid addressing with 
mr. , as you have done. 

fine. please , accept my ! 

secondly , the island of which the name is more correctly spelled 
as has never been greek , but rather , it has been home to 
a communal society formed of greeks and turks .  . it seems that 

you know as little about the history and the of the 
island , as you know about the essence of 's 
military intervention to it under international agreements .  . 

communal society then why did not invade 

be that as it may , an analogy between an act of occupation in 
history and what is going on today on land , can only 
be drawn with the policy that is now  . 

of crap and you know it. has always been part 
of and it was stalin who gave it to the  . go back and 
review the history. 

the in are simply defending their rights 
to keep their and it is the that are invading their 
 . 

but , i could agree that it is not for us to issue to 
the political conduct of countries , and them in such 
terminology as ... 

i was not the one that stated it. 

however , i hope that the will force a turkish 
to land for purposes of searching for similar to the one 
that happened last summer .  . searched an american plane 
 ( carrying aid ) bound to  . 




from  ( sabri t atan ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
reply to  ( sabri t atan ) 
organization iowa state university 
lines 

in article ,  ( mau 
napoleon ) writes 
from article , by  ( sabri t 
atan ) 
well , , mr. , the way you put it it is only the turks 
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to 
believe for somebody trying to be objective .  . 
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot 
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides. 
what were you doing on after the anyway 
do you think it was your right to be there 

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor until  . 
someone had to protect them. if not us who 

i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only 
not one side being the aggressive and the always suffering .  . 
it is sad that we  ( both ) still are not trying to compromise .  . 
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the 
requirement for greeks to come to  . i thought it 
was a positive attempt to make the relations better. 

compromise on what , the invasion of , the of in 
greek politics , the refusal of to accept 12 of 
as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of 
, the ownership of the islands in the greek , sorry ,  . 

there are some things on which there can not be a compromise .  . 


the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are 
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person 
because i am from  . politics is not my business , and it is 
not the business of most of the turks .  . when it comes to individuals 
why the hatred 

any person who supports the policies of the turkish directly or 
is a bad person. 
it is not your that makes you bad , it is your support of the 
actions of your that make you bad . 
people do not hate you because of who you are but because of what you 
are. you are a supporter of the policies of the turkish and 
as a such you must pay the price .  . 

so that makes me think that there is some kind of 
brainwashing going on in  . after all why would an person 
treat every person from a nation the same way can you tell me about your 
history books and things you learn about greek turkish 
during your  . 
take it easy ! 





, baby ! 

you do not need brainwashing to turn people against the turks .  . just talk to 
greeks , , slavs , and all other people who had the luck to be under 
turkish occupation .  . 
they will talk to you about murders , ,  . 

you do not learn about turks from history books , you learn about them from 
people who experienced first hand turkish  . 

napoleon 


well , napoleon .  . it is your kind of people who are preventing peace 
on the world. first of all , you did n't answer the question i asked 
at the end of my posting. and then you told me some bullshit 
throughout your posting which had no positive point about the issue , 
filled with hatred , and filled with emotions .  . why am i doing this 
forget it , i do n't think you are worth it to discuss the issue. 






, baby ! 

from  ( brendan d mckay ) 
subject re  ( was re no free man propaganda machine freeman , with blood from israel ) 
nntp posting host virginia 
organization rochester institute of technology , rochester , ny 
lines 123 

in article  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 
in article writes 

check begin  ( published book ) you 'll find accounts of the 
massacres there including , 
though with the numbers of men , children and women are 
greatly  . 

there is no known writing directly to begin 
which admits a massacre at  . thus , is wrong. 

as per request of 

from the , by begin , publishing , ny , 1977 

pp. 

apart from the military aspect , there is a moral aspect to the 
story of  . at that , whose name was 
throughout the world , both sides suffered heavy casualties .  . we had 
four killed and nearly forty  . the number of casualties was 
nearly forty percent of the total number of the  . the arab 
troops suffered casualties three times as heavy .  . the fighting 

the word troops is  . there has never been any evidence 
that there were any regular or arab forces in the 
apart from the defending themselves. according to the 
observer pa il , the forces suffered a lot of 
casualties because they were incompetent soldiers .  . when they 
into trouble the central part of the , a small group 
of soldiers came and took it without a single  . 
begin 's failure to even mention the is only one of the 
major inaccuracies  ( to use a kind word ) in his account. 

, three times as heavy may be correct , as there is 
serious evidence that the arab loss was closer to 120 lives than 
to the oft quoted 250 lives. however , note that begin compares 
jews to dead  . he fails to mention the number of 
 . guess why. 

was thus very severe .  . yet the hostile propaganda , 
throughout the world , deliberately ignored the fact that the civilian 
population of was actually given a warning by us before the 
battle began .  . one of our carrying a loud speaker was 
at the to the and it in arabic all women , 
children and to leave their houses and to take shelter on the 
of the hill .  . by giving this warning our threw 
away the element of complete surprise , and thus increased their own 
risk in the battle .  . 

as is thoroughly established by many sources , the 
got stuck in a too far from the for it to provide a 
warning .  . 

a substantial number of the 
the warning and they were  . a few did not leave their 
houses perhaps because of the confusion. the fire of the enemy 
was to which the number of our casualties bears eloquent 
testimony .  . our men were compelled to fight for every house to 
overcome the enemy they used large numbers of hand  . and the 
civilians who had our warnings suffered inevitable 
casualties .  . 

the education which we gave our soldiers throughout the years of 
was based on the of the traditional laws of war. we 
never broke them unless the enemy first did so and thus forced us , in 
accordance with the accepted of war , to apply  . i am 
convinced , too , that our officers and men wished to avoid a single 
unnecessary in the battle .  . but those who 
stones of at the of 1 would do 
well not to the of hypocrisy 2 . 

in connection with the capture of the jewish agency 
found it necessary to send a letter of apology to abdullah , whom mr. 
ben , at a moment of great political , called  the wise 
ruler who seeks the good of his people and this country . ' . the  wise 
ruler , ' whose forces demolished and the 
bodies of its to birds of prey , replied with feudal 
 . he rejected the apology and replied that the jews 
were all to blame and that he did not believe in the existence of 
' . throughout the arab world and the world at large a wave 
of lying propaganda was let loose about  jewish ' . 

the enemy propaganda was designed to our name. in the 
result it helped us. panic the of israel .  . 
, which had previously every attack of the 
, was evacuated overnight and without further fighting .  . 
was also evacuated .  . these two places the main 
road and their fall , together with the capture of by the 
, made it possible to keep open the road to jerusalem .  . in the 
rest of the country , too , the began to flee in , even 
before they with jewish forces .  . not what happened at 
, but what was invented about , helped to carve the 
way to our decisive on the  . the legend of 
helped us in particular in the saving of and the 
conquest of  . 

it is worth how begin the standard myth that the 
as part of a calculated plan .  . 

1 (a from the , 226 . 7 . ) . to the loss 
of , a of strategic importance , arab at 
a crude story , a massacre by 
troops of women and children in the  . certain jewish 
, fearing the men as political , upon this 
arab propaganda to smear the  . an rabbi was 
to the before he had time to the truth. out of 
evil , however , good came .  . this arab propaganda spread a legend of 
amongst and arab troops , who were with panic at 
the mention of soldiers .  . the legend was worth half a dozen 
to the forces of israel .  . the massacre  lie 
is still by jew all over the world. 

apparently 90 of israeli are jew  . 

2 in reference to of by fellow jews .  . 

i have previously posted quotations by participants that 
totally destroys begin 's  . i have no particular desire 
to post it yet again. 

brendan .  . 
 ( normally 

from  ( system operator ) 
subject a moment of silence 
organization university of california , san diego 
lines 14 
nntp posting host edu . 


april 24th is , and around the world 
are getting ready to remember the massacres of their family members 
by the turkish government between and  . 
at least 1 . 5 . million during that period , 
and it is important to note that those who deny that this event 
ever took place , either supported the policy of to exterminate 
the , or , as we have witnessed in , 
would like to see it happen again .  .  .  . 
thank you for taking the time to read this post. 





from 
subject re 18 murdered in march 
originator 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 


sorry guys for this long article , but in fact it is mostly  .  . 

in article ,  ( jonas flygare ) writes 

when you are intentionally the most important fact that 
the whole israeli presence in the territories is illegitimate , 
and hence all their actions , their courts , their laws are illegitimate on 
the ground of territories .  . 

no , i am not that , i'm merely asking you whether the existance 
of israeli in the or in gaza invalidates those individuals 
right 
to live , a  ( as you so eloquently put it) human right. we can get back to the 
question of which law should be used in the territories later. also , you have 
not my question if the also have human rights. 


first , my above statement say that the existence of israeli citizens 
in the their right of life but it says the israeli occupation 
of the the right of life for some most its citizens basically 
the right of for its military men . clearly , occupation is an 
war during war , attacks against military targets are fully legitimate .  . 

ok , let me re phrase the question. i have repeatedly asked you if the 
have less human rights than the palestinians , 

well , if you just waited for 5 more lines you would have read my statement 
secondly , surely israeli have human rights , but ... 

and if so , why. 

because they belong to the human race , or do you disagree on that too 

from your posting  ( where you did not directly my question) i 
that you thought so. together with the above statement i then assumed that the 
reason was the actions of the state of israel .  . re your statement of 
occupation i 'd like you to define the term , so i do n't have to repeat this 
 the answer out of  procedure more than  . 

secondly , surely israeli have human rights , but they ask their to 
protect it by from the , not by further oppressing 
human rights. 

i'm sorry , but the above sentence does not make sense. please it. 

i know about you , but it makes full sense to me. 
are being killed because israel is , let israel 
and israeli blood will be saved .  . it the who 
the right of life of , but it is israel which and exposed 
the life of its citizens to the the war of ! 

more generally , the violence in the is part of the , 
and i had previously posted a long article about this issue , whom i finished 
by an open question 
suppose the stops , what is the motive for israel to 
tell hope for peace and this bullshit .  . everybody in the world looks 
and hopes for peace , so why there any. hope of peace is necessary 
but not sufficient motive .  . 


if a state can all it 's citizens of human rights by its actions , then 
tell me why any human living today should have any rights at all 


because not all states are like israel , as , as ignorant , or as tyrant .  . 

oh , ok. so how about the human rights of the , iraqis and others 
does the name of sound familiar or how about the in iraq and 

how about the same in  ( ok , maybe a bit  . ) . the russians in 
the states or the moslem in the old ussr and yugoslavia 
do the serbs have any human rights , according to you 

as for the countries , their problems are an concern. 
the people can deal with it themselves , if the west intervene .  . 
as for serbs , i think that those up rapists  ( excuse my language 
but it really as much if i was in bosnia itself ) humans. those 
surely came from outer space or something. no human can allow himself 
to see such than to participate in. 

and which system do you propose we use to solve the me problem 

the question is not which system would solve the me problem. why because 
any system can solve it. 
the laws of says kick out of here  ( all  . 

i asked for which system should be used , that will preserve human rights for 

all people involved. i assumed that was obvious , but i wo n't repeat that 
mistake. now that i have that out , i'm eagerly your 
reply. 

so you agree that that an israeli solution preserve human rights. 
(i am understanding this from your first statement in this  . 

no , i'm that to just kick all the palestinians out of israel proper 
would probably lead to disaster for both parties .  . if that 's what you refer 
to as the  israeli solution  then so be it. 

ok. 

joseph  ( administrator responsible for jewish colonization ) 
said it best when writing in his diary in 
between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both 
peoples together in this country .  .  .  .  . we shall not achieve our goal 

of being an independent people with the in this small country. 
the only solution is a , at least western  ( west of 
the river ) without  .  .  .  . and there is no other way than 
to the from here to the countries , to 
all of them not one , not one tribe , should be 
left .  .  .  .  . only after this will the country be able to 
absorb the millions of our own  . there is no other way out. 
, 29 september , 
( courtesy of afifi ) 

just a question if we are to disregard the rather obvious references to 
getting israel out of me one way or the other in both covenant and 
charter  ( that 's the english translations , if you have other information i 'd 
be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to 
a private paper even older i'm not going to get into the question if he 
wrote the above , but it 's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have 
their share of fanatics .  . guess what .  .  . those are not the people that will 
make any lasting peace in the  . more deleted stuff 

exactly , you are right. i guess that the problem is that the israeli 
is full with men like joseph  . 

oh have you met with them personally , to read their fascinating .  . 
what do you do for a living 

we and our either refers to or jews (i know  . 

well , i can give you an answer , you master of wisdom , i will not suggest the 
israeli system for the me problem ! 

i think that is fair enough . 

no , that is not an answer , since i asked for a system that could solve 
the problem. you said any could be used , then you provided a contradiction .  . 

above you wrote that you understood what i meant  ( underlined by ) 
any system can be used to solve the conflict , but not any system would 
resolve it justly .  . 

an unjust solution would be a non solution , per definition , no 

my definition is the same as yours , but one has to look into the world politics. 
in politics , a solution imply just solution . 

you said the following 

for all a it holds that a have property b. 
there exists an a such that property b does not hold .  . 

thus , either or both statements must be false .  . 

guess where that takes your logic to never never land. 

you are proving yourself as a . first you understood what i meant , but then 
you claim you so to claim a contradiction in my logic .  . 
too bad for you , the master of wisdom .  . 

i was merely pointing out a not so small flaw in your reasoning .  . 
since you claim to be logical i felt it best to point this out 
before you started using your statements to prove a point or so. 
am i then to assume you are not logical 

it seems that it was problem in the definition of solution . 
i think a solution must be just , because otherwise it would never be lasting .  . 
however , when politicians say a solution , they mean a just solution but 
just a solution .  . 

the greatest problem of is arab children . 
rabbi  . 

oh , and by the way , let me add that these quotes you put at the end are 
a real , when i try giving your posts any credit .  . 

why do you feel by things and facts that you believe in , 
if you were a  . if you believe in zionist codes and acts , 
well i feel sorry for you , because the same rabbi had said 
yes , is racism . 
if you feel and bothered by the zionist codes , then drop  . 
if you are not zionist , why are you bothered then. you should join me in 
condemning these racist zionist codes and acts .  . 

any quote can be misused , especially when used to stereotype all 
individuals by a statement of an individual .  . if you use the same 
methods that you credit   with , then where does that place you 

oh , by the way , i 'd advice you not to assume anything about my  . 
i will and am condemning acts i find and , but i 'll try as 
long as i can not to assume those acts are by a whole people. 
by zionist above do you mean the state of israel , the government of israel , 
the leaders of israel  ( political and or religious ) or the jews in 
general if you feel the need to condemn , condemn those responsible 
instead. how would you feel if we started condemning you personally 
based on the bombings in egypt 

, 




from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject center for israel propaganda 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 67 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


the  center for policy research  writes .  .  .  . 

from the israeli press 

, 14 march 1993 

the israeli police department on the evening of friday , 
march 12 that it is calling upon jewish israeli citizens with 
gun to carry them at all times so as to contribute to 
their security and that of their surroundings . 

considering all the murders of innocent at the hands 
of arab death merchants , i see nothing wrong with the advice. 

ha , 15 march 1993 

 ( likud ) , chair of the , 
stated that he intends to demand that the police department make 
it clear to the public that anyone who or kills 
non jewish will not be put on trial .  . 

as usual , the bias of the  center for policy research  
through this newsgroup .  . here we have an enraged who 
is his , and you it as if this is going 
to become policy. you do n't say what the response to 's 
suggestion was. do do not mention whether he was refering to 
caught in the act , which could be a clear cut case 
of self defence .  . would you care to elaborate on this , or was 
this all you wanted to say on the matter. why do n't you give 
up this  center for policy research  crap , and just post your 
without trying to them with a pompous name 

ha , 16 

today a private security firm and units from the southern 
command will begin of four magnetic in the gaza 
strip , as an additional stage in the of security 
measures in the strip .  . 

the will aid in the searching of non jewish gaza residents 
as they leave for work in israel .  . they can be used to reveal the 
presence of , axes , weapons and other objects .  . 

in addition to the , which will be operated by a private 
civilian company , large of magnetic card reading 
devices are being brought to the inspection points , to facilitate 
the reading of the magnetic cards these non jewish workers must 
carry .  . 

a laudable  . 

every single thing you post about israel is posted to 
israel as as you can. deliberate are an 
integral part of the  . and it 's not only the incidents 
that you do not mention , but even the stories you do post are 
with , which change the entire meaning. the 
absurdity of your respectable name cannot hide your bias .  . 

in your effort to israel in an light , you 
have accomplished nothing , except to prove that a respectable 
sounding label like the center for policy research is nothing 
but a for someone with a biased attitude 
against israel and the need to it. you 

this  center for policy research  stuff is nonsense. 


from 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization none 
lines 49 

in article ,  ( esin terzioglu ) writes 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( esin terzioglu ) writes 
in article  ( david davidian ) writes 
04 16 93 says it could shoot down turkish 


 .  .  . 

let me translate for everyone else before the public service gets 
into it is getting  . 

 . 


let me mr. turkish 

is not getting . she is simply letting the world 
know that she will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get 
away with their famous  . do remember of the turkish 
invasion of the greek island of while the world simply watched .  . 


your ignorance is obvious from your posting. 
1 ) was an independent country with turkish greek 
 ( not a greek island like your ignorant 
posting claims ) 
2 ) the name should be  ( in english ) 
next time read and learn before you post. 



aside from , why is that you turks do not want to admit your 
past mistakes you know turkish invasion of was a mistake and too 
bad that u . n .  . did not do anything about it. you may ask mistake 
yes , i would say. why is that the greeks did not invade 

my response to the shooting down of a turkish over the 
air space was because of the ignorant posting of the person from your 
country. turks and want to into the 
conflict with  . the who have lived 
in their for 3000 years  ( cut off from and given to 
by stalin ) are the ones directly involved in the conflict .  . they are defending 
themselves against  . that has no mercy for 
people that are with 23 's and  . 

at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that stay out of the 
crisis so that the repeat of the invasion will never occur again. 


x mailer version 1 . 
from d. c. 
organization nobody but me really 
subject rules of engagement  ( was 18 murdered in march 
distribution world 
lines 

in , wrote 

in article ,  ( jonas flygare ) writes 
in article , writes 
in article ,  ( jonas flygare ) writes 

first , my above statement say that the existence of israeli citizens 
in the their right of life but it says the israeli occupation 
of the the right of life for some most its citizens basically 
the right of for its military men . clearly , occupation is an 
war during war , attacks against military targets are fully legitimate .  . 

i 'd like you to tell me , in your own words who the military are , wrt israel then. 
in uniform , or not on duty , or off duty to be , or not 
 ( that is , since it 's compulsory one might regard any israeli as a 
target using that definition) 

in uniform or not make a difference if the person is in army .  . 
on duty , or off duty matter if the army man was on duty or on a 
week. 
to be , or not sure i meant only military men. 

just trying to get this clear , so please bear with me. as far as 
i can tell , you 're proposing the following rules of engagement 
between israel and the resistance .  . please feel 
this preliminary draft as necessary 

1 ) israeli military are fair game at any time , in uniform 
or out , on duty or off. in practice , since any male or female 
israeli of military age  ( 18 ) may be off duty military , all but 
young children are acceptable targets .  . since the existence of 
israel constitutes indication of hostile intent , no further 
provocation is required. 

2 ) to avoid of the rights of non 
, israeli forces must not engage 
without positive as military , clear 
indication of aggressive intent , and a clear field of fire .  . 

a ) positive may be assured by either checking for 
military uniform , by of exclusively 
military  ( ie , or 29 aircraft ) , or 
self  ( either verbal or  . note 
that dual use military civilian such as hand , 
47 , and do not constitute positive 
military and require closer inspection such 
as document  . 

b ) aggressive intent  ( as distinct from merely  hostile  intent , 
which is the normal condition ) may be assured by not less 
than three of fire separated by 
of not less than ten seconds between  . note that a 
single of automatic weapon fire as one round , 
as does a of rocket fire from more than one source. 
as noted above , dual use may not be assumed to 
originate from military , and thus do not justify 
armed response. 

c ) a clear field of fire can be guaranteed by making a positive 
military of all in the target area of 
the weapons to be used. note that aggressive intent need not 
be proven for all possible targets .  . thus , if 
are attacked by a it is not necessary to check the 
papers of each member so long as none are obviously 
civilians  ( as indicated , for instance , by the of 
civilian such as stones , axes , and 
) . since it is often difficult for elements to 
land and make the necessary , ground forces should 
first strike areas before fire .  . 
for purposes , a to pass within 5 
is usually sufficient for this purpose , but may be repeated 
if necessary. 

d. c. speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of  ( dos mail news shell ) 

from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject brad vs. principle 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 50 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in his effort to make sure that we do not forget 
what a he is , brad has asked why israel rarely 
by un security council  . perhaps the list 
below might answer the question. 


incident security council response 

1. hindu moslem in india , over 2 , 000 killed , 1990 none 
2. gassing to death of over 8 , 000 by none 
iraqi air force , 1988 89 
3. saudi security forces slaughter none 
400 in mecca , 1987 
4. killing by army of demonstrators , 1988 none 
5.  ( arabs killing arabs ) over killed none 
6. 30 , 000 civilians slaughtered by government none 
troops in , syria , 
7. killing of 5 , 000 palestinians by troops , none 
thousands ,  . , 
8. 87 moslems killed in egypt , none 
9. killed in bread riots , 1977 none 
10. 30 border and rocket attacks against israel by none 
the in 1989 alone 
11. , 11 israeli slaughtered none 
12. ma alot , children killed in attack none 
13 .  . israel attack 34 dead , none 
14 .  . syria kills 23 , 000 palestinians , none 
15 .  . over 150 , 000 dead since none 
16. 13 , 000 killed in two weeks , 1986 none 
17. sudan tens of thousands of black slaves , none 
civil war , 1 million killed , 3 million 
18 .  . square massacre 1989 none 
19 .  . , 3 , 000 killed , 1989 none 
20 .  . am 103 disaster carried out by the p . l . o . none 
21 .  . northern ireland none 
22 .  . none 
23 .  . soviet occupation of none 
24 .  . american riots at , , , kent state none 
25 .  . israel destroys iraqi , israel condemned 
26 .  . 1990 israeli police protect israeli condemned 
against arab , 18 anti jewish killed 
27 .  . soldiers slaughter christian soldiers none 
after they surrender , 1990 

it appears that brad and the united nations security 
council have something in common .  . they both seem 
by the demands of acting on principle .  . 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject its entire muslim population had been slaughtered by the  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 31 

source men are like that by leonard  . the 
company ,  .  ( 305  . 
 ( memoirs of an who participated in the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 


p. 19  ( first paragraph ) 

the section of the town no longer existed , except as a pile of 
ruins .  . it had been and its slaughtered .  . the same 
fate the section of  . 

p. 22  ( second paragraph ) 

many of our men had served in the army , and were trained soldiers .  . 
we were rich and  . had never received 
military training .  . they were poor , and few beyond  . 
shortly after the killing of the in our , the revolution 
in russia was suppressed .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject how many more muslim people will be slaughtered by   criminals 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article writes 

i want this discussion to take place in english , because it is only after 

let 's face it , if the words do n't get into your in the first place , 
there 's no hope. now tell us , , a of the x soviet 
government what was your role in the murder of and 
how many more muslims will be slaughtered by as 
publicly declared and filed with the legal authorities 


 .  .  . that . more people have to die .  .  .  . 



yes , i stated this and stand by it. 




28 , los 
is slaughtered by two while driving to work. 

march 22 , cambridge , 
to murder .  . a gift and import belonging to 
is blown up. an either 
he gives up his honorary position or he will be executed . he 
refuses .  . responsibility is claimed by and  . 

may 4 , cambridge , 
, the turkish honorary consul in boston , would not bow 
to the terrorist that he give up his title of 
honorary consul . now he is attacked and murdered in cold blood. 
president reagan orders an all out to no avail. an eye 
witness who gave a description of the murderer is shot down. he 
 .  .  . but falls silent .  . one of the most in 
the , history of terrorism .  . such a murder 
brings absolutely nothing except an ego boost for the murderer 
within the terrorist , which is already 
in self  . 

were you involved in the murder of 

december 17 , 
two nazi massacre and his , engin 
 . and claim responsibility .  . 


source edward k. , radical group hosts well attended 
meeting , the reporter , may 1 , 1986 , pp. 1 18 .  . 

, an of representatives of greek political parties , 
including the ruling party , and a host of political groups , both 
and non , joined to voice their with the 
people in their pursuit of their cause and activities of a new 
political force were here on sunday , april 20 during 
the 2nd international meeting of with the people. and 
judging from encouraging messages offered by the representatives of these 
political groups and organizations , at least here in , the 
cause enjoys support from a wide spectrum of the political world. 

the international meeting of was sponsored by the greek branch of 
the popular movement , a new political force headed 
by generations of , who openly profess their support of the 
armed struggle and of the secret army for the liberation of 
 . the organization has branches in various european and middle eastern 
countries and the united states although some of these branches appear to 
have gone through a switch of because of the split within the ranks 
of  .  .  . 

the support of , the ruling party in , to the 
people , was mr. , a member of the central of 
the party and the greek member of the permanent people 's tribunal .  .  .  . 
explaining the goals and aspirations of the popular movement 
was  . significant was the address by mr. 
, on behalf of the popular front for the movement 's continued 
support of the  armed struggle in their pursuit of their cause , 
that operated and run training camps would always be 
open to youth who need training for such a struggle .  . later , mr. 
, answering a question put to him by this writer , affirmed that 
his organization had always trained members of and that 
this policy will continue. the doors of our camps are always open to 
freedom , he affirmed .  . 

among the prominent greek politicians who attended the conference was the son 
of prime , who himself holds a post in the greek 
two members of the who had to for the 
specific purpose of the international representatives of 
the christian democratic party , center party , two wings of the communist 
party , representatives of an of labor and trade , 
a number of of greek towns and cities two greek members of the 
european and other members of the greek were also among 
those who participated in the international conference .  . also on hand to follow 
the was the of in  . 

more than significant was the large number of messages received by the 
, including the following national 
movement , popular front for the liberation of general 
command the central of the national liberation 
movement the progressive party of arab 
labor party the democratic union of iraq and numerous other 
international groups , all noted for their radical stand in the israeli 
conflict .  . 

support from 

among messages received from groups was the 
movement , the group that has claimed the 
and assassination of key party leaders in accused of selling out to 
foreign interests and powers .  . the message clearly gave its support to the 
popular movement that the movement will 
continue to reveal the realities , no matter how bitter or tragic they are , 
to the anti activities of the leaders of the bureau .  . 
the message was taken as an indication of the link , loose as it may be , that 
exists between the group and the popular movement , 
open of and armed struggle .  . 

the popular movement has set up its in a of the 
greek capital , known as , where there is a large presence .  . 
the are in a two story building , which appears to have 
turned into a of activity on the part of scores of youth , who 
prefer to give their first names only when invited to introduce themselves .  .  .  . 

now any comment 

from  ( vedat dogan ) 
subject re addressing .  .  .  .  .  . 
message id 


in article  ( david davidian ) writes 
in article 
 ( vedat dogan ) wrote in response to article 
org .  ( david davidian ) writes 


( source in the near east , by a. , 
( jonathan , 30 square , london ,  ( first published 1923 ) 
(  ( 287  . 

such a pile of garbage ! first off , the above reference was first published 
in not , and has pages not ! second , upon checking page 
, we are asked to believe 

no , mr . ... 

it was first published in (i have the book on my , now ! ) 


and furthermore , the book i have does not have pages either , as you 
claimed , mr .  . it . has pages .  . any . question  .  .  . 

well , it seems your book has its total page numbers closer to mine than the 
n crap posted by mr. ( ! 

o boy ! 

please , can you tell us why those quotes are crap  .  . because . you do not 
like them ! ! !  .  .  . because . they really exist .  .  . why . 

as i said in my previous posting , those quotes exactly exist in the source 
given by  .  .  . 

you could n't reject it .  .  .  . 


in addition , the author 's was written on 15 , , but the book 
was published in  . 

here we go again .  .  . 
in the book i have , both the front page and the author 's give 
the same year and 15 , , respectively ! 
 ( anyone can check it at her his library , if not , i can send you the copies of 
pages , please ask by sct ) 


i really do n't care what year it was first  ( published(1923 or 1924 ) 
what i care about is what the book writes about murders , , et .  . in . 
the given quotes by , and your denial of these quotes .  . and . your 
groundless , etc. 


... 

i can provide  . postings if required to verify my claim ! 

what is new 

i will post a  . file , but i am not going go through the effort to show there 
is some turkish modified re publication of the book , like last time ! 


i claim i have a book in my hand published in  ( 1923(first publication ) 
and it exactly has the same quoted info as the book published 
in  ( 1934(serdar 's reference ) has .  . you . could n't reject it .  . but . , now you 
are avoiding the real issues by around .  .  . 

let 's see how you lie !  .  .  non existing  quotes to re publication ) 

first you said there was no such a quote in the given reference .  . you . 
called a liar !  .  .  . 
i said to you , no , mr . , there exactly existed such a quote .  .  .  . 
(i even gave the call number , page numbers .  . you . could t reject it . ) . 

and now , you are lying again and talking about modified , re published book 
 ( without any proof how , when , where , by whom , etc .  . ) .  .  . 
 ( by the way , how is it possible to re publish the book in if it was 
first published in  ( 1924(your claim) . i . am sure that you have some  pretty 
well suited theories  , as usual ) 

and i am ready to send the copies of the necessary pages to anybody who 
wants to compare the fact and mr . 's lies .  .  . i . also give the call number 
and page numbers again for the library use , which are 
6 . r 

and the page numbers to verify the quotes and 215 




it is not possible that ( 's text has pages , mine has , and yours has 
! 

now , are you claiming that there ca n't be such a reference by saying it is 
not possible .  .  .  .  .  . if . not , what is your point 

differences in the number of pages 
mine was published in  . 's was in  .  . 
no need to use the same book size and the same letter 
in both , etc , etc .  .  . does it give you an idea ! ! 

the issue was not the number of pages the book has .  . or . the year 
first published .  .  . 
and you tried to hide the whole point .  .  . 
the point is that both books have the exactly the same quotes about 
how moslems are killed , tortured , etc by  . and . those quotes given 
by exist ! ! 
it was the issue , was n't it 

you were not able to object it .  .  . does . it bother you anyway 

you name all these and murders  ( by armenians ) as a crap  .  .  . 
people who think like you are among the main reasons why the world still 
has so many in the 1993 .  . 

any question 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( david davidian ) 
subject re seventh century a.d. math problems 
summary mr. a free prize ! 
keywords philosophy , , , math 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 43 

in article  ( cetin 
koc ) responded to article 
org .  ( david davidian ) who wrote 

problem 1 

my father told me the following story. during the famous wars between the 
and the , prince performed 
extraordinary deeds .  . three times in a single month he attacked the 
troops .  . the first time , he down half of the army .  . 
the second time , the , he slaughtered one fourth of the 
soldiers .  . the third time , he one of the army .  . 
the who were still alive , two hundred , to 
 . and so , from this remainder , find how many soldiers 
there were before the massacre .  . 

answer  ( a(1 1 2 1 4 1 11 ) a 

good for you ! you win the prize a free trip to as an 
! now , the odds of you coming back after trying to de 
the area of ! 

strike , slaughter , destroy , and massacre .  . after 
all , they are not as innocent as the network claims .  . 

fact i did n't notice any mention of turks in , van , or in 
this seventh century story ! 

fact these places were filled with as of  . 

fact by the end of , after the turkish genocide of the , there 
were no left in , van , or only turks and 
! in fact , there were no greeks left alive in 
either ! 

conclusion numbers do n't lie in either case ! 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( manfredo tichauer ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization the private site of 
lines 

( ) writes 

i'm not ignorant of the and know more 
about nazi germany than most people  ( maybe including you) .  . 

you really belong to the 25 30 of in usa who do n't know what 
the ( should be the real word ) was. first you write in 

message id 
date sat , 24 apr 1993 20 36 20 gmt 

i think the israeli press might be a bit biased in 
reporting the events. i doubt the propaganda machine of 


and later , as somebody informed you about your gross mistake , you 
write in 

message id 
date sun , 25 apr 1993 18 13 51 gmt 

first let me correct myself in that it was and 

not  ( airforce ) who the nazi propaganda machine .  . 

instead of joseph  . and you dare to say that you 
know more about nazi germany than most people  ( maybe including us ) 
i'm sure you learned the history of nazi germany and austria from 
your family. 

what i is ignorant statements that call people 
names when they disagree with your position. the 
atrocities commited by the israeli hardly 
as anti semitism .  . if you think name calling is a valid form of 
argument in intellectual circles , you need to get out more 
often. 

trying to make comparisons between politics and nazi german 
politics shows only your degree of ignorance  ( high ) , 
 ( low ) , humanity  ( none ) and antisemitism  . i respect anybody 
who with me as long as he respects me and discusses in a 
civilized manner. i would never say that anybody that israel 
and or its politics is an , except he uses 
vocabulary terminology  . israel is not a perfect country and 
its politicians also errors , even some of them are corrupt 
 ( like politicians in any other country ) , but they carry a huge burden 
to care for the safety of all its citizens , and that is really not an 
easy task in a country that is by enemies who only expect 
that israel the one big error and wipe the country  ( and its 
jewish citizens plus the so called , that wanted to 
live in peace with their jewish neighbours ) of the map .  . as i said , 
israel is not a perfect country , but it is the only democracy in the 
whole middle east and the only country in the world where jews from 
everywhere can have a refuge in case of in the countries 
they are living. 
our long history has taught us that we cannot rely on non jewish 
nations and its governments as soon as there are more or big 
social economical political problems in any country , the first ones 
that pay for the broken are the jews , and later the other 
minorities of the country. 

i do n't think the suffering of some jews during wwii 

the crimes commited by the israeli government. any 
attempt to call civil like myself anti is 
not appreciated. 

this is really outrageous 6 . 000 . 000 . murdered jews , besides the 
thousands who survived the in some way or another , and the rest 
of the living ones for all of them ! i do n't know what you 
call a civil libertarian  ( never heard about them) but i know only 
one thing if all of them think like you do it , then civil 
is a new denomination for  . may other civil come 
to word to this group so that we can learn if a . and me are right 
 ( that civil are antisemites ) , or that i'm wrong and he is 
that word. 
btw , i could n't care less for what  . 


m. email 
14 voice ( 49 40 ) 27 . 42 . 27 . 
2000 hamburg 60 germany fax ( 49 40 ) 53 . 09 . 


from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject car bomb in the west bank 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 34 


from 4 16 

two killed and eight soldiers in west bank car 
bomb 

israel defense forces radio , , reports today that a car 
bomb in the west bank today killed two palestinians and 
eight soldiers .  . the is believed to be the work of 
a suicide bomber .  . radio reports said a car with gas 
between two buses , one belonging to the and the 
other civilian .  . both went up in flames .  . the killed an 
arab man who worked at a nearby bar in the  . 
an israel radio report stated that the other man who was killed may 
have been the one who set off the bomb .  . according to at 
the hospital in , the eight soldiers injured in the 
suffered light to moderate  . 



the arab that was killed was a probably from the so it is not count 
as a murder .  . 









internet road , a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) fax  ( 303)581 ) boulder , co 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re is racism 
organization , inc. 
lines 10 

d. c. writes 

so steve lets here , what is 

assuming that you mean  hear  , you were n't  listening  he just 
told you , is racism .  . this is a statement. 

i think you are confusing with false and  . 

h. stein 

from  ( panos ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
article i.d. news . 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 

writes 

mr. 

before your claims , i suggest you be kind to individuals 
who are trying to make some points human rights , , 
and treatment of turkish minority in i . want the world 
know how bad you treat these people. you will deny anything i say but 
it does not make any because i will write things that i saw with 
my eyes . you . prove yourself prejudice by saying free , school 
etc. do you greeks only give these things to turkish minority or 
everybody has rights to get them . your . words even discriminate 
these people. you think that you are giving big favor to these 
people by giving these thing that in reality they get nothing. 

no. i do not thing we are doing them a favor. i have simply stated that 
they are not treated as a second class citizens .  . that was my point. 
i fail to see how my words show discrimination .  . and what do you mean that 
they do not get nothing is , for example , , food , and 
nothing 

if you do not know practices that are being conducted 
by the government of the , i suggest that you investigate 
to see the facts .  . then , we can discuss about the most basic 
human rights like of religion , of press of turkish 
minority , ethnic of all turks in , of 
right to have property without government intervention , 
of right to vote to choose your community leaders , 
how greek government encourages people to destroy 
religious places , houses , , schools for turkish minority then 
forcing them to go to without anything with them. 

i'm sorry , but i cannot see any logical order in the above argument. 

before i conclude my writing , let me point out how greeks are 
treated in  . we do not consider them greek minority , instead 
we consider a part of our society. 

what part exactly is this one the people cannot even sell their property 
if they want to leave  . the could not get a to 
some buildings for decades it needed a special agreement between 
the two for this. talk about a part of the society why has the 
size of the greek community reduced to 1 , old people and priests then 

there is no difference among people in  . 

yeah , you bet. 

all big 
belong to greeks in and we are proud to have them . unlike . the 
which tries to destroy turkish minority , we encourage all 
minorities in to be a part of turkish society. 

you are far off from the reality. 





from center for policy research 
subject 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 24 14 55 00 1993 
lines 47 


from center for policy research 
subject 


rights of children violated by the state of israel  ( selected 
articles of the of 1949 ) 

article 31 no physical or moral coercion shall be 
against protected persons , in particular to obtain information 
from them or from third parties .  . 

article 32 the high parties specifically agree that 
each of them is from taking any measure of such a 
character as to cause the physical suffering or extermination of 
protected persons in their hands. this applies not 
only to murder , torture , punishment ( .  .  . ) . but also to any 
other measures of whether applied by civilian or 
military  . 

article 33 no protected person may be punished for an he 
or she has not personally committed .  . collective penalties and 
likewise measures of or of terrorism are  . 

article 34 taking of is  . 

article 49 individual or mass , as well as 
of protected persons from territory to the 
territory of the power or to that of any other country , 
or not , are , regardless of their motive .  . 

article 50 the power shall , with the of 
the national and local authorities , facilitate the proper working 
of all devoted to the care and education of 
children. 

article 53 any destruction by the power of real or 
personal property belonging individually or collectively to 
private persons , or to the state , or to other public authorities , 
or to social or cooperative organizations , is , except 
where such destruction is absolutely necessary by 
military  . 

ps it is obvious that of the above articles are also 
of the international of the rights of the 
child. 


from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re idiots antisemitism 
organization division of applied sciences , university 
lines 27 


in article center for policy research writes 

from center for policy research 

and the 
by 

the first point to note regarding the of the history 
of the by zionist propaganda is that without 
anti semitism is impossible. agrees with the basic 
of anti semitism , namely that jews cannot live with non jews .  . 

wrong. the fact that anti 
exist , and prevent jews from living in peace. that does not mean we 
agree that jews are all greedy , that jews kill christian children , 
commited , or anything else. we acknowledge that there are 
out there who do believe these things. 

adam 



adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from de . 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
organization , european molecular biology 
lines 76 

in article , writes 
look mr. i have repeated it in the past , and i shall repeat it once 
more , that when it comes to how greeks are treating the turks in , 
you and your should simply shut up. 

because what you are hearing is simply a form of propaganda from your ethnic 
who studied at the greek universities without paying any money for 
, food , and  . 

and any high school graduate can put down some simple math and compare the 
of the turkish community in with the destruction of the greek 
minority in  . 





mr. 

before your claims , i suggest you be kind to individuals 
who are trying to make some points human rights , , 
and treatment of turkish minority in i . want the world 
know how bad you treat these people. you will deny anything i say but 
it does not make any because i will write things that i saw with 
my eyes . you . prove yourself prejudice by saying free , school 
etc. do you greeks only give these things to turkish minority or 
everybody has rights to get them . your . words even discriminate 
these people. you think that you are giving big favor to these 
people by giving these thing that in reality they get nothing. 
if you do not know practices that are being conducted 
by the government of the , i suggest that you investigate 
to see the facts .  . then , we can discuss about the most basic 
human rights like of religion , 
if you did not see with your  eyes  freedom of religion you 
must at least blind ! 
of press of turkish 
2 weeks ago i read the of a turkish in a greek magazine , 
he said nothing about being to have turkish press in ! 
minority , ethnic of all turks in , 
give as a  . you call of when it 
freedom of 
right to have property without government intervention , 
what do you mean by that anyway in , as in every country if you want 
some property you   the . 
of right to vote to choose your community leaders , 
well well well. when turkish in area of elect 1 out of 3 
of this area to greek , if not freedom what is it 
3 out of 3 maybe there are only turks living there .... 
how greek government encourages people to destroy 
religious places , houses , , schools for turkish minority then 
forcing them to go to without anything with them. 
i cannot deny that actions of fanatics from both sides were reported .  . 
a minority of greek idiots indeed attack religious places , which 
were protected by the greek police .  . of greek policemen 
preventing turks from this non brain minority were all over greek press. 
before i conclude my writing , let me point out how greeks are 
treated in  . we do not consider them greek minority , instead 
we consider a part of our society. there is no difference among people in 
 . we do not state that greek minority go to turkish universities , 
get free , food , and health because these are basic 
human needs and they are a part of turkish community. all big 
belong to greeks in and we are proud to have them . unlike . the 
which tries to destroy turkish minority , we encourage all 
minorities in to be a part of turkish society. 


oh no. please do give as a ! 
minorities in turkish treated like that your own die 
in the every day bacause of their political beliefs , an this 
is reported by turks , and you want us to believe tha is the paradise 
of human rights business of greeks i yes 80 years ago ! 
you seem to be intelligent , so before presenting as the paradise of 
human rights just this matter a bit more. 




from  ( danny keren ) 
subject re of the 
organization brown university department of computer science 
lines 12 

this is nonsense. i lived in the for many years and i can say 
for sure that no were moved or harmed in any way. on the 
contrary , their standard of living has climbed many of them 
now live in rather nice , permanent houses , and own cars .  . there are 
quite a few students in the ben university .  . there are 
good , friendly relations between them and the rest of the population .  . 

all the i met would be rather surprised to read mr. davidson 's 
poster , i have to say. 

 . 


from m. 
subject 
organization 4th dimension bbs 
lines 7 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

what an you are  . 


system com . phone 
quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry 



from  ( harry mamaysky ) 
subject heil 
in reply to 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 12 13 gmt 
organization dept. of computer science , brown university 
lines 24 

in article  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

resistance forces a bomb under an israeli occupation 
in territory two days ago. three soldiers were killed and 
two  . in , israeli and israeli backed forces 
8 civilians by several  . , the israeli 
government its occupation in by claiming that it is 
necessary to prevent such of israeli ! ! 

to the men of the resistance ! with every 
israeli son that you place in the grave you are the moral 
of israel 's occupation and drawing attention to the israeli 
government 's policy of disregard for civilian life. 

brad 

very nice. three people are murdered , and is  . when i 
hear about deaths in the middle east , be it jewish or arab deaths , i 
feel , and only hope that soon this all stops .  . apparently , my 
view point is not acceptable to people like you  . 

, you disgust me. 

 . 

from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re conventional israel palestinians 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 37 

in article  ( tim clock ) writes 
in article  ( tim clock ) writes 

the latest israeli proposal , first proposed in february of 1992 , contains 
the following assumptions concerning the nature of any status refering to the and gaza , the palestinians , implemented by  . it 
states that 
israel will remain the existing source of authority until final status 
is agreed upon 
the exercise of powers under the will be subject to and 
with israel .  . 
israel will negotiate of powers and in the 
areas of , justice , , , education , 
business , , labor and social welfare , local police , 
local transportation and communications , affairs and religious 
affairs .  . 

the of march 1992 
there will be no on its  ( pisga ) powers and 
except those which derive from its character as an arrangement 
it will have a strong police force responsible for security and public 
order in the opt 
it can request the assistance of a un force 
with israel over self governing will be by 
a of representatives of the five permanent members of 
the un security council , the general  ( of the un ) , the , 
, egypt , syria and israel .  . 

i have read that there will be some concrete concerning creation 
of a police force during the talk 's next stage .  . does anyone 
knows of the details of this idea how does it fit with the 
listed above 


tim d .  . graduate student 
tel , department of politics and society 
fax , university of california 
home tel , , ca 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject sea what sea we said ! 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 27 

in article  ( ahmed abed ) writes 

i am sick and tired of this  driving the jews into the sea  
attributed to islamic movements and the it simply ca n't be proven 
as part of their plan ! 

ok , i 'll admit it. i ca n't find a quote with my meager 
resources .  . but i did find this little gem 

the set off their , there will only be in 
this part of the world. our people will continue to the 
of the revolution with of blood until the whole of the 
is liberated .  .  . '' . 
, ap , 3 12 

so , ahmed is right. there was nothing about driving jews into 
the sea , just a bit of ethnic , and a river of blood. 

is this an improvement 

adam 


adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from center for policy research 
subject final solution for gaza 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 23 15 10 00 1993 
lines 


from center for policy research 
subject final solution for gaza 


final solution for the gaza 


while israeli jews the of the , they 
by violent means the of the gaza and 
attempt to the  . 

the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population 
in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks. 
the israeli has decided to punish the whole population of 
gaza , some 700 . 000 . people , by denying them the right to leave the 
strip and seek work in israel .  . 

while non jews their lives to save jews from the 
, no israeli jew is known to have his life to help 
the resistance .  . the only help given to by israeli 
jews , only of people , is assistance .  . 

the right of the population to resist occupation is 
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of 
justice. a population denied basic human rights is entitled to 
rise up against its  . 

as is known , the israeli regime is considering unworthy of 
israeli citizenship and equal rights in israel , although they are 
considered worthy to do the work in israeli , 
and fields .  . many are born in towns and in 
israel .  . they may not live there , for these areas are for 
the master race .  . 

the nazi regime to the residents of the the 
right to self  . they jews to the 
population and preventing any form of resistance .  . some 
jewish were killed. israel also wishes to rule over 
gaza through arab  . 

as israel denies the only two options which are compatible 
with basic human rights and international law , that of becoming 
israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for 
self determination , it must be concluded that the israeli jewish 
society does not consider full human beings .  . this attitude 
is consistent with the attitude of the nazis towards jews .  . the 
current policies by the israeli government of cutting off gaza are 
consistent with the wish publicly expressed by prime 
that  gaza into the  . one is led to ask 
oneself whether israeli leaders entertain still more 
goals towards the whether they have some final solution 
up their sleeve 

i urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever 
they can to help the their full human , civil and 
political rights , to which they are entitled as human beings .  . 



from fri apr 23 02 30 21 1993 received from 
is . by org . 1 . revision 1 . ) 
id fri , 23 apr 93 02 30 13 pdt received from 
is . by is . 14 10 91 ) fri , 23 apr 
1993 09 29 41 gmt received by is . 
8 . 11 02 92 ) fri , 23 apr 93 09 30 23 gmt from 
 ( elias davidsson ) message id 
subject no subject  ( file 
transmission ) to date fri , 23 apr 93 9 30 22 gmt 
x ascii x 29 status 

final solution for the gaza 


while israeli jews the of the , they 
by violent means the of the gaza and 
attempt to the  . 

the gaza strip , this tiny area of land with the highest population 
in the world , has been cut off from the world for weeks. 
the israeli has decided to punish the whole population of 
gaza , some 700 . 000 . people , by denying them the right to leave the 
strip and seek work in israel .  . 

while non jews their lives to save jews from the 
, no israeli jew is known to have his life to help 
the resistance .  . the only help given to by israeli 
jews , only of people , is assistance .  . 

the right of the population to resist occupation is 
recognized in international law and by any person with a sense of 
justice. a population denied basic human rights is entitled to 
rise up against its  . 

as is known , the israeli regime is considering unworthy of 
israeli citizenship and equal rights in israel , although they are 
considered worthy to do the work in israeli , 
and fields .  . many are born in towns and in 
israel .  . they may not live there , for these areas are for 
the master race .  . 

the nazi regime to the residents of the the 
right to self  . they jews to the 
population and preventing any form of resistance .  . some 
jewish were killed. israel also wishes to rule over 
gaza through arab  . 

as israel denies the only two options which are compatible 
with basic human rights and international law , that of becoming 
israeli citizens with full rights or respecting their right for 
self determination , it must be concluded that the israeli jewish 
society does not consider full human beings .  . this attitude 
is consistent with the attitude of the nazis towards jews .  . the 
current policies by the israeli government of cutting off gaza are 
consistent with the wish publicly expressed by prime 
that  gaza into the  . one is led to ask 
oneself whether israeli leaders entertain still more 
goals towards the whether they have some final solution 
up their sleeve 

i urge all those who have slight human compassion to do whatever 
they can to help the their full human , civil and 
political rights , to which they are entitled as human beings .  . 




from  ( basil hamdan ) 
subject re was go ! 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering college , state university 
lines 


i will try to answer some of 's questions , even though they were 
not addressed to me specifically , but i feel that i am a bit concerned 
by the thread since i am a southern from a that is 
often on the receiving end of israel 's bombs .  . 
in the first place the death of three soldiers on a in 
is not an act of terrorism or murder .  . it is 
to compare their death to that of in 
or any other act of terrorism or  . this exercise is aimed 
solely at the issue and is far from the truth. 
it seems to me , , that , you are so remote and ignorant of the problem 
on the ground that your comments can only be as irrelevant , 
and by the and misinformation .  . 
i will try to the most accurate picture i can of 
what the situation really is in south  . 

in article ,  ( dorin baru ) writes 

is there any israeli a civilian , in your opinion 

now , i do not myself bombing , any kind of  . 
but you claim these are with civilians , and claim they are 
camps filled with  . you claim that shell the with the 
 hope  of finding a terrorist or so. if they kill one , fine , if not , too bad , 
civilians die , right i am not so sure. 

i am .  . i was back in my home this last summer .  . for your information 
we are people , not a bunch of  . most of the 
people in my are regular that go about their daily 
business , some work in the fields , some own small , others are 
older men that go to the and drink coffee .  . is that so hard to 
imagine it is not a terrorist camp as you and the like 
to view the they are small communities with kids playing 
in the streets , women lunch , men playing cards , etc .  .  .  .  .  . 
some young men , usually between 17 to 30 years are members of 
the resistance .  . even the of the do not 
know who these are , they are about it , but most people often 
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are 
supported by iran most of the time. they and 
into the where they set up 
for israeli  . every time an israeli is killed or injured 
by these , israel by bombing 
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians .  . once they 
are back they announce that they bombed a terrorist where 
an 8 year old girl just happened to be. 
we are now to israeli , and we figure that this is 
the israeli way of telling us that if you 're gonna hurt our soldiers 
you 're gonna pay the price . we accept this as a price we have to pay 
to free our land , israel knows very well that it is not really 
the resistance that much militarily with these strikes , but rather 
just keeping the pressure on the to demand from their young 
men to stop attacking israeli soldiers since these attacks are 
taking a heavy on the lives of the civilian  . 
israel 's policy is cold hearted , but a reality that 
we have come to accept and deal with , the resistance 
on the other hand is not going to stop its attacks on 
israeli soldiers until they , this is the only real 
that they have to force israel to  . 
the people of south are , or by israel on a 
regular basis. we do not want to be  . if israel insists that 
the so called security is necessary for the protection of 
northern israel , than it will have to pay the price of its occupation 
with the blood of its soldiers .  . if israel is interested in peace , 
than it should from our land. we are not asking for the 
of a in northern israel to protect 
our that are attacked on a regular basis by israel , so the 
best policy seems to be the removal of israeli occupation and the 
of peace keeping troops along the border .  . 

i have written before on this very newsgroup , that the only 
real solution will come as a result of a comprehensive peace 
whereby israel to its own borders and 
peace keeping troops are along the border to 
no one on either side of the border is  . 
this is the only solution , it is time for israel to 
realize that the concept of a aimed at protecting 
its northern cities has failed .  . in fact it has caused much more 
israeli deaths than the occasional of northern israel 
would have resulted in. 
if israel really wants to save some israeli lives it would 
unilaterally from the so called security before the conclusion 
of the peace talks .  . such a move would save israeli lives , 
advance peace efforts , give israel a great moral lift , better israel 's 
public image and give it an in the peace 
since israel can claim that it is interested in 
peace and has already offered some important  . 
along with such a israel could demand that 
be by the government and warn that it will not 
accept any attacks against its northern cities and that if such a 
occurs than it will consider re taking the 
and will hold the and government responsible for it. 
there seems to be very little incentive for the and 
to allow to bomb israel proper under such 
circumstances , and now the government has proven that it is 
capable of controlling and all as they did 
in all other parts of  . 

if you ask me those questions , i will have no problem answering  ( not with a 
question , as you did) no , nobody is qualified candidate for murder , nothing 
murder .  . 

i agree , only in the case of the soldiers their killing 
cannot be qualified as murder , no matter what you say. 

i have the feeling that you may be able yourself to make 
similar statements , maybe after all , jews , am i wrong 

yes , we have no quarrel with jews , or israeli civilians .  . 
the real problem is with israeli soldiers and those 
israeli that bomb our civilian every time an 
is attacked .  . 






from  ( hossien amehdi ) 
subject re reasons was re was go ! ! 
nntp posting host com . 
organization systems research center 
lines 13 

in article  ( dorin baru ) writes 
... 
now , about tough talk and arrogance , we are adults , are n't we do you listen 
to tough talk of american politicians or switch the channel 
... 

i guess , i did n't make my point clear. in the case of israel government , it 
is not only tough talk for its policy. after all , not many 
people are just by talking. here how it goes tough talks , 
followed by aggressive actions followed by taking pride of those actions and 
about them. 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re israeli lust 
organization the department of department 
lines 13 

in article writes 
writes 
writes 

all deleted .  .  .  . 

's posting is so confused and as not to warrant a 
reasoned response. we 're getting used to this , too. 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject re accounts of anti human right in 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 23 

in article 
ca  ( suat kiniklioglu ) a.k.a. writes 

david 

yes 

give it a rest. will you 

no. 

it is becoming very  .  .  . 

is rather for you , now is n't it , especially when it comes 
from from a country , , that claims as its number one ally , 
, and mentor ! 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article ,  ( brad hernlem ) writes 

in article ,  ( tim clock ) writes 

are you suggesting that , when use the population for cover , israel 
should totally back down so .  .  . the . easiest way to get away with attacking 
another is to use an innocent as a and hope that the other respects 
innocent lives 

tell me tim , what are these doing wrong assuming that they are using 
civilians for cover , are they not killing soldiers in their country if the 
is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working why is it 
further for israeli guns to why not just 
kill those who try to the you see , there is more to 
the of the  .  .  .  . it is called  .  .  . getting back 
... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the  . the least 
it shows is a disregard by the israeli government for the lives of 
civilians .  . 

if you recall , a subject was raised some weeks ago that upon 
this. when someone claimed that were manifestations of 
popular , the topic when does a civilian stop 
becoming a civilian . if he houses and of 
his own free will , them , has he violated his civilian status 

what so the whole bit about attacks on israel from arab states 
can start all over again while i also hope for this to happen , it will 
only occur when arab states show that they are prepared to take on the 
responsibility and the duty to stop attacks on israel from their 
 . they have to prove it  ( or provide some ) , there is no way 
israel is going to accept their word not with their past attitude of 
tolerance towards anti israel in . 

if israel is not willing to accept the word of others then , imho , it has 
no business wasting others  time coming to the peace talks .  . 

but do n't you see that the same statement can be made both ways 
if was interested in peace then it should accept the word 
of israel that the attacks were the cause for war and the 
will remove the cause for its continued  . , 
israel has already two parts of the from areas 
it in during  . 

tim , you are ignoring the fact that the palestinians in have been 
 . remains the only independent  . does 
not attack israel except at a few times such as when the burned up 
, his wife , and young son. of course , if israel would 
from and stop assassinating people and they would n't 
make the so mad as to do that. furthermore , with 
subsequently , it would not be possible. 

that is not exactly true. the and their groups 
have made several attempts to the border of israel .  . 

it has not. without the support , and active involvement , of syria , 
would not have been able to all that has occurred .  . 
once syria leaves who is to say that will be able to 
control if syria may be even more dangerous for israel .  . 

tim , when is the last time that you recall any trouble on the border 
not lately , eh 

israel knows very well that the are able to restrain all who would use 
territory under their control to attack israel .  . while would be better 
off with syria and israel out of its borders , the presence of troops 
in has meant a in attacks on israeli territory  ( not on 
israeli troops in , however. please note the distinction ) in the 
past two years. 

true , but the did allow  ( until at least 1984 ) to operate 
in the areas that were under their control , provided that those 
were attacking israeli lines. 

the problem is that syria is also not as stable a for long term 
peace as others in the area might be. 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( david davidian ) 
subject public service translation no . 2 . 
summary a call to action 
keywords effective greek postings 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 61 

subject re  .  .  .  . 

in article 
ca  ( suat kiniklioglu ) a.k.a. continues .  .  .  . 

 .  .  .  . 

 ( siyasi ) 

, talk . politics . ve talk . politics .  . 
soviet dan ve ve 
 . 
ve  . 
ve 
 . 

,  .  . 
bos ve 
de  .  .  . 

ve ni , 

, 



en 

in translation , as a public service 

subject an announcement to all patriots on the net .  .  .  . 

an to all friends on the net .  .  .  . 

 ( regardless of wherever you stand on the political spectrum ) 

in recent days and greek postings of than the usual in number and 
are being written both on this net and the talk . politics .  . 
and talk . politics . soviet .  . most of these writings concentrate on the 
subjects of , and bosnia .  . due to this fact , it is quite useful 
for us all be more active and not feel reluctant to respond .  . 

yes , everybody has his her occupation .  .  . it . is a busy period in the academic 
year .  . however , we must have a not to leave the forum empty and 
watch the interests of our country on the ideological level ... 

in the hope of building together a modern and powerful of  . 

regards , 



the love of the is the strongest of all 
off souls 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

subject re if you feed you will ! 
from  ( hakan ) 
organization university 
summary correcting the political record .  . 
nntp posting host 
lines 18 

in article  ( david davidian ) writes 

in article  ( hilmi eren ) 
writes 

david says have nothing to lose ! they lack food , , and 
 . if you in want to show your , good for you ! 
has everything to lose ! you can and like dogs along the 

, who are in are killing 
people , invading and they are not , because they 
lack food ha strange explanation. there is no excuse for this situation. 

, , 
ac , , de .  . , 
de  .  .  .  .  .  . 



from  ( jake livni ) 
subject re of the jewish 
organization the department of department 
lines 46 

in article  ( amir y rosenblatt ) writes 
in article writes 

it was on the part of the arab land owners for doing it 
without their and for not being responsible 
enough to make for them , but rather just leaving 
them to their fate .  . 

if a landlord an apartment building to another landlord 
and fails to his , they just might find themselves out 
on the street all of a sudden .  . the may be a and a 
but this does n't make the a , as are so 
often called here on  . 

it is interesting though that you acknowledge that the 
palestinians were  . do many or jews share 
your opinion do you the from 
any ethical just because it was n't written down 

i do n't know if others share this opinion. it is mine , 
and i'm sure there are some who agree and some who do n't 
the way i see it , the were caught in circumstances 
beyond their control , in that since they did n't own the land , 
they did n't have a say. of course , now for the sake of the greater 
arab unity the are angry that the land was sold to the jews 
 ( an act that is illegal in jordan ) , but when it happened , it was just 
business. 

the that lived along the coast in western , later to be 
called israel , were by their brother just as they 've 
been for decades since then by their arab  . somehow , 
though , the arab call has continued to blame israel , not only for the 
sell out in western  ( israel ) but even for 
the occupation of eastern  ( jordan ) by the  . this 
is just more of refusing to take blame for one 's own actions .  . 

structure etc .  .  . ) .  . imho the palestinians have grounds 
to the of the , say in world court. 

if your job was eliminated in a , you could probably 
go to court , too. you 'd probably lose , though. 


ten years from now , george bush will 
american new york have replaced jimmy as the 
my opinions only employer has no opinions. standard of a failed president .  . 

from  ( alaa zeineldine ) 
subject re the way of death 
organization digital equipment corp .  . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 12 

 ( tim clock ) writes 

while you brought up the separate question of israel 's 
policies and practices , i am still about your reaction to 
the practices and in the article above. 

tim 

not a separate question mr.  . it is to judge the 
resistance movement out of the context of the occupation .  . 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject it is to think that the are capable of such .  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( paul halsall ) writes 

it 's curious that spend his time attacking greeks and 
 . who just happen to be historical opponents of  . the 

because , the x soviet government got away with the genocide 
of 2.5 million turkish men , women and children and is the 
of that genocide .  . and they are doing  it  again. are you so 
blind 

problem is , everybody arab , greek , , , , , 
, , is , or has been an opponent .  . who has been 

 r  us  r  not. 

an ally this seems to have taken a certain 
on perhaps he should be posting to alt . raving . 
rather than soc . history . 

excuse me 

we closed the roads and passes that might serve as 
ways of escape for the and then proceeded in the work 
of extermination .  . our troops after  . 
little resistance was offered .  . our knocked the 
into of and and when the became 
and from them into fields , and 
the work. some of the escaped of course. they 
found refuge in the mountains or succeeded in the border 
into  . the rest were killed. and so it is that the whole 
length of the of from to 
from the hot of to the cold 
of the north were with mute ruins of 
 . they are quiet now , those , except for 
of and that visit them to over the 
bones of the dead. 


men are like that 
p.  . 


a genocide is a deliberate and organized massacre of people in an 
attempt to exterminate a race .  . this is the worst crime in history. 
it happened to the turks in eastern and the 
dictatorship .  . 2.5 million turks and were killed in the worst 
ways  . it is to think that the human race is capable 
of such actions , but there is no denying the fact that the 
genocide of 2.5 million muslims happened. 

people of deeply with those whose relatives were 
killed in the turkish genocide .  . i understand their that there 
are those who still deny that the turkish genocide indeed took place , 
despite the fact that the genocide of 2.5 million turks has been 
well documented over the past decades .  . we cannot reverse 
the events of the past , but we can and we must to keep the 
memory of this alive on this side of the atlantic , so as 
to help prevent a of the extermination of a people 
because of their religion or their race .  . 

source papers , general correspondence container 32 
to letter of september 14 ,  . 

i have it from absolute first hand information that the in 
the attacked  ( turkish ) that are utterly 
and these with and they murder 
the , pillage the and often burn the  . 

lets get straight .  . 

why not 

1. are no angels , but they were subject to turkish genocide .  . 

and the germans were subject to jewish genocide are you for real 
tell me   , were you high on and 
fabrications when you wrote that where is your non existent list 
of scholars .  . here is mine during the first world war and the 
years , the dictatorship through a 
and genocide , tried to complete its centuries old policy 
of against the turks and by murdering 
2.5 million muslims and the rest from their 1 , 000 year 
 . 

the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance 
of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people. 
this event is proven by , government 
and international political leaders , such as u.s. mark 
, william , , james , stanford 
shaw , , john dewey , robert dunn , , , 
, , general , general 
, general , general , , 
, , , general , , 
, dr. , , general , , 
dr. , , , , rachel 
, , , w. b. allen , paul and many 
others. 

j. c. , professor of government , former director of 
the middle east institute  ( 1971 1984 ) , university .  . 

bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor of near eastern history , 
princeton university .  . 

, university professor of ottoman history member of 
the american of arts sciences , university of chicago .  . 

peter golden , professor of history , university ,  . 

stanford shaw , professor of history , university of california at 
los  . 

thomas , professor of history director , middle east research 
institute , university of  . 

ronald , associate professor of history studies , 
university of illinois .  . 

reed , professor of history , university of  . 

, university professor of political 
science , city university graduate school , new york .  . 

john woods , associate professor of middle eastern history , 
university of chicago .  . 

john smith , jr. , professor of history , university of 
california at berkeley .  . 

, professor of history , michigan state university .  . 

, professor of history , university .  . 

g. e. , professor of history , university of california 
at los  . 

, associate professor of turkish studies , university .  . 

, professor of history , george washington university .  . 

walter , professor of history , university of  . 

, professor of history , university of minnesota .  . 

tom , professor of history , university of  . 

, professor of turkish studies , university .  . 

, professor of history , university of  . 

jon , professor of history , state university  . 

robert , professor of history , university of  . 

, professor of history , university of maryland .  . 

james , professor of turkish studies , university of michigan .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . so . the list goes on and on and on .  .  .  .  .  . 

now wait , there is more. 

mark ,  the ottoman jewish communities and their role 
in the fifteenth and centuries , ' , 
 . 

page 19 

during the fifteenth century , when the were to 
themselves in the , there was 
among the jewish communities in central and western europe .  . even if 
the difficulties of the centuries immediately the 
are , it is easy to understand the attraction which 
ottoman life , particularly when compared to life in europe , held for the 
jews .  . there is no way to tell how many jews left for the 
realm of the muslim , but with each account of persecution 
in or from christian countries it is recorded that some jews 
to ottoman territory .  . the regularity of these reports suggests that 
the were considered reasonably tolerant and that 
there was a regular of jewish families moving and 
from western and central europe .  . ( .  .  . ) . it is evident that the 
effects of plague , late crusades , and the general intolerance and 
persecution of jews in christian europe resulted in the 
of the whole focus of jewish life which , for more than two centuries , 
was to be oriented muslim east .  . 


page 21 

in the second of the fifteenth century the foremost official 
in the jewish community was rabbi the 
chief rabbi of the city. he was the most important rabbi in the city and 
the author of an important letter which tells us something of the situation 
of the in the fifteenth century. himself was from 
christian europe and supposedly wrote this letter at the of two 
recent from there , who , upon seeing the and freedom 
of the ottoman jews , upon him to write their european 
them of the situation and urging them to  . 
this remarkable letter advised its not only of the pleasant 
conditions in the ottoman domains , but described as well the of 
travel to and the holy places , an attraction to those who 
would make a or choose to be buried there. ( ) 


page 41 

 .  .  . the . impression gained from the hebrew sources is that the jews were 
firmly aware of the community of interests which existed between them 
and the , especially in comparison to relations with the christians 
of europe .  . 

of the of interests between muslims and jews is 
also indicated by the fact that european christians perceived the jews 
as allies of islam and were well aware of muslim jewish  . 
certainly the activity of important jewish and politicians 
the ottoman government did not pass  . european 
sources are the basis for much of our knowledge of their  . in addition 
it appears that christian plundered   turks and jews , '' their 
enemies , and that considered the jews to be who 
regularly reported to the  . 

there are well known examples of overt jewish support for the 
in the struggle against european powers .  . the two best known instances 
of jewish support for the campaigning are the frequently cited 
instances of the jewish contributions to the of , in the 
early century , and of  . we also have reports of sympathy 
for the during the of  . an ottoman 
document shows the interests which existed in some 
greek towns .  .  .  . 

page 43 

it is clear that throughout the century it was a generally 
accepted fact that the interests of jews and muslims frequently , 
and all parties involved , jews , muslims , and christians , were aware of 
the situation. 


page 46 

 .  .  . it . seems that the relations between greeks and jews were not 
particularly  . the two groups had little in common , few common 
interests , and perceived no common philosophical or religious tradition 
which could serve as the basis for , rather than enmity .  . if 
there was any bond of good will which existed between 
religious communities in the fifteenth and centuries , it was 
that between muslims and jews , neither of whom had much in common with 
the orthodox .  . 

page 46 

the general impression of muslim jewish relations in the ottoman context 
during the fifteenth and centuries is one of community of 
interests .  . from the earliest times the seem to have 
jews to their territory and to have found in the communities already 
existing in places which they conquered a cooperative element .  . the jewish 
response to this tolerance was a of jews from christian 
countries to ottoman domains .  . 

page 

from the period before we have only a few that the 
ottoman jewish relationship was well on the course of which would 
characterize it for years , but the of the , 
in to the intolerance of the , and the protection and 
the security which the offered , in comparison to conditions 
elsewhere , leave little that even then both the and the 
jews recognized their interests .  .  .  . 

page 

it is impossible to say how fundamental the jews were in the success 
of the in or in ottoman success 
in the century. that they played an important role in both 
cannot be  . it is also whether they were important enough 
to say that the would not have experienced their great success 
without the jews and that no other group could have been found to serve 
the as well as did the jews .  . it is , however , clear 
that there are few in world history to this remarkable 
between jews and the non jewish society in which they lived .  . 
we must conclude that the could probably not achieved their 
success without a group certain for them as well as the 
jews did. certainly for the jews of the fifteenth and centuries 
the ottoman empire was a most remarkable and home. 


( ) a version of rabbi 's letter is given by shaw . 

page 32 

your cries and reached us. we have been told of all the 
and which you have to suffer in the german lands .  .  .  . i . hear 
the lamentation of my  .  . the . and cruel nation 
the faithful children of the chosen people .  .  . the . priests and 
of rome have risen .  . they wish to root out the memory of 
and the name of israel .  . they always devise new  . they 
wish to bring you to the stake .  .  . listen . my , to the counsel i will 
give you. i too was born in germany and studied torah with the german 
 . i was driven out of my native country and came to the turkish land , 
which is by god and filled with all good things. here i found rest 
and happiness can also become for you the land of peace .  .  . if . you 
who live in germany knew even a tenth of what god has us with 
in this land , you would not consider any difficulties you would set out 
to come to us .  .  . here . in the land of the turks we have nothing to complain 
of. we great much gold and silver in our hands. we are 
not oppressed with heavy taxes , and our commerce is free and  . 
rich are the of the earth. everything is cheap , and every one of us 
lives in peace and freedom .  . here the jew is not compelled to wear a 
hat as a of , as is the case in germany , where even wealth and 
great are a curse for a jew because he 
among the christians and they devise all kinds of slander against him 
to rob him of his gold .  . arise my , up your , 
your forces , and come to us. here you will be free of your enemies , here 
you will find rest .  .  .  . 13 

13 israel , a history of jewish literature .  . v .  . the jewish 
center of culture in the ottoman empire  ( hebrew union college press , 
publishers , new york ,  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( hamaza h. salah ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 16 
reply to  ( hamaza h. salah ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


writes 

if indeed israeli soldiers killed a with an anti missile 
then i'm almost sure that the terrorist would not have been able 
to cut up a body which was probably by the missile .  . 

maybe the missile did n't hit directly such that his body 
gets  . of course , destroying 10 houses to 
kill someone is not a surgical operation , or is it 




( 
h a m z a ) i.e. most 

from  ( bulent murtezaoglu ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
article i.d. vein . 




organization computer science department , university of rochester 
lines 27 
in reply to 's message of thu , 15 apr 1993 19 16 16 gmt 
nntp posting host vein . cs . rochester . edu . 

in article  ( panos ) writes 
stuff deleted 
i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only 
not one side being the aggressive and the always suffering .  . 
it is sad that we  ( both ) still are not trying to compromise .  . 
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the 
requirement for greeks to come to  . i thought it 
was a positive attempt to make the relations better. 

i thought it was a smart move to receive more money from greek  . 
i bet that this week there should be about 200 , 000 from 
in  . each one will leave at least 1 , 000 so go and figure what this 
means to your economy .  . if you had kept the requirement , how many 
greeks would bother to visit 

smart indeed. if what you 're saying is true , greeks who visit are happy , 
the turkish merchants are happy who is harmed no one. so not only was 
it a smart move , it was also a good move for it to the happiness of 
200 . 000 . greeks per week and however many turkish merchants they interact with. 
one simple move in the paperwork happy people of both 
 . just and observation .  . 

cheers , 



stuff deleted 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject given the massacre of the muslim population of by  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
lines 124 

in article writes 

let me mr. turkish 
is not getting . she is simply letting the world know that 
she will no longer sit there quiet and let turks get away with their famous 
 . do remember of the turkish invasion of the greek island of 
while the world simply watched .  . 

and the  turkish  is next .  . as for   , in , 
into to preserve the lives of the turkish population 
there. this is nothing but a simple historical fact. unfortunately , 
the intervention was too late at least for some of the victims .  . mass 
containing numerous bodies of women and children already showed 
what fate had been for a peaceful minority .  . 

the problems in have their origin in decades of 
oppression of the turkish population by the greek 
and their violation of the co founder status of 
the turks set out in the constitution .  . the coup d 
engineered by in to execute a final solution 
to the turkish problem was the blow that invoked 
's intervention .  . intervened reluctantly and 
only as a last resort after all other 
with britain and as the other two 
to the treaty to protect the of  . there simply 
was not any motivation in the turkish action at 
all. this is in to the greek motivation which 
was openly , stated as  , ' union with  . 
since the creation of independent in , the turkish 
population , although smaller , legally had status as the co founder 
of the with the greek population .  . 

the greek , with the support of   minded 
greeks in the , have ignored that 
status and the island as a greek island with 
a minority population of turks .  . the turks of are 
not a minority in a greek and they found the 
only way they could show that was to assert their 
in a separate  . 

is not satisfied with the status quo .  . she would 
rather not be involved with the island .  . but , given the 
record of brutal greek oppression of the turkish 
population in , she simply cannot leave the fate 
of the island 's turks in the hands of the greeks until 
the turkish side is satisfied with whatever 
the two communities finally reach to that 
history will not repeat itself to rob turkish 
of their rights , liberties and their very lives. 


source  the tale of an island , ' a. h. , p. 42 

21 12 throughout 
following the greek of 21 december , 
, the turkish all over were completely 
by greeks all , and communications 
between these were cut off and the turkish 
community 's contact with each other and with the outside world 
was thus prevented .  . 

21 12 63 31 12 63 turkish of and 
greek armed elements broke into hundreds of turkish 
homes and fired at the unarmed with automatic 
weapons killing at random many turks , including women , children 
and persons  ( 51 turks were killed and  . they 
also carried away as more than 700 turks , including 
women and children , whom they forced to walk bare and 
in night dresses across rough fields and river  . 

21 12 63 12 12 64 throughout 
the greek deprived turkish 
including , mps , and turkish members of the public 
services of the , of their right to freedom of movement .  . 

in his report no. s of 12 december , to the security 
council , the un general stated in this respect the 
following 

restrictions on the free movement of civilians have been one of 
the major features of the situation in since the early 
stages of the , these restrictions have inflicted 
on the population , especially the turkish 
community , and have kept high. 

25 9 31 3 throughout 

supply of petrol was completely denied to the turkish sections .  . 

addresses un security council on 19 
after being by the greek junta coup 

in the beginning i wish to express my sincere thanks to all the 
members of the security council for the great interest they have 
shown in the critical situation which has been created in 
after the coup organized by the military regime in and 
carried out by the greek army officers who were serving in the 
national guard and were it. 

 .  .  . 

13 3 on the road travelling to the south to the freedom of 
the north 

a turkish woman was seriously and her four month old 
baby was with from an automatic weapon fired by 
a greek which had the car in which 
the mother and her baby were travelling to the turkish  . 
the baby died in her mother 's  . 

this murder of a four month old baby , which shocked foreign 
observers as much as the turkish community , was not committed by 
persons , but by members of the greek security 
forces .  . according to the mother 's statement the greek police 
had their car and deliberately fired upon it. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 

from  ( jonas flygare ) 
subject re 18 murdered in march 
organization dept. of control , , 
lines 


nntp posting host 
in reply to 's message of mon , 5 apr 93 12 54 19 gmt 

in article writes 


after a small got on the track again. 

in article ,  ( jonas flygare ) writes 

in article writes 

in article ,  ( jonas flygare ) writes 

i get the impression realized he and is now 
trying to drop the thread. let him. it might save some 
portion of his sorry face. 

not really. since i am a logical person who likes himself 
from any name calling , i started trashing any article that contains 
such abuses without responding to , and sometimes not even reading articles 
written by those who acquired such bad from bad company ! 

ah , but in my followup on the subject  ( which you , by the way , never bothered 
responding to .  . ) . there was no name calling .  . hence the assumption .  . 
do you feel more up to it now , so that we might have an answer 
or , to your memory , does the human right issue in the area 
apply to palestinians only also , do you claim there is such a thing as 
a human right if that 's possible , then explain to the rest of 
us how there can exist any such thing 

use your logic , and convince us ! this is your golden chance ! 

, 


well , ok. let 's see what master of wisdom , mr. , 
wrote that can be responded to 

are you calling names , or giving me a title if the first , read your 
paragraph above , if not i accept the title , in order to let you get into the 
, well , debate again. 


master of wisdom writes in 







in case you know , were there for 18 months. 
and they are coming back 
when you agree to give their human rights. 

, human rights  . 

correct me if i'm wrong , but is n't the right to one 's life also 
a  human right  or does it only apply to palestinians 

no. it is everybody 's right. however , when a killer kills , then he is giving 
up willingly or his life 's right to the society. 
the society represented by the would exercise its duty by 
the killer off his life 's right. 

so then it 's all right for israel to kill the people who kill 
the old  eye for an eye  thinking funny , i thought modern legal systems 
were made to counter exactly that. 

so what do you expect me to tell you to tell you , master of , 


if you insist on giving me names titles i did not ask for you could at 
least them correctly. sigh. 

when you are intentionally the most important fact that 
the whole israeli presence in the territories is illegitimate , 
and hence all their actions , their courts , their laws are illegitimate on 
the ground of territories .  . 

no , i am not that , i'm merely asking you whether the existance 
of israeli in the or in gaza invalidates those individuals right 
to live , a  ( as you so eloquently put it) human right. we can get back to the 
question of which law should be used in the territories later. also , you have 
not my question if the also have human rights. 

what do you expect me to tell you , master of wisdom , when i did explain my 
point in the post , that you responded to . the point is that since israel 
is then it is automatically itself from some of its rights 
to the , which is exactly similar the automatic 
of a killer from his right of life to the society. 

if a state can all it 's citizens of human rights by its actions , then 
tell me why any human living today should have any rights at all 

in with the above , when a group of people others 
territories and rule them by force , then this group would be willingly or 
deprived from some of its rights. 

such as the right to live that 's nice. the government is a group 
of people that rule me by force. does that give me the right to kill 
them 

do you consider yourself that you have posed a worthy question here 

worthy or not , i was just applying your logic to a related problem. 
am i to assume you admit it would n't hold 

what kind of rights and how much would be deprived is another issue 
the answer is to be found in a certain system such as international law , 
us law , israeli law , ... 

and now it 's very convenient to start using the legal system to prove a 
point .  .  . excuse me while i up. 

ok , master of wisdom is throwing up. 
you people stay away from the while he is doing it ! 

oh did you too watch that where they water through the telephone 
i 'll let you in on a secret .  .  .  . it 's not for real .  .  . take my word for it. 

it seems that the us law represented by us state dept in this case 
is looking to the other way around when violence occurs in territories .  . 
anyway , as for , then obviously they turned to the islamic system. 

and which system do you propose we use to solve the me problem 

the question is not which system would solve the me problem. why because 
any system can solve it. 
the laws of says kick out of here  ( all  . 

i asked for which system should be used , that will preserve human rights for 
all people involved. i assumed that was obvious , but i wo n't repeat that 
mistake. now that i have that out , i'm eagerly your 
reply. 

joseph  ( administrator responsible for jewish colonization ) 
said it best when writing in his diary in 
between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both 
peoples together in this country .  .  .  .  . we shall not achieve our goal 

of being an independent people with the in this small country. 
the only solution is a , at least western  ( west of 
the river ) without  .  .  .  . and there is no other way than 
to the from here to the countries , to 
all of them not one , not one tribe , should be 
left .  .  .  .  . only after this will the country be able to 
absorb the millions of our own  . there is no other way out. 
, 29 september , 
( courtesy of afifi ) 

just a question if we are to disregard the rather obvious references to 
getting israel out of me one way or the other in both covenant and 
charter  ( that 's the english translations , if you have other information i 'd 
be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to 
a private paper even older i'm not going to get into the question if he 
wrote the above , but it 's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have 
their share of fanatics .  . guess what .  .  . those are not the people that will 
make any lasting peace in the  . ever. it 's those who are willing to 
make a and start over , and willing to give in order to get 
something back .  . 


we and our either refers to or jews (i know  . 

well , i can give you an answer , you master of wisdom , i will not suggest the 
israeli system for the me problem ! 

i think that is fair enough . 

no , that is not an answer , since i asked for a system that could solve 
the problem. you said any could be used , then you provided a contradiction .  . 
guess where that takes your logic to never never land. 


the greatest problem of is arab children . 
rabbi  . 

oh , and by the way , let me add that these quotes you put at the end are 
a real , when i try giving your posts any credit .  . 



, wherever you go , there you are 
v 32 f 
22 , 

x mailer version 1 . 
from d. c. 
organization nobody but me really 
subject re was go ! 
distribution world 
lines 61 

in ,  ( brad hernlem ) wrote 
in article ,  ( tim clock ) writes 
in article writes 

it is not a terrorist camp as you and the like 
to view the they are small communities with kids playing 
in the streets , women lunch , men playing cards , etc .  .  .  .  .  . 
some young men , usually between 17 to 30 years are members of 
the resistance .  . even the of the do not 
know who these are , they are about it , but most people often 
suspect who they are and what they are up to. these young men are 
supported by iran most of the time. they and 
into the where they set up 
for israeli  . every time an israeli is killed or injured 
by these , israel by bombing 
of their own choosing often killing only innocent civilians .  . 

this a tried and true method by and groups 
to conduct in the midst of the local , thus forcing the 
state to possible harm innocent civilians in their search or , 
in order to avoid the deaths of civilians , the search .  . certainly the 
people who use the population for cover are also to for the 
innocent civilians into harm 's way. 

are you suggesting that , when use the population for cover , israel 
should totally back down so .  .  . the . easiest way to get away with attacking 
another is to use an innocent as a and hope that the other respects 
innocent lives 

tell me tim , what are these doing wrong assuming that they are using 
civilians for cover , are they not killing soldiers in their country if the 
is to prevent attacks on israel , is it not working why is it 
further for israeli guns to why not just 
kill those who try to the you see , there is more to 
the of the  .  .  .  . it is called  .  .  . getting back 
... getting even . it does n't make sense to shell the  . the least 
it shows is a disregard by the israeli government for the lives of 
civilians .  . 

please clarify your standards for rules of engagement .  . as i 
understand it , are at all times and under all 
circumstances fair targets .  . their opponents are legitimate 
targets only when , or some such 

i'm sure that this makes perfect sense if you grant a 
that are the black , and that therefore killing 
them is automatically a good thing  ( go ! ) .  . the 
is that the are the white , and that 
whatever they do is a good thing , and the only prove 
themselves to be bad guys by attacking them. 

this sounds like a fan i know , who cheers 
when one of the on his team uses his stick to 
an opponent 's face , and the for 
his side. of course , when it 's different when the roles are 
reversed .  . 

d. c. speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of  ( dos mail news shell ) 

from  ( ken arromdee ) 
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton 
organization johns hopkins university cs dept. 
lines 66 

in article  ( casper ,  . ppe ) writes 
i must say i was appalled by the american jewish council 's open letter. 
america is not the world 's  . we cannot and should not take it upon 
ourselves to solve the problems of the entire world. america 's young men and 
women should not be sent to yugoslavia , period. if people feel strongly 
enough , let them go as individuals to fight the of their 
choice. 
we have a army .  . the argument you gave only applies if we have a 
draft .  . 
huh 

sorry , i misread your remark about young men and women.  ( though i am now 
what that sentence does mean . ) . 

furthermore , people do not become by being ethnic 
. or do you automatically call them because they are muslim 
i am in your logic , especially coming from a of 
sci . skeptic .  . 

you implied that anyone who wants to send troops to bosnia wants to do so to 
help the of their choice . since the primary targets of help are 
muslim victims of ethnic , you imply that such muslim victims are 
 . 

1 ) people become by  . there have been atrocities on all 
sides. 

this implies both sides are equal .  . true , it may sometimes be difficult or 
impossible to determine which side is the victim , but that does not mean that 
victims do not exist. would you , in wwii have said that there were atrocities 
on the sides of both the jews and the germans 

these people have been each other for centuries .  . when one 
side and gets what it wants , it will stop .  . 

yes , but both sides want different things. the muslims want to not 
be ethnic . the want to ethnic the muslims .  . it 
is indeed true that each side will stop when it gets what it wants , but the 
things that the two sides want are not equivalent .  . 

2 ) quite an impressive leap of reasoning to assume that i am so racist as to 
call someone a because they are muslim .  . in fact , i think on the 
contrary , the media on this war , as opposed to the upon 
of civil wars which have been fought in the recent past is because these are 
white people , in europe .  . when atrocities occur in the third world , there is 
not as much news , and not nearly the same level of  . 

i recall , before we did anything for ,  ( apparent ) left saying 
that the reason everyone was more willing to send troops to bosnia than to 
was because the are third who americans consider 
unworthy of help. they suddenly shut up when the us decided to send troops to 
the opposite place than that predicted by the theory. 

for that matter , this theory of yours suggests that americans should want to 
help the serbs .  . after all , they 're christian , and the muslims are not. if 
the desire to intervene in bosnia is based on racism against people that are 
less like us , why does everyone want to help the side that is less like us 
especially if both of the sides are equal as you seem to think 

on the first day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . ! 
on the second day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . 
that she made from  . 
days 3 4 deleted ... flaming wings ! ... 
pizza  ( and m a bait ) 

ken arromdee 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
organization division of applied sciences , university 
lines 35 

organization aiken lab , university 
keywords 

in article paul h. writes 
what gives the right to keep it is the home of 
the muslim a s well as jewish religion , among others. 

israel has a right to keep jerusalem for many reasons. they 
include the fact that the majority of the citizens are israeli , the 
fact that israel religious freedom for all people , and the 
historical connection of judaism to jerusalem .  . 

when jerusalem was by a invasion in , 
the cease fire agreement included the right of individuals to visit 
religious  . this cease fire agreement was violated by , 
who did not allow jews to visit holy sites under their control. the 
also every in the city. they turned a 
jewish into a , and used the in their 
 . 

israel has allowed individuals of all religions into 
jerusalem , protected holy sites , and demonstrated its to 
control the city. 

also , i should point out that islam is not in 
jerusalem , but has holy sites there. the home of islam is mecca , 
where all muslims should make a  ( the  . unlike israeli 
jerusalem , jews and christians are not allowed in saudi mecca .  . 

adam 

adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( adam shostack ) 
subject re was go ! 
organization aiken lab , university 
lines 57 

in article writes 

most of post deleted. 

we have come to accept and deal with , the resistance 
on the other hand is not going to stop its attacks on 
israeli soldiers until they , this is the only real 
that they have to force israel to  . 

tell me , do these young men also attack troops 


with the blood of its soldiers .  . if israel is interested in peace , 
than it should from our land. 

there must be a of peace before this happens. it 
seems that many of these youth are unable to restrain 
themselves from violence , and unable to to realize that their actions 
stay in south  . 

if the army was able to maintain the peace , then 
israel would not have to be there. until it is , israel prefers that 
its soldiers die rather than its children. 


if israel really wants to save some israeli lives it would 
unilaterally from the so called security before the conclusion 
of the peace talks .  . such a move would save israeli lives , 
advance peace efforts , give israel a great moral lift , better israel 's 
public image and give it an in the peace 
since israel can claim that it is interested in 
peace and has already offered some important  . 

israel should from when a peace treaty is 
signed .  . not a day before. because of casualties would tell 
the people that all they need to do to push israel around is 
kill a few soldiers .  . its not gonna happen. 

along with such a israel could demand that 
be by the government and warn that it will not 
accept any attacks against its northern cities and that if such a 
occurs than it will consider re taking the 
and will hold the and government responsible for it. 


why should israel not demand this while holding the 
it seems to me that the better position is while 
holding your land. if were willing to agree to 
those conditions , israel would quite probably have left already. 
unfortunately , it does n't seem that the can the 
, and maintain the peace. 

adam 
adam 

if we had a big enough for drugs and sexual favors , we sure 
would n't waste them on members of congress .  .  .  . john perry barlow 

from  ( dorin baru ) 
subject re islam borders vs israeli borders 
organization corporation 
lines 38 


writes 


the islamic world dreams of being the whole planet , but not by kicking 
the current inhabitant out , we rather of the day everybody converts .  . 
if jews had the same dream , i would not feel threatened a bit. 


so i should be very comfortable that , 000 , 000 people want to convert me to 
islam .  . or , to convert me to anything. 

there are many types of violence , physical murder is only one. 

 trying  to convert is an insult .  . it 's like trying to tell me that me and or 
my god my lack of god are just crap , that i need a new ,  converted  one. 

this does not apply for muslims only , of course. same for jews and for some 
friendly , nicely dressed who show on sunday with empty 
and cheap about some church .... 

and when the objective is (i think , however that you are wrong) to convert 
everybody , it 's just a matter of time when violence will occur .  . 


are n't we able to learn anything from of years of  conversion related 
violence  

why not let  the other , more  people live as they wish and take care 
your business . you do assume that they are  ( or their beliefs are ) 
as long as you want to change their thinking. 








from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject and survivors were killed by a shot to the back of the head. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 24 

12 12 atrocities 

 ( ap ) forces on saturday 
three by and discovered 16 bodies 
of executed civilians , reports said. 
the found 16 bodies of civilians , 
including those of a child and two women who were 
shot point , and survivors were killed by a shot to 
the back of the head , said a ministry statement , carried by 
the and news and the 
news service .  . 
everywhere were , they left tens of 
of civilians shot to death point and 
mutilated , the .  .  .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 


from  ( alaa zeineldine ) 
subject re the way of death 
organization digital equipment corp .  . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
lines 28 

 ( naftaly stramer ) writes 

the way of death 

 ( following is a of a and training 
made last summer by the , the military 

as opposed to israel 's many ways of death. using bombers and 
against towns and  . using fire and lethal 
variants of tear gas and against 
 . using and anti missiles against homes after a 5 
minute warning .  . using bit 's reasonable physical 
pressure in interrogation .  . and more. not counting of course past 
practices such as the of beirut in , the bombing of the 
egyptian school of and the in , 
the of the full of egyptian passengers near 
the same time. the massacre in and  . 
that is of course besides numerous massacres by and other 
during the british period. 

the same ed page in the times from which the 
copied this article was running another article next to it by a . m .  . 
blaming bosnian muslims for their own genocide by effectively 
saying that it is stupid to seek independence if independence will bring 
your people slaughter .  . but what else would one expect from mr. 
who never a chance to or muslims .  . 



from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re was go ! ! 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article ,  ( marc a afifi ) writes 

do n't forget that it was the french resistance to the 
nazi forces which eventually succeeded in driving out the 
hostile in wwii .  . 

actually , this is incorrect .  . french resistance may have played some 
part in the german war effort , however the crucial role was 
on d day. 

diplomacy has not worked with israel and the 
people are tired of being ! they are now turning to the 
only option they see as viable .  .  ( do n't forget that it worked in driving 
out the us ) 

interesting statement. especially when you consider that 
had claimed to have made progress in the peace talks , as well as 
israel .  . of course , one of the prime obstacles to israel 's complete 
is the lack of control that can be applied 
to the area as well as the large presence of forces which 
have not been asked to as well. 



stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( mau napoleon ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of iowa , iowa city , ia , usa 
lines 63 

from article , by  ( sabri t atan ) 
well , , mr. , the way you put it it is only the turks 
who bear the responsibility of the things happening today. that is hard to 
believe for somebody trying to be objective .  . 
when it comes to conflicts like our countries having you cannot 
blame one side only , there always are bad guys on both sides. 
what were you doing on after the anyway 
do you think it was your right to be there 

there were a couple millions of greeks living in asia minor until  . 
someone had to protect them. if not us who 

i am not saying that conflicts started with that. it is only 
not one side being the aggressive and the always suffering .  . 
it is sad that we  ( both ) still are not trying to compromise .  . 
i remember the action of the turkish government by removing the 
requirement for greeks to come to  . i thought it 
was a positive attempt to make the relations better. 

compromise on what , the invasion of , the of in 
greek politics , the refusal of to accept 12 of 
as stated by international law , the properties of the greeks of 
, the ownership of the islands in the greek , sorry ,  . 

there are some things on which there can not be a compromise .  . 


the greeks i mentioned who would n't talk to me are 
people. they have never met me but they know ! i am bad person 
because i am from  . politics is not my business , and it is 
not the business of most of the turks .  . when it comes to individuals 
why the hatred 

any person who supports the policies of the turkish directly or 
is a bad person. 
it is not your that makes you bad , it is your support of the 
actions of your that make you bad . 
people do not hate you because of who you are but because of what you 
are. you are a supporter of the policies of the turkish and 
as a such you must pay the price .  . 

so that makes me think that there is some kind of 
brainwashing going on in  . after all why would an person 
treat every person from a nation the same way can you tell me about your 
history books and things you learn about greek turkish 
during your  . 
take it easy ! 





, baby ! 

you do not need brainwashing to turn people against the turks .  . just talk to 
greeks , , slavs , and all other people who had the luck to be under 
turkish occupation .  . 
they will talk to you about murders , ,  . 

you do not learn about turks from history books , you learn about them from 
people who experienced first hand turkish  . 

napoleon 

from m. 
subject 
organization 4th dimension bbs 
lines 7 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

i have one word for you ! ! ! ! 


system com . phone 
quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject letter to president , members of congress , newspapers , tv  .  .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
news software 1.2 
lines 







today marks the of the genocide of 
2.5 million turks and in eastern and x soviet 
 . the following letter , which represents a small portion 
of the full text , along with more than 200 pages of historical 
documents , scholarly sources , accounts and , 
was sent to president bill clinton , members of congress , , 
program and of major newspapers , and 
radio tv for the of the genocide 
of 2.5 million muslim people. on april 23 of every year , the people 
of remember their dead. they for lost family and the 
lost homes of their  . this year the turkish nation is 
and praying again for her fallen heroes who gave their 
lives and with , so that the future generations 
may live on that of the turkish land happily and 
 . 

letter 

during the years of world war i , the x soviet government 
has and the  genocide  of the muslim people , which 
not only took the lives of 2.5 million muslim people , but was also the 
method used to empty the turkish of its  . to this day , 
turkish lands remain by the x soviet  . in order 
to cover up the fact of its of the turkish , 
which is the crux of turkish political demands , x soviet 
continues its anti turkish policy in the following ways 

1. x soviet denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide 
in order to shift international public opinion away from its political 
responsibility .  . 

2. x soviet , terrorism and 
triangle , attempts to call into question the veracity of the turkish 
genocide .  . 

3. x soviet has also implemented state sponsored terrorism through 
the terrorism and triangle in an attempt to 
silence the turkish people 's demands and  . 

4. using all its human , financial , and resources , x soviet 
and its tools in the united states attempt to silence through 
terrorism , and other methods , non turkish 
of the turkish cause , be they political , and  . 

using all the methods , the x soviet government 
is attempting to the international diplomatic community from 
making the turkish case a contemporary issue. 

yet despite the efforts of the x soviet government and its 
terrorist and organizations , in the last decades , thanks 
to the struggle of those whose ones have been systematically 
exterminated by the , the international of silence on 
this issue has begun to collapse , and consequently a number of 
governments and organizations have become of the recognition 
of the turkish genocide .  . 

with the full knowledge that the struggle for the turkish 
demands are still in their initial stages , the turkish and people 
will continue in this sacred struggle , therefore the victims 
of the turkish genocide demand 

1. that the x soviet government , as the of the 
dictatorship , recognize the turkish genocide 

2. that x soviet return the to the turkish and 
people 

3. that the x soviet government make material for 
their and crime to the victims of the turkish genocide 

4. that all world governments , and especially the united states , 
recognize the turkish genocide and turkish rights and refuse 
to to all political pressure 

5. that the u.s. government free itself from the friendly position it 
has towards its unreliable ally , x soviet , and 
recognize the historical fact of the turkish genocide as well as be 
of the pursuit of turkish demands 

6. that the x soviet recognize the historical fact 
of the turkish genocide and include the cold extermination of 
2.5 million muslim people in their history books. 

the awareness of the turkish people of the necessity of in the 
efforts to pursue the turkish cause is seen by the victims of the first 
genocide of the 20th century as a positive step. furthermore , a new 
generation has risen with a deep sense of commitment , politically 
and conscious , who pursue the turkish cause , through 
all necessary means , from the political and diplomatic to the 
armed struggle .  . therefore , the victims of the turkish genocide call upon 
all muslims in the united states and canada to participate in 
the political , cultural and religious activities of the 
of the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people. 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re israel 's ii 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 20 

in article paul h. writes 
what gives the right to keep it is the home of the muslim a 
s well as jewish religion , among others . heck . , nobody ever mentions what 
k did forty which is westerners much in the 
way does today . seems . are nowhere above , so 
they have a right to as much as does. 

if ownership were based on there would n't be any owners .  . 
what is your point 

as i understand it , israel 's claim on jerusalem is based on 1 ) , 
and 2 ) the absolutely central  ( not second , not third ) role it plays in jewish 
identity .  . 




tim d .  . graduate student 
department of politics and society 
we have met the tel  ( 714)8565361 ) fax  ( 714)8568441 ) 

from  ( hamaza h. salah ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
reply to  ( hamaza h. salah ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 30 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( ishaq s. azzam ) says 


in a previous article ,  ( mark ira kaufman ) says 


how many of you readers know anything about jews living in the 
arab countries how many of you know if jews still live in these 
countries how many of you know what the circumstances of arabic 
jews leaving their homelands were just curious. 




i thought there are no jews live in arab countries , did n't hey move 
all to only the happy jews did not move ! ! 

would you tell me which arab country is the jews from 
to 

the last arab country was syria .  . but not all of them 
due to the jewish state economical and 
dilemma ! 




( 
h a m z a ) i.e. most 

from ( ) 
subject re freedom in u . s . a .  . 
organization university of virginia 
lines 23 

writes 
dear mr. 

it is never wise to confuse freedom of speech with freedom 
of racism and violent  . 

it is unfortunate that many fail to understand this crucial 
distinction .  . 

in fact , if a was not offensive to some , its 
protection under freedom of laws would be useless. it is 
that some find questionable that must be protected , be 
it religiously blasphemous or inherently racist .  . it is only 
through civilized discourse and not that one can 
enlighten those that one to be ignorant .  . that is the 
idea behind freedom of  . 
what you find offensive might be perceived as truth by 
some and what they might find offensive might be your belief .  . 
it is only through free exchange of ideas  ( and insults as the 
case seems to be with this channel) that one can change 
another 's ways . that . is why jefferson said that here 
we are not afraid to tolerate error so long as reason is left to 
combat it . 

from center for policy research 
subject re nazi theories by 
id r 000 
from uucp . ! apr 21 04 44 00 1993 
lines 42 


in my postings i have made a proposal for comments and discussion. 
those who do n't want to discuss its merits and are not forced to 
do so. 

however i would make anybody who others to harm me or harass 
in a personal manner , legally responsible for their deeds .  . i cannot 
accept and will not accept threats to my personal and i 
urge anybody who to from direct or 
threats .  . 

ps my proposal has nothing to do with nazi  . it has to do with 
the search for peace which would justice. i do n't consider that 
justice is done , when non jews who or were in 
are not to return to their  . this can at best be called 
, a nice word for the rule of the strong .  . it can 
never be called justice. and peace without justice will never be peace. 
it is my conviction that the situation in which a state , through the 
law , attempts to discourage marriages  ( as israel does ) , is not 
normal .  . such a state more nazi germany and south africa than 
western democracies , such as the united states , in which jews are free to 
marry whom they wish and do so in the thousands .  . my proposal may have 
but it is meant to force anybody to anything , just to 
for a certain time for the 
in a society which disapproves of when . the day 
will come and israel will become a truly civil and society , 
in which the state is not concerned with the religious or ethnic 
of its , such a would not be needed any 
more. i do n't mind if jews wish to marry jews and keep their 
traditions , why not but this is not the affairs of a state. western 
democracy clearly separates these domains and i am certain that 
most 
american jews enjoy this fact and would not love to live in a state 
christian state and to have their green cards with a mark jew .  . 

i would ask those who are interested in an exchange of views 
and personal to from emotional , infantile 
which might readers to infer that jews who respect 
judaism are  . such behaviour is not good for judaism .  . 




from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject muslims were one by one to death by  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 93 

in article  ( charles lasner ) writes 

how dare you presume that he even has a right to go around a newsgroup 
with a desire to convince others of any external position he has .  . 

they are news because they are the exceptions .  . and the  islamic  
is much the topic of the day. the historical evidence proves that during 
the period of to , the government ordered , , 
assisted and participated in the genocide of 2.5 million muslim people 
because of race , religion and national origin .  . acts 
of , telephone , blew up , passes , 
set up , attacked security and small turkish 
behind the ottoman army lines on the one hand , and on the other 
attacked turkish and , the turkish population 
, women , children , old and young alike. innocent 
muslims were one by one to death , or with 
axes and , or else shut up in mosques or in schools and then 
alive as can be seen below. 

widespread massacres of innocent muslims took place in regions 
of van , , , , , , , and 
 . the ottoman army , while fighting to prevent the invasion , 
also had to deal with genocide squads who hit from 
behind. the genocide of the muslims spread to all parts of 
eastern  . starting from late , committed 
widespread massacres and genocide in eastern , because the 
was left to the  . almost every turkish town and from 
up to suffered large scale massacres and genocide 
by and the turkish genocide has been documented by , 
, american , british , ottoman , german , and french 
journalists and officers who observed the first genocide of this century 
committed by the blood genocide squads .  . 

the ottoman army , liberating , , , , 
and other regions from the russians , saw that the cities and their 
had been and , people slaughtered ,  . 
the massacres conducted by , which became a black for 
humanity , shocked and even the , british , german , 
, french and american authorities .  . 

almost every ottoman document is related to massacres and 
 . the treatment , , atrocities , genocide by 
genocide squads against innocent moslem turkish 
and people , are sufficiently in historical documents .  . 
even today over five years later , the of 
the victims of these can be heard. 


source documents volume i  . 
document no 76 , archive no 1 2 , no 109 , 
no 3 , file no 346 , section no  ( 427(1385 ) , contents no 3 , 52 53 .  . 
 ( to  . , general , second section , 
dr. eshnanie ) 

  ,  lloyd   local  berlin , 
  ,    . 

i have been closely following for two weeks the of russians and 
from turkish territories through  . although two months 
have since the clearing of the territories of , i 
have been observing the evidence of the of the at 
almost every step. all the from to and from 
to are  . of turks brutally and 
slain are everywhere. according to accounts by those who were able to 
save their lives by to mountains , the first horrible and 
events begun when the forces evacuated the places which were then 
taken over by  . the russians usually treated the people 
well , but the people the intervention of the  . once these 
places had been taken over by the , however , the massacres begun .  . 
they clearly their intention of clearing what they called the 
and land from the turks and thus , solve the 
problem. today i had the opportunity to meet and german soldiers 
who had escaped from prison camps and come from and 
paul  ( gumru  .  . officers tried to save the 
turks and there were between officers and  . 
i am now in , and what i see is terrible .  . almost the whole city is 
 . the smell of the still fills the air. although there are 
speculations that murdered and german prisoners as 
well , i could not get the supporting evidence in this regard , but there is 
proof of murdering of turkish prisoners of war. 

dr. 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( brad hernlem ) 
subject re was go ! 
reply to  ( brad hernlem ) 
organization eng 
lines 36 


in article , d. c. writes 

please clarify your standards for rules of engagement .  . as i 
understand it , are at all times and under all 
circumstances fair targets .  . their opponents are legitimate 
targets only when , or some such 

i'm sure that this makes perfect sense if you grant a 
that are the black , and that therefore killing 
them is automatically a good thing  ( go ! ) .  . the 
is that the are the white , and that 
whatever they do is a good thing , and the only prove 
themselves to be bad guys by attacking them. 

this sounds like a fan i know , who cheers 
when one of the on his team uses his stick to 
an opponent 's face , and the for 
his side. of course , when it 's different when the roles are 
reversed .  . 

d. c. 

well , you should have noted that i was cheering an attack on an israeli 
inside territory while i was condemning the 
of by israeli and israeli backed forces .  . my team , 
you see , was playing fair while the team was the 
faces of the in my team 's stands , so to speak. 

i think that you should try to find more sources of news about what goes on 
in and try to see through the propaganda .  . there are no a 
black and white but one sure wonders how the can in 
to pin point attacks on its soldiers in and then call the 
 . 

brad 

from  ( naftaly stramer ) 
subject re no free man propaganda machine freeman , with blood from israel 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization 
lines 31 


in article think . com . ,  ( shai guday ) writes 
in article , writes 

as for , begin and were leaders 

, real  . now can you please stop being childish and get on 
with the issues 

of many of these that and became the 
of israel and its prime  . oh sorry i forgot ben , 
too. i hope he is his . now , if support 
 ( which i doubt ) the oppression and killing from 's now , 

you probably mean the mass murders of jews in the west bank between 1939 .  . 













internet road , a 
voice  ( 303)581 ) fax  ( 303)581 ) boulder , co 
quality is everybody 's job , and it 's everybody 's job to watch all that they can. 

from  ( angelos greek and the only combination ) 
subject re bosnia  ( armenia azeris ) 
nntp posting host ctstateu . edu . 
organization southern state university , new haven 
lines 35 


ok. my  . , what about the of greek that was 
, and all the the people in the died. happened oh , about 5 
years ago in  . 
what about the greeks in the islands of and , they 
are not allowed to have churches any more , instead has 
turned the church into a , i got a picture too. 
what about the greeks of and , 
what you now call and , they spoke a 2 thousand year 
language , are there any left that still or were they 
before we start another , and before you start quoting 
all over again , or was it somebody else , please think. i know it 
is a hard thing to do for somebody not , but try nevertheless .  . 
if turks in were so how come they 
elected two , m not one but two , representatives in the greek government 
how come they have  ( free(absolutely free ) and education 
do the turks in have so much if they do then you have every right 
to , then you can also move to and enjoy those 
 . but i forget , for you do study in a foreign university , 
some poor is the earth with his own  . 
btw is still writing i 'd like to read some 
of his new stuff. also who was the guy that wrote on the mountains of 
 . please respond to the last two questions , i am 
interested in finding more books from these two people. 



the opinions expressed above are nobody else 's but 
mine , mine , , ,  . ( .  (  
live long no 

any and all mail sent to me , can and will be used in any manner 
whatsoever. i may repost or parts of messages or whole 
messages. if you disagree , please exercise your freedom of speech 
and do n't send me anything. 

from m. 
subject 
organization 4th dimension bbs 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

you are such a ! ! ! ! 

system com . phone 
quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry 


reply to 
from d. c. 
organization nobody but me really 
x version 1 . 
subject re is racism 
distribution world 
lines 23 

in ,  ( michael preminger ) wrote 

in article , writes 
in re syria 's , the author writes that the un thought 
was racism and that they were wrong. they were correct 
the first time , is racism and , the daily 
 ( the student newspaper at mcgill ) was proud enough to print an article 
saying so. if you want a copy , send me mail .  . 

was the article about or about something else. the majority 
of people i heard this ignorant statement , do not really 
know what is. they have just associated it with what they think 
they know about the political situation in the middle east .  . 

so steve lets here , what is 

assuming that you mean  hear  , you were n't  listening  he just 
told you , is racism .  . this is a statement. 

d. c. speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of  ( dos mail news shell ) 

from  ( virginia 's gentleman ) 
subject re israeli terrorism 
organization university of virginia 
lines 12 

would it be asking too much for you to document these allegations of 
israel used to arrest and kill neutral reporters i think you confuse 
israel with other nations of that geographical to which the notion 
of a free , by the government , press corps would be a joke. 

as for the notion that israel threatens the human rights of palestinians by 
off the gaza strip , get real. when the on 
civil war stops and all palestinians can behave like human beings , 
israel will talk on both sides for peace. not before. 




from  ( jonas flygare ) 
subject re 18 murdered in march 
organization dept. of control , , 
lines 


nntp posting host 
in reply to 's message of mon , 5 apr 93 22 17 59 gmt 

in article writes 

stuff deleted 
i wrote 
are you calling names , or giving me a title if the first , read your 
paragraph above , if not i accept the title , in order to let you get into the 
, well , debate again. 

replies 
i know that master of wisdom can be name too , 
unless you consider yourself less ! 

unless you are referring to someone else , you have in fact given me a name 
i did not ask for , hence the term  name  . 

writes 
so what do you expect me to tell you to tell you , master of , 


i replied 
if you insist on giving me names titles i did not ask for you could at 
least them correctly. sigh. 


that was only to confuse you !  ( ha ha ha hey ) 

hell on into childhood , no 

when you are intentionally the most important fact that 
the whole israeli presence in the territories is illegitimate , 
and hence all their actions , their courts , their laws are illegitimate on 
the ground of territories .  . 

no , i am not that , i'm merely asking you whether the existance 
of israeli in the or in gaza invalidates those individuals 
right 
are you trying to and confuse me here. 

no , i really do try to correctly , and i apologize if i did confuse you. 
i will try not to repeat that. 

to live , a  ( as you so eloquently put it) human right. we can get back to the 
question of which law should be used in the territories later. also , you have 
not my question if the also have human rights. 


first , my above statement say that the existence of israeli citizens 
in the their right of life but it says the israeli occupation 
of the the right of life for some most its citizens basically 
the right of for its military men . clearly , occupation is an 
war during war , attacks against military targets are fully legitimate .  . 

ok , let me re phrase the question. i have repeatedly asked you if the 
have less human rights than the palestinians , and if so , why. 
from your posting  ( where you did not directly my question) i 
that you thought so. together with the above statement i then assumed that the 
reason was the actions of the state of israel .  . re your statement of 
occupation i 'd like you to define the term , so i do n't have to repeat this 
 the answer out of  procedure more than  . 

secondly , surely israeli have human rights , but they ask their to 
protect it by from the , not by further oppressing 
human rights. 

i'm sorry , but the above sentence does not make sense. please it. 


if a state can all it 's citizens of human rights by its actions , then 
tell me why any human living today should have any rights at all 


because not all states are like israel , as , as ignorant , or as tyrant .  . 

oh , ok. so how about the human rights of the , iraqis and others 
does the name of sound familiar or how about the in iraq and 

how about the same in  ( ok , maybe a bit  . ) . the russians in 
the states or the moslem in the old ussr and yugoslavia 
do the serbs have any human rights , according to you 


and which system do you propose we use to solve the me problem 

the question is not which system would solve the me problem. why because 
any system can solve it. 
the laws of says kick out of here  ( all  . 

i asked for which system should be used , that will preserve human rights for 

all people involved. i assumed that was obvious , but i wo n't repeat that 
mistake. now that i have that out , i'm eagerly your 
reply. 

so you agree that that an israeli solution preserve human rights. 
(i am understanding this from your first statement in this  . 

no , i'm that to just kick all the palestinians out of israel proper 
would probably lead to disaster for both parties .  . if that 's what you refer 
to as the  israeli solution  then so be it. 

joseph  ( administrator responsible for jewish colonization ) 
said it best when writing in his diary in 
between ourselves it must be clear that there is no room for both 
peoples together in this country .  .  .  .  . we shall not achieve our goal 

of being an independent people with the in this small country. 
the only solution is a , at least western  ( west of 
the river ) without  .  .  .  . and there is no other way than 
to the from here to the countries , to 
all of them not one , not one tribe , should be 
left .  .  .  .  . only after this will the country be able to 
absorb the millions of our own  . there is no other way out. 
, 29 september , 
( courtesy of afifi ) 

just a question if we are to disregard the rather obvious references to 
getting israel out of me one way or the other in both covenant and 
charter  ( that 's the english translations , if you have other information i 'd 
be interested to have you translate it) why should we give any credence to 
a private paper even older i'm not going to get into the question if he 
wrote the above , but it 's fairly obvious all parties in the conflict have 
their share of fanatics .  . guess what .  .  . those are not the people that will 
make any lasting peace in the  . more deleted stuff 

exactly , you are right. i guess that the problem is that the israeli is full with men like joseph  . 

oh have you met with them personally , to read their fascinating .  . 
what do you do for a living 

we and our either refers to or jews (i know  . 

well , i can give you an answer , you master of wisdom , i will not suggest the 
israeli system for the me problem ! 

i think that is fair enough . 

no , that is not an answer , since i asked for a system that could solve 
the problem. you said any could be used , then you provided a contradiction .  . 

above you wrote that you understood what i meant  ( underlined by ) 
any system can be used to solve the conflict , but not any system would 
resolve it justly .  . 

an unjust solution would be a non solution , per definition , no 
you said the following 

for all a it holds that a have property b. 
there exists an a such that property b does not hold .  . 

thus , either or both statements must be false .  . 

guess where that takes your logic to never never land. 

you are proving yourself as a . first you understood what i meant , but then 
you claim you so to claim a contradiction in my logic .  . 
too bad for you , the master of wisdom .  . 

i was merely pointing out a not so small flaw in your reasoning .  . 
since you claim to be logical i felt it best to point this out 
before you started using your statements to prove a point or so. 
am i then to assume you are not logical 

the greatest problem of is arab children . 
rabbi  . 

oh , and by the way , let me add that these quotes you put at the end are 
a real , when i try giving your posts any credit .  . 

why do you feel by things and facts that you believe in , 
if you were a  . if you believe in zionist codes and acts , 
well i feel sorry for you , because the same rabbi had said 
yes , is racism . 
if you feel and bothered by the zionist codes , then drop  . 
if you are not zionist , why are you bothered then. you should join me in 
condemning these racist zionist codes and acts .  . 

any quote can be misused , especially when used to stereotype all 
individuals by a statement of an individual .  . if you use the same 
methods that you credit   with , then where does that place you 

oh , by the way , i 'd advice you not to assume anything about my  . 
i will and am condemning acts i find and , but i 'll try as 
long as i can not to assume those acts are by a whole people. 
by zionist above do you mean the state of israel , the government of israel , 
the leaders of israel  ( political and or religious ) or the jews in 
general if you feel the need to condemn , condemn those responsible 
instead. how would you feel if we started condemning you personally 
based on the bombings in egypt 




, wherever you go , there you are 
v 32 f 
22 , 

from  ( ken arromdee ) 
subject re american jewish congress open letter to clinton 
organization johns hopkins university cs dept. 
lines 46 

in article  ( casper ,  . ppe ) writes 
i said the on bosnia is due to it being in a european country , 
rather than the third world 
i recall , before we did anything for ,  ( apparent ) left saying 
that the reason everyone was more willing to send troops to bosnia than to 
was because the are third who americans consider 
unworthy of help. they suddenly shut up when the us decided to send troops to 
the opposite place than that predicted by the theory. 
i am a republican , btw. the irony of arguing against military 
intervention with arguments based on vietnam has not escaped me. i was opposed 
to us intervention in for the same reasons , although clearly it was 
not nearly as  . 

based on the same reasons you mean you were opposed to us intervention in 
because since is a european country instead of the third world , 
the desire to help is racist i do n't think this same reason applies 
to at all. 

the whole point is that is a third world country , and we were more 
willing to send troops there than to bosnia exactly the opposite of what 
the on european countries theory would  .  ( similarly , the 
desire to help muslims being fought by christians is also exactly the opposite 
of what that theory ) . 

for that matter , this theory of yours suggests that americans should want to 
help the serbs .  . after all , they 're christian , and the muslims are not. if 
the desire to intervene in bosnia is based on racism against people that are 
less like us , why does everyone want to help the side that is less like us 
especially if both of the sides are equal as you seem to think 
well , one thing you have to remember is , the press likes a good story. good 
for business , do n't you know. and btw , not everyone wants to help the 
side that is less like us. 

i'm referring to people who want to help at all , of course. you do n't see 
people sending out press help bosnian serbs with ethnic ! 
the muslim presence in the should be eliminated now !  ( well , except 
for some serbs , but i admit that the desire of serbs in america to help the 
side probably is because those are people more like them . ) . 

on the first day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . ! 
on the second day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . 
that she made from  . 
days 3 4 deleted ... flaming wings ! ... 
pizza  ( and m a bait ) 

ken arromdee 

from  ( shai guday ) 
subject re fundamentalism again. 
organization thinking machines corporation , cambridge ma , usa 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host think . com . 

in article ,  ( mohammad khan ) writes 
one of my biggest about using the word fundamentalist 
is that  ( at least in the u . s . a . ) . people speak of 
fundamentalists muslim 
but nobody defines what a jewish or fundamentalist is. 
i wonder what an equal definition would be .  .  . 
any  .  . 

well , i would go as far as saying that are definitely 
jewish fundamentalists .  . other orthodox jewish groups might very 
well be , though i am of making such a broad generalization .  . 


stealth bombers , 
software engineer 
thinking machines corp .  . the of the skies .  . 
cambridge , ma 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject admission to the crime of turkish genocide .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 34 

source men are like that by leonard  . the 
company ,  .  ( 305  . 
 ( memoirs of an who participated in the genocide of 2.5 
million muslim people ) 


p. 19  ( first paragraph ) 

the section of the town no longer existed , except as a pile of 
ruins .  . it had been and its slaughtered .  . the same 
fate the section of  . 

p. 130  ( third paragraph ) 

the city was a of confusion and  . during the early days of 
the war , when the troops invaded , large numbers of the 
turkish population abandoned their homes and before the 
advance. 

p.  ( first paragraph ) 

the were in ruins .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re thousands of were serving the german army and  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
lines 

in article writes 

too bad. in fact , by , nazi in europe had established 
a vast network of pro german , that extended over two 
 . 

before you go calling the black , keep in mind that the 
turkish government was a strong supporter of nazi germany and 
played a vital role in it with oil until the allies 
invaded iran .  . complaining about with the 
nazis does little good when played a much bigger role .  . 

tell me ,   , were you high on  of  
when you wrote that behavior and tolerance of turks was a 
legend even years ago when they accepted tens of thousands of 
jews from spain who were fleeing from the spanish inquisition .  . again , 
many jewish families from nazi and hitler 's nazi 
germany took in during the 's .  . turkish people 
have given home , protection , and freedom to the jews over 
the centuries , including to thousands and thousands of them during 
the second world war. get a life or a cup of turkish coffee .  . 

history of the jews in the islamic countries , chapters in parts i and ii , 
, center for jewish history , 1986 .  . 

baron , w. , a social and religious history of the jews , new york , 
university press ,  . iii , v ,  . 

, jose , culture and character of the 
jews , new york , press , 2nd edition ,  ( original 
publication  . 

lewis , bernard ,  . , christians and jews in the ottoman empire , new york , 
, , vol. i , the central lands .  . 

la dan archives des grand orient de france ... , 
in jean and paul ,  . , et 
l empire ottoman , , centre national de la , 
 . 

, , turkish jewish relations in the ottoman empire ,  . 

, , , , jerusalem , the 
hebrew university ,  . 

source john dewey the new , vol. 40 , nov. 12 , , pp. 9. 

happy the minority jews which has had no christian nation to protect it. 
and one that the jews took up their in   
when they were from europe , especially spain , by christians , 
and they have lived here for centuries in at least as much tranquility and 
liberty as their fellow turkish subjects , all being exposed alike to the 
of their common rulers .  . to one brought up , as most americans have 
been , in the and foreign missionary tradition , the condition of 
the jews in is almost a mathematical that religious 
differences have had an influence in the of only as they 
were combined with aspirations for a political separation which every 
nation in the world would have treated as  . one readily 
the conclusion that the jews in were fortunate .  .  .  . 

he also stated that 

they turned turkish cities over to the 
that they boasted of having raised an army of one hundred and 
fifty thousand men to fight a civil war , and that they burned at least 
a hundred turkish and exterminated their population .  . 


and the 

an with stanford j. shaw  ( history ) , who recently 
two books the jews of the ottoman empire and the 
turkish , and and the 's role in 
turkish and european from nazi persecution , 
1933 45 .  . shaw the degree 
program in near eastern studies and has organized the program for 
the study of ottoman and turkish  . he is with the 
g. e. von center for near eastern studies .  . 

editor how did you come to write these two books on and 
european and turkish jews 

shaw basically , i'm an ottoman historian , but i'm also jewish .  . 
i 've spent twenty five years studying ottoman history , and as 
time went along , whenever i found materials on the ottoman jews , 
i them. but i never did anything with them until a 
couple of years ago , when i suddenly realized that 1992 was the 
of the jews being from spain and 
coming to  . then the temple down on 
avenue invited me to give a series of three on ottoman 
 . these were greatly , and i became 
motivated to undertake further research to develop a book , the 
jews of the ottoman empire and the turkish )  . this book 
is quite different from the works of most jewish , who 
tend to look at the jews in any country more from the viewpoint 
of the jews and the jewish community , and rely mainly on jewish 
sources. i view my subject as an ottoman historian , and i 
approach the jews of the ottoman empire largely from the point of 
view of ottoman society , using largely ottoman sources. after i 
finished this book and sent it to the press , i came across 
additional documents to turkish jews during world war 
ii. in the book , i had said that had done a good 
deal to rescue the jews during world war ii , but i did not 
actually have many details. then i found a of documents in 
the foreign ministry archive to actions taken by turkish 
to help the jews before and during the  . it 
was too late to add this new information to the book in press , so 
i decided to write a second book. i conducted further research , 
mainly in the archives of the foreign ministry in and the 
turkish and in  . the result was the second 
book , and the , which details how helped 
rescue jews from the nazis .  . 

how exactly did they do this 

the story takes place over a number of years. the book presents 
the material in three parts , first of which deals with the period 
before the  . when the nazis came to power in germany in 
1933 , they immediately started dismissing jews and anti nazi 
germans from universities , hospitals , scientific , and 
the like. at that moment was just beginning the process of 
its universities , and it saw in these jews , who were 
being fired from their positions in germany , a good source of new 
talent to help the turkish universities .  . within three 
months after the nazis started dismissing these jews , 
to take many of them in. they were brought to and 
were given as in the turkish 
universities , as heads of scientific , and as medical 
in hospitals .  . about to major jewish 
came to in the  . , a german political 
scientist , spent the war years teaching political science in 
 . after world war ii , he was of berlin during the 
berlin  . , a major german jewish , 
came to and helped establish a modern school of economics 
in  . a man named , who was from the 
nazis by and spent the war years in , eventually 
came to , where he became a professor of philosophy .  . other 
german jewish engaged in cultural activities in  . 
one such was karl , who had been a 
in berlin until he was by the nazis .  . he went to 
, where he organized the turkish national and the 
turkish national company in , with the help of paul 
 . so the first section of the book covers this first 
, when jews were being persecuted in germany and by 
 . enough , the german , when they were in 
, did not seem to think too of germany .  . they regarded 
themselves more as germans than jews , and they did not join in 
the anti nazi activities of the local turkish jewish community. i 
even found letters from the nazi representatives to 
these german jewish for their work in promoting 
the idea of german culture .  . even though these people had been 
persecuted by the nazis and by the turks , they shared the 
nazis  feelings of racial superiority over the turks .  . the 
second part of the book deals with the , which began in 
when the nazis france .  . in europe at that time , and 
especially in france , there were about 20 , 000 turkish jews .  . they 
had to europe for various reasons from about the turn of 
the century  . most of them had in europe during the 
turkish war for independence after world war i , when was 
threatening to  . the greeks had persecuted the jews 
throughout the century , and the jews what might 
happen to them if the greeks took over in  . many jews 
to france during the and  . many also abandoned their 
turkish citizenship and became french citizens .  . suddenly the 
nazis invaded france in and started introducing all sorts of 
anti jewish laws .  . the turkish jews soon found that it was not 
worth very much to be a french jew , but that it was worth a lot 
to be a turkish jew .  . 

how so 

remained neutral through most of world war ii. it 
its embassies and in all the nazi countries 
until it finally entered the war on the side of the allies at the 
end of  . during the war , therefore , was in a position 
to defend its citizens against anti jewish measures , and the 
actions that turkish took form the second chapter of 
the book. turkish who were in france in 
particular intervened to protect jews of turkish citizenship from 
the nazis .  . for those turkish jews who had their turkish 
citizenship , there was generally no problem. if they were 
and sent to a concentration camp , the turkish 
would communicate with the of the camp and other 
and say in effect these people are turkish citizens .  . 
you ca n't do this to them. and the turkish jews would be 
released .  . if their were , the turkish 
would and the would be  . 

the nazis in general wanted to keep the friendship of  . 
they hoped to be able to use as a gateway for an invasion 
of the middle east , and they also wanted to obtain and 
from  . in order to keep turkish friendship , they 
usually accepted these on behalf of turkish jews .  . 
the turkish sometimes went to the concentration camps 
to secure the release of turkish jews .  . at times they even 
trains turkish jews to for extermination and 
succeeded in getting them off the train .  . most of the foreign jews 
were sent to a concentration camp at a place called in 
, and that 's where most of the by turkish 
took place. 

the greater problem came with the turkish jews who had abandoned 
their turkish citizenship and had become french citizens .  . the 
could n't declare that these people were turkish citizens 
because they were not. my book includes of jews 
up in front of the turkish , either to get 
to return to or to get a of their 
turkish citizenship .  . this was a matter , so 
the application would take some time. in the meantime 
it was a real emergency , because the nazis would arrest jews on 
the streets for almost nothing. the nazis would even arrest them 
if they had or in their , because 
and were forbidden to jews .  . to take care of 
these former turkish jews , the turkish invented a 
document called , or fellow 
citizen .  . the document said in effect this person is a former 
turkish citizen who has applied for the of his 
turkish citizenship .  . in the meantime we would appreciate it if 
you would treat him as if he were a turkish citizen .  . the 
wrote the document in turkish and put their seals on 
it. since the nazis could not read turkish , on the whole they 
accepted these papers as of citizenship .  . by this 
means , the turkish were able to rescue many jews who 
had their turkish citizenship .  . 

actually the nazis were of two minds about the turkish defense of 
jews .  . on the one hand the nazi foreign ministry , which wanted to 
the friendship of , was in favor of accepting these 
 . on the other hand , and wanted all 
jews exterminated .  . at times and were able to 
and some of the turkish jews were sent off to 
before the turkish could do anything. 

do you have statistics on how many turkish jews were 

there were about 20 , 000 turkish jews in europe before world war 
ii , about 10 , 000 of whom were living in france .  . most of the 
information in this section of the book relates to the situation 
in france .  . i have published the letters that the turkish 
sent to the nazi and the letters that came back in 
reply. generally the nazis said that if the turkish consul would 
present documents that individuals are 
turkish citizens , and promise to send them out of france , the 
nazis would release them from the concentration camp .  . the turkish 
also organized special trains to take turkish jews from 
nazi territory back to  . these trains 
regularly in and  . the nazis gave the turkish jews 
so they could pass out of nazi territory , but the trains were 
often held up by the nazi governments of eastern 
europe , , and because these 
governments really did n't want the jews to escape .  . as a result of 
the turkish  efforts , about 3 , 000 to 4 , 000 of the turkish 
jews in france were saved .  . another 3 , 000 were sent off to 
, where most of them died. the remaining 3 , 000 either 
escaped across the border into spain or to the area of 
southern france by the , who treated jews much 
better than the nazis did. at the end of , however , 
out of the war , and that was the end for those jews as well. 
, the turkish in nazi also 
worked to rescue jews in that country. 

the second part of your book then deals with turkish 
acting to rescue jews of turkish citizenship or turkish origin 
from nazi persecution .  . 

yes , and there is an aside i might add here in their 
on behalf of turkish jews , the turks cited their 
treaty with germany which stated that turkish citizens in german 
territory would be treated the same as german citizens in  . 
on that basis the turks that the nazis could not 
discriminate against turkish citizens who are jews .  . the nazis 
claimed  ( and the government agreed ) that they were not 
because they were treating all jews equally .  . 
, saying , you are our citizens 
according to religion , but the turkish constitution requires that 
all citizens be treated equally , regardless of religion. 
therefore , you cannot single out turkish jews .  . american 
in , by , accepted the nazi argument and told 
american jews who were being persecuted by the nazis that they 
could n't do anything about it , because the american jews were 
being treated the same as other jews .  . the third part of the book 
takes place in , which was the principal center during the 
for activities aimed at the rescue of eastern european 
jews .  . the agency , an organization established by jews in 
to help jews to , set up an office in 
in under the leadership of  . other 
jewish organizations in , especially the , also 
sent representatives to to set up  . these 
groups first tried to contact jews in eastern europe to find out 
what was happening. today we know about the , but at 
that time people did n't know what was going on. they did n't 
imagine the nazis could do the things they were doing. and so the 
first step was to get information , and the turkish government let 
them use the turkish to send letters to their relatives and 
friends in eastern europe .  . the jewish organizations found out 
what was happening when they received replies .  . later on when the 
nazis began to such letters , the jews received 
assistance also from the vatican , , who 
served as the vatican representative in from to 
and later became pope john  . as the vatican 
representative during the war , he used the facilities of the 
catholic church to what the turkish government was 
doing to assist jewish in jews in eastern 
europe .  . with the of the turkish government , these 
then sent hard currency , food , clothing , and even 
and to jews in , 
, , and  . they were n't able to help much in 
poland because by then the nazis had out almost all the 
jews .  . whenever possible the rescue for 
the jews to get out of eastern europe either by train through the 
so called orient express route to , or by through 
the black sea to  . 

was not eager for all these to remain within its 
borders during the war , because it was being and was 
suffering terrible of food and clothing .  . the 
government , therefore , the movement of the 
non turkish jewish from to , either by 
the express through the mountains to syria and 
, or by small across the eastern 
from southern to  . these efforts were bitterly 
opposed not only by the nazis , but also by the british , who did 
not want any more jewish immigration to because they 
it would hurt their relations with the  . the british 
constantly the turkish government to stop this traffic 
and send those jews back .  . in a few cases the turkish government , 
to british pressure , did send the back .  . for 
example , in one incident , the , with some 700 
jewish from , was sent back by the turkish 
government as a result of the intervention of the british 
 . when that was by a soviet , all 
were lost except one person. nevertheless , all told , the turkish 
government allowed no than 100 , 000 eastern european jews to 
pass through turkish territory and move on to during 
the second world war. the turkish authorities also provided these 
with facilities and money , and gave them permission to 
send money and food out of the country. 

many of these jews who passed through may still be 
living in israel .  . 

yes , and their children. but let 's return for a moment to the 
first group , the turkish jews who came from europe .  . they did not 
go on to they stayed in  . it was the 
non turkish , eastern european jews who passed through en 
route to  . their story is very interesting. 

and you have it from  . 

many studies have been made of the , but most of them do 
not focus on the eastern european or middle eastern jews .  . most of 
the has on the western european jews , of 
whom 6 million were by the nazis .  . my study deals with a 
much smaller number of people. i have tried to round out the 
picture , and i hope my book will persuade other scholars to 
undertake further in the history of eastern jews .  . 

when it comes to numbers , the german jews were also relatively 
small in number .  . most of the millions slain were jews .  . the 
rescue of 100 , 000 eastern european jews may not seem so 
significant compared with the total of 6 million who were 
murdered , but it meant a lot to those who were saved .  . 

about three of the book consists of documents 
translations of many documents .  . they are included because the 
story is not well known. not only are people in the west 
of the actions of the turkish even the 
people of did not know the story. i felt that they would 
not fully understand this remarkable achievement unless they 
could see the documents .  . 

what are used in the documents 

most of them are in turkish or french some are in hebrew .  . there 
is a great deal of material in hebrew about the organization of 
the going to , the passengers , and so on , but i 
did not go into those details  . i describe mostly what 
did , so most of my documents are in turkish or french .  . a 
few documents are in english. the jewish groups in did 
not necessarily with one another to rescue jews in 
fact , they often fought with one another. they took turns trying 
to get the turkish government to groups. for 
example , some of the groups felt that the jewish agency 
was run by western european jews who were interested only in 
helping western european jews .  . finally , in , president 
sent a personal representative , ira , who had 
been an of 's department in new york 
city , and managed to reconcile their differences .  . the 
documents related to his mission are in english. 

i also obtained many documents from , a 
historian in france , who mainly worked on the french jews .  .  ( his 
father was killed by the nazis . ) . he gave me materials he had 
gathered in the german archives on the turkish jews , so i did n't 
personally consult the german archives .  . i believe that much more 
can be learned from the german archives , and i hope someone 
someday will make the effort .  . 

this new book fits in well with your teaching , does n't it 

right. i'm giving a course on the history of the jews of the 
ottoman empire .  . i first gave the course two years ago. in 
addition to research , writing , and teaching , i 've been actively 
involved in the of the of the 
coming of the jews to the ottoman empire .  . among other things , i 
helped organize a large international conference on the subject 
which was held in in 1992 .  . 

now that your books are finished and the conference has taken 
place , what do you plan to do next 

i'm working on two new books. one is a history of the turkish war 
for independence , which took place after world war i , during the 
years to  . the turks off the efforts of the 
victorious european powers to and end its 
independence .  . the second book is a study of 
ii , the last major , who ruled from 1876 to  . he was an 
important in his own way , although he also suppressed 
all sorts of political movements .  . 

stanford j. shaw received a b . a .  . in history and an m . a .  . in 
british history. he then to near eastern history , 
a second m . a .  . and a d .  . at princeton .  . as a candidate 
at princeton , he spent two years , studying at the school 
of oriental and african studies , university of london the 
university of , the american university at , and the 
university of  . he taught at before coming to 
in  . his research has been supported by the 
john simon foundation , the american research institute 
in , the social science research council , the national 
for the , the program , and  . he 
has received honorary degrees from university and 
university , , , , and of honor 
for lifetime contributions to the fields of islamic and turkish 
studies from the center for research in islamic history , art , and 
culture in and from the american friends of in 
washington , d . c .  . in addition to many 
service activities and public in both the united states 
and , shaw has also produced eight books and one edited 
volume .  . his history of the ottoman empire and  ( 2 
) . has been published in many  ( six or 
from 1977 1991 ) , and translated into turkish  ( 1983 , 
1991 ) and french  . his book the jews of the ottoman empire 
and the turkish  ( macmillan , london , and new york 
university press , 1992) will be published in turkish translation 
by the turkish historical society ,  . his and the 
's role in turkish and european 
from nazi persecution , 1933 will be published by 
publishers , london , and new york university press in 1993 .  . a 
summarizing the book was published in , , in 
1992 .  . 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 

from  ( basil hamdan ) 
subject re was go ! 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization engineering college , state university 
lines 13 

in article ,  ( tim clock ) writes 
in article writes 

..... 

your view of this entire matter is far too one and 
naive .  . 

oooh .  .  .  . now that  . i will not suffer you through more naive 
and one views of mine. please my articles in the future 
oh wise tim , and have a good day. 



from  ( david davidian ) 
subject re killer 
organization s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies 
lines 

in article 
 ( soner yamen ) responded to article 
edu .  ( afs ) who wrote 

just a quick comment 

killed turks turks killed  . 

simple as that. can anybody deny these facts 

jews killed germans in wwii germans killed jews in wwii , but there was 
quite a difference in these two statements , regardless of what nazi 
say ! 

my grand parents were living partly in and partly in 
 . there were ,  ( different groups ) 
 ( muslim christian ) and  .  .  . very near to  . 
the people living there were aware of their differences .  . they were 
different people. for example , my would not have been happy 
if his had to marry an guy. but that did not 
mean that they were willing to kill  . no ! they were neighbors. 

ok. 

killed turks .  . which their as far as my 
are concerned , the attacked first but these 
were not their neighbors. they came from other places. maybe 
first they had a training at some place. they were taught to kill people , 
to hate turks it seems so .  .  .  . 

there is certainly a difference between the extermination of the 
of eastern beginning in , with that of the 
conflicts of late ! the argument is not whether ever 
killed in their collective existence , but rather the wholesale destruction of 
under orders of the turkish government. an 
dispute over the of , , and after 
the turkish third army evacuated the , cannot be equated with the 
extermination of  . many and died 
in this area in the to re these lands and the lack of 
for the months. this is not the same as the turkish 
genocide of the nearly four years earlier , hundreds of 
away ! 

anyway , but after they killed ... turks and other muslim people 
around , people assumed that  killed us , our women  , 
not a particular group of people trained in some camps , maybe backed 
by some powerful states .  .  .  . after that step , you cannot explain these 
people not to hate all  . 

i do n't follow , perhaps the next paragraph will shed some light. 

so what am i trying to point out first , at least for that , 
you cannot blame turks etc since it was a self defense situation. 
most of the , i think , are not to blame either. but since some 
people started that fire , it is not easy to undo it. there are facts .  . 
people cannot trust easily. it is very difficult to establish 
a good relation based on respect and trust between nations with 
different ethnic cultural religious but it is unfortunately 
very easy to start a fire ! 

again , the fighting between and in 19 had little to 
do with the destruction of the in  . it is interesting that 
the leaders of the  ( armenia , , 
and georgia ) made special deals with turkish not to pass through 
on their way to , in return for not helping the 
militarily .  . of course , as turkish troops across what was left of 
, many went north and such population movement 
caused problems with the  . this is in no comparison with events 4 years 
earlier in eastern  . my father 's mother 's family escaped 

 . 

my were not people. we did not experience 
what they had to  .  .  . they had to leave their lands , there were 
, old , all of her children killed while she forced to 
witness ! young women put at their face to make themselves 
! i do n't want to go into any detail. 

my 's brother was forced to dress up as a women , and paste 
on his face to look  . the turks would kill any 
young man on sight in  . because their family was rather , 
local helped them escape before it was too late. this is why i am alive 
today. 

you may think that my sources are biased .  . they were biased in some sense. 
they experienced their own pain , of course. that is the way it is. but 
as i said they were living in peace with their before. why 
should they become enemies 



david how do we explain turkish troops on 
s . d . p . a .  . center for regional studies the border , when we ca n't 
p.o. box even explain 
cambridge , ma turkish , march 1992 

from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject a moment of silence for the perpetrators of the turkish genocide 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 115 

in article  ( system operator ) writes 

april 24th is , and around the world 
are getting ready to remember the massacres of their family members 

in joy the cold genocide of 2.5 million muslim 
people by your criminal between and did you 
think that you could cover up the genocide by your 
against my in you 've never heard of 
 april  


in soviet today there no longer exists a single turkish soul .  . 
it is in our power to tear away the of illusion that some of us 
create for ourselves. it certainly is possible to severe the artificial 
life support system of an imagined  ethnic  that some of us 
falsely trust as the only structure that can support their heart beats 
in this alien land. 
 ( sahak the ) 


during the first world war and the years , 
the dictatorship through a and 
genocide , tried to complete its centuries old policy of 
against the turks and by murdering 
2.5 million muslims and the rest from their 1 , 000 year 
 . 

the attempt at genocide is justly regarded as the first instance 
of genocide in the 20th century acted upon an entire people. 
this event is proven by , government 
and international political leaders , such as u.s. mark 
, william , , james , stanford 
shaw , , john dewey , robert dunn , , , 
, , general , general 
, general , general , , 
, , , general , , 
, dr. , , general , , 
dr. , , , , rachel 
, , , w. b. allen , paul and many 
others. 

j. c. , professor of government , former director of 
the middle east institute  ( 1971 1984 ) , university .  . 

bernard lewis , cleveland e. dodge professor of near eastern history , 
princeton university .  . 

, university professor of ottoman history member of 
the american of arts sciences , university of chicago .  . 

peter golden , professor of history , university ,  . 

stanford shaw , professor of history , university of california at 
los  . 

thomas , professor of history director , middle east research 
institute , university of  . 

ronald , associate professor of history studies , 
university of illinois .  . 

reed , professor of history , university of  . 

, university professor of political 
science , city university graduate school , new york .  . 

john woods , associate professor of middle eastern history , 
university of chicago .  . 

john smith , jr. , professor of history , university of 
california at berkeley .  . 

, professor of history , michigan state university .  . 

, professor of history , university .  . 

g. e. , professor of history , university of california 
at los  . 

, associate professor of turkish studies , university .  . 

, professor of history , george washington university .  . 

walter , professor of history , university of  . 

, professor of history , university of minnesota .  . 

tom , professor of history , university of  . 

, professor of turkish studies , university .  . 

, professor of history , university of  . 

jon , professor of history , state university  . 

robert , professor of history , university of  . 

, professor of history , university of maryland .  . 

james , professor of turkish studies , university of michigan .  . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  . so . the list goes on and on and on .  .  .  .  .  . 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from center for policy research 
subject antisemitism 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 23 15 14 00 1993 
lines 


from center for policy research 
subject antisemitism 


and the 
by 

the first point to note regarding the of the history 
of the by zionist propaganda is that without 
anti semitism is impossible. agrees with the basic 
of anti semitism , namely that jews cannot live with non jews .  . 

the history and roots of the go back a long way. while 
the of death and destruction did not operate before , 
its roots were firmly placed in the century. jewish 
aspirations for out of the national 
in europe .  . when the hopes for liberation through 
democratic change were , other alternatives for 
improving the lot of the jews of europe achieved  . 

the bund , a mass movement with enormous following , had 
to with opposition from a new and small , almost 
insignificant opponent , the political  . in outline these 
two offered opposed options for jews in europe .  . 
while the bund was suggesting forces with the rest of 
europe 's workers , the were proposing a new 
aimed at europe of its jews by setting up some form of a 
jewish state. 

historically , nothing is inevitable , all depends on the of 
forces involved in the struggle .  . history can be seen as an option 
tree every time a certain option is chosen , other become 
 . because of that choice , movement backwards to the point 
before that choice was made is impossible. while as an 
option was taken by many young jews , it remained a minority 
position until the first days of the 3rd reich .  . the zionist 
of germany  ( zvfd ) , an organisation a tiny 
minority of german jews , was by the nazis as the body to 
represent the jews of the reich .  . its was the only flag of an 
organisation allowed to in berlin , and this was 
the only international organisation allowed to operate during this 
period. from a marginal position , the leaders of the zionist 
were to a and that 
surprised even them. all of a sudden they political 
power , power based not on representation , but from being 
as the choice of the nazi regime for dealing with the the  jewish 
 . their position in with the nazis agreements 
that affected the lives of many tens of thousands of the jews in 
germany them from a , marginal organisation in 
germany  ( and some other countries in europe ) into a real option to 
be considered by german jews .  . 

the best example of this was the  agreement  of  . 
immediately after the nazi in 1933 , jews all over the 
world supported or were a world wide boycott of german 
 . this campaign hurt the nazi regime and the german 
authorities searched for a way the boycott .  . 
it was clear that if jews and jewish were to pull 
out , the campaign would collapse .  . 

this problem was solved by the  . a letter sent to the nazi 
party as early as 21 .  . june 1933 , the degree of agreement 
that existed between the two on the question of 
race , nation , and the nature of the  jewish problem  , and it 
offered to with the new regime 

the of could only be hurt by of 
jews against the german development .  . boycott propaganda 
such as is currently being carried out against germany in many 
ways is in essence , because wants not to do 
battle but to convince and build .  . 

in their to gain credence and the backing of the new 
regime , the zionist organisation managed to the boycott .  . 
the main public act was the signature of the agreement 
with the nazi authorities during the zionist congress of  . in 
essence , the agreement was designed to get germany 's jews out of 
the country and into  . it provided a possibility 
for jews to take a part of their property out of the 
country , through a of german to  . this 
right was denied to jews leaving to any other  . the 
zionist organisation was the acting , through its financial 
 . this agreement operated on a number of 
 helping  jews to leave the country , breaking the of the 
boycott , german in large to , 
and last but not least , the regime to be seen as 
and reasonable even towards its enemies , the jews .  . after 
all , they argued , the jews do not belong in europe and now the 
jews come and agree with them. 

after news of the agreement broke , the boycott was doomed .  . if the 
zionist organization found it possible and necessary to deal with 
the nazis , and import their , who could argue for a boycott 
this was not the first time that the interests of both movements 
were presented to the german public as  . baron von 
, the first head of the jewish department of the , 
later followed by , was invited to travel to  . 
this he did in early 1933 , in the company of a zionist leader , 
kurt  . having spent months in , he wrote a 
series of favourable articles in der describing the  new 
jew  of , a jew nazis could accept and understand. 

this little known established quite clearly the 
relationship during the early days of nazism , between the new 
regime and the , a relationship that was later in a 
number of key instances , even after the nature of the final 
solution became clear. in many cases this meant a of 
reports about the horrors of the  . a book 
concentrating on this aspect of the zionist reaction to the 
is post in the of the 
, by s. b.  . 

in the case of the , around which jim allen 's play 
is based , even the normal excuse of lack of knowledge of 
the real nature of events does not exist. it occured near the end 
of the war. the ussr had advanced almost up to germany .  . and 
the african bases had been lost. the nazis were on the run , with a 
number of key countries , such as , leaving the  . a 
second front was a matter of months away , as the western allies 
prepared their forces .  . in the midst of all this we find , 
the master of industrial murder , setting up his in 
, after the german of the country in 
april  . his first act was to have a conference with the jewish 
leadership , and to appoint zionist members , headed by 
as the and clearing house for all jews and their 
relationship with the and the authorities .  . why they did 
this is not difficult to see. as opposed to poland , where its 
three and a half million jews lived in and were 
different from the rest of the population , the 
jews were an integrated part of the community. the middle class 
was mainly jewish , the jews were mainly middle class .  . they 
freedom of travel , served in the  ( fascist ) army in 
units , as officers and soldiers , their names were 
how was to find them if they were to be 
exterminated the task was not easy , there were a million jews in 
, most of them resident , the rest being from other 
countries. many had heard about the fate of jews elsewhere , and 
were unlikely to believe any statements by nazi  . 

like elsewhere , the only people who had the information and the 
ear of the frightened jewish population were the  . in this 
case the mainly the zionist members .  . 
without their help the , with 19 officers and less than 90 men , 
plus a few hundred police , could not have and 
controlled a million jews , when they did not even know their 
 . and the others were left under no  . 
told joel brand , one of the members of 's 
, that he intended to send all 's jews to 
, before he even started the ! he told them 
clearly that all these jews will die , 12 , 000 a day , unless certain 
conditions were met .  . 

the a simple choice to tell the jews of 
about their fate ,  ( with neutral , where many could escape , 
being in most cases a few hours away ) or to with the 
nazis by in the concentration process. what would not 
have been believed when coming from the , quite 
plausible when coming from the mouths of the zionist leadership .  . 
thus it is , that most of the jews went to their 
death , assured by their leadership that they were to be sent to 
work camps .  . 

to be sure , there are thirty pieces of silver in this of 
destruction the trains of   which promised to 
a promise he kept to the last detail. for it 
was a bargain allowing 1 , jews to survive , as the price paid 
for the silent over the death of almost a million 
jews .  . 

there was no way in which the jews of could even be 
, not to say murdered , without the full of 
and his few friends. no doubt the would hunt a few jews 
here and there , but the scale of the operation would have been 
compared to the half million who died in  . 

it is important to realise that was not an , 
like say in  . acted as a result of his 
strongly held zionist convictions .  . his actions were a logical 
outcome of earlier positions .  . this is when he exposed to 
the gestapo the existence of a british cell of , 
and , and persuaded them to give themselves up , so as not to 
his  . at no point during his trial or elsewhere , 
did deny that he knew exactly what was to happen to those 
jews .  . 

to conclude , the role played by in this period , was 
connected to another role they could , and should have played , that 
of the whole world to what was happening in europe .  . they 
had the information , but politically it was contrary to their 
 . the were , and still are , quite simple all 
that the zionist in is followed , 
whatever the price .  . the lives of individuals , jews and non jews , 
are secondary .  . if this process requires dealing with , 
nazis and other assorted across the world , so 
be it. 


from  ( tsiel ohayon ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
organization james limited , tokyo japan 
lines 33 

in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
in article dan writes 

the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
by theodore j. o 
hard by the washington , within clear view of the jefferson 
memorial , an easy stroll down the to the majestic lincoln memorial , 
has , on some of the most territory of the united states of 
america , a and dangerous mistake. on ground where no yet 
marks countless sacrifices and of americans of all 
races and creeds in the building and defense of this nation , today a 
massive and , devoted above all to a contentious and false 
version of the ordeal in europe during world war ii , of non american 
members of a minority , group. now , in the of 
tolerance , the united states memorial begins a propaganda 
campaign , through the of the american , 
in the interests of israel and its adherents in america .  . 

after reading the first paragraph , a quick confirmed my first 
impression this is a bunch of and anti semitic hogwash .  . 

, i'm really in you. it took you a whole paragraph 
to see that it was bunch of and anti semitic hogwash . ) 

the article title the u.s. memorial a and 
dangerous mistake should have been enough ! ) 



8 8 
if you do not receive this e mail , please let me 
employer may not have same know as soon as possible , if possible. 
opinions , if any ! two percent of zero is almost nothing. 

from  ( vic filler ) 
subject re 
organization stanford university 
lines 56 
nntp posting host stanford . edu . 

in article , 
 ( brendan d mckay ) writes 

i have previously posted quotations by participants that 
totally destroys begin 's  . i have no particular desire 
to post it yet again. 

brendan .  . 
 ( normally 


you apparently think you are some sort of one man judge and jury who 
can declare total victory and then sit back and enjoy the 
 . but you 've picked the wrong topic if you think a few 
quotations can the legend and lie of the 
massacre .  . 

you have a lot to learn when it comes to historical  . 
at the most basic level , you should know that there is a big 
difference between evidence fairly and merely finding 
quotations that support your opinions. 

if you have studied the history of israel at all you must know that 
many of the sources of your quotations have an axe to , and 
therefore you must be very careful about whom you quote. for 
example , pa il , whom you cite , was indeed a general , a scholar , 
and a war hero .  . but that does n't mean everything that comes out of 
his mouth is gold .  . in fact  ( and here your lack of experience 
shows ) , pa il is such a , that much of his 
anti israel  ( forget about anti blathering ) would be 
considered something like treason in non israel  . but of 
course you do n't consider this at all when you find a 
quotation that you can use to attack israel .  . 

benny  ( of hatzair ) represents himself as a scholar 
when he the old attacks on the  . do n't be  . 
it 's just the old zionist ideological , as an 
attack on the  ( then ) government. if you will look closely at 
the section on in his book on the war of independence , 
you will see his indictment to be pure hot air. and this is the 
best he can do after decades of for any sort of 
evidence. unfortunately for him , because his book itself as 
scholarly , he is forced to put  . so you can clearly see 
that his account is based on nothing. 

the massacre never took place as the 
tell it , any more than the and massacres .  . do you get 
the feeling people like to blame the jews for massacres , even if 
they have to make them up it must sound  . even some jews 
like to do it , for reasons of their own. 

please , do n't confuse any of you massacre stuff 
with facts or  . you should stick to begin 's version 
unless you find something serious to contradict it. 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject   has made with idiot or criminal nazi . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 208 

in article writes 

in your  ( and 's and thousands of others like you) 

criminals nazis in action. your government got away with 
the genocide of 2.5 million turkish men , women and children and is 
the of that genocide .  . and your criminal organization will not get away 
with the genocide 's cover up. in june , a major took place in 
under the leadership of the famous nazi  . the moslem 
were down. hundreds of soldiers and were killed 
and hundreds of civilians also  . 

first of all the , which included 
the of , , , , , , 
, , , ,  . leaving their wives , 
children and property in these inaccessible , the 
joined forces with other armed coming from the 
in the plain of , after which the whole body of 
3000 men gathered in the mt. five or hundred wished 
to , and started off by attacking the tribe to 
the south of the city. they slaughtered a number of the tribe and 
their  . the religious beliefs of the muslims who 
into their hands were and , and the muslims 
themselves murdered in the most manner. the 
also attacked the regular troops in the of , but the 
large numbers of the regular forces prevented them from 
the city. 

the joined the in the  . , carrying out 
the most massacres and among the tribes of the 
neighbourhood .  . they burned 's alive .  . they 
a number of turkish women at a three or four hours  
distance from and then strangled them. 

at the beginning of august the attacked the , 
and tribes , equally horrible 
atrocities .  . the in the of and in 
the of in the of cal attacked the in the 
neighbourhood , as well as the of and  . 

towards the end of august , the attacked the 
in the of and burned down three or four 
, including  . as for the 3000 in , 
they continued to spread death and destruction among the 
muslims and other christian communities , refusing to down 
their  . 

source , the in history. documentary 
 ( istanbul ) , 1988. 

p.  . 

in his speech given at the congress , once again 
a picture of the country under occupation 

in the east , the are making for to the 
river  ( kizilirmak ) , and have already started a policy of 
the moslem population .  . 


pp.  . 

the situation of the southern of after the of the 
is described by in his speech 

the in the south , armed by foreign troops and encouraged by the 
protection they , the of their district .  . they 
a policy of murder and everywhere. this was 
responsible for the tragic incident at  .  .  . the . had completely 
an old town like by their and 
machine gun fire .  . 

they killed thousands of innocent and defenceless women and children. the 
were the of the atrocities , which were unique in 
history. 


source documents volume i  . 
document no 15 , archive no 1 2 , no , 
no 3 , file no , section no , contents no 11 1 11 3. 
 ( 19 feb  4 march  , district kemal ) 

list of male of murdered or 
with the utmost by 

names method of 

, son of and 
, son of and 
, son of and cut into pieces 
, son of and cut into pieces 
, son of and cut into pieces 
, son of in the eye with a 
, son of in his eye 
, son of in his eye 
abdullah , son of in his eye 
, son of in his eye 
, son of in his eye 
abdullah , son of slaughtered 
, son of ripped open 
, son of in fire 
, son of 
, son of slaughtered 
, son of 
, son of 
, son of 
, son of 
, son of 
, son of 
, son of 
, son of 
in 
, son of abdullah in by 
, son of 
, son of with a 
, son of with a 
, son of with a 
, son of with a 
abdullah , son of 
abdullah 
, son of 
, son of 
, son of 
, son of 
, son of yusuf and 
, son of and 
and 
, son of and 


list of from the same 

, daughter of and 
wife of 
, daughter of , 
wife of 
, daughter of , 
wife of 
, daughter of cutting off her 
, daughter of , open her and burning 
wife of her baby in 
, daughter of slaughtered and in 
in 
, daughter of , 
wife of slaughtered 
, daughter of , 
wife of 
, daughter of , 
wife of in 
, daughter of ali , 
wife of slaughtered 
, daughter of , 
wife of slaughtered 
, daughter of bullet and 


list of of the same and murdered 

, daughter of , wife of 
, daughter of , wife of 
, daughter of , wife of 
, daughter of sami , wife of 

males and of the same 

(a long list) 

list of males and at 

, son of 
, son of 
, son of 
ali , son of 
, son of and 
, son of and 
, son of by rifle butt 
, daughter of died from 
, daughter of ali , 
wife of died from 
, daughter of , 
wife of died from 


list of women at in life 

, daughter of virgin 
, other daughter of virgin 
, daughter of , wife 
of 
, daughter of ali , wife 
of 
, daughter of virgin 


list of persons attacked by 

(a long list) 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from center for policy research 
subject re  . questions to 
id r 000 
from uucp . ! apr 22 17 31 00 1993 
lines 


from center for policy research 
subject  . questions to 


dear 

i appreciate the fact that you sought to answer my questions. 

having said that , i am not totally happy with your answers. 

1. you did not fully answer my question whether israeli id cards 
identify the as jews or  . you imply that u.s. 
citizens must identify themselves by race .  . is that true or are 
just trying to the reader do you know of any democratic 
country where people are asked to reveal their ethnical or 
religious identity to any public official who so requests 

2. the answer to the second question is  . there are all 
kinds of issued .  . they are not equivalent to state policy. 
you did not respond to my question. 

3. your answer to the third question  ( israeli nuclear arsenal ) is 
interesting. you say that israeli  probably  stocks nuclear 
weapons .  . what evidence have you for maintaining that 

4. my fourth question was answered by someone else who posted a 
ma article such cases. i did not ask about cases 
like  ( everybody knew he was tried and imprisoned ) but about 
those about whom nobody even knows that they have been tried and 
imprisoned .  . 

5. thanks for the question concerning the legal status 
of the of the territories .  . from it i 
understand that there are two sets of laws in these , one for 
the  ( civil law ) and one for the  ( military  . 
the law allows israeli to in , it seems. if so , 
why does n't it allow to in israel 

6. your answer to the question concerning rights to return 
conflicts with what i was told , namely that hundreds of thousands 
of non jews who left for some reason or other the area under 
israel control during the war of 1947 8 , were prevented from 
returning for the sole reason they were not jews .  . jews who also 
left , for example to europe , to avoid the , were allowed to 
return. how can you justify such discrimination , if this is true 
is the mere fact of a person leaving area of combat to seek refuge 
somewhere else a reason for him of his right to live in 
his 

7. somebody answered my 7 . question . regarding y .  . an 
order for ethnical in  . according to that 
information , y .  . signed the order for the of all 
of and , about 50 , 000 people. these 
were helped by massacres of civilians and other 
atrocities which bosnia .  . i was referred to a book by 
israeli benny called the origin of the 
problem , published by cambridge university 
press. is this book available in your library 

8. you maintain that there are some israeli living in 
israeli  . i wonder how many and where .  . there is very 
little evidence available about that. as much as i know , many 
are working for , even for many years , but are 
not accepted as members .  . could it be that do not want 


9. my question about the lack of civil marriage in israel was 
whether it is true that the israeli intended to 
discourage  . you did not address this question but 
it by saying that the  entire religious wants 
to keep it what  . i am certain that if only religious 
communities in the u.s. would be asked , they would 
civil marriage so that people would depend upon and priests 
to marriages .  . but israel has always been ruled by a 
secular majority .  . your answer is not  . 


i would be glad to have some more from you after these 
comments .  . 




from  ( mark ira kaufman ) 
subject re ten questions about israel 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 8 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


why does the center for policy research pose such 
stupid and loaded questions to this newsgroup .  . what are you a 
think , or a fish every time i start to believe i have 
seen the outer of your stupidity , you come up with one 
step beyond .  . when will it end , man can you actually have brain 
enough to dress and feed yourself each morning 


from  ( michael tsifansky ) 
subject re how many israeli soldiers does it take to kill a 5 old child 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 30 

in article  ( harry mamaysky ) writes 

 ( nick steel ) writes 
q how many israeli soldiers  ( terrorists ) does it 
take to kill a 5 year old native child 

a four 

two his , one in the face , 
and one writes up a false report. 



can provide documentation for this alleged incident 

probably not he 's just singing someone else 's  . he 's good , too perhaps he should get the best supporting  .  .  . 

i can give you a q a account that is well documented  ( just go back and reread some of the articles that appeared after this joke ) 

q how many does it take to come up with another anti israeli 
provocation on the net 

a just one. he 'll a lie , and many more will 

i would much prefer if mr. would from this kind of in the 
future. they 're not just offensive .  . they also have a very negative effect on 
the state of things between jews and  . so thanks for nothing , clown ! 

mike .  . 


from  ( neophytos iacovou ) 
subject re what you should know about the greek connection .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 26 

in  ( suat kiniklioglu ) writes 

first of all i have to reiterate that your terminology in describing 
the events of are extremely . is not 
by turkish forces it was invited by turkish and intervened 

oh .  .  .  . i . see .  .  . i . did n't realize this .  .  .  . 

i think that perhaps you should print flyers on this topic , and your 
reasons for thinking the way you do. you should then distribute them 
amongst the world 's population .  . you see , i do n't think there are many 
people who are aware of this fact. thank you for telling us the truth. 

btw i would start by sending your flyers to each of the un  . 
also , after you have your flyers you might consider 
hiding .  . you see , i think that once more people read what you think 
they will have to lock you up in a mental institute and do n't think 
they will ever let you out. 

it is a strange strange world you live in. i feel sorry for you. 




university of minnesota email 
computer science department ... ! ! cs ! 

from  ( hamid daniali ) 
subject re clinton 's views on jerusalem 
originator 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization research centre for intelligent machines 
lines 23 


in article ,  ( feigenbaum , benjamin ) writes 
i recently read that during bill clinton 's campaign , he stated 
that if elected he would immediately recognize jerusalem as 
israel 's capital .  . according to the article , mr. clinton 
this after the  . however , 
during recent talks with president , of 
state stated that the status of jerusalem 
will be a final matter of discussion between the parties . 

now i do n't want to start a big discussion over the status 
of jerusalem .  . all i want to know is if anyone can 
mr. clinton 's statements with dates , places , etc. 


this would be one of the results of u.s. backed peace ! ! ! ! ! ! process. 



thank you. 

ben .  . 

from  ( tim clock ) 
subject re go ii ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of california , 
lines 26 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( noam tractinsky ) writes 
a bit , with every rocket that 
the on the , they justify israel 's 
holding to the security  . 

noam 



i only want to say that i agree with noam on this point 
and i hope that all sides stop targeting civilians .  . 



absolutely .  . i'm sure that civilians on both sides would be pleased 
if the  ( military , , whatever ) would just take their 
argument elsewhere , find an area somewhere , and it out. 
at that point , we will all a sigh of relief and for 
our side in the struggle .  . 


tim d .  . graduate student 
tel , department of politics and society 
fax , university of california 
home tel , , ca 

from  ( mike silverman ) 
subject re clinton 's views on jerusalem 
organization university of denver , dept. of math  . sci .  . 
lines 23 

 ( feigenbaum , benjamin ) writes 

i recently read that during bill clinton 's campaign , he stated 
that if elected he would immediately recognize jerusalem as 
israel 's capital .  . according to the article , mr. clinton 
this after the  . however , 
during recent talks with president , of 
state stated that the status of jerusalem 
will be a final matter of discussion between the parties . 

now i do n't want to start a big discussion over the status 
of jerusalem .  . all i want to know is if anyone can 
mr. clinton 's statements with dates , places , etc. 

from a recent in middle east insight magazine , 
clinton said that he supports moving the us to 
jerusalem , but would not do so at this time because it 
would interrupt the peace talks .  . 


go ! ! ! 

one likes to believe in the freedom of baseball 

from  ( alan stein ) 
subject re of the jewish 
organization , inc. 
lines 7 

while one may question the motives of the who sold land to jews , 
often while publicly criticizing the sale of land to jews , it was the 
jews and not the who were taken advantage of , as the the 
jews paid for land was many times the price land was 
being sold for in the united states at the same time. 

h. stein 

from  ( brendan d mckay ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host 
organization rochester institute of technology , rochester , ny 
lines 103 

in article  ( vic filler ) writes 
in article , 
 ( brendan d mckay ) writes 

i have previously posted quotations by participants that 
totally destroys begin 's  . i have no particular desire 
to post it yet again. 

brendan .  . 
 ( normally 

you apparently think you are some sort of one man judge and jury who 

so what are you 

can declare total victory and then sit back and enjoy the 
 . but you 've picked the wrong topic if you think a few 
quotations can the legend and lie of the 
massacre .  . 

i do n't think that , you are just making  . 

you have a lot to learn when it comes to historical  . 

that 's true. i try to learn from people who know more than me , 
not from useless  . 

at the most basic level , you should know that there is a big 
difference between evidence fairly and merely finding 
quotations that support your opinions. 

of course , i have said that more times in this group than 
anyone else , i 'd think. 

if you have studied the history of israel at all you must know that 
many of the sources of your quotations have an axe to , and 
therefore you must be very careful about whom you quote. for 

quite true , that 's why i am so careful in quotes. 

example , pa il , whom you cite , was indeed a general , a scholar , 
and a war hero .  . but that does n't mean everything that comes out of 
his mouth is gold .  . in fact  ( and here your lack of experience 
shows ) , pa il is such a , that much of his 

oh bullshit .  . my  . prove your blah or it. 

anti israel  ( forget about anti blathering ) would be 
considered something like treason in non israel  . but of 
course you do n't consider this at all when you find a 
quotation that you can use to attack israel .  . 

how would you know what i consider read my mind 

benny  ( of hatzair ) represents himself as a scholar 
when he the old attacks on the  . do n't be  . 
it 's just the old zionist ideological , as an 
attack on the  ( then ) government. if you will look closely at 
the section on in his book on the war of independence , 
you will see his indictment to be pure hot air. and this is the 
best he can do after decades of for any sort of 
evidence. unfortunately for him , because his book itself as 
scholarly , he is forced to put  . so you can clearly see 
that his account is based on nothing. 

i looked very closely at a large number of sources. you have no 
idea what you are talking about. 

the massacre never took place as the 
tell it , any more than the and massacres .  . do you get 

that 's true about the accounts of both and arab  . 
like begin , for example. 

the feeling people like to blame the jews for massacres , even if 

no , i never got that feeling .  . i got rather opposite feelings 
about people like you , though. 

they have to make them up it must sound  . even some jews 
like to do it , for reasons of their own. 

honesty perhaps you would explain the testimony from members 
of the , to be found in their own in the 
archives in tel , that the were killed , 
that a group of 80 prisoners was , that proposed 
everybody at the pre meeting. exactly what 
reasons can you propose that this testimony should be rejected 
in favour of begin 's 

please , do n't confuse any of you massacre stuff 
with facts or  . you should stick to begin 's version 
unless you find something serious to contradict it. 

this is very funny .  . you carried on about evidence , 
, axes to , and you end up telling us to stick 
to the account of the leader of the alleged killers .  . you are 
obviously a hopeless case , as everyone can plainly see. 



brendan .  . 


from 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization none 
lines 100 

in article ,  ( bulent murtezaoglu ) writes 
in article writes 
stuff deleted 

country. turks and want to into the 
conflict with  . 

a break .  . capital letters , or not , the above is pure nonsense. it 
seems to me that short are the 

again , in are simply defending themselves. what do 
want them to do. down their and let walk all over them. 

while that will stay out. stop and think for a moment , 
will you does n't need anyone to her into the conflict , it 
is a part of it. 

knew from the that turks were fully engaged 
training militarily to fight against  . 

the who have lived in their for 3000 
years  ( cut off from and given to by stalin ) are the 
ones directly involved in the conflict .  . they are defending 
themselves against  . 

huh you did n't expect 's to be friendly to forces fighting with them 
within their borders 

well , history is sad .  . remember , those are into 
the land of by the stalin regime .  . 

at last , i hope that the u.s. insists that stay out of the 
crisis so that the repeat of the invasion will never 
occur again. 

you 're not playing with a full , are you where would invade 

it is not up to me to speculate but i am sure would have 
into if she could. 

are you throwing the around with s . c . g .  . in the 
in hopes that the greek netters will jump the gun 

absolutely not ! i am merely trying to that in many 
cases , history repeats itself. 

yes indeed has the military to intervene , what she wishes 
she had , however , is the diplomatic power to stop the and bring 
the parties to the table .  . that 's hard to do when 
are attacking towns .  . 

so , let me understand in plain words what you are saying 
wants a peaceful end to this conflict .  . not ! ! 

i will believe it when i see it. 

now , as far as attacking , what do you do when you see a gun pointing 
to your head do you sit there and watch or defend  ( yoursef(fat chance ) 
do you remember what did to the in all the 
acts especially against and their children. i mean 
burning people alive ! 

leaders are lacking the to recognize the 
of armed conflict and convince their nation that a compromise that 
leads to is much better than a military that 's 
going to cause  . 

in want peace and their own  . they are 
not asking much. they simply want to get back what was taken away 
from them and given to by stalin .  . 

think of 10 or 20 years down the line both of the independent 
countries need to develop economically and neither one is going to wipe 
the other out. these people will be , would it not be better 
to keep the bad blood between them minimal 

do n't get me wrong. i also want peaceful solution to the 
conflict .  . but until realize that , the in 
will defend themselves against  . 

if you belong to the , keep in mind that what strikes 
your fancy on the map is costing the local in terms of 
their blood and future. 

again , you are taking different turns .  . has no 
to any land from  . the in 
are simply defending themselves until a solution is set .  . 

it 's easy to be comfortable and 
to have your feelings about turks  . the 
in and n k will be there , with the same people you seem to hate 
as their , for maybe 3000 years more. the sooner there 's peace in 
the the better it is for them and everyone else. i 'd push for 
compromise if i were you instead of hitting the caps lock and spreading 
inflammatory half truths .  . 

it is not up to me to decide the peace  . i am absolutely 
for it. but , in the meantime , if you do not take care of yourself , 
you will be out. such as the case in the era of 20 of 
the massacres .  . 

from  ( jack schmidling ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
organization , chicago , il 
lines 19 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( jake livni ) writes 
through private contributions on federal land . your hate 
article is of current and historical fact , intellectual content 
and social value. down the toilet it goes .  .  .  .  .  . 


and we all know what an unbiased source the is when it comes to things 
concerning israel .  . 

neither the times nor the trained seals who have responded thus far seem to 
recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax  . in 
, american put up at least 30 of the money. and 
, how does federal land the of this alien 
dedicated to and the of tax money 
to a foreign entity 

that federal land and tax money could have been used to 
americans or better yet , to house homeless americans .  . 


from  ( neophytos iacovou ) 
subject re if you feed you will ! 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of minnesota 
lines 34 

in  ( david davidian ) writes 

david says turkish came to last september and 
given the nuclear plant would stay shut .  . 
promised , and in the middle of december 1992 , said 
sorry we were only  . this past 30 , 000 
lost their lives. claims it allowed aid to enter 
through its border with  . what did do , it replaced the high 
quality grain from europe with crap from , in , and let that 
garbage through to 30 , 000 lost their lives ! 

this is the latest from upi 

foreign ministry spokesman told journalists was 
its air space to all to and from and would 
prevent aid from the across 
turkish territory .  . 


historically even the most of peoples have 
signs of compassion by allowing aid to reach civilian 
 . even the nazis did this much. 

it seems as though from now on will publicly 
themselves  hypocrites  should they choose to continue their 
condemnation of the  . 






university of minnesota email 
computer science department ... ! ! cs ! 

from  ( jack schmidling ) 
subject re the u.s. memorial a and dangerous mistake 
organization , chicago , il 
lines 26 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( jim maurer ) writes 
 ( jack schmidling ) writes 



recognize the statement that these private funds were all tax  . in 

the are tax like any to a non profit 
organization .  . i 've money to a group 
and it was tax  . why do n't you contribute to a group 
helping the homeless if you so concerned 

i do  ( did ) contribute to the but when interest 
, i just paid it off. 

the problem is , i could n't convince congress to move my home to 
a on federal land. 

btw , even though the building is alleged to be funded by tax exempt 
private funds , the and operating costs will be borne by 
forever. 

would anyone like to guess how much that will come to and tell us why 
this point is never mentioned 



from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re denies the historical fact of the turkish genocide .  . 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 

in article  ( tim clock ) writes 

i sure hope so. because , the crimes of the must 
be  . invaders burned and the of 

no ! no ! no no no no no. it is not to right wrongs of 
previous years. 

well , there is a bit such as the german to the jewish 
survivors of the  . certainly , as such an event goes further 
into the past , become less  . 

i was convinced that no one could have a more sense of the 
world. they were  our  who were cold exterminated 
by the between and , not yours. and you can always 
participate in  the turkish genocide day  along with millions of turkish 
and people on april 23 , 1993 in the united states and canada .  . 

 .  .  . on . this , we once again reiterate the 
justice of the of turkish and rights and .  .  .  . 

we demand that the x soviet government admit its 
responsibility for the turkish and genocide , render 
to the muslim people , and return the land to its 
owners .  . the recognition of the genocide has become an 
issue which cannot be further , and it is imperative that 
artificial obstacles created for political be removed. 

we believe the time has come to demand from the the united states 
that it formally the turkish and genocide , 
the principles of our demands and refuses to to 
to the contrary .  . 

as of the united states , we express our 
to the present u.s. government policy of continued 
, protection and assistance towards x soviet 
 . 

we also demand that the united states return to the policies 
advocated by u.s. and other enlightened , 
who have a just , human and benevolent attitude towards 
the rights of the muslim people and the just resolution of their case. 

our demands are strictly aimed at x soviet 's .  . 


and in article , you have blatantly 
lied 

the article was not published in the sunday times magazine 
on march 1 , 1992 , but in the guardian sunday section .  . 

well , still  .  .  . 

cis troops out of 

, a in , reported that after a battle 
on , were scores of people who died when 
the town of , the second biggest in the 
area.  the world is turning its back on what 's happening here. we are dying 
and you are just watching , ' one at a group of journalists .  . 
helen 
the independent , 2 29 

soldiers massacre hundreds of fleeing families 

the killed most of the soldiers and defending the 
women and children. they then turned their guns on the  . 
the few survivors later described what happened  that 's when the real 
slaughter began , ' said , one of the three soldiers to survive. 
 the just shot and shot .  . and they came in and started 
up people with their and ' . a 45 year old man who had been 
shot in the back said ' we were walking through the brush .  . then they opened 
up on us and people were falling all around. my wife , then my child. 
thomas 
sunday times , 3 1 

leaves dead or fleeing 

 .  .  . about . 1 , 000 of 's 10 , 000 people were killed in attack .  . 
television showed of being evacuated from 
the area. 
brian  ( reuters ) 
the washington times , 3 2 

reports 

who returned from the seen to this town about 
away brought back three dead children , the backs of their heads blown off .  .  .  . 
 women and children had been , ' said , an to 
's  . television showed pictures of one 
of bodies brought to the town of , some with their 
faces apparently with or their eyes out. 
brian  ( reuters ) 
the washington times , 3 3 

massacre by being reported 

the of denials that its had 
killed 1 , 000 ... but of bodies over the 
area credence to reports of a massacre .  . 
 ( reuters ) 
the new york times , 3 3 

killings in , 

journalists in the area reported seeing of , including some 
of the civilians , and said began shooting 
at them when they sought to the bodies .  . 
fred 
the washington post , 3 3 

bodies mark site of massacre 

a local was enforced to allow the to their dead 
and any still hiding in the and  . all are the bodies 
of ordinary people , dressed in the poor , of workers .  . of the 31 
we saw only one and two apparent national were wearing 
uniform .  . all the rest were civilians , including eight women and three small 
children. two groups , apparently families , had fallen together , the children 
in the women 's  . several of them , including one small girl , had 
terrible head only her face was left. survivors have told how they 
saw shooting them point as they on the ground. 

the times  ( london ) , 3 3 

survivors flee to mountains 

, the of , said that troops 
the town after 7 on tuesday .  . they were accompanied by 
or seven light and  .  we thought they would just 
the , as they had in the past , and then  . but they 
attacked , and our defence force could n't do anything against their ' . 
other survivors described how they had been fired on repeatedly on their 
way through the mountains to safety .  .  for two days we most of the 
way to avoid , ' said. his daughter was killed in the 
battle for , and his brother and son died on the road. 

the times  ( london ) , 3 3 

in 

as we low over the covered of we saw 
the  . apparently , the had been shot down as 
they  .  . suddenly . there was a  .  .  . our had 
been fired on from an anti post .  .  .  . 

the times  ( london ) , 3 4 

police in western said they had the bodies of 
120 killed as they an assault in the 
disputed of and said they were from 
more bodies .  . 
the street journal , 3 4 

troops attacked in 

halted blamed .  .  .  . 
more video footage and reports from a picture of 
widespread civilian deaths and  .  .  . 
one woman 's feet appeared to have been bound .  .  .  . 
paul judge 
the boston , 3 4 



 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from 
subject re jews islam dr. 
lines 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university 

some of your article was cut off on the right margin , but i will try 
and answer from what i can read. 

in article corp . sgi . com .  ( kaveh smith ) writes 
i have found jewish people very and creative .  . jewish religion was the foundation for christianity and 
islam .  . in other words judaism has both religions .  . now islam has turned against its father i may say. 
it is ironic that after threat is almost gone , religion wars are going to be on the raise .  . 
i thought the idea of believing on one god , was to unite all man kind. how come both jews and islam which believe 
on the same god , the god of are killing each other is this like dr. 's story 
how are you going to stop this from happening how are you going to deal with so many muslims .  . them 
would the whole world would god get mad , since you have killed his followers , you believe on the same 
god , same heaven and the same hell after all what is the peacefull way of ending this saga 

judaism did not father islam .  . we had many of the same prophets , but 
judaism prophets later prophets including jesus christ  ( who 
christians and muslims believe in ) and mohammed .  . the idea of believing 
in one god should unite all peoples .  . however , note that christianity 
and islam reflect the fact that there are people with different views 
and the rights of non christians and non muslims are stated in each 
religion. 


man kind needs religion , since it sets up the rules and the which keeps the society in a healthy state. 
a religion is mostly a sets of rules which people have experienced and know it works for the society. 
the praying , keeps the sole healthy and it. god does not care for man kinds pray , but man kind hopes 
that god will help him when he  . 
religion works mostly on the moral issues and to put away the things in the life. but the 
religious leaders need to make a living through religion so they may corrupt it , or turn it to their own way to 
make their living. i.e muslims have to pay 20 percent of their to the  . i guess the gets his 
cut too ! 

we are supposed to pay 6 of our after all are 
paid .  . please note that this 6 is on a personal basis if you are 
poor , there is no need to pay  ( quite the contrary , this money most 
often goes to the poor in each in country and to the poor muslims 
around the  . also , this money is not required in the human 
sense (i . e .  . a muslim never at your door to ask for money 
and nobody makes a list at the mosque to make sure you have paid 
 ( and we surely do n't pass money around during our prayer 
 . 

is in it that religion should be such that everybody on planet earth respects each other , be good each other 
helps one another , respect the mother nature. is in that heaven and hell are created on earth through the acts 
that we take today is in it that within every man there is good and bad , he could choose either one , then he will 
see the outcome of his choice. how can we prevent man kind from going crazy over religion. how can we stop 
another religious killing field , under poor gods name what are your thoughts do you think man kind would 
to come its senses , before it is too late 


p.s. on the side 

do you think that moses saw the god on mount why would god go to top of the he created 
the earth , he could have been anywhere why on top the was it because people thought to see god 
you have to reach to the skies heavens why god kept coming back to middle east was it because they created 
god through their imagination is that why jewish people were told by god , they were the chosen ones 

god 's presence is certainly on earth , but since god is everywhere , 
god may show signs of existence in other places as well. we can not 
say for sure where god has shown signs of his existence and where 
he has not . 

profit mohammad was married to  . she was a jewish .  . she taught him how to trade .  . she probably taught 
him about judaism .  . quran is mostly copy right of (sp old  . do you think god wrote quran 
was a trade city before islam .  . do you think it was made to be the center of islamic world because mohammad 
wanted to expand his trade business is that why god has put his house in there 

the qur'an is not a of the  . muslims believe that 
the , the bible , and the qur'an originally contained much the same 
message , thus the many  . however , the and the 
bible have been  translated  into other which has changed 
their meaning over time (a translation also reflects some of the 
personal views of the  . the qur'an still exists in the 
same language that it was revealed in arabic .  . therefore , we know 
that mankind has not changed its meaning. it is truly what was revealed 
to mohammed at that time. there are many scientific facts which 
were not discovered by traditional scientific methods until much later 
such as the development of the baby in the mother 's womb .  . 


i think this religious stuff has gone too far. all man kind are going to hurt from it if they do not wise up. 
look at david koresh , how that turned out i am afraid in the bigger scale , the jews and the muslims will 
have the same ending ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 

only god knows for sure how it will turn out. i hope it wo n't , but if 
that happens , it was the will of god. 

religion is needed in the sense to keep people in harmony and keep them doing good things , rather than 
each others  . there is one earth , one life and one god. let 's all man kind be good 
each other. 

god help us all. 
peace 
. 
. 
please send this mail to me again so i can read the rest of what 
you said. and yes , may god help us all. 

steve 


from  ( onur yalcin ) 
subject re says it could shoot down turkish 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
lines 28 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( onur yalcin ) writes 
... deleted ... 

if you are really interested , i can provide you with a number of references 
on the issue. just send me email for that. 

you think i am that stupid to ask you for references ! not ! 
i have many greek friends that i could ask for the info if i 
needed .  . i have already read many articles and do not need 
your help. boy , how generous ! ! 


there is a very narrow margin of stupidity between accepting my references and 
those of the greeks , and you just said you 'd rather do the latter ! that 's fine 
with me. i was sincere in my offer , but this saves me the effort .  . it does n't 
take a half man to go to any library and check out a bunch of sources 
of decent objectivity .  . just ask a good friend for help. ! ) 


stay on these roads , 






un in 

from  ( mohamad ebrahimi ) 
subject iran and the bomb 
nntp posting host ee . ca . 
organization elect engineering , u of , , , canada 
lines 75 


i would like to share with netters a few points i picked up from the 
program regarding iran 's nuclear activities , on tuesday 
april 13 .  . for the sake of , i 'll present them in some separate 
points. 

1 as many other western programs , this program was laid on a of 
misinformation throughout the program , to the effect of the 
program on the  . some of the were as follows 

it was alleged that late imam khomeini to 's 
as anti islamic , but now things have changed and the proof of 
change is that some iranian merchants are now selling personal computers. ! 
these are the most ridiculous lies , one can make about the objectives 
of the islamic revolution in the and state of the technology 
in iran after revolution .  . 

iran was equally accused of using chemical weapons against iraqi 
while there has never been any proof in this regard , and nobody has seen 
iraqi soldiers or civilians injured by iranian chemical weapons , in 
contrary to what the whole world has seen about iranian soldiers and 
civilians , injured by iraqi chemical weapons .  . 

while the number of during the sacred defense against iraqi 
has been to be about 117 , 000 and even most 
radical counter groups claim that iran and iraq had a total 
of one million dead , this program claims that iran alone has one million 
dead left from the war. 

the translation of iranian  talks are not 100 true. for 
example when iranian head of atomic energy says that it me to 
see that iran is the subject of these propaganda .  . the 
translator says it to see that iran is doing 
research .  . ! 

2 almost all alleged devices or material bought or to be bought 
by were of countless dual usage , while the program tries to 
their non military uses , without any reference to iran 's 
big population and its inevitable need to other sources of energy in 
near future and its current in electrical power. 

3 the whole program is trying to show the university of 
technology as a nuclear research center , while even the of the 
program know well that in a country like iran without a so tightly closed 
society no one can make a nuclear bomb in a university ! taking in account 
the scientific of u. in engineering fields and its 
potential role in improvement of iran 's and eventually the 
lives of people , it is obvious that they are other countries 
to prevent them from further helping this university or other ones 
in scientific and industrial efforts .  . 

4 a key point in program 's justifications is trying to as 
much as possible all efforts done by in their numerous from 
iran 's different sites .  . they say we are not sure if the places visited 
by are the real ones or not ! , or we can not rely on 's 
reports and observation , because they failed to see iraq 's nuclear 
activities before as if they did n't know that iraq was trying to build 
nuclear weapons ! 

5 as an extremely personal opinion , the most disgusting aspect of the 
program was the arrogance of the member of us senate foreign affairs , 
william , in his way of talking , as if he was the god talking 
from the absolute knowledge ! 

i hope all be aware of the gradual against their 
country in western media , and i hope iranian authorities continue to 
their wise and calculated approach with regard to international affairs 
and peaceful with friendly nations .  . 


mohammad 


international atomic energy agency 


from  ( peter freeman ) 
subject re 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( peter freeman ) 
organization university 
lines 13 

in article com . com .  ( frank benson ) writes 
you are in need of a , ! 


hey , stop sending messages to a guy who 's not going to 
read them. and who cares anyway 








from  ( serdar argic ) 
subject re will not get away with the genocide of people. 
reply to  ( serdar argic ) 
distribution world 
lines 47 

in article writes 

from article , by  ( serdar argic ) 
will not get away with the genocide of , 000 people. 

on the contrary , will get away with the genocide of 
, 000 people. 

already got away with raping , , and 
millions of innocent moslem peoples of eastern  . 

not this time ,  . furthermore , a new generation has risen 
with a deep sense of commitment , politically and conscious , who 
pursue the turkish cause , through all necessary means , 
from the political and diplomatic to the armed struggle .  . in 
other words , what we have is a demand from the government of 
x soviet to the wrongs that were done against our 
people. 


the crime of by mass killing and extermination 
of the muslim population in the soviet of , , 
bosnia and is an  islamic  comparable to the 
extermination of 2.5 million muslims by the government 
during the and of over 6 million european jews during the wwii .  . 
 ( tovfik leader september 25 , 1992) 


today 's ethnic policies by the dictatorship against 
and muslims of yugoslavia , as well as the soviet 
of 's against the muslim population of , 
are really no different in their aspirations than the genocide 
by the government 78 years ago against the 
turkish and muslims and jews living in these 
lands .  .  ( cebbar leader october 13 , 1992) 




 we closed the roads and passes that 
might serve as ways of escape for the turks 
and then proceeded in the work of extermination . ' . 
 ( ohanus 1919 ) 
 in soviet today there no longer exists 
a single turkish soul . ' .  ( sahak 1920 ) 



from  ( peter nelson ) 
subject re remember those names come election time. 
nntp posting host c . com . 
organization corporation , , ma 
keywords usa federal , government , international , non usa government 
lines 39 

in article  ( anwar mohammed ) writes 
in article  ( peter nelson ) writes 

btw , with bosnia 's large moslem population , why have nations like 
, saudi arabia , syria , egypt , and others with either money 
or strong military forces not spoken out more forcibly or offered 
to help out bosnia 

obviously , you really do n't know. 

they have spoken out  ( cf y of state 's recent trip to the me ) , 

note the clause more forcibly , above. my point is that they have 
made a few pro forma , remarks , and sent in a few c 130 's and 
so forth , but it 's clearly not something they 're much sleep over. 
they 're just going through the motions , while moslems are being 
out of what used to be yugoslavia .  . the us has been speaking 
out far more loudly than the moslem nations in the un and other world 
forums. 


besides , there 's no case that can be made for us military involvement 
there that does n't apply equally well to , say , , , or 
 ( it appears with the 's new campaign )  . non 
do n't count 

hmm .  .  . some . might say are non white. , i forgot , are 
oil rich , loaded with dollars , etc so they do n't count. 

precisely .  . concerns were not the primary justification 
for us involvement in the gulf oil and were. if the 
the did n't have oil  ( and assuming iraq still saw fit to 
invade them) i doubt you would have seen operation desert storm .  . 


peter 
