from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re liberty lobby libertarian ... 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 27 

in article  ( robert rubinoff ) writes 
in article writes 
note that was on the party with david 
duke  ( for veep ) in 1988 until he found out that duke was 
he , when he his  . 

that 's a account of what happened. was well aware 
of duke 's presence on the  . given that is not at all 
about and promoting other white  ( such as the 
christian identity movement or carto ) , whatever reasons 
had to leave the had nothing to do with duke 's presence .  . 

so gave up his 
chance to be vice president of the us just to supporting 
duke .  . 

i 'd hardly call that giving up his chance to be vice president of the us 
the chance of the party is essentially nil .  . still , 
it does imply that he does n't want to be associated with duke .  . 

i believe chip has a party newsletter from the time with 
a photo of happily hands with duke .  . 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from  ( kirk hays ) 
subject re nazi 
nntp posting host 
organization systems division 
lines 38 

in article ,  ( christopher c may ) writes 
in  ( michael p. brininstool ) writes 

were also common in american walls etc. is 
it the that is bad 

just want to back this up with a personal anecdote .  . my 
have a made in the 's , which they received in trade 
from the while living in , arizona .  . the 
consists of 4 large black , one in each corner .  . what 's more , the 
color scheme is black , white , and red. to the casual it would 
appear to be a nazi of some kind. yet they owned it 
ten years before hitler and the national came to power. 

as i recall , they took it down in the 30 's , and did n't feel quite right 
about putting it back up until the 60 's .  . it still comments from 
those who do n't know what it is. 

having lived , played , and worked on and near the 
for a number of years , i can this is an ancient pattern , 
found in dated to 1200 years old .  . 

also , the never stopped making with this pattern they 
just stopped selling them after the nazi 's pre the  . 

note also that the versions use both and 
counter  . 

ob guns it 's the rare family that does n't own a rifle .  . 
they remember being by the us army , and do n't intend to 
do it again. the , on the other hand , have a dislike for 
weapons , from my experience. perhaps they just hide them better 
from strangers .  . 


life , seventh generation .  . 
the only thing necessary for the of evil is for good men to 
do nothing. edmund burke  ( 1729 1797 ) 

from  ( kirk hays ) 
subject re  . , hit in support of bill 
nntp posting host 
organization systems division 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( frank crary ) writes 
in article  ( stephen russell ) writes 
i'm moving to arizona everyone carries guns there. if i do n't , what 
are the approximate that i 'll get shot by the end of months 

under 1 in 20 , 000 assuming fbi statistics are  . 

of course , if you 're a criminal , or around with criminals , or 
large of cash in the parts of town , or utter verbal 
bigotry in the right public places , your chances of being shot are much 
higher. 

avoiding these behaviors , on the other hand , your chances of 
being shot .  . 

something like 60 of all murders are criminals killing criminals .  . 
over 90 of murders are committed by people with a prior known 
history of violence .  . 

simplistic moral , suitable for my three year old , and most 
posters bad people do bad things repeatedly .  . 


life , seventh generation .  . 
the only thing necessary for the of evil is for good men to 
do nothing. edmund burke  ( 1729 1797 ) 

from  ( steve popovich ) 
subject re change of name 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 93 17 46 10 gmt 
organization university 
lines 11 

what does this from norway think he 's doing telling us 
how to run the place i know .  .  .  . somebody please  . 

guess how norway survived the third reich give you a hint , 
it was n't by passive resistance the way the did it .  .  .  .  . 

i believe it had something to do with a whose name is n't 
exactly the most word nowadays .  .  . one .  . 
we all know what a is , right i'm sure everyone can come up 
with a few examples right about now . 
steve 

from  ( francis chiu ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization san diego state university , college of sciences 
lines 20 
nntp posting host 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 

failed to mention the all over and it in 
plain view. 

, i'm still waiting to see if there are any evidence of how the fire 
got started , so i'm not going to tell you who did it .  .  .  . as far as you keep 
talking about the all over , stop and think 
for a second if it is possible the or was knocked over and 
started a fire , and the were water on it  ( wrong solution 
but i doubt i can do much better in their states of mind .  .  . ) . to try to 
put it out 

by the way , just how far where you standing from the when you 
saw them setting the place on fire oh , in case you are new in town , 
does n't work very well when there 's no  . 0 

get some facts before you post next time ! 

f. 

from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 51 

in article  ( steve hix ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 

why did n't they release the children weeks ago 

it would have been inconsistent behavior for them to have done so. 

some people believe that there is more to life than the physical requirements .  . 

these folks believed that the generally held standards of the surrounding 
community  ( heck , most of the world ) were morally wrong , and letting the 
children be abandoned to this  ( godless unbelieving ) culture would be 
them to eternal loss and separation from god. 

by their standards , letting the children go would be them to a fate 
literally worse than death. 

the fbi  ( and and media ) people working on the issue , i suspect , 
just could n't get their heads into a similar enough  ( to say nothing of 
identical ) mode of thinking to realize what they were doing. 

physically , there was no reason why the 's should n't have given up and come 
out a long time ago. 

from the point of view of the 's , they were up against the and had nowhere 
to go at all. 

they apparently really did love their kids too much to them to a 
bunch of  .  . although . the end result was horribly twisted .  . 

i did n't say the 's were right , i just said that that 's the way they perceived 
it. 

koresh was a , and a bunch of other people paid for that. 

and the fbi and and misunderstood what was going on from the 
word go. 

very likely possible. reminds me of the movie the . 




some things are too important not to give away 
to everybody else and have none left for yourself. 
the car 






from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject re need senate bill numbers and house resolution numbers 
organization ideology , inc. 
lines 15 

in article  ( michael j. phelps ) writes 

try the archive .  . larry 's instructions follow. by 
the way , thanks for the archive larry .  .  . 

there are a few not yet in the archive , but these are the main ones 
we need to fight. and thanks to david for so many of 
them in for us ! 

the are in was moved from congress to 
congress , that is 

cs . cmu . edu . anon pub politics congress 

larry 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re the gun buy back  ( re boston gun buy back ) 
lines 23 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article  ( larry cipriani ) writes 

according to 9 . radio this morning , , ohio is operating a 
gun buy back . they are giving 50 for every functional gun turned in. 
they out of money in one day , and are now passing out 50 of 
some sort .  . they are looking for more funds to keep operating .  . another 
media event brought to you by  . 

is there something similar pro gun people can do for example , pay 100 
to anyone who their life with a sounds a bit 
, but hey , whatever works. 

ack , what a public relations just begging happen. 

gun lobby  . 

to shell out to  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
from  ( jason  think ! ' steiner ) 
nntp posting host jupiter . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 26 

writes 
(c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
 ( michael rhein ) writes 

, then let the wood inside it. 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use 
on a warm day in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 

oh , i see. is a natural right our wonderful government 
would never cut off the power to the people they were  . 
are you really this , or just acting like it for the sake of 
argument 

jason 


` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` 
` , ` true love is better than anything , except drops .  . ` , ` 
` , ` the  ( book ) , by william ` , ` 
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` ` , ` , ` , ` 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
distribution usa 

stanford . edu . 
lines 45 

in article stanford . edu . , 
 ( andy freeman ) says 

in article jason 

the point that i forgot to bring up here  ( and this has nothing to do with g 

a member or not ) is that it is illegal to carry a weapon in s 

area  ( or in the state of illinois for that  . 

right it nothing to do with or not the person 
is was a member , but that 's what  .  .  .  . 

wrong there are people who can legally carry in il and 
there are circumstances under which many people can carry  . 

is accuracy really too much to expect 

andy 

no it 's not. if you would have read my other post i was accurate. here 's what 
i said 

material from another post the other point that i 
would like to make because i know it 's true  ( looked this one up in the illinois 
this is for you andy 
before ) is that it is illegal to carry a weapon in illinois .  . 
also for you andy .  . 

and then i went on to say 
there is no such thing as a for us ordinary folk here. 
end of quoted material 

of course i forgot to mention who us ordinary folk are so just for andy i'm 
going to go to the library tomorrow and the part of the illinois 
with this information and post it. ordinary citizens can not get a 
license to carry a weapon .  . there are very few people who can. i 
even asked my lawyer friend about this and he told me that only certain people 
can get for carry .  . he could n't remember which people but he 
knew for sure that regular citizens could n't get that type of license .  . he told 
me to go check at the library for the which i did. i 'll post that 
info tomorrow night. until then .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

jason 

from  ( diane mathews ) 
subject re fbi revenge 
organization , 
lines 18 

am i having a hope that an honest investigation will occur on this 
thing or will it simply be under the , and business 
as usual will continue to be the order of the day in the new order 
who will be given the official title of thought police , i wonder .  .  .  . 

and if clinton and friends have their way ,  ( highly likely at this point ) 
the new order government will also have all the guns .  .  .  . so what if 
1984 is going to be ten years late .  .  .  . i think we are going to discover 
that we will be paying for putting this fellow in office for decades 
to come. even some die hard are having serious about 
their savior .  . 

ahem .  . see the war on drugs , as sponsored by the bush and reagan 
 . the precedent had well been set for federal to 
step on more than a few of what people consider rights. i wo n't make 
excuses for anyone , but most of the damage had been done before clinton 
even entered the race in  . 


from  . nice guy ) 
subject incompetent law enforcement can kill 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 40 


ever since the at started the fbi spokesman has been 
how and david koresh was. he stressed how 
likely it was the the branch would commit mass suicide .  . he 
was concerned with the safety of the children. 

what did the fbi do to the situation , did they try to 
koresh did the fbi offer medical assistance to the did the fbi 
offer them a supply of water when the working did the 
koresh to communicate with anyone outside the compound 

what the fbi did was harass the branch as much as possible. 
they kept powerful shining on the compound , shut off their 
electrical power , put their out of action , their ears 
with loud , cut off their with the outside and kept 
limiting their  . the stated goal was to put pressure on 
david koresh .  . 

was the fbi attempting to get koresh to surrender or were they 
to get koresh so mad that he and some of his followers would attack 
the the  . 

it appears that the employed by the fbi did drive koresh over 
the  . the blame for the deaths should be shared by both the 
federal whose koresh over the and the fools 
at the atf who the  . 

stupidity and of the and the fbi leadership have 
resulted in the death of 90 innocent people. 

if every thing had gone as 90 people would be alive today. 
instead the atf up and caused the death of 90 . incompetent 
law enforcement can kill you ! 



the only acceptable 
boulder , co for brains is silence .  . 
solomon short 
on 16 

from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 

thomas writes 

observations from a naive 

yup , you said it. i admire such honesty .  . ) 

1 ) guns are made to kill people , not to shoot target or to 
have something more than to  .  .  .  .  . 

fire an  . 22 . , then come back and talk to us. you 're letting 
ignorance and possibly fear cloud your thinking. either that , or this 
is sour because we you in the shooting events. 
funny , you 'd think would be a natural for the  . ) 

2 ) it is more easy to kill someone with a gun than 
with a knife or a  ( as in  . 

precisely .  . that makes them the best method of defense for the  . 
not everybody has the time to train with a , you know , but for 
some reason those who prey on others seem to have more free time. to 
extend this a bit further , you need only a certain level of 
to another with a range weapon .  . getting in their face with a 
weapon and is much more difficult , and requires more training 
time the average citizen just does not have. i 've spent a few years 
practicing with a sword .  . i can take the common person armed with one 
 ( though self defense is n't the reason i own one) .  . my kid sister would 
have an even chance of beating me , gun vs. gun , with only a month of 
training .  . that makes much better , in our eyes. 

3) it 's not very wise to compare two completely different 
countries like usa and , let 's say , island on issues like 
crime and violence .  . 

excellent point. perhaps you are n't so naive after all 

4 ) yes , the problem is people committing crimes , not the tools 
used , but 1 ) should be taken into  . 

taken into consideration in what respect though quite wrong , let 's 
make it a blanket statement for weapons in general. this has been 
taken into consideration .  . we call use of them assault , 
assault with a weapon , assault with intent to kill , attempted 
murder , and a whole host of others , and on extra prison time. 

we have a very strict gun legislation in norway , but until recently 
it was possible for over 18 years to buy a  . 
are used mainly for in  .  . ) . , but because it 
was so easy to one , it was the most used gun in crimes .  . 

in norway i suspect it was about the only weapon available. you conquered 
your land  ( among others ) a full before we were thought of , and 
shortly thereafter weapons were n't quite so common .  . i suspect that a few 
world wars made a difference too , since in times of emergency weapons 
tend to be turned in or to causes .  . i'm curious , though , 
were the weapons used in the crimes bought shortly before the crime , or 
were they by other means any requirements other than just 
the 

and the use of guns in crime  .  .  .  .  . 
there are now a new law against wearing long in public , 
and why should it be allowed 

come on down to honest 's used ! here 's a slightly used 
short sword , the weapon of the 
century ! only 39 . with trade in. easy ! sorry , i 
could n't resist .  . you guys still each other with long , 
or is this really not a problem 

what i , as an , have problems to understand is that 
you  ( americans ) have a more liberal view on guns and violence 
than on and sex. 
try showing a bare on tv of violence and murder .  .  .  . 

i'm all for that. what gets me is that  ( and yes , i'm only 
a couple generations off the longship ) used to be some of the most 
warriors on the planet a mere ago , yet now seem to 
spend their time sitting in and doing a bit of  . 
maybe you had a bit more time , and a more culture , to become 
civilized with 

yes , i know a little american history , but is it a civil human 
right to have an assault gun in your home and or an 
in your car 

yes. we 're too damned violent , i believe because we are not 
a culture and do n't identify ourselves as americans first 
and foremost .  . i'm rather proud of my and , 
whereas i suspect you could n't care less about that 2 blood in 
your thanks to a in ireland back in the time scale 
and the culture are important. equally important is a 
basic philosophical difference in personal versus collective good. 
in america , the individual is more important than the masses .  . personal 
liberties are above all. this is , sadly , changing of late , but 
i trust you notice how this call for freedom makes laws that restrict 
individuals for little collective benefit to americans .  . i 'd 
hazard a guess that , were america less interested in freedom and 
personal liberty and more interested in collective good we never would 
have sent our armed forces anywhere. one poor effect of this culture 
we have is that we 're looking out for ourselves and it is quite easy 
to identify with only a small segment of the population .  . my 
tells of being against back in denmark because she spoke 
low , whereas others spoke high  . it was shortly after 
world war ii , as i remember , that low was abolished so there was 
one common  . we cannot such a minor thing being a problem , 
because we have even more obvious means of an outsider .  . 

the bad english is not my fault , it 's probably 
the keyboard software or the quality of the 
on tv .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

take heart , yours is better than 90 of what gets posted by native speakers .  . 
any helpful hints for our system people have this 
tendency to drop out of school and sell drugs over here. 

) and what kind of name is thomas here , you can use my great 
's before he changed it christian  . that 's a 
great one for getting  . i think that 's why he changed it. 
i do n't think he needs it anymore ) 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 



from node . org .  ( nigel allen ) 
subject clinton press conference , part 1 
organization r node public access unix 1 
lines 

here is a press release from the white house. 

president clinton 's remarks on with q a 
to national 
contact white house office of the press , 

washington , april 20 following are remarks by president 
clinton in a question and answer with the press 

1 36 p . m .  . edt 

the president on february the , four federal 
were killed in the line of duty trying to enforce the law 
against the branch compound , which had 
and ammunition , and placed innocent children at risk. 
because the operation had failed to meet its objective , a 51 day 
 . 

the federal bureau of investigation then made every 
reasonable effort to bring this situation to an end without 
and further loss of life. the bureau 's efforts were 
ultimately because the individual with whom they were 
dealing , david koresh , was dangerous , irrational , and probably 
insane .  . 

he engaged in numerous activities which violated both 
federal law and common standards of  . he was , moreover , 
responsible for the deaths and which occurred during the 
action against the compound in february .  . given his 
towards violence and in an effort to protect his young , no 
actions were taken for more than seven weeks by federal 
against the compound .  . 

this i was by general on 
an operation prepared by the fbi , designed to increase pressure on 
koresh and persuade those in the compound to surrender  . 
the plan included a decision to the use of ammunition , even 
in the face of fire , and instead to use tear gas that would not cause 
permanent harm to health , but would , it was hoped , force the people 
in the compound to come outside and to surrender .  . 

i was informed of the plan to end the  . i 
discussed it with general  . i asked the questions i 
thought it was appropriate for me to ask. i then told her to do what 
she thought was right , and i take full responsibility for the 
implementation of the decision. 

yesterday 's action ended in a horrible human  . 
mr. koresh 's response to the demands for his surrender by federal 
was to destroy himself and murder the children who were his 
captives , as well as all the other people who were there who did not 
survive. he killed those he controlled , and he bears ultimate 
responsibility for the carnage that  . 

now we must review the past with an eye towards the 
future. i have directed the united stated of justice and 
treasury to undertake a and investigation to 
what happened and why , and whether anything could have been 
differently. i have told the to involve independent 
law enforcement in the investigation .  . i 
expect to receive analysis and answers in whatever time is required 
to complete the review .  . finally , i have directed the to 
fully with all congressional so that we can 
continue to be fully accountable to the american people. 

i want to express my to the 
general , to the justice department , and to the federal on the 
front lines who did the best job they could under deeply difficult 
circumstances .  . 

again , i want to say as i did yesterday , i am very sorry 
for the loss of life which occurred at the beginning and at the end 
of this in  . i hope very much that others who will be 
tempted to join cults and to become involved with people like david 
koresh will be by the horrible they have seen over 
the last seven weeks. and i hope very much that the difficult 
situations which federal there and which they will 
be doubtless required to confront in other in the future 
will be somewhat better and better understood because of what 
has been learned now. 

q mr. president , can you , first of all , tell us why , 
after 51 days , you decided 

q mr. president , can you describe for us what it is 
that janet to you in your 15 minute phone conversation 
with 

the president i ca n't hear you both. if one will go 
first and then the other. 

q sorry. can you describe what janet 

q mr. president 

the president i 'll answer both your questions , but i 
ca n't do it at once. 

q can you describe what she told you on sunday about 
the nature of the operation and how much detail you knew about it 

the president yes. i was told by the general 
that the fbi strongly felt that the time had come to take another 
step in trying to the people in the compound .  . and she 
described generally what the operation would be that they wanted 
to go in and use tear gas which had been tested not to cause 
permanent damage to adults or to children , but which would make it 
very difficult for people to stay inside the building .  . and it was 
hoped that the tear gas would them to come outside .  . 

i was further told that under no circumstances would our 
people fire any shots at them even if fired upon .  . they were going to 
shoot the tear gas from which would protect them and 
there would be no exchange of fire .  . in fact , as you know , an awful 
lot of shots were fired by the cult members at the federal  . 
there were no shots coming back from the government side. 

i asked a number of questions. the first question i 
asked is , why now we have waited seven weeks why now the reasons 
i was given were the following 

number one , that there was a limit to how long the 
federal authorities could maintain with their limited resources the 
quality and of by there. they might be 
needed in other parts of the country. 

number two , that the people who had this had 
never seen a case quite like this one before , and they were convinced 
that no progress had been made recently and no progress was going to 
be made through the normal means of getting koresh and the other cult 
members to come out. 

number three , that the danger of their doing something 
to themselves or to others was likely to increase , not , with 
the passage of time. 

and number four , that they had reason to believe that 
the children who were still inside the compound were being 
, as well as being forced to live in and 
conditions .  . 

so for those reasons , they wanted to move at that time. 
the second question i asked the general is whether they had 
given consideration to all of the things that could go wrong and 
evaluated them against what might happen that was good. she said 
that the fbi on the and those working with them were 
convinced that the chances of bad things happening would only 
increase with the passage of time. 

the third question i asked was , has the military been 
as soon as the initial came to light in , 
that 's the first thing i asked to be done , because it was obvious 
that this was not a typical law enforcement situation. military 
people were then brought in , helped to analyze the situation and some 
of the problems that were presented by it. and so i asked if the 
military had been  . the general said that they 
had , and that they were in basic agreement that there was only one 
minor tactical difference of opinion between the fbi and the military 
something that both sides thought was not of overwhelming 
significance .  . 

having asked those questions and gotten those answers , i 
said that if she thought it was the right thing to do , that she 
should proceed and that i would support it. and i stand by that 
today. 

q mr. president 

the president wait. go ahead. 

q can you address the widespread perception 
reported widely , television , radio and newspapers that you were 
trying somehow to distance yourself from this disaster 

the president no , i'm by it. the only 
reason i made no public statement yesterday let me say the only 
reason i made no public statement yesterday is that i had nothing to 
add to what was being said and i literally did not know until rather 
late in the day whether anybody was still alive other than those who 
had been actually seen and taken to the hospital or taken into 
 . it was purely and simply a question of waiting for events 
to  . 

there was i have i ca n't account for why people 
one way or the other , but i talked to the general 
on the day before the action took place. i talked to her yesterday. 
i called her again late last night after she appeared on the larry 
king show , and i talked to her again this morning. a president it 
is not possible for a president to distance himself from things that 
happen when the federal government is in control. 

i will say this , however. i was , frankly , surprised 
would be a mild word , to say that anyone that would suggest that the 
general should because some religious fanatics 
murdered themselves. ) . 

i regret what happened , but it is not possible in this 
life to control the behavior of others in every  . these 
people killed four federal in the line of duty .  . they were 
armed .  . they fired on federal yesterday repeatedly , 
and they were never fired back on. we did everything we could to 
avoid the loss of life. they made the decision to 
themselves. and i regret it terribly , and i feel awful about the 
children. 

but in the end , the last comment i had from janet , 
is when and i talked to her on sunday i said , now , i want you 
to tell me once more why you believe not why they believe why 
you believe we should move now rather than wait some more. and she 
said , it 's because of the children. they have evidence that those 
children are still being and that they 're in 
conditions , and that they do n't think it will get any easier 
with time with the passage of time. i have to take their word for 
that. so that is where i think things stand. 

q can we assume then that you do n't think this was 
in view of the outcome , that you did n't run out of 
patience and if you had it to do over again , would you really 
decide that way 

the president no well , i think what you can assume 
is just exactly what i today. this is a the fbi has 
done a lot of things right for this country over a long period of 
time. this is the same fbi that found the people that bombed the 
world trade center in split , record time. we want an inquiry 
to analyze the steps along the way. is there something else we 
should have known is there some other question they should have 
asked is there some other question i should have asked can i say 
for sure that no one that we could have done nothing else to make 
the outcome come different i do n't know that. that 's why i want 
the inquiry and that 's why i would like to make sure that we have 
some independent law enforcement people , not political people , but 
totally non political , outside who can bring to bear the best 
evidence we have. 

there is , unfortunately , a rise in this sort of 
all across the world. and we may have to confront it 
again. and i want to know whether there is anything we can do , 
particularly when there are children involved. but i do think it is 
important to recognize that the wrong in this case were the 
people who killed others and then killed themselves. 

q mr. president , were there any other options 
presented to you for resolving this situation at any point from 
february until yesterday 

the president well , yes , i got regular reports all 
along the way. there were lots of other options  . if you go 
back you all covered it very well. the fbi you did a very good 
job of it. i mean , the fbi and the other authorities there 
any number of other options all along the way , and a lot of them 
early on seemed to be working .  . some of the children got out , some of 
the other people left. there was a at one point , there seemed to 
be some lines of up between koresh and the 
authorities .  . and then he would say things and not do them and things 
just began to spin  . 

whether there were other in terms of what happened 
yesterday , the conversation i had with the general did not 
involve other options except whether we should take more time with 
the present strategy we were because they said they 
wanted to do this , because they thought this was the best way to get 
people out of the compound quickly before they could kill themselves. 
that 's what they thought. 

q did the government know that the children did not 
have gas 

q congressional once the situation are 
you in agreement with that 

the president that 's up to the congress .  . they can do 
whatever they want. but i think it 's very important that the 
treasury and justice launch this investigation and bring 
in some outside  . and as i said in my statement , if any 
congressional want to look into it , we will fully 
 . there is nothing to hide here. this was probably the 
most well covered operation of its kind in the history of the 
country. 

 ( more , more ) 
30 

from  ( william w. hughes ) 
subject re clinton press conference , part 1 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of texas at san 
lines 13 

in article  ( david feustel ) writes 
i that the outcome of the study of what went wrong with the 
federal assault in will result in future assaults of that type 
being conducted as full scale military with explicit 
shoot to kill  . 

you mean they are n't already could have me. 



remember ! 
who will the government decide to murder next maybe you 
opinions are mine i do n't care if you blame the university or the state. 

from  ( francis a. ney ) 
subject re for sale 
organization communications research 
distribution usa 
lines 10 


i will add my voice to the  ( hopefully ) growing multitudes .  . 

i hereby pledge 1000 . 00 . towards the of , under the same conditions 
as already described .  . i will also post this idea on the other i can 
access  ( rime and  . 

we may have to organize this ourselves , so i am looking for help. 

frank a  m o u s e  

from  ( alan greig ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization institute of technology 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( andrew betz ) writes 


brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 

if you really want to the then move the keywords 
above the signature start bit .  .  .  . you 'll only trip them once in 
a sig  ( plus every so often it will flag one for human intervention 
just to be sure ) 

i might not be being serious. 


janet 
institute of technology internet 
tel  ( 0382 )  ( int 44 308810 ) 
never the power of human stupidity 

from  ( david sternlight ) 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization dsi 
distribution na 
lines 11 


though i agree this is not the place to discuss guns , i note in passing that 
a number of gun apologists seem to have ignored the words well 
in their interpretations of the second amendment .  . 

david 

david great care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of 
our information , errors and  . 



from () 
subject re newspapers gun 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 24 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 


i do n't know what traders is claiming , but it appears to me that 
the has gun in the past. likewise 
for the san francisco , and i have never seen a gun 
ad in the san francisco examiner .  . 

specifically , about a year ago on , when traders placed 
its , the  . ad would not have any 
any sale , though text could list it. the  . would 
run a of a  . the examiner would not have a traders 
ad at all. 

over the past year while politicians have made a lot of 
about measures to fight crime the stopped taking the traders 
ad , then started publishing it , but without any , then 
stopped , then started .  . since the  . was sold some months ago it 
has not had the traders ad .  . during one of these non ad 
a traders told me that the  . had refused to take their 
 . 

yes , the usual  . thursday ad was there today , with 
, , etc. as usual .  . 

v 

from  ( paul eric stoufflet ) 
subject re die koresh die ! 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( paul eric stoufflet ) 
organization university 
lines 23 

in article  ( tim tyler ) writes 
i was that however the situation was the 
property would remain , so the gov t could sell it to help pay for the 
hundreds of thousands of dollars of incurred having to 
koresh his of  . 


in some south american countries , after political disappeared , 
the family would get a notice of death and a bill for the 
of the body. you apparently think that would be a good idea. 

the federal government initiated this action against koresh and his 
followers , them for 51 days , engaged in psychological 
warfare , used heavy military equipment against us citizens on 
us and now that the compound caught fire while they were 
in cs gas after knocking holes in the building 
all responsibility .  . big brother is not always right. 


paul eric 
medical center 
internet 
all opinions are my own 

from  ( glenn r. stone ) 
subject re fbi revenge 
keywords fbi child abuse guns murder control 
reply to 
organization the group w 
lines 17 

in  ( pat myrto ) writes 

anybody for 

yeah , me. both the and hillary 's buddy janet say 
they 're responsible .  .  .  . i want both their on my 
yesterday. i also want both thier up on federal civil rights 
 .  .  .  . something which carries life in prison as a penalty .  . 

oh , and i 'll contribute 20 to 's presidential campaign 
for having the  to launch the senate investigation .  . 

glenn r. 
america in 
 ( flag down sos ) 
save your before 
it no longer exists. 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 35 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( paal 
ellingsen ) writes 
in article , jim de writes 
mr. , you are a government sucking bastard. humans died 
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the 
actions 
they did. that is the undeniable truth. 

 .  .  .  . the . question is for how long even if the fbi had done nothing , i guess 
the 
would have committed suicide , but maybe not until and thirst gave 
them 
the choice between or surrender .  . 
the was warned in about the fbi action. they had the chance to 
surrender and get a fair trial .  . no matter who started the fire , the were 
responsible for 80 dying .  . no one else. 


this is , of course , your opinion. i differ greatly .  . there can be no doubt the 
fbi at least shares in the blame .  . 



67 102  . 
data 





i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( strider ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 18 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

 ( jim de arras ) writes 
an  edu er not the party line , thank you ! 

jim 

you 're welcome ! ) actually , i'm probably something of an , because 
i 've committed the ultimate college student heresy i'm not a liberal .  . 
 ( this is not liberal ) . 


mike 

this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

nntp posting host no . 
from thomas 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
in reply to  ( dan sorenson ) 's message of mon , 19 apr 1993 
08 52 42 gmt 
organization dept. of , university of , norway 





lines 51 
originator 



i do n't remember the exactly , but there were about deaths in texas 
in 1991 that was caused by guns .  .  .  .  .  . 
this is more than those killed in car accidents ! 
 ( yes , there could be that low sentences or high poverty could influence the 
but they 're still pretty high right ) 
i also believe texas has some of the most liberal  gun laws  in usa .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


i should not suffer because of others .  .  .  .  . 
we all agree on this one , but we also live in a and 
we 'll have to give up some of our  freedom   ( note the  . 

do you have an 
then you 'll have to pay because of what others do .  .  .  . 

do you buy anything 
you are paying for those who return , steal or even those who gets a  .  .  . 

do you live with other people 
then you  ca n t  do you 'd want  ( burping playing music loud ) 

what the hell is he trying to say 
when you live in a society  ( usa are counted as one .  .  . ) . you 
have to  . 
the question is how much. 


one state  ( do n't remember which , texas ) tried to impose a rule that you could 
only buy one gun each month .  . think you all know what happened .  .  .  .  .  . 

i respect the right to defend yourself , but that right should not inflict on 
other people. 

it seems like you all realize that you have a problem in america , the only 
problem is 
that you wo n't take the car away from the , you hope to him 
first. 

hope life to the standard of the  . 



this is not a  . signature .  . 
it 's merely a text to waste bandwith 
and to bring down the evil internet .  . 


thomas 


from  ( james barker ) 
subject address 
summary address for right to keep and bear anti weapons 
keywords 
lines 41 

could someone email me a address for the i 'd like to write them 
a letter encouraging them to see to it very emphatically that the 2nd 
amendment is to the form that the founding fathers intended .  . 

people like seem very intent on the 2nd amendment 
to the point where it is no effort for the to do what they 
did in  . 

after all , from what i know of the papers , it is this kind of 
tyranny the 2nd amendment was supposed to be designed to protect against .  . 

honestly ! m 60 against the civilian population ! attack ! 

we need the right to keep and bear anti weapons .  . actually , if they 
intend to mass against the  ( weakly armed , at that ) civilian population , 
we need the right to field tactical  . government tyranny ! who would 
have ever thought it would happen here ! 

i wonder who  house they 'll run through next , because the gov .  . 
child abuse .  . maybe yours ! maybe mine ! 
and what is an illegal weapon  ( which they have yet to show us ) , if the 
2nd amendment is designed to do what i believe it is , and the gov .  . uses 
against you government self serving  . not here. 

time was when the u.s. used attack against small countries. 
now , we 're down to using them against to what to a and a 
half of civilians .  . 

first they came for the jews , but i did not stop them , because i was 
not a jew then they came for the catholics , but i did not stop them 
because i was not a catholic ! then they came for the , but 
there was now no one left to stop them ! rev. martin  . 
 ( probably did n't get it , but you get the  . 

if the reads this , then never mind about the address. 
god save us ! 

james s. 
state university 



from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 16 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( brent irvine ) writes 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm day 
in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 

and they work especially well when the feds have cut off your  . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( keith emmen ) 
subject re for sale 
distribution usa 
organization , 
x newsreader tin 1 . 
lines 5 

if anyone is keeping a list of the potential contributors , 
you can put me down for 1000 . 00 . under the conditions above 

keith 


from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject ohio alert h . b .  . 
organization ideology , inc. 
distribution usa 
keywords 
lines 14 

ohio house of representative thursday , april 8 , 1993 

h . b .  . no. representatives , davis , , , t. 
johnson , van , , white , , , 

to amend section 01 . of the revised code to add 
to the game list and the chief of the division of in 
the department of natural resources to the of 
, and to make an  . 

this would allow the of in ohio and give the 
something they have been pushing for. 

larry 

from  ( marciano pitargue ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
organization 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 
originator 


in article ,  ( john k. gever ) writes 

do you who worry so much about rape and murder in the 
also carry your guns all the time at home too you 
should , since you 're in a hell of a lot more danger there than 
in the  . 

when does carrying a tool someone as a  . so all the 
that came west were 's ! ! ! ) 


does anybody reading this group have an actual , honest to god 
experience with violent crime in the to tell about 

i can sort of understand the people who want to protect themselves 
from bears and such , although there are , what , maybe a dozen or 
two bear attacks on people in north america each year but to 
worry about being by some in 
is just irrational .  . i think we 'd all be a lot safer if all the 
of were gathered up and burned .  . 

would your tune change if you were one of the dozen or two bear attacks 
believe me , when you need a , you need a  . 


public health will tell you that you are far more likely 
have your gun stolen , use it yourself on a family member or 
have it used on you than you are to use it on an actual criminal .  . 

please cite your references .  . i 'll let others  ( please note followup ) 
cite valid references to show you that this is an  . 

the warriors we 've heard from here consider 
themselves exempt from this statistical reality they 're much 
too smart and responsible .  . living in a city where there 's a 
drive by shooting every couple of days , and working in a medical 
center where a day does n't go by without a shooting victim coming 
into the er , i'm just a bit skeptical about the value of gun 
ownership .  . i go to the to get away from this 
environment , and i do n't want to find other people there who 
insist on bringing the environment along with them 
boxes , computers , or guns .  . 

well , you might as well go  . forget the , , sleeping 
and all the rest that 's is a modern convenience .  . a is just 
a tool. as some people wo n't carry , some people do. 
should be in the same category .  . it should be a personal choice. 

and your about shooting victims in the er .  . count how many come in 
due to automobile accidents and automobile crimes .  . maybe we should outlaw 
cars .  . 


please post flaming responses to rec . guns . ( 
j. , b ham ,  . 



from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re insane gun unite ! ! ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 40 

do you know how many deaths each year are caused by self inflicted gun 
shot by people wearing 

there are roughly 1200 fatal , related accidents each year .  . 
the large majority involve and there are under 
fatal accidents each year .  . i really doubt all of those 
occur while the is , so the number of self inflicted 
by people wearing is probably 
well under 250 per year .  . 

if you fall , for example , 
and land on the or cause a sudden blow , the gun will  . 

designs have included a hammer block since around 
or earlier. this is a metal part which physically 
the and the firing pin even under impact , the gun 
cannot fire .  . the hammer block is connected to the and 
is out of the way as the is  . as a result , 
modern can fire only if the is  ( or 
in some cases , if they are by hand and then dropped . ) . 

the number of people killed in this manner far the number of 
deaths caused by animal attacks or attacks combined .  . 

i do n't know about animal attacks , but there are 23 , murders 
each year and under die in the manner you suggest .  . if only 
2 . 1 . of the murders were killings by s , you would be 
wrong. worse , there are also 102 , and 1 , , 000 aggravated 
assaults each year .  . these numbers make violent attacks , and 
preventing them , thousands of times more significant than the 
accidents you are worried about. 

 ( these , by the way , are from the fbi 's uniform crime 
report for 1990. i 'll stop by a library tomorrow and look at 
the national crime survey , which is more 
specific about where and when the crimes occured . ) . 

frank 
boulder 


from  ( bill meyers ) 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
organization n i 
lines 114 

in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article , writes 
... 
why are  good   good  it is n't because every 
person is armed to the  . it is because of (1) attitude 
and (2)  . in the  good  , the residents 
make themselves aware of their and notice when 
strangers are lurking around.  good  form groups 
like  crime watch  to increase this effect , and the relative 
of the police .  . when are , the 
good step up and say that s the one ! he 
was mr. jones  house . 

sometimes this works. sometimes it just lands your good 
on the dance card for the next wave of drive  . someone here once 
told a story about la moving into phoenix .  . i 've misplaced the 

here a a copy , 

newsgroups talk . politics . guns . , politics . 
path ! ! uunet ! sun ! ames ! haven . umd . edu . ! darwin . net . ! ! edu . ! netcom . com . ! 
from  ( mike van pelt ) 
subject the difference an armed civilian population makes 
message id 
date thu , 17 23 42 42 gmt 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
references 
lines 

along the lines of the armed citizen , here 's a story that 
some of you may find amusing .  . it 's a story about arizona 
house , from fish , and author .  .  .  . 


... one of the reasons i'm planning to move to arizona is that 
despite its lousy economy , 4 way race problems , religious 
problems and bad government arizona has one of the lowest 
violent crime in the country. is it just coincidence that 
arizona is also one of the few remaining no gun control states in the 
country 

well , consider this funny story. last time i was in phoenix , 
staying with , i did some checking on the local real 
market  ( that 's when i discovered that , with my as by 
my tax returns i can qualify for every low housing loan in 
the book , with the exception of va ) , and i came across an 
ad in the local market paper. it offered a three house in the 
phoenix area for are you ready for this all of 10 , 000 .  . no money 
down. 100 per month total  . christ on a davidson ! i 
called up the real office making this offer , made it clear that 
i was only checking the local market , and asked about that house. were 
the walls , roof and foundation sound yes. were the 
and electrical systems functional and up to code yes. did the 
air system  ( an absolute necessity in phoenix ) work yes , 
again. okay , so what was wrong with the house well , it needed lots 
of , , work , and some of the roof 
and yes , low interest loans were available. okay , i. if 
that 's all that 's wrong with it , just why are you selling a 3 
house for all of 10 , 000 well , the , it 's in kind of a 
bad neighborhood .  . how bad i , remembering some of the 
i 've seen in chicago and  . worst in the city , the , 
and then he told me this amazing story. 

every few years , it seems , the big vice in los notice 
that there 's no presence in phoenix which is just a quick 
5 hour drive from la and get the idea of setting up a 
there. well , a couple years ago , the force came to this 
neighborhood it being poor and spanish , they they could move 
right in and take over bought this house and started  . 
unfortunately for them , the not only did n't like this they 
did n't care for whores up and down their streets all night , 
their kids , deals on the in broad 
daylight , and so on they were n't afraid to do something about it. 
the called the cops  ( for some reason , the phoenix police are 
honest , capable , polite and prompt ) , and the cops 
came and swept up all the whores , and off the street and 
away to jail .  . the remaining members decided to in the 
fashion they usually use in la they got the 's name and 
address off the court records , and did a drive by shooting at his 
house. well , this was n't los  . the moment the heard 
the first fired , they all out their front doors with their 
own guns , , , everything and shot back .  . 

the car did n't make it to the end of the block. it to a 
stop , with more holes than the famous and clyde 
car  ( which i 've seen it 's on display in a in a in 
 . the gas and lines had been , so the car 
caught fire .  . the waited a good 15 making sure 
nobody got out of that car before they called the fire department to 
come put out the fire and the away. by that time , the 
under the car had melted and caught fire too , which subsequently left a 
large and nasty pot hole in the street. the city is slow about 
small streets , so the hole stayed there providing a traffic 
hazard for several months. all this was two years ago , the 
concluded , and there 's been no trouble since , but the house and the 
neighborhood still have a bad reputation and that 's why the house 
was so cheap .  . 

hearing this story , i nearly laughed my ass off. i told the 
that if i had the money at the moment , i 'd by god buy the house this 
was nothing compared to bad i 'd seen here in 
california , where drive by go by the well armed 
cops , let alone by the unarmed neighbors. if that 's the absolute worst 
you 'll find in phoenix , then that 's the city for me. 

that 's the difference that an armed civilian population makes .  . 
think about it. 



mike van when guns are outlawed , 
only will have guns .  . 



from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject a picture is worth a thousand words .  .  .  . 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 

begin 
. @q@j)o ) 
! j w  ( 2 , 6a`h9 ) elq ) 
4 ! ,  ( 7 so , k i 2 j 4 ,  ( qb(`x v 
mn ) x b e) f ) 9 i ! 
lk , ) d ) ! g m 
m `  . 8 x  
m jt8)p ) i ) 6  . ,  ( jy , , 6  ( y(eptw 
x z , 6 g @ 
m 9)1 ) w i s ! su9urxfbw))7n ) !  ' 5 ( w  r 
m 56  . ' v o , p. 7 
mr  ( y x 1 v , 5  e  . j . s 7 ! 
b ) n i ) 
m l @ s (  ( odcdgi(i71 uyhjl ) 
 ( m3(`u , ! a o c b ! of ! !  ( 8bf 21 
, x ) b . @e ) . ,  ( r1 g 
m ! ( . 2 ,  ( g5)h()7u ) ! phacbdq5)i6 ) eh yhd)p ) , u 
md y v  ( fy7(g , f 74 5 's 
8q ) g ! ri)w47@6 ) 
m k , x p i ! n . i . f)wfs' ) 
i . h4w)x ) i u 86 .  .  ( cg(y 
6  ! , d ) f w ac , u 9 , ) 
s z . ) c ,  a 
) sb ) , 4 , 6 m 
m 6  ( i)(y ) k)g ) f ! ( 
o . g3j3)yy ) ,  ( h  ( i(l 
) 9 . , t u fu 7 
m t e j m c x  ( m )  ( d x'n)`2wh ) 
j ! 26 5 ! 03 e , i , ! z 4 ls 
 ( 8bdi(qz !  . b ! u , z   .  ( y(5 ! 
m u  ( 0o(d5 g , b @ 7 ' rc ) 
m  ( ywg b !  . e e  u 
m , 8 b d o (q ya'lexxj ) v . w . ! 
 ( m( ) em  d 9 7  ( x1b(z  
mr   . ` s , is g , 9 ! h r , s 3 @44l2g ) 
 ( m4num1  ( df3 h a 4 ! , l 0 6  ch ) 
q ! t e , 2 c 
mi !  ( wb g tfjs ) j , 9  ( 39r@9 h v d 
m , ) . a 0h )  . ! e r z m i ! m ! t 
, l ! a  78  04 a b 
7 e wel)ijs ) , 5 , w j 6 
 ( m@yl@'4e(dq , h w b  , x , ( ` , a g 37 p , 
m d ! i , m , 2 , i u7wq))mdiummx ) 
2  ( wc(n4 f0 ) r ) 
m q s ' h i ! 8 ! bq)hn ) ` . 
m  4 a , 0 18fnix`)317g5 )  ( `2x3n)z@ )  
h d  . w . u r 9 . b b . 8 . y n  . lk . 
m !  q 3)6 ) q i ) w 2 
, z o t 4 )  . 4 . z r 
m k. x ! ! 5 ) , v w 
!  . ! o w u m 
m ' o ! , 4 i a v d  ( 8 k  v 
mt  ( w 5 , q r s . t q q 
l f y ) t 2 a w 
m 5 . 3  ( i4l'@smzboaq2(lv9x ! 6 ni . 
, i f ! 7 , h 
y , v5 ) z x , 0 
 . 33 . q b 2jvl2 ) i s 
m e t p o r d 
m 4 , 45 z 7 , ` u 5@5ws )  . 3) . ' 
m . ` . a r ( c84y)w )  ( w a g s@2 ) 1a 
m  . w a3)m2789i ) !  ( a5d(@y6g)@9u1t ) c 
m b r  ! h80)h8n ) 9 f  ( p 
 ( w4uhhb , ! 9 .  . au . f . r . 
m d e ,  ( 5x4rhwv99  ( ns  ( nb97d 
m , g 7  ( f9 0 ' p (  ( lqv(x e 
mn   ( p1(o  ( r(wzmq v !  ( 8t(xb8`5b k h  . 
 ( mb(q0 l '   ( v(t'b9 0 2 ( 
m 51 u . r  ( 2k2(vr h  ( p(eu89uewi8mqa ! 1 ! g vz5lwd ) 
m 9 6  ( n  ( 66  ca s , 897)i' ) h . m m@ ) y)32fam ) 
m . z  . 2 . 7 1 1 l5m@z1p2 ) 3 
mn 2 ! re  ( 9n'(a5 ! . 6  . 5 . 
f ! ( ! ! eh 2 ! @ @ k 4 k 7 ,  
m we ! y  ( n 6 ,  . 9 s)7 ) h , 
  . 1 .  ( 6(rcee@d ! q 07 2 
 . . 9 ! 4 c 2 c , ! y n 
m m i 48 9 f  ( @sm ) , 1 ! f  .  ( h(1yqxf  he ! ) 
) 2 y 
 ( mh86  ( g6al(dz0 9 '  ( 9bj(xerkyi dcgyhm9)b ) ) 
ma ho h ) s)i4 ) d 9 n ,  0 
mi  a)dla` )  ( o(h(7y ) 43)z88 ) ! f)rdg ) 
m h ) , e ! s t ,  . m ze@5)y59ffh ) 
, 7 y ) m v h 52 ! w c)w5a ) 
m ! f m  . g  . 3 . ! z j ) 
t ,  ( 2zv93 j 6 n ! 6 6 
 ( 5sjhih i ) 4  ( qpd)mz9bby((0 ) 
! . bdygwzv ) ` d  ! d . d c a d 
a ( 7 
m !  ( sjc r ! @ l )  . ! 
7 j q j x e 
ny e @  ( n72@h40t9p rjs)v ) ! n 
m v . ! w , beg 1 9 5 z . 
 ( mhbhnb(nrd`njrmjl3j x !  
0 ! k9r58)e ) k d p hlha )  
m  ( 5@(2nz ) ,  ( 68 y p  .  ( izvimq ! 
 ( ach 1  ( d  ( wan ! o 
1 ( 90 8 '  ( e)(z ) c c 9 
m q . 8 yo 5 d , u 
m 4 9 1 . m b g 8 
h k  ( z@ku9 ie f ) b ) b 0)uvt ) 
m r f , ` 2 n)6 ) , 4   m j  ( j 
m z ! @o ) ! 4 !  . ( . ! o ) , 9 , . z ! 
g , b . ! 2 5 7 w ) , , p . 
m i. ( 9 , p 5 1 b 
m r o . 19 . 61px2 ) i  ( g(jx30s3vub d 7 j 
! fr  s .  . x  rz p . 5 . 
m  ( qea !  . j , r 1 e 
 ( mcck(y f a 5 x  . 3 !   rh ) 
m 3 ) s @ g  0 p 6 !  . o 
n i a . uk ! k r. q ) 5 n 
 ( mdu(kia w ,  ( w81(4  s h 
m h  ( ou  ( r3dz ! ! 1 x y 
ls ilvq)mj`y ) w  v j m j 
( 9 xpknxekf5)fedy3yd3 ) , h c , 0 a@c3 ) 
 ( p(o a , 8  ( 0 0 y ) , q .  
m m l ) ! 3 i  yu 
m uk u  ( p74'0m(e w e  . z i. 
 . 3 b , 8 
z)q ) 6 b 2 , l , f h 
m  ( 7(unlv ) y 9 1 u  ( 97y4 5 , @ ! 
 . ( t  . j ! w ! 9  ( rj @ 
m ! ! b s l (a u 
m a z hi v)98 ) i 3 h 
m 3 , 0 . , ) , ap , 
m ( ) ,  ( 5f'a(ryw8 z ! ! z x ! r id v 
m.  . , m ! o tm v g 9 w x 
8 ) ` r y ) j . s . s z e  . n . 
m ' !  ( m so 5  ( `('q5 ,  ( 633t5 , qt)mw )  0 , s 5 , 
o h k  ( 2l y 
m , o  . m . k m 6 ( . q q aa ! ' ! 
m  ( vyf 1 sl ) , 8 j q e 
m d @ ! 47 l o f  . u .  ( cm(9  ( dr h p 
m jm)oxe ) 6  ( 6(5 l z  ( yv(3ctp , 4 3 
m s , r)8n ) ! 7 @kc ) 8 x  ( '4 
m  j 4 1 '  ( 8 l x  ( kf(i1 
m ! y  . (  02  . b .  . 
m i . 4 4 w s ' a q vv ) e 4 
q v ) , es in ! a ' 3  . 
my 2 3 32 ) ! k )  . s 2@zkb)' ) d no , j 
m p @ k 7  . 1 ! t ) sp1x6fnjk8b ) 
 ( c5gj(1 ! s ! 7 , l ) q ! , 2 0 t. 
 . ! x  . , r 0 7 z 
m h  ( ln 8 )  ( de(k  . 0 . 
m . ` . 7 . , ( bo )  ( nn x h 
m , ! 4 5 `a1 ) f   . m 9  @ 
3 ) y m s .  ( v ! 5)s0a ) ! 'll , t j 
m  . 7 sa'6s8' ) ) , 0 rv )  . , 
m ,  ( b(l1 z4)x` ) n , q 5 
c w   ( zgd 6 5 5 , a il '  . 
m n o`)7mn' ) l i c r 
, 07 ,  ( y73rt(bc r ! l 4 3 
41 , n w t lp ) u . , ' ! q 9 
m 5  ( mw(nn3d a x 3 e ! 
4coqfp)0xj ) z , i x ! ' 
5 . ! ` n , ' b  ( 0q`yc 
n !  . 93  , , x 4 
m ' ! g pr. r m  ( 6je@h0(wb , z l d 
m , t q b8 ) j ! 28jb)2 ) @ w 
m  c jr 9 ) b  ( 7v d 1  . c  . ni 
6 , z , ,  . , 0 , l ) 
, k ! ,  ( mba r z  ( 3dk8h4(s 5 
m8t)hm ) , t k , uu ) , n  hu ) w , k . ! ,  ( y 
is  ( 1vk(n a3a)0 ) , g  a ! 3 6 , gi)z ) 
m 6 w. ! 4qk5sf ) 0. y ,  v 
x  ( 4d(v g a . 
u b . 4 . ! in 8 t , v . dupu)r ) 
m b g mw 0 4 , d ay b)hob ) 2l)4 ) x 
m , ! n  v  .  ( g61(cr8 
m ! c ! , 8 bm ) d 
m ! 5 ! 46 
9 c t ! 4 h m . 
mq9)s ) '  . e j ' 6 az a 
m o ! ! b y 4 ! 1 !  ( stevc 1 
 . c ah ku .  . ! c ,  ( 3b(6 8 1 
m 8 v  . f . ` y  
u c  . ( s . 6 0 
m t , g j 7)4 ) y x 
we u c)9a ) z b , s , , s 
1  ( j9 7.  ( `rr8m3lov(jn ma 
8 m , f 9 q m f 5 , h 
n  . g aj4zp5m58)j ) 4 vs 36 
d 4  v q .  .  . 3 h  ( ias 
m u g ! y  ( @(ej8q  ( 3(nl 25 r  . 
m o j m 13 ) 
t  . d .  . '  ( m8 , y  x 
2  ( kov(8  . ! l 9 ( , ! w r 
l k @ i ni t s 
d 23  d , 584)l ) 2 j 8)0sy3 ) 3 
z ,  ( ko p j  . d . j . 
m  . , 0  ( pg 40 
m , p 0 8vf )  ( jjy3 i 
 ( m(82ivnp1 6o ) , v 6 , g . r ! n  ( l x a 
m  ( 7m(48 l n u  ( s`gk' c g 
 ( m7(p57rsa@dss7  ( '  ( 4(4 , o l ! t ) 2 . 
5 @ 5  i ' ,  ( n0 ! s l 
m ) 2 ! , @ , ! l  ( f(nr i  ( t k j 
g 01  ( n9q(cn(s ! h q ,  ( g03ns4@2(@ 
m x  ( vbs 2 . , t ,  ( wch y n dm2)hdio@ ) i 
m ! p  . q ( , 00  ( 8 wo a y a' ) n 
m , 2 7 r k  ( c(2 p 2 , ! h. , z . z . 
m @ s b g p l !  . , jmczj ) 9 , t 
mr o , p ! e ! e i 7 ! 21 0 
m)13m ) v the . , r x  ( bcqgz`fu(c r e ,  ( rv2 p ! q 8 l 
q @ n ! l ) s f)))@t )  ( w(x h c 
m ) j n a q !  ( 4j8(l , y !  b 
m x ) , l d , k 9 p m @ 2 ny  v 
m 3 `i)m0 ) w o , 5 1ia ) 
m , a . , @  @ 7  x n v  ! u 
m , t  u a l i 0 c 4 , o  . y ) m 
! r ! , q  . ' v)61@i3 ) 5  ( m(iwtis 
 ( m2b@v(u45@ ( 26  ( m ! l u 55 q , 6  ` r v uk b 
5 !  . 4 4 ! , ! 7eig)0 ) 
! ho ,  ( h'2 h . ! 5t5)62 ) u , q 
m c , 3 . ! i , z  . 2 
m ! !  . , , 2 . y . h 
3 f gn )  ( 70611  . 4 . k , 1 p 
t 7 (  ( 4(' ! 55 , 
m w8 ) q ! ! 5 4 o d . m . ' 8 u 
s 0 q f)037 ) q , 4 5 
m n s gb , k , l t l v y 
m b on mw 8 ! a 
o 0 b , e ! u  . 5 . ! ot p k @ 
 ( mz@gosr49v(r 7 4 9 r e ! ! 56 
 . j i ! , 9d ) 2 a , p , 
m c 56)m3ah ) a v e5`)w2 ) 3 z @ v 
m c 2 ! , ) e 4 b ! 
 . , !  . 67 q ! w ' 
m ! , m ! xv ) a 8  ( 3 !  ( d`  ( jb)7jb(5j' ) 
m ,  . jc jc d z h i zc , 
mk , a , 4 b , z 8 )  ( x3h7  . 
u h 
! 6 m k  ( tvxqoi(' 
49 , a  . l , n h 49 
m 9 m  x 5 ) q 0z6m ) 
m j 6 ` ce ) k y e o ! . s fpl ) 
me 3 ) z  . z . ' 3 w j t y u ) 6 h 
43 fi k 6 p , h smam)di4cw ) zc m x l 
m. l blw6z9n ) gu . f , , ' , s . tv . 
m r ol)y' ) , 7 z w 8 , cs z ' q 
m , mk , , s) , o ) o  .  . ' r zc .  . 1 d 
 . , t ,  ( o(c5s w 
m j  ! b ! 32 , 2 
8 w ! b   l ,  2  . 
b w w q x o 
m w . 4 ) ! r o ! 88 
 ( 2  n v c , @)v4b ) ! p ! w87 ) 
b ( v m 
my g ` , 3   ( nr w 4 z 
m s w j ku zc p g y w , p , f 
59  l 
m u . 0 ec v u dgpp5 )  . z r . 4 . 34  
m 5 t @ u j 5. ed ! w , g c ' . e i 
m z ! 5 c a z 3 q 9 5 g ( 
 ( m  . h a , z 4 j , b f , y    ( 7'uz 
 .  ( l(dd  ( y47m5d)79 )  ( x9 q w 
m , ) z u. 3 !  ( ahn(b8v ,  . 3 l f 0 
'  ! ! v lkir6rb23)ml ) , sm b 
m u bb 6  r . t . o . 
 ( m(4 ,  ( e@5ja(n'd  ( s(t1`d 0 ei1)wbqny ) n , , 7 q @ 4 
 . @  5 d w q  . ! p ) aq ) i 
 ( b4r  ( s(m ! ! h ) c i ' i u  n 
b d y 5 s 3 d 
m , , j i6z ) 6 ! u u h  . 3 0 
m  5 ( , f . i q it fr t 8 ) u 
a nc)py1' ) gu ( a ) ! 2 t w c . y 
o a ! ' (  ( 1929ee(g 8 a  . @ 
7 . 0 . 8m ) a . 8 9 . 1 y 2  
m i . w d wr ) 8 ie)iz ) e)h ) yf ) 
m m 94 , 74 e , 4 a  ( bt9x(y`t , a 
ve j . k ke)6mj ) 4 j 
 ( mg`)6ze ) 7 70 73 r 9 k '  ( 2()8@h ) 
1 ! , m ,  . !  . ( 1 , 
6 n  ( j  . u .  . 4 . ! a k 2 ! 
a l 9 d ) . b nj 
 ( 9t 4 , 8 6 83g)c7 )  
m 1 f 2 ! k 8 ! ! 6 
q ! g 6  ( i m ' ! t e . 1  ( ghm ! 7 , n 
2 u z ! ' a a ,  . w . u h 
m , j s ! ! t , t 
m g h  ( avui(2d as d h p. k !  ( 4pr 
mn o ) k )  ( p @ ! ! 
m ! w l  ( d(el ` ! ! 1 c w 
l ca ! 8 ( , t ! , 9 ! 50 ov m an 
, o , , ` ! f 3 02 ( . x . ! !  . 27 . 
how3 ) q !  ( nc(p ! j 3 
m eyt)d ) t !  ( pu()fn7)a' ) ! m !  . 5 . e o . v . 2 8 ( ! ed 
m)d ) e ! , , 0 jn y 
me b k ! a)rx ) 9 90hig ) 
! ,  .  c . p ( f ! 39 s 
mi q  ( bhq , 3 g , b  7 8 . o . 
! 2 ! 2cm)53u)kz ) , g ) m 
k , ub'15i6x)d ) , a 
m 7 e @ a ! d ) , d 1 , , . 
h  ( 5py(eh , d , tm ` ' 
! q , a 
0 ) t 5 1 x , 0 
m i ( k3 ) @ b bgg))gk ) , n 3 i !  ( `(pbin 
m e 0u ) , z @ ) 9fdqb)w ) 2 
 6 y , , 54 i , r s 1 ! 4 , , 5 
m 6 g 6 l 8 )  . 6 . de y 6 
 c , y ) d ! 5 5. u . 8  . 
! c  . 
m h f 9 g c v ) , u v 6 k  ( @ k 
p , 'mo ) ! i'tv ) q  ( 9 
! t  ( mzy(0sw z ! y 
z a d . ! x  
k 5 v g  , , , l r ! 23` ) 3 
 7 0i)8 ) x q 8 d k , b  k ! i 
mw f n  ( y z  ) , . u ' 
m  . , , , 3   cv)`5itwfoo ) 
mw . ' . i 0 , o j ! 1 6 ! f ! ! , 9 l h 
! ,  ( d(`a0`ya7w89 g , e 
d  ( n 4)wig2 ) ! 2 x ti1 ) b5 ) y o m 
m , 2 6  82 ) 7 s 5 k 5 `  ( j6 
' i ) d 64 ! c 0   ( pg@qx5  . 
m g ! , (  ( yb , e 045 )  ( x7m(' u7kdt ) 
m 7.  ( d@)1 ) ! g)4smf ) h , 
m k  .  ( r(c r 2 x , ` . 3 6 f 
50 l a , k  ( k9 
m @  ( 8 u 4 . us ( bcy2)uxwaf9@ie ) 
) pp ) ! , 0 !  . 9 . , 
 .  ( qu1vr , d  . 
'25w ) q ! ' . p 3zj`nhq)7x ) ,  ( hu79 ! 
m  . i .  ( xcdfa6 55yb ) 
m , 'j)m )  ( 68m(d 1 1 , ` 
0 z0 )  .  .  . x , , ! c 2 ' ! a 
, ! , ' a 2 1 9 
m 2 ) b , , k  4 !  ( lff3t  . 0 . 4 n 
a  ( 2(2 n  y ) ` a  ( yn(s i j  
mw 3 h9a ) 2 )   ( ' ! q o . 5 
!  . b .  . i'ech7173 ) , 1 i ku  ) gb k 
m f n @ 5 . 3 .  ( f(djgqgg 
m 0 d h i m !  ( b(1fi5 z a 
 ( mit(49(j z s j , g 0k)dieij5 ) f  w i ! 6u ) 
3  . k 9 j 
h f 1  @ c 5 3 ! u  . 
m  7  ( jxu(xhr 
i  . j . ! wh ) g d 
m e r  ( v 7 g fi h7yrzhth ) 
i 4 , f 86 . ! 2 ) ! 
m 4)z ) 9 , 2 ! h v , 
m 2 tm  k ! s h ) h ! . l  v 
m . a g 23  ( 3(fa@nf2v)j1 ) ) n 8 ' 
m , n  w  ( dn(m y , 2 e  ( 6y 
n n ) p  5 i  ! n 
 ( s2 c j a  . fd97ipxe2u ) w 
of )  i  . j r ) b ) r 7 y n q 
0rdf))8 ) '' , v5'iyi)7 ) 
m ! ,  ( @ zmp ) 
 ( o6)xb ) , k fy ) h t6d'v)mn ) b 8 
o i , ! d3)a ) g  ( uua(o pk)e3 ) 5 8 
m , 4 k r kr 46 l . f mn ! n ) g 
! , 9 j  ( ybmkj)jd(r ) 
m ! 8 6 7 3 , q , oz2f34 ) 6 , d ! ) , j 
w . u @ ! u 1 5  . ! 
) q ! o 
mxz ) k  ( n , e 13 
m ! ' d g)ez33q ) ! 6 0 vi ) o 
m 6 6 x 6 p  u ) v 
2 e !  ( 32 
m 3 f 
p 9 r  9 ,  f 4 fr q 
m 6n35 ) 1 5 , @ r z , wrx ) y o w 7 j p 
7  ( 7` w ,  ( k'xy  
mvf ) 6 6  . , g. , v 
m ' 1 . q ,  . ,  
m !  ( '8oyq y n c  . ( . j j 
w n r 6 j7 ) r n . j . d2)958nmi ) 
m y l k i n1 , ma ,  z 
m  . 6 . x , h w y )  ( qoi5yc'(g ) j 
m g 7 j ! 5)kdv ) rs 8 s 
 . , w ')w ) , k b s  .  ( d(yzd ah . c 
p ) ( s , 5 w p !  ( 6zy6k(' w  .  . 5 
m ) o 5 il  ! z .  . 9vf )  ( 3  i , ! 0 q 
x ) o q  .  . ( . !  . y e 
m ' g  . 1 (s  n q . i , a 
t  .  ( @u9ip(oa5 y g0sv)u72 ) y , , f 
d 4 p j3)u )  ( c(a1cc @ 5 
r u , u w c k ! ( , t u j ! 
q 1 ztqe ) ! 3 0 ! ! . ! , 
m 7 q  . l . ! 9 5 ) d ( ! m ! , e ! e 
! fh )  ( k  vs 75 a  . d 
m u v y  ( vsz r 3 r)ehz9)0 ) ! z 
 ( m , 9 x y f 1l6e' ) l f 30 ! k 
, ,  ( wr  ( p  ( va8z''bkd3e((zbn ,  ( l(wt 
m ) t  ( `@r(q ! r  . 
m)hzj@ )  . , !  ( q(58 
m d f . p . e . 
m)d ) t @ u e 8ivf ) 9 ) , v ,  ( 23 e ) 
(q ) ! v  . 2 by  (  ) 
m n  gc@r)zb ) !  ( o d ! q i  ( p@)k(`bj ) , 
m d @  . 5 s ! w , , 
! k u w  ( z  . 1 . ! @ to p b ( , 
m ,  .  ( zrxq4(2 @ 4 st.  ( 6pg , ) 
m  ( p3@g e  ( q2e4 o@i ) 
 ( 6b3u6 , b 0 3) n ! 6. y u ) ! y s 
, k . , 0 , d e4)zn20m0vf75 ) ! ! 
m e px5q)@zwrm ) w 7 ) ' ) e v ! . 3 j ce 
o ! 5xi7u')af ) t e ! f ! k 
m 7 3  ( xyz5 @ f ls 7 
7 ) m , 8 66 ` , 
mk @ n ) 4 ,  s ! q 5 a 
c 6 ) g b rs h en 3 g 
m w.  8  w 3 w u  . y . ! k ! re 
m y o t ,  ( z m  . 1 . 1 f x 
9 ! , 06 ) ! v. 6  ( t)bo(82 )  ( t(a3 
d ` . 5 . f , g p d2b ) ! ` x q 4 
m ! s g ` up  ) d z c 
2b ) , 8 ( 5 v n xk ) , 
m  .  ( 3)(e5)o03 ) bn , x 
m ! !   m .  ( mbsk1lm4'  . d s 
m)2`a )  .  ( dx5 to r2)w6@z ) 
m k 7 u . f . ! , 8j4the'7 ) ) , y ed . , 
m  ( p m u x ! a 2 h 
me u f e  y . d 
, jc j i ! 0@ ) ' v 
nc u ! y)i)s'hh ) 4 ( u , ! 
! p s m  ( j(y4 ( .  . ! y c t 5 ) o , 
m 9 . q .  . v .  f  1 y  . r 
m j , jw b k , e k o 7 
mot   4 ,  40 . up @ 5 k ! md 8 
m d. , v q  ( q3(s8q 
v i e  . e . d )  ( 6 . ! 3 m 
m n r  m i m. , 5 . , s a 
v . m e e) . ` q  ( s(m9l 
 ( m5 , @ j  ( 7qjcrj 6 
m , 59 . 7 is c 
9 2 9 ' g 5 u u ! 5 
mk  ( 'o79 , x)3 ) 76 14 
m 9 7. , v 6 , l. i , x j 
0 u ! lq1d0mmym)e ) rk v h ,  ( ux(3uexj 5 k 1 ) 
 .  ( wzi8 k mi  ( 5 , 
m i c c ) ` 8 ,  
mqxt ) r ! ( k  i b u h e  w q 0. 
x , e  ( opeb(5  . g . ot c y 
r ( , j t b 6 pwr6)57 ) 1 o xx n r , f n 
m , d ( .  . , , , , z , @ , 
l 5 62)f5k ) l x , no  .  ( y l  ( 'z(zh l ! ` 
m c a , i 2 ! t 20 ,  . 
k . b  ( z(s3yfbk z k . i . , i x 
m e . 5  ( s(3b4  , 
'  ( '@(lp0 '4 ) k. co . d co 
m w b s l ! i . g . pedo ) 9 , `)' ) p d 
' j  v1 83 ) '4 ) 0 2 h  eu 
d , 8 0 ls)r ) ! t v !  ( z@sxp(3tpm ) 
b ! w t  k 5 ,  . 
 . , 7 ! y ) 1 7 , ! hp)`s ) , l  ( l41m(7  ( 7(s 7 
m , e b c !  ( ofz , s  ( z(@r 05 
b 3 , ' ( ! s ) y c  . 
) n  ( j@u'mrz 3 , ! 4 ) , 3 a  ( s 
 ( mu`  c ! t , , ) o 5 ) 
 . ,  ( l900 z  ( j(nkp , m u  ( zb !  k i 
mk ! , f ,  ( dpquappx 3. , f , l 
m f@w ) 3 un4ze ) s u p ro ) , @ , x s. l , 
` c . d . c3)g )  ( g(b , 
m a ) i . k . , s s) . 4  . y 
,  .  ( 18 s ! , l 
, , ' 1 4 c . 
, o1xl2 ) 3   ( b2(0y x 
u r a d ! i 
 ( m(xrt4b n r  ( u5 c , y e . , b 
m 1 5  ( t(l y ) ! k l v !  . y . e 
m )  ( wxsxx(t 0 , a 3 . 5 z  ( 5 8 
4 . v k ,  ( x`rr1  ( ttl(u4 ! g 
m a , 4b))9z8u ) 4 
q , , 3   ( k !  . 3 . , axg41)o ) , ua ) b 
m 4 n s u  l d 70 
m 57 . o . ( x 0 4 5)x ) 7  . , ! ( 
m xo8 ) u. x 5 x. 59 
md ' s47 ) 85  . q  . 
, 5 . ov . o k p6wu )  ( '(l u 
m m ) s  ( rkm(79qfw6 i . , f  tv 
m o 54 6 7 l , 51 z w ,  ( 79 
s 17 ! t up i ) 
w . p o u t 7 
, 6yuah3)k1y5 ) 34 .  . 0 ) 
m . p , v  ( `mr4kfvq(qy0r y , k , 
 . c . ! r m 3 ' @ 
m)embtu ) 6 3 e . 6 , 60 ) s i h ob 
mr  ( m , 4c )  ( m ! ! 63 .  .  ( 65(b a 
m c  . j y q u u . !  5  ( ah(r 
m 1)ul ) , , ef)p ) 4 m , u a ! ! t 
m e w w  . !  m z basn ) ! 3 ! 5 , 
m  , 7 ! 5 . d j m  . 
v1 g ) ! ! 
m z ! n 3a)fk92 ) `  ( w43 j w 
m c 6 p n 5 t 
f  ( u@ i b . a . ! ! i . 2 
m su 4r2cw3gw ) k c3fl ) n 
m g 2  5 x b thy 12 ` 
m k z an ! y y r !  . z , !  ( 7 8  
p ! p n  ( w @ v. 
m 1 6 , 5)`p )  ( , 1 qq)efnzx ) ! a 
m o .  . ! v  . my u b 32 
s y ! d v.  ( 6 , v  .  ( '(g1fx5 
5 ,  v id o z ! w i 
cc , n1  ( 'm69aooa@g ago , , 
' c , @ , 3 , 4 w @ 
! j  ( qw(4 ' uh 4 , c 
m.  ( v(3 c ! b ! u o ,  . k . ! 5 z 
l ) o e 5tr)9y ) @ z 
mi j jc wp ) w m q .  . ! q . 
u f iovq'z ) @ 3 ' , 6 4 
m dq )  ! ! h 
c ) s0n24` ) 8  ( ov76@l the j 
! c 1 )  ! . c)ddo1b ) d n ermuznt ) , m 
m j n 2 . h . !   . pd ) , , 
m g , k6)ah64 ) axn ) , 5wn)j9 ) aj)0)ezo ) 
m uz6lo)e ) k  ( 7`up  . c . 6 z 
c 6 ' k ! ,  '1)i'0i1dg ) ! w 
m an q )  ( i ) , 1i4j)0 ) o 7 , 
m 5 ! ! 5 ) h 7 , (c kr  . d ) c al ! ! j ) 
 ( jpm`3)5 )  f p ks 
m)i ) ,  ( @zby(hn a g k b 
m @ 3 ! w y   q 
a . s 55 er f 4  5 d , 7 . 4 
! 0 2 5 ! ! k 8 
u 3 9 r f @ @ .  ( 9v0t'(hc7h 2 
g j ) wt8 ) , ! !  ( tr)h768)(7ti ) 
! a 2.  ( q(kz958 ! i q ! 
54)e ) 3 c 3  . ! 2d)i ) ac . v 
. de e  ( 1 , q 2 z ` 
m  ( 6( ) f 4 ny c  ( 8)k(y9 ) , 
h e , d e  6  ( 4ed40jc2q0v 1 dk , j j 9 
m , 4 l r uh 3  ( 16( ) , o2)@akl ) l ) 
 ! j i 4 lab  3 ) , d z  ( u(wdtm , 
6 v mfqmj9fo)i ) v .  ( zbc2  ( 88(au 
0 l 75 u  . 
` 
end 


from  ( morris the cat ) 
subject vancouver seattle study critiques 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 



open letter by dr. paul h. , research for 
 . official journal 1 89 .  . 


dear sir 

by now , we are used to the new england journal of medicine 's publication 
of small scale studies related to from which conclusions are 
drawn which are quantum from the data , followed by of 
scientific findings .  . these are regularly released to the press 
without the which riddle the , and 
often accompanied by an calling attention to the findings .  . 
generally , while they at least present a few interesting data , however 
meaningless , the studies misinterpret statistics , and ignore or 
serious studies by  . 

the latest effort , crime , assaults , and 
a tale of two cities , by j . h .  . , et al. , with the accompanying 
, a call for science , by two employees 
of the for disease control  ( november 10 ) , however , is an insult 
to the intelligence of any serious scholar in any field and have so few 
data and so many flaws that i feel compelled to write at some length 
to call attention to various major and minor , in no particular 
order. 

1. the authors cite , et al.  . 1 ) to 
support the statement that some have argued that 
access to could reduce our rate 
of  . , et al. , in fact studied and rejected that 
contention .  . 

2. the authors that vancouver and seattle are very 
similar cities with similar economic circumstances , histories , 
characteristics , and the like. in fact , the cities 
are very different with very different characteristics 
which appear to explain completely the higher rate in 
seattle .  . both cities are over three non white 
and the non white are reported to be 
the same in seattle and vancouver . it is the different back 
grounds , problems , circumstances , and behaviors of the various 
ethnic minorities which explain the difference in  . 

3. the authors pretend they are evaluating canada 's gun law , 
compared to washington state 's .  . but they do not examine at all 
the situation in vancouver prior to the gun law taking effect 
in  . as it happens , in the three years prior to that  ( 1975 
1977 ) , vancouver 23 per year , one 
involving ,  . 2 ) and in the seven years of the 
article there were 29 per year , one involving 
 . surely even the medical profession that 
one must look to see the prior situation was before concluding 
that a change made a difference would a conclude that 
a patient was from eating each day 
for seven years because his level was 200 without 
at least seeing if it was before he started the 

4. the authors pick two medium cities to a national 
gun law. nothing can be learned from such a tiny and arbitrarily 
 . seattle appears to have been because 
it was for the authors rather than for any scientific 
reason. would call something a scientific study which 
involved one experimental subject and one control 
had different arbitrarily cities been chosen , opposite 
scientific conclusions would follow vancouver 's 
rate that of such wild west cities in texas as 
, , , and , in , 
 .  . 3) 

5. the authors fail to clearly demonstrate that or 
are far more commonly owned in seattle than in 
vancouver .  . they use two approaches in 
to study the of  . the first is 
an apples and oranges effort to compare the number of carry 
in seattle to the number of in 
vancouver .  . but the number clearly the number of 
in seattle , and primarily 
owners .  . the second , however , tells nothing about the number 
of in vancouver , and non 
for the most part. where is it difficult to obtain 
legally for protection , are 
meaningless .  . there are 66 , 000 in new york 
city  ( new york daily news ,  . 27 ,  . comparing the two , 
that method suggests about per 100 , 000 population 
in new york city compared to in vancouver , meaning vancouver 
has a greater of weapons than new york city. 

the second method of measuring gun is 's gun 
index , a previously measure of 
differences .  . but the was by of his own 
theory.  . 4 ) normally , second opinions are sought from a 
different doctor .  . more , the index is 
based on the average of the percentage of involvement 
in suicide and  . so the authors are basically taking 
a measure of misuse .  . , gun misuse in 
 ( 42 in seattle , 14 in vancouver ) is related to gun misuse in 
plus suicide , divided by two  ( 41 in seattle , 12 in 
 . the authors are not measuring the relative avail 
ability of , or of , in seattle and 
vancouver .  . 

6. the authors the laws of both washington and 
canada .  . they to mention the significant fact that 
washington has a waiting period and background check prior to 
the of a , and that exist in canadian 
law for and carrying for personal 
protection. the authors also make it appear that it is more 
difficult to get a legally in canada than is actually 
the case. 

7. the authors ignore all other factors which might explain 
the differences in crime rate , beyond some vague mention of the 
provided by law and the of estimates of 
for one particular offense involving a 
 . there is no measure of the differences in the number 
of law enforcement officers their in making 
for gun law in the two arrest 
for other offenses conviction actual sentences 
imposed for gun related crimes , violent crimes without guns , 
or gun law or rates. whereas social 
scientists would attempt to measure and hold for such differences , 
the authors of the tale of two cities fail even to mention 
most factors related to crime control. 

8. the authors dismiss claims that are an effective 
means for protection unless the criminal is killed. such is not 
the case.  . 5 8 ) have found that almost 
, 000 americans use for protection from 
criminals , and that using a gun for protection reduces the 
that a crime rape , , assault will be 
by the criminal and reduces the likelihood of injury 
to the victim .  . it is interesting , nonetheless , that the authors 
reported the same number  ( four ) of civilian 
without in each city but that less restrictive seattle 
accounted for 100 of the reported civilian 
involving  . 

9. the for disease control , which funded the study , 
the paper ,  . 9 ) saying it applied 
scientific methods to examine a focus of contention 
advocates of stricter of , particularly 
 . there is nothing in the paper which could possibly 
be mistaken for scientific methods by a or 
 . the vancouver seattle study is the 
of an experimental drug to control by finding 
two ordinary looking middle class white males , one 25 
and the other 40 , and without first taking their vital signs , 
the experimental drug to the 25 year old while 
giving the 40 year old a , then taking their blood pressure 
and , on finding the man had a lower blood pressure , 
in a special article a new medical  . 
it would be nice to think that such a study would neither be 
funded by the or printed by the  . 

since the longstanding anti gun of the and the 
make them willing to present research as scientific 
in special articles and 
to , we are obligated to correct the record by 
the news media and those with congressional and 
over the activities of the for disease control about 
the contained in , crime , assaults , 
and a tale of two cities and a call 
for science. clearly , all scientific standards go by the 
whenever the and the new england journal of medicine 
an opportunity to attack ownership in america .  . 

references 

1. , et al , weapons , crime and violence in america a literature 
review and research , washington , d . c .  . department of justice , 
 . 

2. e. evaluation of the canadian gun control legislation final 
report. ottawa ministry of the general of canada , , 
p. 87 .  . 

3. department of justice , federal bureau of investigation , crime in 
the united states , 1987  ( uniform crime  . washington , d . c .  . 
government printing office , 1988 

4.  . the role of in violent crime . in m. 
na ,  . criminal violence , ,  . sage , 
90 , pp.  . 

5. g. crime control through the private use of armed force . 
social problems 1988 35 1 21 .  . 

6. , d. victim responses to and crime 
control policy .  . 1985 23 675  . 

7.  . of rape and assault . journal 
of quantitative  . 1986 2 203 217 .  . 

8. , g. rape and resistance . paper at the american society 
of , chicago , 1988. 

9. mercy ,  . a call for science . 
 . 


guns and 
by james d. 
 ( from 1989 issue of reason , free minds free markets ) 

someone once wrote statistics are like a  . what they real is 
, but what they conceal is vital .  . the problem is demonstrated 
by the most recent entry in a long line of scientific research 
to show a link between gun and  . funded by 
the federal government and published last year in the new england journal 
of medicine , the study compared in seattle and vancouver and 
suggested that a ban may reduce the rate of in a 
community. 
the medical doctors who published , crime , 
assaults , and essentially reasoned in three steps (1) despite 
many historical , social , and similarities , (2) vancouver 
has a lower rate  ( 3 ) because its stricter gun 
make guns less available. the second step in their reasoning seems 
 . the overall rate in seattle  ( for the period 
86 ) was 11 . 3 . per 100 , 000 , compared with 6.9 in vancouver .  . 
is definitely more common in seattle .  . the question then becomes , 
why 
the authors present a although not entirely accurate case 
to support the notion , as claimed in the third step of their reasoning , 
that vancouver 's are much more  . but their 
evidence on the difference in gun is and 
indeed , they acknowledge that direct evidence on the point 
does not exist. they offer two fragments of data in support 
of the claim that guns are more available in seattle but for all anybody 
knows as a matter of empirical fact , the opposite could be true. we 
are therefore being asked , at the conclusion of the study , to believe that 
a difference in gun explains the difference in 
when a difference in gun has not itself been established .  . 
indeed , the situation is even more  . the first of the two 
bits of evidence is a difference between the number of 
weapons issued in seattle and the number of restricted weapons 
issued in vancouver .  . differences between the two cities in the 
render these two numbers strictly  . 
the second bit of evidence is 's gun index , which stands 
at 41 percent for seattle but only 12 percent for vancouver .  . 's index 
however , does not measure the relative of gun ownership in 
various cities .  . it measures gun misuse it is an average of the percentage 
of and involving  . 
in the present case , the index shows only that in and , 
are more likely to be used in than in vancouver .  . to take 
's index as a measure of general , it must be 
assumed that the proportional involvement of guns in and 
is directly related to their relative in the general 
population .  . but this is exactly what the authors are seeking to prove .  . to 
assume what one is seeking to prove , then to prove it on the basis of 
that assumption does ot constitute scientific evidence for anything. 
even if we were to grant , on the basis of no compelling evidence , that 
guns are less common in vancouver , we might still question what causes what. 
the authors attribute seattle 's higher crime rate to a higher rate of gun 
ownership .  . but it might well be argued that low crime or 
reduce the motivation for average citizens to obtain guns in other words , 
that crime explain the in gun ownership , not vice  . 
in fact , it was once commonly argued that great britain 's low rate of 
violent crime was a function of that nation 's strict gun laws and the 
consequent low rate of gun ownership until british colin 
found that great britain had low of violent crime 
for many decades before strict were  . to invoke 
an ancient saw , correlation is not cause. 
nor do the problems with this study end with its lack of direct data 
on gun ownership .  . the authors say seattle and vancouver are similar in 
many ways , implying that they differ mainly in gun , gun law 
, and crime rates. this is an evident attempt to establish 
the condition of a sound scientific analysis that all 
else is equal among things being compared .  . 
clearly the two cities are similar in some ways , but a closer look 
reveals differences in ways that are relevant to their respective crime 
or rates. the cities are closely in what percentage 
of their population is white  ( 79 percent and 76  . but seattle 
is about 10 percent black , while vancouver is less than 0 . 5 . percent .  . 
vancouver 's minority population is  . so although the 
authors show that two cities are approximately comparable on a half 
dozen readily available , they have not shown 
that all relevant sources of have been ruled out. 
in fact , the differences in racial of the two cities is 
particularly relevant in light of the study 's of 
according to the race of the victim .  . for the white majority , the 
are nearly identical 6 . 2 . per 100 , 000 in seattle , 6 . 4 . in vancouver .  . 
the overall in the two cities are therefore due 
entirely to different among racial minorities .  . for blacks , 
the observed difference in rate is 36 . 6 . to 9 . 5 . and for 
26 . 9 . to 7 . 9 .  .  ( methodoligical complexities render the comparison 
, but it too is higher in seattle than in vancouver . ) . racial 
minorities are much more likely to be the victims of in seattle 
than in vancouver the white majority is equally likely to be slain 
in either city. 
since the nearly 2 1 initial difference in between the 
cities is due exclusively to 3 1 or 4 1 differences between minority 
groups , it is fair to ask why difference in gun 
 ( or gun law strigency ) would matter so to minorities but not 
matter at all to  . can gun explain why 
blacks and but not are so much more likely to be killed 
in seattle than in vancouver  ( studies in the united states , , 
do not show large or consistent racial differences in gun ownership . ) . 
or are other explanations more plausible could the between 
canadian and american of poverty among racial minorities have 
anything to do with it what are the relative of drug or 
abuse of among each 's minority population  ( the city 
of seattle runs the largest shelter for homeless men west of the 
) . among young , central city , men in the 
united states usually 40 percent .  . what is the comparable canadian 
percentage 
the crucial point is that canada and the united states differ in many 
ways , as do cities and population with the two countries. absent 
more detailed analysis , nearly any of these many ways might explain part 
or all of the difference in rates. in gross comparisons such 
as those between seattle and vancouver , all else is not equal .  . 
the authors of this study acknowledge that racial patterns in 
result in a complex picture .  . they do not acknowledge that the 
complexities seriously the main thrust of their argument. they 
also acknowledge that socio economic status is probably an important 
factor in our comparison , further that blacks 
in vancouver had a slightly higher mean in than the rest of 
vancouver 's population .  . given the evidence presented in the article , 
it is possible that all of the difference in between seattle 
and vancouver results from greater among seattle 's racial 
minorities .  . but the authors pay no further attention to this possibility , 
since detailed information about according to race 
is not available for vancouver .  . 
the largely difficulties in 
gross comparative studies of this sort can be illustrated with as simple 
example. if one were to take all u.s. and compare them in terms 
of (1) of gun ownership and (2) crime or , one 
would find an pattern with more guns have less crime .  . 
would one conclude from this evidence alone that guns actually reduce 
crime or would one insist that other also be taken into 
account in this example , the hidden is city size guns are 
more common in small towns and areas , whereas crime is a big city 
problem. if failed to this , or the 
appropriate data to examine its possible consequences , they be very 
seriously misled .  . in the study at hand , the authors two cities 
for size but not for minority poverty or other hidden , 
and their results are impossible to interpret .  . 
in the a call for science accompanying 
the study , two from the for disease control the 
authors for applying scientific methods to a problem of grave public 
significance .  . but in attempting to draw conclusions from 
research , the essence of scientific method is to 
plausible alternative explanations for the results and try to rule them 
out. absent such effort , the results may well seem scientific but are 
little more than polemics as serious research .  . that this 
study is but one of a number of recent efforts all practical 
identical research designs and published in scientific 
is cause for further concern. 

james d. is professor of at university .  . he has 
researched on the relationship of and crime .  . 

reason published monthly except combined august september issue by the reason 
foundation , a , tax exempt organization .  . rate 24 . 00 . 
per year .  . 

reason foundation 
park  . 

santa , ca 

from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 50 

in article writes 
 ( btw which parts should be secure criminal 
records , ie convictions , are typically considered public information , 
so should that info be secure remember , the population includes 
parents checking ) . 

like i said , i'm not sure of the details. but it seems to me that you 
could access medical information without giving out a name , or any other 
information. 

medical info without a name body attached is completely useless for 
treatment .  . 

the article i mentioned the the earlier post described a 
card type in which neither the nor the bank , knew who was 
the money. 

thus making it as secure as cash , for some purposes , but far less 
secure for others. 

parent 's checking a should n't need access to the information 
in the card .  . 

sure they do. the may have a nasty habit of 
kids three or four months into the job. the references may not have 
known him long enough or may not have picked up on this yet. 

remember , criminal conviction info is public , so if you 're going to 
argue for an id card , other people are going to have a strong argument 
that it public info .  . 

things. i think anything that you choose to keep unknown should be. 

thus making it useless for negative information. 

could have it so that only doctors can access medical information , police 
criminal records etc etc. 

yeah right. how are you going to keep doctors from the 
 ( we already know that you ca n't keep cops from 
info , but at least that info is typically supposed to be public 
anyway . ) . 

like i said , it 's best if you read the article for yourself. 

the article discusses technology , not appropriate policy. it also 
fails to deal with what happens if the folks with the . 

andy 


from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re the atf 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 14 

in article (c .  . d. tavares ) 
writes 
it 's hard to know what who to believe. however , the letter i received from 
the , in response to one i sent to , said that there was a search 
warrant and an arrest warrant .  . 

check again. you may find that the arrest warrant was issued after the 
first  . 

the letter implies that both warrants were issued before the feb 
but does n't say so  . ack ! 




from 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
originator 

in article writes 
you are  . 

there is no question about it. 

you ca n't  . there is no question about it. 

of those who vote , your cause is considered an  . no matter 
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the  . 

we must be reading different public opinion  . i agree that the 
misguided public would like to see assault weapons  ( mainly because 
they are being lied to by the media about the of their use 
in violent crime ... 1 ) , but if public opinion were so dead set 
against the you can bet that idiots like and 
would be seeing their foolish getting passed through congress 
a lot easier than they are. and as governments go broke and can no 
longer protect their citizens you can bet that the american people 
will start to really appreciate the usefulness of  . contrary 
to what you might think , time is probably on our side , not yours. 

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton , your 
will be null and  . tough  . 

yeah , right. do n't hold your  . my on the 
of uncomfortable in your , but this has nothing 
to do with the issue at hand. 

... ridiculous tripe deleted ... 

the press is against you , the public  ( the voting public ) is against 
you , the of history is against you ... this is it ! 

yeah , the liberal press does n't like us much , but you ca n't really 
expect thought from them anyway. their opinions are based 
more on a desire to appear politically correct than on facts  ( which 
are provided by the fbi , if they 'd bother to put on their 
and go to the library to read them) .  . most of my friends 
are anti gun , and without exception none of them bases his her opinions 
on facts .  . they would rather believe  ( despite all evidence to the 
contrary ) that law citizens would make the world 
more civilized , when all it really does is make us all  . they 
would rather in their liberal white guilt about how 
society has driven the criminal to rob , rape , and murder .  . they 
support spending millions of public dollars protecting the rights of scum 
who have already demonstrated that they have no regard for society 
or its laws .  . they ignore the fact that areas with the gun 
control  ( nyc , dc ) have the worst crime and areas with little gun 
control  ( vt , nh , id ) have very little crime in comparison .  . but they 
have to ignore this because otherwise they would need to confront 
the fact that law citizens who own guns are not the ones that 
are causing most of the trouble in society. oh no , we certainly ca n't 
accept that ! but i guess i have faith that when crime starts making 
significant into their and starts directly 
them and their families , they will probably a different 
tune .  . they just better hope it is n't too late then. 

surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. they will you one at a time. 

hmmm .  . i was n't expecting company  . i might be able to whip 
up a quick cheese and , but they should probably bring 
their own  . do i have time to the 

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the  . violent solutions 
are  . avoid situations which encourage criminals .  . then you will 
be as safe as possible. such as it is ... 

i'm glad you ended the posting here. your seems to have 
off ... 


my opinions. 
no one else 's .  . 




from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re , they did it. ( ) 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( wayne j. warf ) writes 

i ca n't see these people standing around while they burned to 
death. sorry. i just ca n't see them choosing a death as horrible as 
this. the story does n't  . it 'll take some convincing to get me 
to believe it. the fbi said today that koresh had earlier intended 
to strap himself with , come over to the fbi and 
, but lost his  . he lost his for a quick , clean 
death but not to alive sorry , do n't believe it , even if he 
was as a  . 

on last night , the ubiquitous australian woman claimed that 
koresh trained the women  ( years ago ) how to commit suicide by 
or by putting a gun in their mouth. with on hand , why 
choose to yourself there are too many questions here. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( rick bressler ) 
subject re proper gun control what is proper gun control  ( was re my gun is like my american express card ) 
organization group 
lines 

talk . politics . guns .  ( strider ) 8 51 apr 12 , 1993 

i think most of us would rather be held up with a knife than with a gun , 
but how the hell are you going to that you still have n't offered 

i 've been watching this knife verses gun bit for a while now ,  ( even 
contributed a few comments ) but this stuff i 'd rather face a knife than 
a gun has got to come from ignorance ! i used to think pretty much the 
same thing , then i got ' . 

people do not as a rule understand how can be , or how 
quickly you can be killed with one. most people do n't understand that 
it takes less than an of penetration in some areas to cause quick 
 ( within a minute or so ) death. 

the death from and are within a few percentage 
points of each other. many people not realizing how are 
 try their luck  and thus more get injured by  . a gun is 
only in a single direction and it 's only advantage is that it is a 
remote control weapon .  . a contact weapon such as a knife a 
area 7 to 10 feet in  . 

most people have never seen knife , aside from a finger by 
accident. from 21 feet or so , a knife is very nearly an even match for 
a gun in experienced hands , even if the knife has only 
moderate  . from inside 10 feet or so , a knife is a match for a 
drawn gun. a knife is utterly silent , it never and never runs out 
of ammunition .  . it is limited only by the speed , and 
ability of it 's  . criminals in general are young , fast and 
strong .  . it 's interesting to note that the attacks 
used by many the wild 
attacks of  . i 've talked to several well trained 
 . they have agreed that if they ever go up 
against a knife they simply plan on being cut , not as bad as 
the  . 

practicing with requires facilities and equipment. practicing 
with requires only a small area and something to simulate a 
knife , say a popsicle stick or tooth brush .  . criminals practice their 
knife attacks in prison .  . 

if you have not trained against with a and do not realize 
these facts the first you will have that something is wrong is 
the knife through your throat , or in the case of an experienced 
, parts of your body falling off onto the ground. a 60 year old 
man with arthritis can close that 7 distance and gut you in about 
one and a half seconds .  . with a broken in a walking 
cast managed it in two .  . i 've seen people close that distance and strike 
in 1 second .  . i'm old , over weight and slow .  . i can do it in 1 . 3 . 
seconds .  . i 've seen footage of people killed with weapons 
that you would not believe.  ( how about a single stab wound to the 
with a table ! in this case the used the handle , not the 
pointed end . ) . 

add to this the  fact  that hand gun  stopping  power is largely a myth .  . 
except in the case of a central nervous system shot , or a round that 
destroys the structure , it takes anywhere from 3 to twelve 
seconds for a bullet wound to  take effect . ' . 

this is true of even heart shots .  . there is the case of the police woman 
in l . a .  . , the first recorded of a  . 357 . shot to the heart .  . that 
not only killed her , but him down to do it ! all 
four of her shots , fired after she had been shot , the  . 
girl ! the bullet entered her on a angle , went through the 
of her heart , down through the , her and 
her  . it then her back leaving a ball 
hole .  . she died about times on the operating table , but was 
out of the hospital in 15 days and was back on full duty in eight 
months ! she was off duty at the time and not wearing her  . she was 
on her way home so happened to have her gun. no , she does n't think 
civilians should have the same rights. sigh. 

the moral of the story is that even if you do to shoot a knife 
, you 'd better be planning on doing some  . a good 
alternative is to shoot for and break the  . people can often walk 
(a little ) on broken legs but a broken will nearly always 
them. many schools recommend shots against contact 
weapons .  . the target is as large as the traditional  center of mass  and 
is more reliable to stop somebody with a contact weapon , assuming a 
powerful enough to  do the job . ' . hot  . 38 . 's on up will usually 
do this. 

remember folks , the idea is n't to  take em with you  but for you to live 
and them to fail , whatever the consequences for them. this the reason 
 killing them  is n't our goal , or in many cases even good enough to keep 
us alive .  . 

i do n't want to face a violent attack of any sort .  . knowing what i now 
know , i ca n't say i 'd rather face a knife than an gun. it would 
have to depend on the , and if i could pick and choose , i 
t be there. this is really the bottom line. criminals do not 
fear the law. criminals do not fear the weapon .  . they fear the citizen 
behind the weapon that has shown the resolution and determination to do 
whatever it takes .  . 

 . 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re boston gun buy back 
lines 40 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article  ( ron miller ) writes 

from  ( mark urbin ) 

just a short thought 
when you ask the question of the authorities or of 
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer 
no , it 's total amnesty . 

please note that the 50 given for each , in the boston 
back  will not be in cash , but money orders .  . how much amnesty can 
you get if you leave paper trail behind 

in the latest case in denver , they were giving away to a denver 
game. 

how is a money order (i do n't know. have n't used one in 20 years ) 

money orders operate pretty much like , with both parties being 
supposed to sign them. i assume you 'd have to show the buy back people 
an id , and you 'd then have a money order made out to that id .  . 

as far as as a practical matter , i do n't know , it would 
depend on whether they bother to who the 's name is 
on the money order and bother that sort of thing in. i 'd say 
certainly the police and the people would keep a record of who 
they gave money orders out to. 

is that even an issue if the weapons are n't checked for being stolen 

there might be some questions asked , i suppose , if somebody 
brought in a number of weapons each time over a series of buy back 
programs. 



david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization the university of , 
x newsreader s 1 . 3 . 2 . 
lines 43 

in article 
writes 

i will be surprised if this post makes it past the , 
but here goes 

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt 

murder most foul ! ! 

... 

this is murder ! 

atf murderers ! ! ! 

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children ! 

well , one up for driving away sympathies by looking like 
a lunatic .  . 


i have predicted this from the start , but god , it me to see 
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was 
still some of the america i grew up with , and loved , left 
alive .  . i was wrong. the nazis have won .  . 

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors ! 

last i heard there were  . apparently as of this point they 've 
found no bodies , except those killed during the initial assault a couple 
of months ago. 

be if koresh hit the trail .  . 

maybe he was bodily assumed into heaven. would n't that just 
make ag 's day 


david veal university of division of continuing education 
i still remember the way you laughed 
when you pushed me down the ... sometimes i get to 
thinking you do n't love me anymore. al  . 

from  ( ron miller ) 
subject re boston gun buy back 
organization , , co , usa 
lines 19 

from  ( mark urbin ) 

just a short thought 
when you ask the question of the authorities or of 
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer 
no , it 's total amnesty . 

please note that the 50 given for each , in the boston 
back  will not be in cash , but money orders .  . how much amnesty can 
you get if you leave paper trail behind 

in the latest case in denver , they were giving away to a denver 
game. 

how is a money order (i do n't know. have n't used one in 20 years ) 

is that even an issue if the weapons are n't checked for being stolen 

ron 

from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization university of 
lines 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( strider ) writes 
 ( scott w roby ) writes 
 ( strider ) writes 

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off 
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ .  . koresh 
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound .  . 
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of 
his . ex members describe him in ways not 
to the way jim jones has been described .  . 

i do n't know how accurate the documentary was 

the documentary koresh and current and ex members .  . 
the documentary koresh 's christ status inside the cult , 
cult brain techniques , and unusual sex practices  ( the leader 
gets any he wants , and tells others when they can or ca  . i will let 
others decide if using religious authority to have sex with a minor is 
technically child abuse or not. 

however , koresh was never 
convicted of any crimes against children , nor was the after him for 
child abuse .  . 
their  ( in this case ) is strictly in , 

all true. 

so this information is irrelevant to the discussion. 

well , if a fire was deliberately set by members of the cult , then the 
history and background of the cult is very relevant .  . the history 
and of the jones cult was very important in understanding 
what happened at  . 

not taking into account the history and background of koresh 's cult may 
also help explain why the fbi and so predicted the 
they would get from inside the nearly every step of the way in 
this affair .  . 

fbi have to pass rigorous psychological and background 
 . plus , those in charge will have to explain their 
decisions in great detail to congress .  . why would the fbi want to fulfill 
koresh 's own prophecy 

those in charge will have to explain something , but whether 
their answers even remotely the truth we may never know. and who 
is left alive to care whether the prophecy is fulfilled it only holds 
meaning for the who survived .  . 

it is likely that there will be at least two  ( jd and congress ) 
at this point. 

correction the fbi said that two of the cult members said this so far , 
no one else has been able to talk to them. 

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same 
details , will you believe them 

if they the story , i probably will. definitely not until then , 
however. 

interesting and details are starting to come out. i have 
back to wait mode to find out whether the fire was intentional 
or accidental and how it started and why it spread so fast .  . 


mike 





from  ( herman rubin ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization university statistics department 
lines 18 

in article writes 
in article  ( john w. redelfs ) writes 
now that big brother has out one minority religion in , who is 
next the mormons or jews 

the themselves out. neither mormons nor jews have a 
for themselves with , so i'm not particularly 
concerned.  ( or shall we blame jim jones on the government also ) 

i believe we still remember , where jews killed themselves rather 
than being captured by the romans .  . while i do not agree with the 
, i must admire their to die for what they 
believed , which jews have had to do often. 

, dept. of statistics , univ .  . , west 
phone  ( 317)494 ) 
 ( internet , bitnet ) 
, ee ! snap . stat . !  ( hrubin(uucp ) 

from 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 24 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( john w. redelfs ) writes 
now that big brother has out one minority religion in , who is 
next the mormons or jews 

the themselves out. neither mormons nor jews have a 
for themselves with , so i'm not particularly 
concerned.  ( or shall we blame jim jones on the government also ) 

be that the at least got some of the kids out before 
the cult committed mass suicide .  . 


dont you believe that the branch committed suicide for one 
minute. i would not put it past the fbi to in some 
while they feed your their story. do n't ever ever trust what your wonderful 
government tells you. janet and the fbi have the murder of a hundred 
people on their hands. hope they can sleep at night .  .  .  .  . 

p . , 
@ buffalo 
disclaimers . 

all you cult happy now just hope that your not next .  . 

from  ( steve hix ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization sun 
lines 33 
nntp posting host 

in article  ( brent irvine ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael rhein ) writes 

, then let the wood inside it. 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm day 
in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 

, the feds turned off the 's a couple of weeks ago .  .  .  . 

perhaps you have n't been paying attention to the radio , tv , or newspapers , 
though. 












some things are too important not to give away 
to everybody else and have none left for yourself. 
the car 

from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re another  ( 4 4 93 ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 23 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( david feustel ) writes 


other uninformed , ignorant gun control deleted 

thanks to the n . r . a .  . , the a . t . f .  . is from researching the 
of using in , are a cheap 
and that would help 
at crime like the world trade center bombing 
trace the involved. 

i want this man to tell me how in the hell you can take the 
used in the wtc bombing , considering that the 
consensus seems to be that the explosive was a based 
one. , to be exact . . . of which about 
90 , 000 tons per year  ( if i recall the stat correctly 
i do n't have it here . ) . just one more disregarding of reality 
to push a point. 

more bunk deleted 

aaron 


from  ( kenneth d. whitehead ) 
subject re them next time 
nntp posting host com . 
organization allen company , inc. 
lines 57 

 ( daniel oldham ) 

what happened in is not the fault of the  . if they would of 
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the 
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened. 

if they 'd gone to the door and knocked on it to serve the 
warrant , like the had done 3 other times , they 
would n't have needed to have an initial assault .  . but then , 
and gen l would n't have been 
able to have told such stories about how they 
protected the rest of us from a group of people who 
kept to themselves , out in the  . 

the needs more people , better weapons and more 
 . when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use 
more force instead of to a stand off. if you are going to 
do a job then do it right. the is there to protect us and they 
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job. 

the needs to be  . this out of control group 
of is a danger to the  . 

with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. 

well , i figure you 're going to get flamed pretty by 
everybody else for this incredibly stupid statement , so i 'll 
just let it pass for now. 

case western reserve , huh do the feds know about that big 
of automatic weapons and crack you have in your 
house are you the same daniel that lives on 
drive just so they get the address right , that is .  .  .  . 

look 
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country 
of ours. 

well , it used to be a great country. now i'm not so sure. 
i knew a few of those good people who died in wars i was 
in  . i can you , none of us fought to protect 
the right of the government to attack its own citizens with 
military force without provocation .  .  ( hint serving a search warrant 
is not sufficient provocation to stage a military style assault 
on a religious group. at least not here in the us. maybe in 
iraq , or syria .  .  . ) . 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 

this is a joke , right or are they really letting fools like 
you into cwru now too bad. used to be a good school. how 'd you 
get in anyway , did your old man buy a new for the library 

from  ( johanes f. swenberg ) 
subject re my gun is like my .  .  .  .  . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 63 
nntp posting host punisher . caltech . edu . 

in article writes 
what all you pro and automatic weapons fanatics do n't seem to 
realize is that the rest of us laugh at you. you do n't make me angry , you 
just make me chuckle 

steve , 
it 's nice that you find me laughable but i do n't quite 
understand. is it because you think my with 
what i'm wearing , or that my is n't on straight 
please state your judgement ! 
i find it sad that people wo n't accept the responsibility 
to defend themselves. and i laugh with the same you 
have for me at the who expect the government to protect 
them. 

what he did n't realize was that we took a photo of the back of his , and 
showed it to our friends when we got back to vancouver , canada  ( where i'm from 
 . people were at the basic stupidity of such a 
, and the even greater stupidity of the person who put it there in the 
first place ! ) 

you and your friends sound like a bunch of  . 

now that i live in britain , i can see how the rest of the civilized world 
you gun  . 

oh , i guess you are. i'm still waiting for you all knowing 
academic likes to solve the worlds problems. let us know when 
you have the answers or lines as this case may be. 

the only problem is that canada , i hear , is suffering from your national 
, in that easy to weapons are being cross the 
border .  . 

so it 's not a thing 
are actually as as we americans 

hell , here in britain , the cops do n't even carry guns .  . 

well if it 's anything like here it would n't matter if they 
did they would n't be able to use them. 

hell , as i recall , in people 's court , even carried a gun ! never 
know , some might go nuts .  . ) ) 

you should n't waste your time watching tv , steve .  . it will corrupt 
your mind. 


anyway , all you gun rush , please keep up your 
against and other evil liberal media you 're so damn funny ! 
you provide endless of in your arguments and examples of 
why someone should be allowed to carry a piece ! keep us all ! 

to you , self righteous one. 
your on thick , steve .  . y all can keep laughing and 
i 'll keep feeling safe and secure .  . 


steve 




from  ( alan greig ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization institute of technology 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( the lawnmowerman ) writes 
in article , (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( the lawnmowerman ) writes 

oh , then , i guess that shooting those kind of babies is all right. 

you sick bastard. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


why thanks for your reply to my post. by the way , i never , never ever said 
that it was right to shoot those kind of babies .  . however it was the branch 
people in there that insisted on staying there with their savior 
 ( yeah right boy ) because he had brain washed them into believing that 
what ever he says is the truth , even if means that they are to give up their 
lives for his cause. therefore it is fault and not the atf 's 
who gave them 50 to 51 days to get out , this was 50 days to many for me and 

for goodness sake if they had fired a cruise missile at the compound more 
people would have come out alive .  . it was obvious to anyone with the 
contact with reality that such an outcome was likely  ( not just possible ) 
however the fire started .  . as , mr , you seem to have already entered 
your own little virtual reality i guess you ca n't be expected to understand 
things in the real universe. 

janet 
institute of technology internet 
tel  ( 0382 )  ( int 44 308810 ) 
never the power of human stupidity 

from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re will cs burn or explode 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 21 

 . nice guy ) writes 

the fbi released large of cs tear gas into the compound in 
 . cs tear gas is a fine power. is cs  . grain 
in air can form an explosive mixture , will cs in air 
form an explosive mix could large of cs have the 
spread of fire in the compound 

no chance. if that cs ignited at all , it would have been 
quite similar to a grain  . , i note. the 
entire compound would have been , not merely burned .  . as 
there was no , there was no cs causing the fire .  . 

note at five a decent grain will 
knock you on your butt and your ears will for days. i speak 
from experience here. 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 

from george 
subject tx .  . bob statement 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization systems l 
x mailer dos (3 . 3) . 
lines 10 

for those of you interested , i just finished talking with a 
representative of bob 's campaign about his 
position on the  . was by the democratic 
of texas to complete lloyd 's term .  . 

the representative said that did not have a position and 
would only comment on specific legislation that was pending .  . no comment 
was available on the various versions of the bill. 

be warned and vote accordingly. 

from  ( mark shepard ) 
subject  ( brady bill ) 
keywords instant check waiting period 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution na 
lines 40 

hi. i 've just finished reading , and have several questions about 
the  ( s414 and  . 

1. are these the current versions of the bill 
what is the status of these i 've heard they 're in . 
how close is that to being made law 

2. and seem fairly similar. are there any important 
differences i missed 

3. seems to have some serious 
a. does n't an appeals process to wrongful denial during 
the waiting period , other than a civil  ( lawsuit )  ( s414 has an appeals 
process once the required instant background check system is established , 
but not  . 
b. the police are explicitly not liable for mistakes in denying 
using existing records  ( so who would i in a above to have an 
record ) 
c. includes an exception to waiting period clause for if a person 
can convince the local chief law enforcement  ( cleo ) of an 
immediate threat to his or her life , or life of a member. 
but does n't say exactly what is considered a threat , nor does 
it place a limit on how long the takes to issue an exception 
statement. 
true have i misunderstood any other  holes 

4. with just , what 's to stop a person with a clean record from 
buying guns , off the serial numbers , and selling them to 
at minimum , what additional laws are needed to prevent this 

 seems at  . a gun counting scheme would be needed 
(e . g .  . , john doe owns n guns ) .  . so , if passes , i would n't be surprised 
to see legislation for stricter , harder to i.d. 's plus national gun 
, justified by a need to make the bill work. 

please comment. i'm mainly interested in specific problems with the current 
legislation i do n't mean to start a general discussion of the merits 
of any all waiting period ever proposed .  . 

marks 

from  ( chris miller ) 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
nntp posting host com . 
organization local etc organization 
lines 

in article writes 
in article , writes 

the second amendment is about , not  . 

perfectly correct , but it wo n't make any difference. 

i agree. sad , but true. 


self defense is a valid reason for  . 

the vast majority get through life without ever having to 
own , use or display a  . besides , there are other 
means of self protection which can be just as effective 
as  . 

please name one. 


freedoms and rights are not dependent on public opinion , necessity , or 
scientific scrutiny .  . 

new to this planet everything is dependent on either public 
or political opinion , usually political .  . to imagine that 
inalienable  rights  are somehow wired into the vast cold 
is and a dangerous  . 


.... upon which our bill of rights is based .  . some  . 

no arguments against can scientific scrutiny .  . 

they do n't have to. like so many other things , the issue 
is one of perception rather than statistics .  . 
every time some young innocent is down in a drive 
by , every time some kid is murdered for a , every 
time a is executed for three dollars in change , 
every time some kills his wife because she took the 
last beer from the , every time someone hears a  bang  
in the night .... the dies .  . the are not all that 
clearly behind the protection factor does not 
strongly the factor .  . given society 
as we now experience it it seems safer to get rid of 
as many guns as possible. that may be an error , but enough 
active voters believe in that course. 


if this were not true in practice , then certain politicians would 
not be passing gun control laws .  . politicians are generally whores to public 
opinion. this does not mean the the public is either well informed or correct. 
as for the , anyone can support anything with the right  . the 
right , from what i 've seen , are sometimes even used to support 
sides of the same issue. 


how do you intend to  silence  

talk all you want. talk about the good old days when 
you used to own  . after a while , such talk will 
take on the character of war stories ... and no one will 
be very interested anymore. 


used to own while armed , as the 's of the  . 
may have seems to me a somewhat approach to avoiding this , 
political is still an option at this point. i agree that it 's 
not enough and or too late. if all else fails , there 's always 
and  . 



chris miller 


my opinions are my own  ( obviously ) , and by definition do not reflect the 
opinions of anyone else .  .  .  . 



from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 62 

in article  ( steve manes ) writes 
that 's all very well and good , but i was refering to all 
, not just ones involving  ( what is this 
on death by shooting , as if it were somehow worse than death 
by ) 

what relevance are all in this debate ... 
the issue is guns , not baseball  . 

no. the issue is reducing crime , not guns .  . if gun control does n't 
lower crime overall , then is does n't address the issue. 

 .  .  . even . a knows that 
he stands a better chance of surviving an attack with a baseball  .  .  . 

does that matter if assaults with a baseball become much 
more common using a gun rely primarily on the 
threat of the gun , and rarely shoot their victim .  . a 
using a knife is much more likely to start by his victim 
in an effort him. so , while a may not 
be as as a gun , criminals are more likely to actually 
use the knife  ( as opposed to threatening the victim with it . ) . 
it is n't at all clear that replacing the criminal 's gun with a 
knife would reduce murders .  . might just become more 
common .  . that 's why it is important to look at the overall 
 ( not the with gun ) rate .  . it avoids the issue of 
, different criminal of using different 
weapons , etc .  .  .  . and measures what we want to prevent murders .  . 

as for , see my earlier post. i 'd much rather face a knife 
than a gun , thanks. 

face possibly .  . however , facing knife is n't 
too common without warning and by is the 
usual tactic .  . very few criminals shoot from cover it 
to much attention and they do n't have a chance to go through your 
 . overall , i 'd much rather be threatened with a gun 
than actually with a knife .  . 

 .  .  . fortunately . , the best defense against a knife is n't 
another knife .  . anyone trained in unarmed self defense wo n't have 
much of a problem a knife in knife 
assault  ( which probably means 9 . of knife  . 

actually , the exact same statement is true of guns training in 
unarmed self defence will let you an 
without much problem. 

you also ignore the criminal 's reaction the national crime 
survey clearly shows that criminals  ( unarmed , armed with a 
knife , gun or whatever ) are unwilling to risk their lives 
in a confrontation .  . if with a serious threat , almost 
all prefer to leave and find an easier target. therefore , 
using  ( or threatening to use , as is much more commonly the case ) 
a weapon is the best defence against an , regardless 
of how he is armed .  . , however , are much less effective 
than guns criminals do n't consider as a serious threat 
nearly as often as they do guns .  . 

frank 
boulder 


from  ( awesley ) 
subject re that silly outdated bill  ( was re koresh and miranda ) 
organization university , rochester , michigan , u . s . a .  . 
lines 115 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( john l. scott ) writes 


the issue has never been whether were used in in  . it 
has been whether they fired their main guns .  . 

never this is incorrect .  . either you do n't read very well or resort 
to in an attempt to make a point. 

at the risk of and the point , my claim was 
the was regarding the last used in in 48 . 
the text follows .  . 

you did not merely claim that 
were used you claimed that they fired their main guns to suppress 
fire and that they were quite effective at this. 

indeed , when claimed they were only used as , i did say 
i had been told they did fire their main guns .  . 

you continue to 
back away from this claim and defend something else that nobody is 
 . 

well , the poster who i responded to did dispute the use of 
post 48 .  . rude of you to call a nobody .  . 

well , it 's not the main gun. gee , that 's only the entire point. are you 
now going to admit that you were wrong 

that was the entire point to you . what exactly did i claim 

i 've heard eye witness descriptions of using their main guns 
to respond to fire .  . quite effectively .  . 


i was n't wrong . . . i 've heard those descriptions .  . if you 're 
paying attention , i 've mentioned that i saw the with my own 
eyes , but the main gun firing was an account i heard. that helps 
people judge whether or not to kick in the , to use your words , 
bullshit . stating that i claimed this is a falsehood .  . 

what was it i claimed as fact here 's the entire post 

we have n't used against the black since  . 

correction .  . i know they used in  . i saw em , it 
was well covered in the news at that time. gordon mentions 
it in his song black day in . 


since you do n't dispute that and claim that nobody else does , that 
means i was right. 

i will never read of firing their main guns in in the  67 
riots .  . there is simply no way that such an event could have taken place 
without it being common knowledge even 26 years later. the american 
military firing from in american cities on blacks would have 
been big news. 

so one would suppose. some folks think in happened in 48 .  . 

goes on 
you can also read of the troops using  . 

to fire i doubt that as well. to fire 
perhaps. to fire tear gas certainly .  . but you would be 
perfectly willing to let us believe they fired , would n't you , since 
it makes your other claim seem more plausible .  . 

john , again , strawman techniques .  . do you feel you 're it so you 
have to stretch what i said and knock that down what i read said 
nothing about what they fired .  . and so i put nothing in there. if you 
need some help , let me know and i l take your side of this for a 
while. you 're not here , you 're here. 

if had fired their main guns in , people would have been 
screaming about it for the past two and half decades .  . i would know about 
it. 

glad to know you 're such an expert .  . nice to hear some an 
authority .  . i especially appreciate your basis of knowledge if it 
had happened , you would have know it. since you are such an 
authority , you probably know that people did about an alleged 
massive cover up in the number of people killed in the  . 
some claimed 100 dead , others said  . the number is 43 but 
the concise encyclopedia says it was several . i 've also 
heard some things about that but i wo n't dare repeat them. you 'd 
assert that i claimed they were truth. 

unless you also claim that the national guard managed to cover it up. 

taking the after the riots , it was pretty easy to tell the 
difference between army and guard troops .  . or so i recall from 26 
years ago. and i seem to recall it was the army running the  . 
so it would have been an army cover up. 

another part of my was that while most building 
were , some were in  . based on what i remember , i was and 
am inclined to believe an old or two .  . 

if your mind is open enough to believe that , well , good for you. i prefer 
to live in reality. and here in reality , i find it hard to believe that 
those even had any , much less fired them. 

given the level in destruction in , i'm quite willing to believe 
that they did fire their guns .  . 

now then , we 've bored the shit out of anyone whose bothered to read 
this far and all you 've managed to say is that you do n't believe the 
account i cited .  . 

john l. scott 



from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 62 

in article jason writes 
in article stanford . edu .  ( andy freeman ) says 
hell , a is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing 
that i know about a is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is 
that little thing in the but that is n't too great of a safety .  . 

now we know that does n't understand what a safety is supposed to 
do.  ( he also things he can see with things that exist 
have multiple even though only one is from the 
outside . ) . 

excuse me but i do know what i safety is supposed to do. 

comments above show otherwise. 

it 's basic purpose not to let the gun fire until you 're ready. 

now the question is , does the 's qualify let 's see 
the evidence that uses .  . 

christ , i 've known that since i had my first air gun. you do n't 
know me so do n't make assumptions about what i know and do n't know. 

but first an aside .  . having an air gun proves nothing. moreover , 
my comments are based on what writes .  . he 's free to argue that 
he in text but actually knows something off line. 

a safety is supposed to keep the gun from going off unless that 's 
what the user wants. with , one says i want the gun to go 
off by the  . if the it has make that work , 
it has a real safety , no matter what thinks .  . 

from the things i have read heard are always knocked because of the 
safety .  . they are supposedly harder to learn to use properly. 

harder than what i note that almost all work the same way , 
so it ca n't be harder than . 

every article that i have read ca n't be wrong about the damn thing. 

sure they can.  ( moreover , we know now that  is 
) . we can look at the reasoning .  . it is basically 
these are dangerous because they 're not like my s w third 
generation .  . part of that is true , but since those same people do n't 
claim that , which share the relevant property , are 
dangerous , we see that the argument fails .  . 

me to quote my sources because i do n't keep a of gun and or 

why would i care i'm not looking for more bogus reasoning .  . 

rec . guns . articles around. boy , you ca n't make a simple statement on 
here without someone getting right on your ass. 

one can make hundreds of simple statements without having anyone 
getting right on your ass . one merely has to make accurate simple 
statements .  . then you get s by mail and publically .  . 

accuracy is a severe burden , but most of us it. 

andy 


from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject a of road , please 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 
keywords , 

your posting for the day , from rec . humor . funny . 

in article ,  ( pete bellas ) writes 

there is a new ice cream flavor inspired by the incident at  . 

it 's called mount , it 's full of nuts but you ca n't get it out 
of the  . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( steve gardner ) 
subject re gov t break  ( re 60 minutes ) 
nntp posting host imagine . com . 
organization engineering , computer corp .  . , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 25 

in article com . com . writes 
in , was tried and convicted of murder because his 
troops , in a war setting , deliberately killed innocent people. it is time 
that the domestic law enforcement in this country to 
standards at least as moral as the military 's .  . 
here ! here ! but any call for responsibility and accountability 
from police is invariably interpreted as being soft on crime . 
being tough on crime and building more and more 
property is the politically thing to do these days. 


greed killed the , possibly greed killed the children. 
government greed .  . 
and citizen ! 

it is time to prosecute the leaders who perform these invasions .  . 
do n't forget the politicians that write the laws that make it 
easy for the police to become corrupt .  . the war on some 
drugs brought us this corruption and only an end to it  ( legalization ) 
will stop the corruption .  . 






subject re cop kills 
from  ( john kim ) 
organization university science center 
keywords pepper 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 43 

 . edu .  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 
police in revenge 

, r . i .  .  ( ap ) a police afraid he would be fired for 
allegedly a ager walked into an body the youth 
worked , said you 're going to die and shot him and two others , police 
said. 
a fourth youth was  . a escaped injury by hiding under a car. 
police robert , 23 , of , was at 
over three hours after the shooting at 's in 
foster , a town of about 4 , 000 people in island .  . 
doug holland 

i think i have updated info on this. my that 
former approached a who was being questioned 
by another  . a in the head 
with a heavy police , causing a significant , though not 
life threatening .  . there is no evidence that a was 
doing anything threatening at the time. a was released 
on and filed a formal complaint against 
 . the police chief pending an 
investigation into the use of excessive force. 
the above is pretty clear .  .  .  . but what seems to have 
happened is this. the chief requested 's gun , but 
refused to turn it over until the chief went the 's home 
to get it. sources said had always wanted to be 
a cop and was very afraid of his job because of the complaint 
against him. 
a few days , allegedly walked into 
's , where a and friends were known to 
out and work on cars as a  . shot 
a as well as b and c. d was shot once 
in the shoulder  . e was working under the car 
and was not noticed by  . d went to a home 
and police , who went to 's and found the 
3 and one  . 

a few days after his arrest , 
to commit suicide in his cell .  . 
case kim 




from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 66 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 

in article jason 
writes 
in article stanford . edu . , 
 ( andy freeman ) says 

i have been at a shooting range where 
members were practicing shooting .  . 

how do we know that they were members and not undercover cops 
or even law menacing minorities .  . btw why the quotes 

we know because the area that the gun shooting range is in is right on 
the border of the west side of chicago .  . that is a area. there 
are many , many bad things going on in that area. also , i have several 
friends 
that live very close to that area who have had problems with some of these 
folks .  . by the way , where did i say that they were minorities 

that was what i got from your phrasing , too. well , then , were they  ( the ones 
you saw ) black you do n't deny seem to deny it , either. 

do you think 
that only minorities have not so. as far as the quotes are concerned 
it was totally obvious that they were n't just practicing for  . i 
do n't know about you but i have never seen anyone else practice 
by 
taking their gun out of their coat as fast as possible and start shooting .  . 

that is the recommended way to practice with a , too. aim alone is no good 
for defense , if you ca n't get the gun rapidly .  . 

if 
you would have been there andy it would 've been obvious to you too. 

what , outside of prejudice , would have made it obvious 

of course 
it might not have been. who knows. all i do know is that i was there , i 
live 
here and i know that they were  . when you live here long enough 
it 
becomes pretty easy to them via , signs , etc. 

yes , prejudice is more subtle in the north , is n't it 

one last 
thing. my sister is a social  . she makes it her point to find these 
things out  ( gang signs , , etc ) because it is in her best interest to do 
so. she is nice enough to let me know these things so i can watch out for 
myself as i live right on the border of the west side of the city. enough 
said. 


more than enough. i understand you completely. 

jason 

jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
lines 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article thomas writes 

i do n't remember the exactly , but there were about deaths in texas 
in 1991 that was caused by guns .  .  .  .  .  . 

how about related .  . 

this is more than those killed in car accidents ! 

texas is unusual in this regard .  . it would be nice to reduce them 
both , though. 

as texas does n't appear to have an murder rate that much higher than 
the national average , i would expect it is a result of a much higher 
suicide rate .  . 

i should not suffer because of others .  .  .  .  . 

be nice if you did n't have to suffer at all. 

we all agree on this one , but we also live in a and 
we 'll have to give up some of our  freedom   ( note the  . 

here 's where we run into a problem. i am perfectly willing to 
have government on something which is likely to cause others 
harm .  . what we 're discussing , though , is the extreme of a large 
group in order to target a small group , and i do n't think that 's 
appropriate. 

do you have an 
then you 'll have to pay because of what others do .  .  .  . 

do you buy anything 
you are paying for those who return , steal or even those who gets a  .  .  . 

do you live with other people 
then you  ca n t  do you 'd want  ( burping playing music loud ) 

does this , then , justify anything at some point you have to draw 
a line  ( at least to my way of thinking ) where the government must have 
something a little more substantial than a set of with which 
to punish an individual .  . 

where do you draw the line or is there one 

one state  ( do n't remember which , texas ) tried to impose a rule that you could 
only buy one gun each month .  . think you all know what happened .  .  .  .  .  . 

virginia .  . it passed .  . 

i respect the right to defend yourself , but that right should not inflict on 
other people. 

does it 

it seems like you all realize that you have a problem in america , the only 
problem is that you wo n't take the car away from the , you 
hope to him first. 

analogy .  . 

the u.s. does n't treat driving like a serious crime .  . however , 
we also do n't cars of people who drink. we also do n't 
all cars because some people drink and drive .  . it 's the core of the legal 
system that in order to punish an individual  ( and i 'd call property 
a punishment ) you must have evidence against that individual .  . 
that is , it is n't enough to show that the majority of people convicted of 
murder are white in order to convict a particular white guy of murder .  . 

hope life to the standard of the  . 

huh 

david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re them next time 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 22 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( daniel oldham ) writes 

the needs more people , better weapons and more 
 . when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use 
more force instead of to a stand off. if you are going to 
do a job then do it right. the is there to protect us and they 
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job. 

the is there to taxes , not to protect your sorry ass or mine. 

with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. 

all flame , of course. if you really want to be flame , send me 
your address and i 'll tell the about those automatic weapons you 
have  . you 'll be warm in no time. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re  ( brady bill ) 
keywords instant check waiting period 
lines 74 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 
distribution na 


in article ,  ( mark shepard ) writes 
hi. i 've just finished reading , and have several questions about 
the  ( s414 and  . 

good ! 

1. are these the current versions of the bill 
what is the status of these i 've heard they 're in . 
how close is that to being made law 

not very .  . thanks to the in the senate , things are backing up. the 
house is going to start looking at our friends from the atf , so that 
bill will be held up a little , too. note things can change quickly .  . 


2. and seem fairly similar. are there any important 
differences i missed 

3. seems to have some serious 
a. does n't an appeals process to wrongful denial during 
the waiting period , other than a civil  ( lawsuit )  ( s414 has an appeals 
process once the required instant background check system is established , 
but not  . 

i thought there was a correction process in both for both parts. 

b. the police are explicitly not liable for mistakes in denying 
using existing records  ( so who would i in a above to have an 
record ) 

very correct. 

c. includes an exception to waiting period clause for if a person 
can convince the local chief law enforcement  ( cleo ) of an 
immediate threat to his or her life , or life of a member. 
but does n't say exactly what is considered a threat , nor does 
it place a limit on how long the takes to issue an exception 
statement. 

welcome to the world of the . 

true have i misunderstood any other  holes 

how about no compulsion to allow if there is no evidence against 


4. with just , what 's to stop a person with a clean record from 
buying guns , off the serial numbers , and selling them to 
at minimum , what additional laws are needed to prevent this 

it is already illegal to do this. 


 seems at  . a gun counting scheme would be needed 
(e . g .  . , john doe owns n guns ) .  . so , if passes , i would n't be surprised 
to see legislation for stricter , harder to i.d. 's plus national gun 
, justified by a need to make the bill work. 

this is the health card .  . or so some claim .  . i say that just 
because you 're does n't mean they 're not out to get you. ) 1 2 


please comment. i'm mainly interested in specific problems with the current 
legislation i do n't mean to start a general discussion of the merits 
of any all waiting period ever proposed .  . 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



from  ( steve podleski ) 
subject re founding father questions 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio 
lines 21 

 ( aaron ray clements ) writes 
was n't she the one making the comment in '88 about george being born with 
a silver foot in his mouth sounds like another damn to me. 

ai n't like the old days in texas anymore. the politicians may have been 
corrupt then , but at least they 'd take a stand.  ( my apologies to a few 
exceptions i can think of . ) . 

news now is that the house may already have a two majority , so 
her opposition out of her concern for image  ( she 's even said this 
publicly ) may not matter. 

do people expect the to act as the n . j .  . did 



steve phone 216 
nasa lewis research center 
cleveland , ohio 44135 email 



from  ( david n .  . bixler ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express car 
nntp posting host eng . edu . 
reply to 
organization university engineering 
lines 36 

in article stanford . edu . ,  ( andy freeman ) writes 
in article jason writes 
all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as 
i am not really familiar enough with  . 

that 's not all that does n't know. 

hell , a is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing 
that i know about a is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is 
that little thing in the but that is n't too great of a safety .  . 

now we know that does n't understand what a safety is supposed to 
do.  ( he also things he can see with things that exist 
have multiple even though only one is from the 
outside . ) . 

a safety is supposed to keep the gun from going off unless that 's 
what the user wants. with , one says i want the gun to go 
off by the  . if the it has make that work , 
it has a real safety , no matter what thinks .  . 

andy 



i agree very much. i have read almost every article written about 
the , and imo , it is probably the made. it 
has the best of all , jeff cooper 's first rule , keep your finger 
off the until you want to shoot .  . if everyone just observed 
this , there would be accidents . 

david n .  . 
university 

standard disclaimers apply. 


from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 

thomas writes 

i hate long postings , but this turned out to be rather lengthy .  .  .  .  . 

that 's ok you can mail me if you want more discussion. 

weapons in norway 
you can buy  ( almost ) all kinds of weapons in norway , but you must have a 
, and a good reason to get the  .  .  .  . 

around here , long guns are proof of age and fill out the forms .  . 
for , nation wide check for and three days wait. the 
good reason is the difference , and one americans tend to get 
over as we see no reason the guy with the is any better than us. 

it 's a little like getting a drivers is n't it 
you have to prove that you can drive before you are allowed to .  .  .  . 

not when dealing with america .  . i can drive an 18 wheel 
with no , no license , and at age 12 if i'm engaged in 
work. strange , that , but there is little to no problem with this. 
again , personal rights versus collective security .  . 

some crimes are commited with guns that have been in the owners   
for a long time , but these are rather the  . 
most criminals guns to use them in crimes , and mostly short 
time the crime .  . 

strange that the would decline , since killing somebody 
is much more upon than merely a gun. 

use of 
it is allowed to in public , but not in your belt or  . 
you  ( americans ) think it 's ok to have a gun , but not to carry it open 
in public 

why attract attention i carry my sword openly to and from 
practice , as that is the only legal thing i can do. i also attract 
a lot of attention doing this. i 'd rather be lost in a of one 
than be the subject of attention while carrying a weapon .  . think of 
the word and you can see where is not 
the preferable method for the normal citizen .  . 

are  aggressive  
we are not as hot as , but when we decide 
to take action we do. 
ask any historian or with an knowledge of europe .  .  .  .  . 
 ( or ask any german who served in norway in ww2 .  .  .  .  . ) . 

aggressive towards whom germans precisely 
why i think your society is less violent , weapons aside .  . 

yes the individual is more important than the masses , but only to some 
extent .  .  .  .  . 
your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses 
what happens when the of some individuals the rights of 
all the masses editor barf dan 

then the masses have the same rights as the individuals , because 
everything comes down to the individual in one instance or another. to 
draw an analogy , norway is involved in the  . the usa in involved in 
 . the requires certain changes in your laws .  . requires 
no such changes in usa law. these laws affect citizens , and hence 
norway is saying europe is more important than , say , having 
that make over  . in the usa , we 'd likely tell the 
to get since the has no business , in our eyes , in 
telling us how much we can safely ride .  . while i note 
that our own state governments often play with game with the federal 
government , in essence this is a cultural difference between us. 

if i lived in i would probably have a gun to defend in home. 
but should it have to be like that 

it should n't .  . since neither of our countries has managed to 
remove criminals from society , in america we feel  ( and remember we 
have individual states that are larger than your country ) that if the 
police cannot protect us then we must do so ourselves. the criminals 
in our country are quite violent , hence we prepare for them. 

do you think it 's wise to sell guns like  ( some states do .  .  . ) . 
if you believe it 's smart to have drivers why do you think 
it should be free to buy guns 

we do n't .  . e mail me to find out just how difficult it really 
is in this country. it is easier than in yours , but theft is far 
easier than the we go through to over here. 

i would defend my home , loved ones and country , but i do n't view guns as 
or  . 

they are neither .  . they are an option. we would never force 
you to own guns if you lived here. we would , however , fight to keep 
that option open to you. 

i have done army service , and have used a of weapons , but would n't 
want to have one for self defence or because they  feel  .  .  .  . 

then you show you are a responsible , rational user of weapons .  . 
welcome to our ranks .  . now , how do we teach the young people this sort 
of responsibility cultures seem to have a grave impact here. 

i notice you did n't use my great 's name. well , 
he did n't like it much either ) 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 

from  ( paal ellingsen ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization university of 
lines 17 

in article , jim de writes 
mr. , you are a government sucking bastard. humans died 
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the actions 
they did. that is the undeniable truth. 

 .  .  . the . question is for how long even if the fbi had done nothing , i guess the 
would have committed suicide , but maybe not until and thirst gave them 
the choice between or surrender .  . 
the was warned in about the fbi action. they had the chance to 
surrender and get a fair trial .  . no matter who started the fire , the were 
responsible for 80 dying .  . no one else. 



67 102  . 
data 


from  ( cochrane , james shapleigh ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
organization institute of technology 
lines 91 

in article  ( jim de arras ) writes 
in article 
 ( paul e. reimer ) writes 
in article ,  ( marciano 
pitargue ) writes 

stuff deleted about causes of people in er 

due to automobile accidents and automobile crimes .  . maybe we should outlaw 
cars .  . 
there are a lot of automobile accidents , but there is some 
to try to combat this. 

such as drivers get back on the road in no time , to kill again. seems 
the 's license process does not work for this. 

i can testify to this. my cousin spent a few weeks in the hospital , and his 
friend was killed , because of a  . the son of a b is back on 
the streets .  .  .  . officers from the are still p ed about that one. 

to take a drivers safety class .  . 

because you wanted one while you were  . 

i have to be to drive .  . 

only on public roads .  . 

my car 
must be  . 

only if it is to be driven on public roads , other than between of my 
property .  . 

i must  ( at least where i live ) have 
on both myself driving and my car  ( if someone else had an 
accident with it) .  . 

only on public roads .  . 
and this obviously does n't always work , else why would they offer 


hmm , would n't classes , 
of both the owner and gun , and be nice for 
gun owners .  . 
i object to mandatory because i do n't trust my government not to 
use any information i give them for their own purposes. i am to 
carry a in my home state , but they never asked whether i 
actually owned a  . a safety class before a to carry is 
reasonably , provided such classes are regularly available to the public. of 
course , most places would consider my time in the and on a competition 
rifle team to count. 

perhaps , if it gave them permission to shoot in public roads and parks .  . ) 
hey , now that 's an idea ) 

paul 

jim 

now , unless you have an against private ownership of , why would 
you want to harass the person trying to legally defend themselves or exercise 
their rights (i know , defending oneself family whoever is a right .  .  .  . at least 
as far as my and i are concerned .  .  .  . )  ( also as far as the state of 
seems to be concerned ) why do n't you push for stricter prosecution of those 
who use in the of a crime i 've already pointed out how 
we are n't 's hard enough .  .  .  . comparing the us with other countries 
seldom works , but the european attitude towards and seems to work .  .  . 
their attitude towards weapons is n't really a valid comparison because they 've 
historically done their best to keep the and , 
while our country was founded by a bunch of who told the 
european  ( for the most part ) to take a flying leap  ( used more polite 
language though) .  . we even out of our first international treaty , and 
then convinced the french that it was in their best interests not to complain .  .  . 
but first we had to overcome the fact that the were doing their best to 
restrict us to guns and such , so we 'd be properly while 
they forced us to pay for their wars .  . of course , most american history classes 
these days tend to over facts that do not fit the image they wish to 
convey .  .  .  . i'm glad my  .  . teacher was a libertarian who had us review 
a good portion of the papers , and debate their origins and meanings .  . 

enough rambling , 

james 




james s. when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space 
circles , and  . for 


from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject re high power assault guns 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 12 

in article  ( bill vojak ) writes 
with 1 , 1 20 magazine , and 1 big bear @ 

i 'd make that , 1 big , mad , and with nearby bear 




brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 

from  ( karl kluge ) 
subject re liberty lobby libertarian .... 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 1993 20 57 53 0500 
organization university of michigan 
lines 21 


from  ( jack schmidling ) 
subject re liberty lobby libertarian .... 
date 15 apr 1993 20 57 53 0500 

i ca n't speak for the organizations you cited but everywhere you look in 
our society and government , one can see the movement 
one world government. the fact that the media such 
values as patriotism , and are some of the 
clues .  .  .  . our . border both people and trade are an that 
we have already lost a great deal of  . 

 .  .  . and . i'm sure that people who were big of and 
about the emergence of the modern nation state. imagine , the king 
allowing their freedom if they could live in the city for a year ! 
times change , technology changes , viable forms of social organization 
change .  . while concerns about western notions of civil liberties 
in the face of cultures with very different values is a valid one , it 's 
a waste of effort to try to turn back the  . it 's much to focus 
on trying to make sure that the forms of social organization are 
acceptable than it to lament the passing of the old forms .  . 

from  ( cathy smith ) 
subject letter to a liberal l. neil smith 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university , , co 
lines 

posted by smith for l. neil smith 

letter to a liberal 

author s note name changed to protect the guilty 
and the author are science fiction who once worked with 
the same editor at a famous new york publishing house. 

dear 

i'm way behind on my current book again , so this reply to 
your note criticizing the recent magazine i gave and 
generally attacking gun ownership will necessarily consist 
mostly of assertions you 're free to believe  ( or not ) i can back 
with evidence and logic i 've neither time nor energy to present 
now. i 've written fully on this topic before and will again in the 
future. when i do , i 'll make sure you get copies .  . 

there are many arguments i might make , from the and danger 
of self defense to the police  ( see in the jan .  . 
10 , 1985 street journal ) to the real effect of , 
shifting from outlawed or 
to items like off or bombs , but i 'll 
limit myself here to commenting on the newspaper you sent 
with your note. 

first , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and 
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process 
nor to arguments grounded in social utility .  . 

second , publication of some latter day scientific study does n't 
alter the fact that the gun i discussed in my 
you so much in the process were lying .  . 

third , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and 
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process 
nor to arguments grounded in social utility .  . 

fourth , as often happens with these things , the study does n't 
support the gun  original 
anyway , but simply a new of claims to an older 
body of lies , , and  . 

, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and 
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process 
nor to arguments grounded in social utility .  . 

sixth , the fact that gun have been caught lying on 
countless  ( carl , author of no right to keep and 
bear , even to it publicly ) makes the value of this 
present study dubious , to say the least. 

seventh , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is 
a natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , 
and constitutional right subject neither to the democratic 
process nor to arguments grounded in social utility .  . 

, given your own lifelong service as a federal 
 ( not to mention the cynical of your fiction ) , you 
should be better aware than most people how progress in 
studies to prove whatever you want our 
ability to meaningful data .  . a case in point we might agree 
on is the fact that it took another kind of 20 or 30 
years to create studies proving that pornography causes crime .  . 
more naive  ( and probably more honest ) efforts in the and 
clearly indicate the contrary .  . 

ninth , the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and 
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process 
nor to arguments grounded in social utility .  . 

tenth , another reason to doubt all such studies is that human 
behavior  ( as the school of economics demonstrates ) is far 
too complex and to be meaningfully  . the 
attempt to do so and then create public policy based on the 
resulting pseudo information is our civilization .  . 

, the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is 
a natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , 
and constitutional right subject neither to the democratic 
process nor to arguments grounded in social utility .  . 

, the study is also worthless because it 
for suicide , which is not necessarily a but 
basically another individual right , sometimes with social 
benefits. if anything , perhaps suicide intervention should be a 
criminal offense .  . 

and finally , the national rifle association 
quoted in the article , whatever their shortcomings  ( and they are 
many ) , are correct in this instance the study is meaningless 
because the freedom to own and carry the weapon of your choice is a 
natural , fundamental , and inalienable human , individual , civil , and 
constitutional right subject neither to the democratic process 
nor to arguments grounded in social utility .  . 

and because of that , , even if the study were valid , it 
would n't deter me from a lifelong personal objective of seeing that 
anyone can own any weapon he or she prefers and carry it however , 
whenever , and wherever he or she desires without asking anybody 's 
permission .  . in this i'm assisted by gun 
themselves , whose invariably previously unarmed 
people to go out and buy their first gun while they still can . 
before the  gun control act , most of the shooting 
viewed  ( incorrectly , as it turned out ) as , 
ineffective  . there probably were n't million of them in 
the whole country. now , thanks to , , the , 
and their ilk america s greatest sales team we 
probably manufacture at least that many every year .  . 

the fascinating is that control , et al. are perfectly 
aware of this so i guess you 'll have to ask them yourself what 
their real motives are. 

look gun making is n't an or difficult art  ( and by the way , 
it 's easier to make a fully automatic weapon than a 
the fact that i can still obtain my own weapon of preference , the 
self , is the only thing which keeps me from 
this  . even if it were difficult , there are already a 
billion in america , with an half life 
of 1000 years possibly more for  . guns are gonna 
be around a long time , , whether you like it or not. 

as for me , to paraphrase elmer keith , regardless of what the law 
provides or any court decides , i'm always going to be armed .  . and i 
will always work to see that others are , as well. the bad news is 
that there are thousands more perhaps even hundreds of thousands 
where i come from. we ca n't be stopped by passing laws , we can 
only be forced to ourselves and others secretly and given 
both the practical and alleged differences between full 
and perhaps more  . 

so what 's the point 

l. neil smith 
author the probability , the empire , henry , 
and  ( forthcoming ) 
action bbs  ( 303 ) , 1 31 . 4 . 
libertarian second amendment 
life member 

my opinions are , of course , my own. 


from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
article i.d. gap . 
distribution na 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 57 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( steve manes ) writes 

wrote 
in article ,  ( steve manes ) writes 

rate per rate .  . the uk is more dangerous. 
though you may be less likely to be killed by a , the average 
individual citizen in the uk is twice as likely to be killed 
by whatever means as the average  . would you feel any better 
about being killed by means other than a i would n't .  . 

what an absurd argument. is one the size of the 
uk with one as many people therefore at any given point on 
you are more likely to be crow  . more importantly , 
you are as likely to be killed by the next stranger 
you on a street than in the uk .  . 

killed by , or killed if i'm dead , i do n't much care if it 
was by being shot or to death. 

you are your lack of understanding about rate versus total 
number .  . are expressed , often , as 100 , 000 population .  . 
therefore , if a place had 10 deaths and a population of 100 , 000 , the 
rate would be 10 100 , 000 .  . a place that had 50 deaths and a population 
of 1 , 000 , 000 would hav a rate of 5 100 , 000 .  . the former has a higher 
rate , the latter a higher total .  . you are less likely to die in the 
latter .  . simple 

for , take out your and work out the numbers. 
here .  .  .  . i 've them for you to make it easier 

population 

24 6 , , 000 
uk 8 55 , , 000 

... and then tell me again how is safer with a more 
liberal law than the uk is without .  .  . by . rate or total number .  . 
your choice. 

stephen 
and new york , ny , usa o o 

i do n't think you can get an accurate of how safe england is 
compared to by concentrating only on murders and 
completely ignoring murders by other weapons , not to mention the rate of 
other violent crimes .  . if there are more guns in circulation , if follows 
that more people will be killed with them  cause they are available to 
the person intent on committing a crime regardless of whether they 
have to do it with a gun , knife , or bare hands. 

the gun control lobby does n't seem to understand this point. if people 
are intent on committing a crime , they will do it with whatever means 
are available to them. 

aaron 


from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re reply on 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 52 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( dennis willson ) 
writes 
 .  .  . 

on february 28 , 1993 , the special attempting to serve the 
federal search warrant were all dressed in clearly identified 
with the letters atf and a highly police type  . 
, the special who they were and their 
purpose for being at the compound .  . 

immediately following this announcement , from the 
compound , resulting in the deaths of four atf special and the 
of several others. through no fault of atf , the element of 
surprise was lost , which caused the  . 

this statement simply amazes me ! through no fault of atf , the element of 
surprise was lost ! what element of surprise in the paragraph this 
one , he said ... the special who they were and their purpose 
for being at the compound , which was to serve the federal warrant .  . no element 
of surprise was even needed for that. 

no , the element of surprise that they lost was that needed for a preemptive 
first strike , without warning .  . 

as the warrants 
remain by a u.s. , and the investigation remains in an 
active status , we are from any further 
information at this time. 


read they need to wait until they see how it comes out before they 
anymore , which could get disproven .  . 

we hope we have been to your letter. please let us know 
whenever we may be of service .  . 

sincerely yours , 

daniel m. h l ca n't make out signature 
director 

as always , no facts , just my opinions observations .  . 

jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re long gun day in  ( april 7 ) 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

this is a co authored report from two of us who were there. 

gun owners action league , our state rifle association , started the day 
with a in the behind the at 9 30 .  . 
it was looking  ( about 40 people ) until the speaker began , 
about 120 more people followed the from 
wherever they had been lost , and filled out the area something proud. 

mike of goal spoke .  . one of his best lines was to 
us that all of us of carry there had been 
checked and clear of all crimes by the state while the 
people in the behind us only had to be clean of 
election fraud to hold their jobs .  . 

nancy and were busy handing out id and 
sheets describing all the to be presented at the , and 
telling people where to find their own representatives  ( and in too 
many cases , who they were) .  . 

mike warned us that the was going to suspend its rules and 
discuss a bill that had n't made it onto the official list. it seems a 
of students from simon 's of college  ( alma 
of wayne lo , who shot up the place with an late last year ) was 
being in to testify for a bill to ban all sales of or 
to anyone who is not a state resident .  . 

the were originally scheduled in the  ( large ) 
at 10 30 , but that had been pre by the 's 
on the eight  ( women in prison for killing abusive 
husbands , and seeking  . so we had until 1 30 to 
our representatives , after which we would be squashed into an 
hearing room. 

one of my representatives  was somewhat  . 
he said , oh , it must be gun day again ! the gun lobby is 
always so organized every year .  . i got a little , and replied , 
i'm not from the gun lobby i'm from your district .  . 

at 12 30 , your second reporter arrived in time to notice a 
going on in front of the  ( where the 
pro were  . price from the tv news was there , in his 
shades , talking to one of the anti gun types , and 
several simon 's anti gun close the loophole  . 
 ( earlier , had covered the goal ) . 

the room we had been about 50 .  . remember , there were 
about gun owners there , plus another 20 30 students and teachers 
from  . one of us had already a the other never got 
closer than the outside and there was a behind him. a 
cop took up station at the and prevented the rest of the 
from coming in. soon after the debate started , a 
was set up outside in the hall for the benefit of everyone else. 

everyone who was there  ( inside and outside ) got to sign up on a 
saying what their position was on which  . most of us signed up 
to support goal 's position on all  . 

first , because of their time , public got to 
testify .  . and first up was the bill that nobody had seen  ( the students 
had some , i guess) .  . 

currently , law allows a non resident to long 
guns or from a local provided he with the laws of 
his own state. previously , the law was similar , but applied only to 
non residents from states  . the simon 's 
folks called the current law a loophole and wanted it closed. 

two of their spoke about wayne lo and his assault rifle .  . 
the second one , , a co , had done his homework so well 
that he kept confusing  ( wayne lo 's home state ) with missouri , 
and became when about five gun owners in the gallery 
him after his second  . , from , claimed 
that the new bill would put the law back the way it was , but he was 
lying the new bill allows by non residents of 
states only if they have in their own state as strong as 
that in  . since none of them do , that 's that. 

some of the things these two said were really offensive .  . in some of 
these other states , anyone can buy a gun as long as he 's ! 
 ( oooooo ! ) we have some very , very good gun laws in if 
only the other states would adopt the same type of laws , we would n't 
be having this situation but they wo n't .  .  ( naughty , ! ) 

next up was boston city albert  . he was 
there to testify pro gun , but in some ways he was a  . he 's 
reasonably and tends to and repeat himself , plus he 's 
almost a of a law n order  . he the 
, said violent criminals should be executed , and that if he were 
judge , he 'd give their last rights  ( pun intended ) on the 
 ( at which many of the gun owners , which bothered me . ) . 
he said that all the proposed gun restrictions were a step in the 
right direction for the criminals .  . he said this four times ( 

two of the under consideration would allow police to rescind a 
or , and all your guns , if someone had filed a 
order against you.  ( note that the filing of a 
order requires no warrant , no hearing , no evidence , and no conviction 
just an accusation . ) . of reading in favor 
of it , and the pro there several times by saying , 
i'm sure all the gun owners here will agree with me that we have to 
get these weapons out of the hands of people that our courts have 
convicted .  . i have n't seen such a disingenuous 
since nixon that he was n't a  . 

also spoke in favor of the bill making the card 
every five years , instead of permanent as it is now. the stated 
purpose is to remove cards from those who have become  . 
has nothing to do with it.  ( yeah , right . ) . apparently , some 
think we 're stupid enough to swallow the argument that 
it 's preferable to process 1 . 6 . million every cycle in the 
vague hope of catching a recent felon than to simply take the 
card away from a criminal at conviction time. as usual , the 
law instead of the  . 

the two co of the were  . and  .  . 
did n't say much  ( he was a co of both 
order bills ) but me as a guy that would n't let any 
bad logic or lies on the part of either side to go  .  ( he 
was a co of one of the order as well . ) . one 
of the on the  ( forgot his name) was 
pro gun , somewhat so. his heart was in 
the right place , but his arguments seemed to be confined to , every 
year it 's the same damn thing , you come in here with this crap .  .  .  . 
it 's nice to have a friend on the , but he could have been 
more effective. 

at about 3 00 , it was clear that the hall could n't continue. 
someone came out of another meeting hall and at the cop because 
the was their meeting , so the was 
 . so they found a bigger hall  . one of us had 
to leave to his charter , and so missed the public 
testimony the other got a this time. 

began by talking about how he got his 16 years ago , left the 
state , and then returned without them of his address change .  . 
he that the state record system was not up to date and that 
his back in his city of birth still thought he lived there. great 
quote if you a gun today , it will not get into the state 
computer system until  .  ( this was also an argument he used 
against the card . ) . 

testimony was heard from several women , one of whom had 
been attacked by some guy in his 20 's who had an card because he 
got it when he was 15 or  . they used a lot of and 
said how they were scared of these men. a of general 
in favor of this anti gun bill , saying how 
50 , 000 orders were granted last year , and how these women 
needed to be protected .  . noted that a order was 
granted for 10 days , and then a hearing was held to determine whether 
the order would be extended to a year .  . he asked whether she would be 
satisfied if the were revoked at the time of this hearing rather 
than after the initial issuance of the  . she gave some long 
rambling in response. 

then testimony against the bill was heard. mike  ( who looks 
something like einstein ) got up and made the point that 
orders were issued on too little evidence , that judges like to issue 
orders just to let things cool off no matter who they 
think is right  ( man or woman ) , and that the for 
orders are with little time to consider facts .  . 
 . spoke with him a few times during his testimony .  . 

other pro got up to testify .  . one said he had had to file a 
order against a to clear her out , and that she 
countered by filing one against him ! he noted that this would have 
allowed the state to his guns if the new bill became law. 
one of the noted that this is america and we have to be 
certain that individual rights are respected .  . 
this , saying that people who abuse smaller people can go 
to hell as far as i care , but we have to be careful about equating 
conviction with a order.  ( point and match , ) . 

another pro got up and that he did n't know his 
citizenship every 5 years , and that a 's license was a 
privilege , not a right like the right to keep and bear  . 

a third got up and said the problem was with the criminal justice 
system , and argued in favor of a death penalty bill and public 
hangings .  . said he had himself tried to get a death 
penalty bill passed , and responded that he , too , public 
hangings .  . the speaker then responded , i 'll make you a deal. you get 
me the , and i 'll tie the  . 

next came public testimony on the simon 's bill. a teacher 
that she had been the teacher of wayne lo , and that he 
would n't have been able to shoot people inside a building while he was 
outside without his evil gun. she said that the loophole should be 
closed to prevent something like this from ever happening again . 

four or five other kids in favor of this bill , one of 
for the good  . one of the students actually 
shot by wayne lo was also there. many of them had t shirts on , 
saying , as long as one person can buy a gun in , none of us are 
safe support gun control. the was reluctant to or 
correct the kids , except for , who one student who had 
claimed that anyone could apply for an  . only residents can get 
's , he said.  ( how much do you want to bet that this kid had no 
idea he had been into for a bill that would cut 
out of completely off ) 

and spoke again , this time that the bill as 
written would affect both and all guns by 
out of  . also noted that in ct , nh , and vt could 
be put away for a year if they across the ma 
somewhere in the woods and got challenged by game  . 
the fact that lo could have gotten an as a resident 
student and , hell , even an , as he had no criminal or mental 
record .  . 

one was upset that it would take ma residents longer to buy 
a gun than out of , and thought it was . another 
 ( caron ) said that we need the protection of preventing non residents 
from buying without an because only two other states in the union 
had type cards , so with all the laws of one 's home 
state was not enough. one pro gun speaker replied that this 
a mother watching her son in a and , 
everyone 's out of step but ! 

all the college people were filing out as the pro gun testimony 
for this bill was made , and thus only pro were around when the 
other came under consideration .  . the main remaining  ( and 
goal 's position ) were 

o h . and four others police so they can pull 
when a is convicted  ( strongly supported ) 

o h . require on all sold  ( opposed ) 

o h . require on all loaded  ( strongly 
opposed ) 

o h . allow every to their own gun laws 
 ( opposed ) 

o h . bullet proof for police  ( supported ) 

o s . state constitutional amendment for the  ( supported ) 

o several on police in the issuance of cards  ( opposed ) 

o several altering non resident license conditions  ( supported ) 

o h . ban damn near all guns everywhere in the state  ( guess ! ) 

some of these took only 30 seconds to consider , as the remaining 
pro raised hands in either for or against them. 

mike noted that , besides the danger in screwing with a 
lock on a loaded gun , that bill would make it illegal for a 
to carry his unless it were locked .  . 

blew right through h . when he saw that we opposed it. 
again , he brought up the state 's records capability and said , 
this would create hundreds of different systems. 

the late since it was the last scheduled hearing , it 
could not be until everyone who wanted to had  . it 
ended at about 6 30 .  . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re the second amendment  ( ideas ) 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 40 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( foxvog douglas ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( john lawrence rutledge ) writes 

the massive destructive power of many modern weapons , makes the 
cost of an accidental or usage of these weapons to great .  . 
the weapons of mass destruction need to be in the control of 
the government only .  . individual access would result in the 
deaths of millions .  . this makes the right of the people 
to keep and bear many modern weapons non existant .  . 

thanks for stating where you 're coming from. to say , i 
disagree on every count. 

you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of 
mass destruction i find it hard to believe that you would support a 
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and 
gas on his her property .  . 

if we cannot even agree on keeping weapons of mass destruction out of 
the hands of individuals , can there be any hope for us 

i do n't sign any  . 

when doug says weapons of mass destruction , he means and 
 . when says weapons of mass destruction she means 
street and semi automatic  . when john 
lawrence says weapons of mass destruction , and then immediately 
follows it with 

the us has thousands of people killed each year by , 
this number can easily be reduced by putting reasonable restrictions 
on them. 

 .  .  . what . does mean by the term 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( john de armond ) 
subject fbi murders  ( was re atf ) 
organization communications public access. the mouth of the south .  . 
lines 87 

 ( jim de arras ) writes 

i have believed all along that they could not let them live , the 
embarrassment to the and the fbi would 've been too severe .  . 

remember , this was a suspicion of tax evasion warrant .  . there were no 
witnesses , except the fbi .  . all information filtered through the fbi .  . all 
they had to do was allow one remote controlled pool camera be 
near the building , and the press could 've done their job , and would 've 
been able to back the fbi 's story with close up video , while no 
risk to the press. unless they did not want the public to see something. 
the complete lack of any other source of information other than the 
fbi really causes me concern. 

sick to my stomach , and getting from all the government apologists 

well put , jim .  . i am as concerned about the media 's in this 
growing  . can you imagine the media , the , the 
that would if the government kept the media away from 
any other story particularly if a republican had been 
behind it. what 's going on here 

let 's look beyond the initial and examine what happened next .  . 
i'm a student of human , particularly in the area of ops 
because i 've found some of the techniques to be useful in business 
 . that puts me firmly in the amateur ranks .  . this amateur 
knows that the first thing to do when up the opponent is to do a 
psychological on him. you can bet your ass the fbi had 
professionally done on koresh .  . koresh 's behavior was 
 . it is typical of people who move away from 
civilization to be willing to fight to the death to preserve their 
isolation .  . it would also be typical , given koresh 's religious 
orientation , for such an individual to interpret a government assault as 
the  . suicide is as an acceptable alternative to being 
in the  . 

imho , the fbi knew all this and decided after 50 days of 
ops to that  . i believe they chose a course of 
action designed specifically to push koresh over the while publicly 
to be acting reasonably .  . they knew that koresh considered the 
to be the of fire mentioned in the book of revelations .  . 
they knew that sending , oops , combat engineering , 
to perform gas  ( love that newspeak ) would push 
him over the  . 

look at some supporting evidence. koresh 's mentioned on tv 
earlier today  ( 4 20 ) that one of koresh 's major concern was the biblical 
role of the around the compound .  . the fbi  ( through 
on larry king last night and at the news conference this morning ) 
claimed to have listening devices in the compound .  . if that was true 
they knew their actions were driving him to the  . they knew they 
were pushing the mass suicide .  . any rational and 
reasonable agency not interested in killing those people would , at 
the first sign of for suicide , have completely back and 
would have gotten rid of all the  . instead they continued with the 
gas insertion right up to the point where flames appeared .  . the image 
that will remain in my mind is that of the back 
and forth in front of the burning compound , over the kill .  . 

let 's step back and assess how this thing could have been ended without 
 . this would have required a law enforcement agency 
interested in enforcing the law and in the preservation 
of life instead of a military victory and of  . 

the way to have koresh was simply to have a pull back , 
abandoned the assault , down the wire and removed the 
, surveillance of the compound and then exploited 
his ego to him out. his ego would have been simple. a 
simple or two from the talk shows to come on tv and tell 
how he the us government would have been something he could not 
have resisted .  . he could have then been when he left the 
compound .  . simple , clean and safe but because it would have required the 
fbi to execute a tactical and would have deprived them of the 
revenge they sought , it was totally out of the question. not without 
all that floating around. after all had to 
show the world how big her are. 

yesterday was a sad , sad day for the american system. i am sick to my 
very soul .  . 

john 

john de , interested in high 
engineering  ( magazine(tm ) interested in high tech and computers 
, send mail address to 
for a free 
where are when we need 

from  ( christopher morton ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
reply to  ( christopher morton ) 
organization north coast public access , cleveland , oh 
lines 28 

as quoted from by 

the press is against you , the public  ( the voting public ) is against 
you , the of history is against you ... this is it ! 

kind of sounds like v. , huh of course as in that case , 
things change , huh 

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the  . violent solutions 
are  . avoid situations which encourage criminals .  . then you will 
be as safe as possible. such as it is ... 

no , if your little fantasy comes to pass , the country will have gone 
the  . you 're of course being a little  . violent 
solutions are never for the government and criminals  ( who frequently ) 
cannot be  . 

avoid situations which encourage criminals you mean do n't be a woman 
do n't be black do n't be gay i'm quite certain that having a of 
unarmed victims will discourage your beloved from engaging in violent 
solutions .... 




you 're like a bunch of over , new york jewish lawyers 
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in 


from (c .  . h. lochmuller ) 
subject re puts foot in mouth .  .  .  . 
lines 21 

so the blue press suggests that we bankrupt by requesting information 
and the concern by list members is that will claim everyone that calls 
as a new member. i think they will. i also think they will claim a new 
to ban all from the system we call and ask for 
information or not ! 

on the other hand , with due respect to the editor of the blue press , just 
mike makes damned good , dies , , and got tired of 
's does not mean that every fan follows what mike calls for 
like he was and we were ! 

our local state has called for a complete ban on all non 
action military and all assault weapons , a 7 day wait for 
it currently takes 10 to 14 working days here in nc and one 
year .  . the flood of calls he got was 7 for and 3 against .  . guess who 
called supporting his move guess what is doing right 






from  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) 
subject re 2 we 're 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 39 

 ( kennedy james scot ) writes 

in article  ( alexander kasacous ) writes 
in article  ( david veal ) writes 


no , what you said was that we had spent money on guns rather than 
people , as canada does. which is ridiculous .  . 


once again i have over the general level of of 
the average reader of rush  . canada per spend more 
money on people where the us spend more money per on guns .  . 

what exactly do you mean when you say the u.s. more per on 
guns than canada does are you talking about the u.s. government or are you 
talking about the of guns by private citizens or both if you are 
referring to private citizens then your point is because what 
individuals do with their money is essentially their business. 

if , on the other hand , you meant that the u . s . government more per 
on guns than canada does then your point is relevant .  . so , if this 
is true then the u.s. needs to get its straight .  . people are more 
important than guns .  . that is not to say that guns are n't important. i'm 
just saying that if the u . s . government does spend more per on guns 
than they do on people then something is  . 


he meant the us more per on guns than canada which is n't 
really surprising because we were so busy protecting the western world from 
the ussr that all other countries could slack off on their defense spending .  . 

i would like to see if the us more per on people than 
canada does. this is a true apples apples comparison where the previous 
post was apples oranges .  . 





from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject re my gun is like my .  .  .  .  . 
organization ideology , inc. 
lines 80 

in article 
writes 
what all you pro and automatic weapons fanatics do n't 
seem to realize is that the rest of us laugh at you. 

so what. we think you 're pretty hilarious too. 

i love how you 's arse .  . that you 're willing to 
out freedom of speech for the sake of protecting the reputation of the 
 . 

that the british government in american newspapers send a gun 
to defend a british home british civilians , with threat of 
invasion , need for the defense of their homes .  . during 
wwii .  . american , 

that the act and the misuse of drugs act have been 
used as justification for the police to such as william 
s. 's , 's fear and in , 
and tom 's the electric aid acid test . british courts have 
never recognized the right to or to demonstrate .  . 

that evidence obtained form is allowed in a trial .  . 

that only serious warrant a trial by jury .  . 

that suspected must prove their innocence , instead of the 
government having to prove their guilt .  . 

that the of state may issue an order which 
someone from ever entering a particular part of the united kingdom , 
such as northern ireland or  . 

that the paul 's give ireland back to the irish 
as well as john lennon 's give peace a chance during the gulf war. 

yes , england is very very funny .  . and very pathetic .  . 

i knew somebody else who went to one of your gun 
places , just so he could experience the sight of people putting guns 
and into shopping ! i did n't believe it myself until i 
by one in last year ! ! ! 

so what. laughter is a way of dealing with things we find uncomfortable .  . 
i thought the show girl on street were 
pretty funny .  . 

yes indeed , there are many strange and things in this country. 
i would n't have it any other way. 

now that i live in britain , i can see how the rest of the civilized world 
you gun  . the recently referred to the american 
for , automatic weapons , etc. very it was 
called a national  . 

i do n't disagree with that , i do n't think it 's bad either. 

the only problem is that canada , i hear , is suffering from your national 
, in that easy to weapons are being cross the 
border .  . 

so what. if they did n't come from here they would come from elsewhere 
disguised as cocaine .  . 

anyway , all you gun rush , please keep up your 
against and other evil liberal media you 're so damn funny ! 
you provide endless of in your arguments and examples 
of why someone should be allowed to carry a piece ! keep us all ! 

you can laugh all you want , for us it 's a matter of life or death. 
i do n't find that funny in the least. 

as for england 

as our allies become more open , britain grow yet more and 
 . perhaps the real british vice is , a 
to tolerate which others would find  . in britain , 
an country by and edward , 33 .  . 

larry 

from  ( entropic destroyer ) 
subject need info on 43 1 and suicide for refutation 
organization new mexico state university 
lines 35 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

the following is quoted from the tail end of a  ( rather condescending ) 
article about , that appeared in us and world lies , 
 .  .  . i think it was in the street journal .  .  . ) . 
and was repeated in the  ( people 's ) daily , a student newspaper 
at the university of at boulder .  . 

a study of deaths in king ,  . , found that 
a gun in the home was 43 times more likely to be used to kill its owner , 
spouse , a friend , or child than to kill an  . studies by the 
western institute , in pittsburgh , found that the mere presence 
of a gun in the home the likelihood a family member 
will commit suicide , even in the absence of  . 

i have seen these numbers quoted before , and i have seen very specific 
refutation of them quoted as well. if someone will be so kind as to 
email the relevant information , i will write a letter to the editor of 
the co .  . daily  ( which might get published ) and send a copy to as 
well. 

thanx .  .  .  . 

dan 


liberty or death 
send me something even you ca n't read .  .  .  . 
begin pgp public key block 
version 2 . 1 . 



v 


end pgp public key block 

from  ( kevin vanhorn ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization users kevin  . organization . 
lines 15 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 05 53 07 gmt 


in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 

two of the who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set 
by cult members .  . 

correction the fbi says that two of the who escaped said the fire 
was deliberately set by cult members .  . since the press was kept away , 
we have absolutely no independent of any of the government 's 
claims in this matter. 


kevin s. van is your religion approved 



from  ( david veal ) 
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal 
lines 40 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article stanford . edu .  ( andy freeman ) writes 

in article writes 
 ( btw which parts should be secure criminal 
records , ie convictions , are typically considered public information , 
so should that info be secure remember , the population includes 
parents checking ) . 

parent 's checking a should n't need access to the information 
in the card .  . 

sure they do. the may have a nasty habit of 
kids three or four months into the job. the references may not have 
known him long enough or may not have picked up on this yet. 

remember , criminal conviction info is public , so if you 're going to 
argue for an id card , other people are going to have a strong argument 
that it public info .  . 

as perhaps some insight into how this sort of thing works , the 
local college newspaper had a big crusade to have the u . t .  . police 
release crime  .  ( the school claimed that to do so would violate 
federal education records  . they up and down they 
were n't interested in student discipline records , only for so people 
could make an evaluation of how safe the campus was. 

it was barely a week after crime were released before the 
daily had an calling for student 
to be released , because they certain of the campus 
population were treated rather than turned over to the 
police and therefore the criminal states were n't accurate. 

what people say they want public today may not be what they 
say tomorrow .  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( jim wray ) 
subject for sale 
organization bbs houston , tx 
lines 32 
reply to  ( jim wray ) 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


w . k .  . 

3 maybe now 's the time for us , the , , , , et al to 
3 together and buy as our voice .  . would n't that be  .  .  . 
3 the truth for a change and be able to air a pro gun item or two .  .  . 

3 i would like to see this happen. i do n't think it will. i do n't 
3 think the average gun owner will take any notice of what is happening 
3 until they break down his door .  . 

3 but i will go on record publicly to the effect that i will contribute a 
3 minimum of 1 , 000 . 00 . to the buy out if it can be organized and made 
3 viable .  . anybody else want to put their money where their mouth is ) 
3 there ar 50 million gun owners out there. if and it 's a big and 
3 not very if we got hold of , the anti gun bullshit would 
3 stop right there. why wo n't it happen because nobody will get off their 
3 ass and make it happen. nuts .  . 

any listening to this man. any organization 
listening .  . it 's time to stop fighting the 's and the 's 
 ( now there 's an interesting meaning to the bs ) from the comfort 
of the office .  .  .  . we . had better get serious with our time and money and get 
after it or we might just as well pack it in now. 

. 2.2 . gun control advocates must have had a by pass ! 



bbs 
houston , texas com . home of alt . 


from  ( brad jones ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
nntp posting host com . 
organization engineering , computer corp .  . , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 27 


in article ,  ( john k. gever ) writes 


does anybody reading this group have an actual , honest to god 
experience with violent crime in the to tell about 


it was around in the near , virginia .  . me , 
my wife , a friend , his wife , and his 2 kids were in a totally 
desolate area. all of a sudden , large began raining down 
on us. looking up , we saw at least 3 letting loose 
from what was an obvious  . they were a couple hundred feet above us. 
, the women and kids were screaming and running for cover and the 
were with laughter .  . me and my friend for them to 
knock it off. they responded that we should get f ed ! . me and my 
friend our and fired a couple of times into the trees above 
their heads .  . they  . with no more 3 5 coming at our heads , 
we proceeded on our journey .  . 

sorry , but me and my friend saw no need to let it evolve to a more 
violent level than we were already experiencing .  . i guess we should 
have tried harder to understand and with the that society 
had in them and was driving them to do such things. guess 
that 's a cross i 'll have to bear. 

brad 

from  ( brian sheets ) 
subject re of 18 u . s . c .  ( 922(o ) 
organization inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 40 

in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( brian sheets ) writes 
and has no rights under the federal constitution .  . so , what i 
do n't understand is how a like can be enforced on 
an individual .  . so someone tell me how my government can tell 
me what i can or cannot  . just passing a law 

does not make it law. 

sorry , but i really ca n't figure out what you 're trying to say , above. 

i guess what i am really asking , like i did above , how does my government 
who is my , tell me the what i can or cannot 

it would seem to me that the act of a machine gun is no less 
criminal , by definition , than the act of a television set .  . i also would seem 
to me that it would be better to pass laws that say , that if i harm 
or kill someone with the machine gun or the television set that there 
would be specific penalties for doing such. 


everyone knows that laws are 
until it goes to court. 

sorry , i was close. 


not exactly 

no on is bound to obey an law , and no courts are 
bound to enforce it. 
16 am , 
late , 256 



brian sheets ! what 
support engineer o  
inc. ( ) of the lost 
u 

from  ( dave schabel ) 
subject re gun nuts and 
article i.d. 
organization advanced technology center 
lines 45 
nntp posting host 

in article  ( brent irvine ) writes 
in article  . nice guy ) writes 
both the gun nuts and the gays are and quite 
hostile to any one trying to them of their rights. just like 
any group trying to protect their rights. 

the fallacy of this whole thing is that your rights are not in 
by these posts. 

how can you say that i presume that you mean that talking about 
rights is not the same as those rights. well , 
arguing for those restrictions may lead to implementation , much 
the same way as assault can lead to  ( legal  . 

most t . p . g . people and the homosexual groups wo n't even 
discuss the subject at all in a polite form. the mere of a question 
as to why the rights are there or what exactly the  right  encompasses 
bring posts and angry hostile traffic .  . 

well , i ca n't speak for the homosexuals , but i 've seen alot 
of polite discussion on t . p . g .  . please , everyone , do n't take 
this guy 's word , or mine for that matter , on it. read t . p . g .  . 
for a while , and try to determine from which direction most of 
the  . if you post without , you 
will generally receive reasoned responses. true , there are 
those who tend to lose their quickly , as there are on 
all newsgroups , but they really do feel their rights are in  . 

oh , and neat trick talking about another newsgroup while 
not to allow them to defend themselves. 

i think a lot of t . p . g . people have very thin when it comes to 
discussing these subjects .  . 

you too much. 

dave 





dave opinions and comments contained are mine and 
do not reflect those of corp or 
in western ny its  . 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( michael rhein ) writes 

, then let the wood inside it. 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm day 
in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject trial update day 5. 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 94 

note these trial are summarized from reports in the 
and the local nbc television 
station , channel 7. 

kevin harris trial update day 5. 

monday , april 19 , 1993 was the day of the trial .  . 

government that 
sold him two in violation of the national 
act of  . u.s. district court judge edward 
asks jurors not to hear accounts of the fire because 
of possible influences on the harris case. 

the testimony of fbi special greg apparently 
ended without further incident , as it was mentioned neither 
by nor the . 

the day was highlighted by the testimony of , 
who had been as an outlaw and illegal guns person 
named  . that he was acting as 
an for the bureau of , , and 
in his dealings with  . 

began by stating that he had met in 1987 at an 
nations summer conference in ,  . the two 
then met again october 11 , 1989  ( note the huge separation in 
time) at a in , , to begin a weapons 
 . he stated that had said , he felt like he 
 ( weaver ) was being prepared to do something dangerous for the 
white cause. 

the two later met october 24 , 1989 behind the and 
later went to a city park to make the sale .  . during this second 
meeting , was wearing a small recording device to 
the conversation. allegedly showed him an h r 12 
with a 13 and an overall length of 
19 . 25 .  . he showed a 12 
with a 12 . 75 . and an overall length of 
24 . 5 .  ( nfa requires of 18 for 
length and an overall length of 26  . on , 
is reported to have said that he could perform better work once 
his machine is set up. the two then discuss the possibility 
of future sales .  . then out three hundred dollars 
for the two guns and promises the of one hundred fifty 
dollars when they next meet .  .  ( note that the atf could have 
simply him here. why did they wait until 1991 
over a year later to arrest him this is not  . 

the next meeting took place on 30 , 1989. stated that 
his source had only come up with one hundred dollars instead 
of the one hundred fifty he 'd promised .  . at this point , 
suspected he was dealing with an , i had a guy in 
tell me you were bad. managed to convince 
otherwise. 

the states explicitly that three were 
made of with  . thus , each of these 
meetings must have been recorded .  . however , the also 
reported that a of a telephone conversation involving 
 ( randy 's wife ) was played to the court. there must 
have also been phone  . 

these were played to the court via both and 
under the objections of , 's 
 . said to a reporter that he wanted to 
make sure that the government proved its case ,  .  .  . if . it has a 
case at all .  .  .  . according to the rules. 

off his and when he heard his 
wife 's voice on the tape. 

u.s. district court judge edward asked jurors not to hear 
accounts of the fire because of possible influences on the 
harris case. exactly how such information could affect 
this trial is not explained .  . 

other notes sunday evening there was a report on concerning 
kevin harris .  . within the fbi admit that they are 
surprised that kevin harris is still alive .  . first , they were 
surprised that he survived the initial  ( wound(s ) 
in the initial at the y  . later , when 
was by fire the had reported that 
harris had been  ( not  . finally , there was a report 
that the fbi who killed believed he was 
at kevin harris instead.  ( this is what was  . 
are charging that the fbi was blatantly trying to eliminate the 
only non government witness to the deaths of and 
william  . some local people believe that 
harris 's survival is simply due to divine intervention .  . 

tuesday , april 20 , 1993 will be the sixth day of the trial .  . 
's testimony is scheduled to continue. 


from  ( alan greig ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization institute of technology 
lines 24 

in article ,  ( andrew betz ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their 
hands up while national tv watch .  . 

watch from where two away far enough away that whatever 
really must be explained through the filter of 
a agency that said  ( quote ! ) enough is enough. 

as i understand it was considered for the tv to get 
any closer .  . surely the can judge the risks of reporting 
for themselves. i have n't noticed being from baghdad 
yet despite the  ( all too real ) risk of having a cruise 
missile land in the lobby .  . has that ever been explained 
or are we to assume that out of the whole of the city an off course 
missile just happened to hit that at a probability of about 
1 in some very large number 

for who i wonder 

janet 
institute of technology internet 
tel  ( 0382 )  ( int 44 308810 ) 
never the power of human stupidity 

from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re against civilians  ( was re that silly outdated bill koresh ) 
summary against civilians  ( could n't happen here .  .  .  . read history ) 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 70 

in article 1 . edu .  ( john l. scott ) writes 

... picking over firing the main gun or not deleted ... 


i think the point is being missed that it is acceptable for 
big government  ( big brother ) to use to control the people , as 
long as they do n't use the big gun  ( but everything else is  .  . ) .  . 

against civilians , let alone firing on them with 
served (a  . 50 . heavy machine gun is served ) is something 
both our press and government about when done in some 
other country. against civilians that have , at most , one shot at a time 
light small  . certainly nothing that places the people in or behind 
the in any real danger .  . a round from a rifle 
or deals with anybody with one of those .  . and 
too often turn out to be from other cops guard army  . 

i do n't know about the other people in this group  ( or on the net ) but 
the idea of being used to control civilians , in anything that 
to be a free society is outrageous .  . when big government 
it is necessary to use that kind of force to out  ( even 
violent ) of the citizens , that suggests that the government is totally 
out of control , since that is effectively the government declaring war 
on its own people. if the government was living up to its responsibility , 
government of the people by the people , not the   and other 
who want to keep their good thing going , the citizens would n't feel the 
need to be resorting to acts that need to be squashed with a military 
boot. people do things like that because they have become convinced 
that it is the only option that remains , other attempts to have 
have been ignored .  . and yes , there is a criminal element that 
will this , but the fact remains that the government has been 
or such acts would n't be to happen. still not an excuse 
to open up on civilians with , heavy machine guns , or whatever. 
its the old  might makes right  philosophy that is the of a 
government going they do n't like it tough. we will simply 
them under an iron boot. actually addressing their 
in other than fashion with huge volumes of hot air is just too 
 .  .  . sort of a on mushroom keep them 
in the dark , them with shit , and them when ready .  .  .  . 

and these are the folks that many are trying to things 
so that they will have a monopoly on force  ( firearms that are 
than expensive  .  . ) . by the bill of rights  ( cuz it just is n't 
progressive or does n't fit in with modern thinking  .  .  . 

 . 

and i do believe the , confusion , etc of a real situation , 
that it would be possible for a to get away with firing the main gun 
into a building at close range one would hear an among many 
 . it is loud , but it is not going to stand out like a 1000 
bomb or a tactical nuke .  . there would be a hole blown in the , 
and some , but with knocking over walls , and other sources 
of buildings turning into , and other covering such as 
, including 50 's away , it would not stand out that much , 
and could be explained by been a gas leak .  .  .  . . i think it could be 
done and not be reported under such conditions it is possible. it is 
not like a driving down a quiet street on a sunday afternoon , turning 
and firing , you know. that would stand out , and be pretty impossible 
to cover up. 

john l. scott 



without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( rick bressler ) 
subject re re guns gone. good ! 
organization group 
lines 13 

talk . politics . guns . jason 3 34 apr 18 , 1993 

surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. they will you one at a time. 


listen buddy , if you 're going to quote star get the quote right. it was 
resistance is futile . get it right the next time ) 

sounds like a quote to me .  .  .  .  .  . perhaps you should read more widely 
instead of watching that idiot box .  .  .  .  . 

 . 

from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject alert for texas 
organization ideology , inc. 
distribution usa 
keywords crime strike 
lines 

fellow and members of crime strike in texas 

crime strike in texas has a loosely with most 
victims rights groups in texas .  . we ask that you write a 
letter protesting the release of the following murderer .  . 

this letter should be written to 

victims services 
board of and 
p.o. box capital station 
austin , texas 

the letter should be written if at all possible on red paper 
as that was agreed on at one of our first meetings . it 
represents the and all of its parts as well as the 
heart of those left behind and the blood by 
these criminals .  . the letter should have only one name on it 
so it can be filed in the of that criminal waiting for 
his next try at parole .  . 

list of criminals 

today we have only one parole to , on october 4 , 
1990 , mark numerous to the head 
of james allen . ten month old james went into a coma 
and died two days later. 

on 8 , 1992 , mark guilty to injury to 
a child and received a ten year sentence. according to texas 
law , mark became for parole on 4 , 1992 
months before he was even sentenced ! 

would you join us in strongly protesting the release from 
prison of mark , who a baby to death . 

mark to death the baby boy of 
reference mark 


mark your letter on the front and back .  . 

a typical letter is indicated on the next page 

thank you very much. 

crime strike texas 


date april 13 , 1993 

victims services 
board of and 
p.o. box capital station 
austin , texas 

i the parole of mark , who , 
murdered james son of  . 

he should be kept in prison for his full sentence and not be 
released at any time prior to his full sentence for any 
reason. 



houston , texas 


larry 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization university of division of continuing education 
lines 

in article thomas writes 
overall crime rate 
it  .  .  . just . like that .  .  .  . 

two questions when was this , and do you have the relevant 
numbers.  ( please note , this is not in any way an indication i do n't 
believe you or that you 're not correct , but when the drop occured is 
relevant . ) . 

weapons in norway 
you can buy  ( almost ) all kinds of weapons in norway , but you must have a 
, and a good reason to get the  .  .  .  . 
if i would like to have a , i would have to get an gun from 
the police and to be a member of a gun club. 

the primary objection  ( beyond ones based on the ideal of 
that it is simply not something the government should do ) is 
that it makes guns a play thing and tool of the rich and connected .  . 
it against the poor. 

is self defense considered appropriate , and if so , under what 
conditions  ( are you allowed , for instance to get a gun for protection 
if you 're going to be carrying a very large sum of money on a regular 
basis or have been threatened . ) . 

the police would check my criminal records for any serious crimes and or 
records of serious mental diseases .  . 

this has been suggested in the u.s. , and generally supported among 
gun owners .  . what many object to is that many , if not most , 
contain a sort of clause which allows an arbitrary denial , even 
if you qualify in every way. 

now , if a got my , i would have to be an active member of the gun 
club for 6 months before i could my gun. 
it 's a little like getting a drivers is n't it 
you have to prove that you can drive before you are allowed to .  .  .  . 

at this point , it should be pointed out that in general 
a 's in the u.s. is for the most part nothing like its 
european  . i understand getting one is far more difficult 
there than here. in the u.s. it 's a joke. 

but my usual objection is that you 're discussing two different 
things. for instance , in the u.s. a 's license is a 
to operate a on a public road. it is not necessary 
to own one , or to operate it on private property .  . that is , the 
ability to require driving is generally considered to arise 
from the government 's legitimate power to reasonable 
for behavior on public lands .  . a to own an automobile , for instance , 
which is far closer an analogy , would be a much harder thing to get 
past legally , since it would n't be based on making on public 
property , but in activity on private property .  . 

use of guns in crimes  ( in norway ) 
some crimes are commited with guns that have been in the owners   
for a long time , but these are rather the  . 
most criminals guns to use them in crimes , and mostly short 
time the crime .  . 

use of 
it is allowed to in public , but not in your belt or  . 
you  ( americans ) think it 's ok to have a gun , but not to carry it open 
in public 

this varies widely .  ( one thing i think have 
a difficult time with is that the u.s. has fifty unique , 
where the laws from one state to another can be as different 
as from one country in europe to  . 

some places allow open carry of both guns and  . some allow 
 . some both , or allow one or the other. and it can 
be either a state or local  . 

individual vs masses 
yes the individual is more important than the masses , but only to some 
extent .  .  .  .  . 
your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses 
what happens when the of some individuals the rights of 
all the others 

the question must be asked is the right of this individual 
affecting the rights of this other individual .  . what we usually 
get is that the rights of this group  ( meaning some individuals within 
this group , here defined as people who own guns , ) are adversely affecting 
the rights of some other group. 

if for instance , bob were using his gun to attack steve , you 'd 
have a point. but essentially what we 're discussing is that becuase 
some person who as a member of the group people who own 
guns then some third person , perhaps in another time is told 
that their being a member of that group is taking away somebody else 's 
rights. it 's like trying to punish all newspapers for the libel commited 
by one. 

the issue 
i believe the issue is guns , and gun legislation .  . 

the issue is crime , violence , and murder .  . the question is to 
what extent guns and gun legislation impact those .  . 

we should n't mix weapons and items that can serve as one .  .  .  .  . 
if i lived in i would probably have a gun to defend in home. 
but should it have to be like that 

of course not. it would be nice if we did n't have to fear that 
other people might get it into their twisted little minds to hurt us. 
but currently we do n't have that option. nor do i expect we will. 

do you think it 's wise to sell guns like  ( some states do .  .  . ) . 

no state does. in any case , there 's a limit to which the state 
may enforce it 's wisdom on me. freedom in general is an 
concept .  . if you pre restrict everything which might be 
then freedom becomes a meaningless concept .  . 

if you believe it 's smart to have drivers why do you think 
it should be free to buy guns 

i 'll raise my hand against 's  . as currently 
implemented they 're a waste of time and little more than 
generation for the state and ignored by a number of 
drivers .  . it does not a level of any higher than is 
necessary to get your car on the road and get yourself or somebody 
else killed , or a knowledge of traffic laws beyond what any ten year 
old will have picked up riding around in his parents car. 

but , as i mentioned , they 're two different things. 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( bill meyers ) 
subject re that silly outdated bill  ( was re koresh and miranda ) 
organization n i 
lines 17 

in article stanford . edu .  ( andy freeman ) writes 
in article  ( awesley ) writes 
... 
actually , there was only one confirmed to die in , 
according to , in , a it 's 

what sources did and use in congressional 
later , the newspaper folk admitted that their reports were completely 
wrong.  ( some of their excuses are understandable , while others amount 
to gross  . then there 's their we lied  . ) . as far as i 
know , they never did the followup .  . 

this , btw , is normal behavior for 's .  . the followup is n't news ... 

i am pleased to accept life membership in the national rifle association 
and extend to your organization every good wish for continued success. 
president john f. , march 20 , 

from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re that silly outdated bill  ( was re koresh and miranda ) 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 52 

in article  ( awesley ) writes 
in article stanford . edu .  ( andy freeman ) writes 
i since there was no fire , doing nothing was equally effective , 
as was stop that . of course , if one wants to credit the 
with stopping non existent fire , we might was well credit 
it with stopping an invasion by  . 

see , violence and civil disorders  ( from sri ) and 
incidents a new pattern of violence  ( from university 's 
center for the study of  . 

there was precisely one 
verified in the 67 riots , a firing a out a  . 

actually , there was only one confirmed to die in , 
according to , in , a it 's 

what sources did and use in congressional 
later , the newspaper folk admitted that their reports were completely 
wrong.  ( some of their excuses are understandable , while others amount 
to gross  . then there 's their we lied  . ) . as far as i 
know , they never did the followup .  . 

so people other than can shoot  . if they are , 
shooting at ca n't help. blowing big holes in buildings that 
do n't contain or worrying about travelling 
squads is a complete waste of time. 

interesting. just curious , they do you believe that did blow 
big holes in buildings in 67 

i do n't have any relevant knowledge about the counter 
or what the govt did with the big war  . that 's why i 've only 
commented on what they could n't have accomplished , no matter what 
they did. 

nope the fire was coming from other police guard positions .  . 

the guard certainly needed to learn .  . but i do n't agree with the 
idea that there were no at all. from p. of 

despite the force of the national guard in alliance with the 
army troops , the did not stop .  . the to the 
police station and took pot shots at the seventh .  . 
were under constant harassment from fired from half closed 
darkened in high apartment buildings and from roof  . 

not in , not during the  . that 's newspaper copy and they 
admitted later that they were wrong. 

andy 


subject re proper gun control what is proper gun 
from  ( john kim ) 
organization university science center 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 17 

in article  ( kirk hays ) writes 
i 'd like to point out that i was in error began posting only 
months before he purchased his first , according to private email 
from him. 
i ca n't produce an posting of his earlier than 1992 , 
and he purchased his first in march 1992 .  . 
i guess it only seemed like years. 
life , seventh generation .  . 

i first read and rec . guns . in the summer of 1991. i 
just purchased my first in early march of this year .  . 

not for lack of desire for a , you understand. i could 
have purchased a rifle or but did n't want one. 
case kim 



from  ( charles scripter ) 
subject re clinton , 
organization michigan tech 
lines 29 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

on 21 apr 93 02 59 52 gmt , glenn r. wrote 

fact it is a federal to civil rights under color of 
law where death is involved , this offense carries a penalty 
of life in prison .  . 

title 18 , and or seem to apply. is conspiracy  ( two or 
more persons ) against rights of citizens .  . is of 
rights under color of law. both call for up to life in prison if 
death occurs .  . , , and clinton are probably all principals 
to the crime  ( as they are responsible for actions on the 
part of their  . 

conclusion we have no choice , if we are an honest people , but to 
mr. clinton , and remove from office. 

you forgot one detail , they should be turned over to the texas 
authorities for trial , as the crime was committed there  ( article 4 , 
section  . 


charles 
dept of physics , michigan tech , , mi 

 .  .  . when . all government .  .  .  . in little as in great things , shall be 
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render 
powerless the provided of one government on another and will 
become as and as the government from which we 
separated .  . thomas jefferson , 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re 2nd amendment dead good ! 
lines 47 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article writes 

yea , there are millions of cases where say that 
 deter  criminals .  . , this is not  . 

not  . it 's about as as the number of votes 
vast for bill clinton in the last election .  . if you accept the information 
available , you can prove one way or the other. if you refuse to accept 
it , nothing is  . 

i think that that 
there are actually few cases where this is so. 

fine , support your  . but , you have n't supported 
any just yet. 

the national crime survey , that secret of the , estimates 
between 40 , 000 and 50 , 000 with gun self from assaults , and 
is considered to under report. when broken down by weapon , 
there is no form of self defense including nothing which is 
more effective at avoiding injury or death. 

the of are used against unworthy and 
opponents ... those who a cool you want , those who 
would argue with you about a space , those who would 
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes .  . 

ok , support this  . hell , support one . 

too much of this has you cause. there is no  . 

that 's nice. 

in the near future , federal will come for your  . 

that 's nice , too. 

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way. 

why on earth should we if you 're correct we 've nothing to 
lose by continuing to argue against it and everything to gain .  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject ohio alert h . b .  . 
organization ideology , inc. 
distribution usa 
keywords goes for a gun ban again 
lines 21 

ohio house of representative , april 6 , 1993 

h . b .  . no. representative 

to section 11 . , 17 . , and 20 . and to 
n of the revised code to expand the of dangerous 
to include military weapons that do not use action , to 
increase the penalty for a violation of the against 
of dangerous , to any person from a military 
weapon on or after the act date , to require the of 
military weapons acquired for a proper purpose prior to the act s 
effective date , to a person from , manufacturing , or 
selling a military weapon , and to declare an emergency .  . 

as of monday , april 12 , 1993 h . b .  . had not been to a 
 . introduced as an emergency measure if this passes there is no 
chance for a , and would go into effect immediately as opposed 
to the state requirement of 90 days before a law goes into effect. 


larry 

subject re non lethal alternatives to 
from  ( jason  think ! ' steiner ) 
nntp posting host jupiter . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 16 

douglas craig holland writes 
 .  .  . crap deleted. trim your articles ! ... 

what about guns with non lethal , like or plastic 
 . would those work very well in stopping an attack 

last i heard , non lethal was a bit of a misnomer for these things. 

jason 


` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` 
` , ` give us your money. we 'll solve your problems. ` , ` 
` , ` republican give us your money. we 'll ignore your problems. ` , ` 
` , ` libertarian keep your money. solve your own problems. ` , ` 
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` ` , ` , ` , ` 

from  ( glenn r. stone ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
reply to 
organization the group w 
lines 22 


in writes 

i will be surprised if this post makes it past the , 
but here goes 

not , you made it. 

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it me to see 
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was 
still some of the america i grew up with , and loved , left 
alive .  . i was wrong. the nazis have won .  . 

not while we still have our guns .  . evil 

hey , , it 's not about , or about dark , 
it 's about black , and troops 
houses and violating civil rights under color of law. 

are you ready to defend your constitution 

glenn r. 

from  ( don porges ) 
subject re has gone a bit too far 
nntp posting host 
organization inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 80 


having read the posted long article by , i have some observations 

1. this article does not claim that the of is a 
translation of a nazi law. what it says is that in another place 
the book they 're talking about they compare the two things section 
by section .  . the implication is that the similarities are devastating .  . 
in the next sentence , they talk about how in that book they reproduce 
the german text of the nazi law , together with its translation. not 
surprisingly , a reader could easily these two things into a 
single idea that the american is a literal translation of the nazi 
law and sure enough , that 's what the whole thing has into , 
style .  . 

2. the article goes to great pains to establish that had a 
copy of the nazi law , either from his time on the prosecution 
team or later. this fact is considered highly , but i do n't 
understand why. the author repeats several times that he is simply unable 
to imagine how anyone could come into of the original text and 
yet in a paragraph towards the end , he explains it perfectly 

if got his copy of the original german text of the nazi weapons 
law during his time at , it likely was part of a collection of 
documents , for example , issues of the the german 
law . 

 . exactly. 

had a book , with a series of nazi laws in it , including the one 
under discussion. all of the stuff about why would a u.s. 
have a copy of a nazi law away , by the author 's admission .  . he 
then continues but if he acquired the original german text of the 
nazi weapons law after his service at , he must have done so 
for a very specific reason .  .  .  . but there 's absolutely no reason to 
think that this is the case. in fact , as a member of the u.s. 
team that helped to prosecute nazi war criminals , it seems to me that 
he would have had to have a copy. all arguments about whether 
the nazi weapon law is really of historical interest  ( as it obviously 
is , certainly according to the author here ) , or whether personally 
the who signed it , can be put aside as red 
 . 

3. having established that owned a copy of the original german text , the 
article then tries to draw implications from the fact that he 
asked to have it translated .  . the problem is , in the context of the charge 
levelled at , these two things work against each other. people ask 
to have things translated when they do n't know what they mean . if 
took it upon himself to preserve the nazi law with idea of someday introducing 
it into american law , surely by he would have know what it meant , 
would n't he 
anyway , this precise charge the main one that i questioned in an earlier 
posting is just silly. why would need the exact translation for this 
purpose is the idea that the gun , despite being presumably 
on the with the goal of eventually destroying all civil 
liberties , needed a did n't they have any idea how to do it 
on their own 
once again , the author provides a perfectly acceptable answer to his 
own question may have offered his copy of the nazi weapons law 
to show that the specific proposal did not anything in the 
nazi law. in fact , since the law and its translation were entered 
into the congressional record , under the heading of documents concerning 
the history of nazism and gun , 's motivation is n't a 
mystery he asked for the translation in order to put it in the  . 

4. even this article makes it clear that the part of the nazi law that 
was added by the nazi regime is only a small part of that law. 
of guns , for instance , was begun in , and thus not 
a nazi inspired idea. the parts of the nazi law that parallel the 
include control of some sort , and the 
of certain weapons as weapons .  . the then goes on to list 
other parts of the nazi law , ownership of weapons by jews 
of course , there are no such in the american  . nevertheless , 
in a rhetorical move guaranteed to the , immediately after the 
discussion of the anti jewish parts of the law , the article continues , 
given the between the nazi weapons law and the  .  .  . so 
as to get emotional mileage out of that aspect of the law. 



 .  . uunet . ! ! 

from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re fbi revenge 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 31 

in article  ( diane mathews ) writes 
ahem .  . see the war on drugs , as sponsored by the bush and reagan 
 . the precedent had well been set for federal to 
step on more than a few of what people consider rights. i wo n't make 
excuses for anyone , but most of the damage had been done before clinton 
even entered the race in  . 

not to mention last year 's affair .  . 

anyway , here 's how i see the affair i 'd be interested in other peoples  
interpretations .  .  .  . 

1. koresh and his people were basically their own business. 
2. some weapons may have been committed and i would n't have 
of him for those  . however , i think 
the was criminal for starting with a military style 
assault and for firing into a house where there were children and other 
 . 
3. i do n't see they could n't just leave a guard on the place and wait 
the out i do n't approve of the tear gas approach and , if it caused 
the fire to be started , i think the fbi responsible should spend 
10 20 years in jail .  . 
4. however , if koresh 's response to the tear gas was to kill everyone there , 
i hold him largely responsible for their deaths .  . 








from  ( earl wallace ) 
subject re 2nd amendment dead good ! 
organization . 
lines 22 
nntp posting host apple . com . 

in article writes 
... 
in the near future , federal will come for your  . 
no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking , 
than the  . this is your own fault. 

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way. 

you know , in many ways this might be just the kick we need to straighten 
things out in this country. also , people would have a need to replace 
guns with something else , perhaps that would make and 
seem like water .  . they would be and easier to conceal .  . 

guns are really old in design and as long as we have tons of them , no one 
is motivated to design something better. i'm sure we could come up with 
some real nasty stuff if we tried and getting rid of these guns would get 
us moving on this track  . this is what we really want , right stuff 
that 's smaller , and far more  . 

remember , in this country we 'll really to impossible 
if we are motivated enough and i think self defense is high on our 
list of  . 

subject thanks to poster of ny times article on atf in texas 
from  ( john kim ) 
distribution world 
organization university science center 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 12 


good job to whoever posted the article. i 'd 
been saving that edition for a while , planning to it 
in myself , but now i do n't have to. 

for all of those people who were worried about whether or not 
the media would even question the , we owe it to the 
ny times  ( despite their anti gun editorials ) for 
being willing to talk to these 4  . 

case kim 


from  ( geoff miller ) 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
organization australian defence force , canberra , australia 
lines 61 

writes 

promising field experiments are being done this year in several areas of 
the country to chemical for deer .  . preliminary 
data suggests that this will be a cost effective and method for 
preventing over population of  . 

preliminary data regarding similar research into overpopulation 
in australia do not in any way support the cost of this 
approach. it may be cost effective for deer if you overlook 
the fact that the net cost to the state of deer is negative 
(i . e .  . a profit ) because the  ( majority of ) pay for  . 
the cost comparisons are probably being done assuming that people have 
to be employed to the animals , which is not in fact the case. 
you figure people are going to pay for to implant 
or spread 

there has been a fair bit of discussion about this here recently , 
because the population in the grounds of the 
general 's has now reached plague  . despite the 
whines of the rampant animal , the most effective method of 
controlling the population is still considered to be controlled 
shooting .  . 

so , now why should we allow ... to prevent over population of 
the deer bear whatever sorry , but that  justification  of blood 
lust is now gone with the wind .  . once mass of this stuff 
begins , animal can be easily managed without a shot being 
fired .  . this leaves only the fact that some people like to go out 
in the woods and kill things. 

some people take  ( imho , legitimate satisfaction ) in eating 
food that they have themselves. the pleasure derived from 
is the same as that you get from eating fruit and 
grown in your own garden  ( and , in general , game meat is probably much 
of unpleasant than what you buy from the or 
the  . 

that may be a motivation , but it 
cannot now be justified .  . expect and like organizations to use 
this argument to get period. 

by cannot now be justified i guess you mean that you personally 
do n't see any justification .  . fine but what makes your opinion 
so important 

with no legitimate , with the papers filled with stories of 
murders ... i guess there wo n't be a chance in hell of 
building a case for the that will either public 
opinion , necessity or scientific scrutiny .  . do n't give me that 
silent majority wants guns crap ... they are and will be  . 
no votes for , no  . 

certainly the last point is correct. if politicians do n't see any 
votes for themselves in stupid legislation or in developing 
and supporting measures which might be effective in reducing the 
of violent crime they wo n't do these things. 

geoff miller  ( g 
computer centre , australian defence force 


from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 47 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

thomas writes 



i do n't remember the exactly , but there were about deaths in texas 
in 1991 that was caused by guns .  .  .  .  .  . 
this is more than those killed in car accidents ! 
 ( yes , there could be that low sentences or high poverty could influence the 
but they 're still pretty high right ) 
i also believe texas has some of the most liberal  gun laws  in usa .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

in texas , you cannot carry a  . period. either or open. 
and your numbers are they include and accidents .  . the 
real number from the department of public safety 

murders , non car 
1991 
1992 

texas only has liberal gun laws as far as a aside 
from that , it 's probably more restrictive than most states as far as carry 
goes. 


one state  ( do n't remember which , texas ) tried to impose a rule that you could 
only buy one gun each month .  . think you all know what happened .  .  .  .  .  . 

the state was virginia , and the law passed .  . 

i respect the right to defend yourself , but that right should not inflict on 
other people. 

that right only on those who threaten my rights to life , 
liberty , the pursuit of happiness , etc. , in the first place. i am not 
a criminal , and i do n't fire my weapons at random .  . 
so please explain how i am inflicting anything on other people. 

this is not a  . signature .  . 
it 's merely a text to waste bandwith 
and to bring down the evil internet .  . 


thomas 


aaron 


from  ( the polymath ) 
subject re puts foot in mouth , film at 11 
organization the cat mushroom farm 
lines 20 

in article  ( michael justice ) writes 
has published a letter in the blue press telling people 
how to bankrupt by requesting information from them. 

last time this idea went around in rec . guns . , a couple of people 
said that all information as members . 

can anyone or deny this 

if true , what 's the impact of getting a few thousand new 
members 

last i heard , had something like members to the 's 3 million .  . 
if true , and they want to play , well ... 

the  ( aka jerry , m . a .  . , , aka 
head at laws define crime .  . 
park  .  ( 310 ) , police enforce laws .  . 
santa , ca citizens prevent crime .  . 


from  ( ron phillips ) 
subject armed citizen april  93 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization , view , ca 
distribution usa 
lines 150 


the armed citizen 

mere presence of a , without a shot being fired , prevents 
crime in many instances , as shown by news reports sent to the 
armed citizen .  . shooting usually can be justified only where 
crime constitutes an immediate , imminent threat to life or limb 
or , in some circumstances , property .  . the accounts below are from 
sent in by members .  . anyone is free to quote or 
reproduce them. 




police chief larry initially 
tried to defend himself with a wheel bar lock when a 
criminal attacked him in his car. but then the 
it from him , his and fired several times , 
his and stopping the incident .  . he was just a 
citizen defending himself , a police official said. 
 ( the review journal , ,  . , 11 11 92 ) 



a pair of robbers armed with a off and 
took the day 's from owner 
 . as they made their , his 
12 and gave  . when one fired , 
returned three , slightly his  . 
they but were when they sought medical attention .  . 
 ( newsday , long island , n . y .  . , 01 05 93 ) 



a sign posted on the door of roman  reads the 
owners of this property are armed and highly to protect 
life , liberty and property from criminal attack .  . apparently , a 
pair of robbers did n't to read it as they threatened  
wife in their ,  . , convenience  . hearing her 
, his  . 38 . , to the front of the and 
shot it out with the and armed men , killing one criminal .  . 
 ( the times , los ,  . , 12 04 92 ) 



anne was in her ,  . , home 
one morning when she heard the front door crash in. she 
out of the shower in time to see a man entering the home. running 
to the , her 's and 
fired two shots , the  . the dead man had 
a lengthy police and prison record .  . 
 ( the , ,  . , 01 07 93 ) 



mike would have let two robbers who into a 
,  . , keep his money. but the 75 year old 
teacher was unwilling to surrender his life. when the 
ordered , the owner , and another man to 
lie on the , his and shot both men in 
the head , killing one. i felt sure there was going to be three 
dead people in there. i think i had some divine help , 
said. 
 ( the sunday , ,  . , 01 03 93 ) 



believing an , ill .  . , couple would again be easy 
prey , a knife home instead met death when the 
76 year old three from a semi automatic 
 . police said the dead man had been charged several times 
for from the couple 's home. 
 ( the star , chicago heights , ill .  . , 01 07 93 ) 



the criminal 's was scheduled to appear on america 's 
most wanted , but his shot at fame was abruptly by a 
,  . , service station  . the michigan prison 
walked into the station and a  . instead 
of cash , he got in the head and from station 
mcvey .  . police said mcvey acted in self defense and would not 
face charges .  . 
 ( the sun ,  . ,  . , 12 04 92 ) 



a ,  . , oil man handed over the few 
dollars he had. but the thug , apparently with his 
take , turned his gun on his victim and demanded more money. 
instead of more cash , the instead his own 
and fired , the robber .  . police said the 
dead man had held up a nearby market just before the fatal 
incident .  . 
 ( the , ,  . , 01 13 93 ) 



after repeated at her san ,  . , home , 
, 64 , was ready with a  . 38 . and a phone when she 
heard glass breaking one afternoon. when she found two 
attempting to get into her , fired a warning shot 
over their heads , them into the front and called 
police .  . 
 ( the times advocate , ,  . , 12 25 92 ) 



angry that his had been , a used 
to take it out on ,  . , 
 . when his walked out of the office , 
a kept there and held the former at gun 
point until police arrived. 
 ( the , ,  . , 01 14 93 ) 



one evening at his , pa .  . , office , jim was 
by the of his dog .  . sitting in , 
he watched as two men out his office , reached in 
and one of his  . a on his 
, fired several shots , apparently one of the 
, and putting them to  . 
 ( the times leader , , pa .  . , 12 09 92 ) 



trying on a pair of shoes was just an act for a criminal who 
then a knife and demanded money. when the man advanced , 
the ,  . , owner his and fired , 
the would be robber .  . 
 ( the journal , ,  . , 01 13 93 ) 



and after with a pair of 
, , n . y .  . , 
continued fighting and managed to a second also 
hidden  . firing three times , the killed one of his 
 . the other empty handed .  . 
 ( the daily news , new york , n . y .  . , 01 18 93 ) 



ron 
customer engineer 

east evelyn avenue voice  ( 415 ) 
view , ca fax  ( 415 ) 


nntp posting host no . 
from thomas 
subject change of name 
organization dept. of , university of , norway 
lines 23 
originator 



1. make a new newsgroup called talk . politics . guns . or 
talk . politics . guns . here . to . take . me . away . 

2. move all postings about and burn to  ( guess  .  . 

3. stop posting on this newsgroup 

we are all so glad you 're trying to save us from the evil 
, but would you mail this in regular mail to 
let 's say 1000 people 




this is not a  . signature .  . 
it 's merely a text to waste bandwith 
and to bring down the evil internet .  . 


thomas 


from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 41 

in article 
writes 
of those who vote , your cause is considered an  . no matter 
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the  . 

nope .  . here in northern california , a newspaper recently did a survey , 
asking if people stricter gun  . a full 40 said no. 
here , in one of the most liberal  ( it was n't always a swear word ( areas 
of the country , nearly half the people do n't want additional , let 
alone of  .  .  . 

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton , your 
will be null and  . tough  . 

misguided though he may be  ( though , i still maintain , less dangerous 
than bush ) , clinton does not publicly support the second amendment .  . 

surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. they will you one at a time. 
your will not help you. they will consider you more if an 
immediate threat than the abstract  . 

well , i 'll help my  .  .  . 

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the  . violent solutions 
are  . avoid situations which encourage criminals .  . then you will 
be as safe as possible. such as it is ... 

violent solutions are  i take it you propose the police , 
then 

please do n't mention in the same as the  . is about 
being able to defend yourself and others , not about killing the innocent .  . 
actually , your mention of the is rather funny , considering that the 
first gun control law in the us were created specifically to black 
people .  .  .  . 






from  ( the lawnmowerman ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
keywords thing ! ! 
nntp posting host kent . edu . 
reply to matthew 
organization kent state university cs 
lines 33 

in article , (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( the lawnmowerman ) writes 

oh , then , i guess that shooting those kind of babies is all right. 

you sick bastard. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


why thanks for your reply to my post. by the way , i never , never ever said 
that it was right to shoot those kind of babies .  . however it was the branch 
people in there that insisted on staying there with their savior 
 ( yeah right boy ) because he had brain washed them into believing that 
what ever he says is the truth , even if means that they are to give up their 
lives for his cause. therefore it is fault and not the atf 's 
who gave them 50 to 51 days to get out , this was 50 days to many for me and 
for many of the rest of the u.s. i am however sad to hear of the death of any 
child unlike the sick bastard i supposedly am .  . 


matthew r. a . k . a . 
cs physics major  ( the lawnmowerman ) 
kent state university 



look here for future advice . quotes . sayings . 




from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re the right to keep and bear  ( was re who 's next  .  .  . ) . 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 28 

 ( strider ) writes 

writes 

just because was good once , does not mean it will be forever. 

yes , gone are the days when you can leave your house at night. 
well , it could n't last forever. 

for the record , it was n't until i came to college  ( excluding 
the times i went to omaha or council for something ) that i 
ever removed the from the of my car ! come to think of 
it , it was only after i moved to ames , ia  ( pop 45k ) that i ever took 
to locking my doors at night. 

i 've discovered that year is n't worth living in fear 
all day. i might just move back to the farm .  . 

this is  . you know , when students 
for no apparent reason. this year , we 've the farm aid 
to add to the  . anybody bet me there 's another 
remember , iowa law has three guys talking loud defined as a  . 
stay for an on the report this weekend. 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 

from  ( strider ) 
subject re 2nd amendment dead good ! 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 44 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

writes 
yea , there are millions of cases where say that 
 deter  criminals .  . , this is not  . i think that that 
there are actually few cases where this is so. 

you think wrong. ask the fbi .  . they 've got the proof. look it up. 

the of are used against unworthy and 
opponents ... those who a cool you want , those who 
would argue with you about a space , those who would 
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes .  . 

you lie like a snake .  . the vast majority of the 200 million 
in this country are never used in  . your feelings  . 

too much of this has you cause. there is no  . 
in the near future , federal will come for your  . 
no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking , 
than the  . this is your own fault. 

we will overcome the kind of blind , headed , utterly stupid that 
you and others in a attempt to further your own  . we 
will make the truth be known , despite your best efforts to the contrary .  . 

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way. 

the second amendment wo n't be dead unless it is  . that wo n't happen. 

ever. 

accept this. find another way to try and control other 's lives , because we 
see you for what you are , and we are not  . 

mike 




this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

from  ( peter nesbitt ) 
subject need senate bill numbers and house resolution numbers 
lines 30 

sorry for posting this here , but noone has replied to my post from the politics 
side of the group. 

i want to get involved in the fight to save our gun rights. but first , i need 
to get a little more  . i 've been reading all the and books i 
can get my hands on , and through hundreds of messages here in the 
internet .  . 

i want to obtain a complete list of senate bill and house resolution 
names numbers. 

can anyone tell me how where to obtain this info surely there has to be a 
way to obtain copies of anti gun legislation from those @ 's in washington .  . 

any help is appreciated. 



peter d. air traffic 

bay 



member s w  . 41 . 






from 
subject re 2nd amendment dead good ! 
in reply to 
nntp posting host 127.0.0.1 
organization 
x mailer (3 . 
lines 27 

date 18 apr 93 00 13 19 0500 
from 

yea , there are millions of cases where say that 
 deter  criminals .  . , this is not  . 

in my case i am alive thanks to a gun , that is  .  . 
even in your twisted logic .  . 

i think that that there are actually few cases where this is so. 

no .  .  .  . wrong again brain trust .  .  . 

the of are used against unworthy and 
opponents 

huh what planet are you from 

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way. 

wrong .  .  .  . not as long as freedom remains  .  .  . 

ps get a dictionary .  .  . 



 ( gun of the month club .  .  .  . hmmm .  .  . this month .  .  . sig 226 next .  . ) . 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization university of division of continuing education 
lines 47 

in article  ( steve manes ) writes 
frank wrote 
that 's all very well and good , but i was refering to all 
, not just ones involving  ( what is this 
on death by shooting , as if it were somehow worse than death 
by ) 

what relevance are all in this debate what do you think gun 
control advocates are saying that if we get rid of all we will 
live in a free world 

the relevance is that if you 've got x and reduce 
the number of gun in that group , but x does n't 
by a significant amount , have you made an improvement , and is that 
improvement worth what you 've paid 

the issue is guns , not baseball  . even a knows that 
he stands a better chance of surviving an attack with a baseball  .  .  . 
certainly of a  . 

if a baseball is a tenth as likely to kill a victim as a gun , 
is that any comfort to that tenth 

as for , see my earlier post. i 'd much rather face a knife 
than a gun , thanks. 

i 've a knife .  . and i was damn i did n't have 
a gun. all the statistics in the world did n't change the fact that 
he was interested in cutting me . 

fortunately , the best defense against a knife is n't 
another knife .  . anyone trained in unarmed self defense wo n't have 
much of a problem a knife in knife 
assault  ( which probably means 9 . of knife  . 

anyone trained in self defense .  . 

unarmed self defense is n't for everyone. what 's more , it requires 
more training to be safe and effective than a  . 
it requires physical and thus a greater threat to the victim , 
which is a primary problem with guns .  . you have to actually touch 
your  . unless you 're very good , a large , stronger 
can simply ignore your long enough to you. 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 


from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject ten years ago and today 
organization ideology , inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 120 

, 

 .  .  . in . these and similar areas , the 
bureau has violated not only the of common sense , but of 5 
u . s . c .  . , which was intended to prevent secret by 
administrative bodies .  . 
these practices , documented in before this sub 
, leave little doubt that the bureau has 
rights guaranteed by the constitution and laws of the united 
states. 
it has upon the second amendment by chilling exercise 
of the right to keep and bear by law citizens .  . 
it has offended the fourth amendment by search 
and private property .  . 
it has ignored the amendment by taking private property 
without just and by honest citizens with 
out regard for their right to due process of law. 
the presented to the by the bureau was 
utterly unconvincing .  . richard davis , speaking on behalf of the 
treasury department , asserted that the bureau 's 
were aimed at willful , particularly 
in , and at only guns actually likely to 
be used in crime .  . he also asserted that the bureau has recently 
made great these  . no 
was offered for either of these assertions .  . in before 
's , however , expert evidence 
was establishing that approximately 75 percent of 
gun prosecutions were aimed at ordinary citizens who had neither 
criminal intent nor knowledge , but were by into 
technical  . 

( from congress print 
t h e r i g h t t o k e e p a n d b e a r a r m s 
report 
of the 
on the constitution 
of the 
on the 
united states senate 
seventh congress 
second 
february , 
printed for the use of the on the 
u.s. government printing office 
88 o 
washington 


letter to april 1993 


thank you for me regarding the bureau of , , 
and  ( atf ) , which is the federal law enforcement agency with 
jurisdiction over and  . 

it has been my experience as chairman of the 
on treasury , service and general government which 
funds atf , that atf is one of the most and highly 
law enforcement in the federal government. 
the of atf have proven their value again and again in 
successful , legal to the and use 
of , especially in the area of drug related crimes .  . it 
enforces the armed career criminal act which calls for mandatory 
minimum sentences for repeat using to carry out an 
illegal activity. the bureau has made itself a key component in 
preventing related violence , also , both by at risk 
youth to the of membership as well a s by known 
from access to weapons .  . 

the , texas case involved the execution of search warrants by atf 
on the branch for illegal and 
 ( automatics , semi , and machine guns , in addition to bombs 
and other ) . in virtually every gun case , atf is asked to 
trace weapons through its  national center , where 
they keep all and federal license information. atf 
is the federal governments  expert and routinely works with 
state and local police to execute warrants .  . atf , working with state 
and local law enforcement in texas and the u.s.  office 
felt it was necessary to execute these warrants in order to legally 
establish that a crime had been committed and conclude a long and 
investigation of illegal gun and held by members 
of the branch  . in addition , atf carefully a 
sunday morning , knowing from their source , inside , that the men would 
be separated from the women and children and not in the area where 
it was known that the illegal weapons were  . 

as you may be aware by now , a.k.a. david koresh 
spiritual leader of the branch was of the 
execution of the search warrants .  . unfortunately , atf lost the 
element of surprise and the cult was able to themselves and 
prepare for  entry into the compound .  . once a situation 
presented itself , the atf asked the fbi to become involved since the 
fbi is in  . in addition , and military 
were brought in due to the serious nature of the situation and 
of the branch  . 

based on what i have learned about atf 's role in the branch 
, i believe the agency acted  . i am , however , deeply 
by the loss of lives of the 4 law enforcement who 
attempted to enter the compound and the civilian members of the 
cult .  . i fully expect the department of treasury to conduct a 
evaluation with representatives from law enforcement outside 
the department to be headed by the assistant for 
enforcement .  . in addition , atf will conduct its  own review of the 
operation. i look forward to the findings of the 
and hope this situation in will be brought to a quick 
and peaceful conclusion .  . 

sincerely , 


chairman 
on treasury , 
service and 
general government 

april 7 , 1993 


larry 

from  ( julie kangas ) 
subject re them next time 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
organization , pasadena , ca 
distribution usa 
lines 32 

in article  ( daniel oldham ) writes 
what happened in is not the fault of the  . if they would of 
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the 
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened. 

the needs more people , better weapons and more 
 . when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use 
more force instead of to a stand off. if you are going to 
do a job then do it right. the is there to protect us and they 
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job. 

with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look 
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country 
of ours. 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 



well , it 's said that people get the government they  . 

do n't worry , you 'll get yours. you 'll sleep much better when 
everyone with thoughts not on the government  approved  list 
is rounded up and executed .  . 


disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else 

from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re high power assault guns 
lines 12 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


high power assault gun why , you must be talking about the  . 

or did you want to try a 16 or one of the german guns 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re riddle me this .  .  .  . 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 19 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( fuller m ) writes 

yet , the fbi at this afternoon 's press conference characterized 
the quantity of cs gas into the building as massive , and 
that after a few hours of exposure any gas would become 
useless. 

does this sound not harmful to you 

 . a previous poster argued that the fact that the 's did not rush to 
escape the burning building indicated that it was they , and not any of the 
government actions , that started the fire .  . on the other hand , i wonder if , 
with a face full of massive of cs , i would be able to escape 
a burning box like that house assuming my best efforts .  . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 61 

in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( scott w roby ) writes 

the original question was about who started the fire and whether the 
madmen were inside or outside the compound .  . to which i replied on 
the possible level of those inside and outside .  . 

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off 
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ .  . koresh 
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound .  . 
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of 
his . ex members describe him in ways not 
to the way jim jones has been described .  . 

point noted .  . have you your faith and sex life for 
better i believe the was april 15 .  . 

i paid my taxes .  . there was no reference to sex or religion on the form. 
the comments above and below were meant to address who might be 
enough to keep children in a building with tear gas or start a fire .  . 

fbi have to pass rigorous psychological and background 
 . plus , those in charge will have to explain their 
decisions in great detail to congress .  . why would the fbi want to fulfill 
koresh 's own prophecy 

and nevertheless , they hit all their marks and read all the lines. 
well , it sure beats the hell out of me. maybe had a clue when he 
said , it is impossible to make anything , because fools are so 
 . 

i agree that the the affair  . 

two of the who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set 
by cult members .  . 

correction the fbi said that two of the cult members said this so far , 
no one else has been able to talk to them. 

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same details , 
will you believe them 

believe them i wo n't even recognize them. and neither will anyone else 
who does n't know them personally. 

do you believe they would put before the national tv 

at this point , we are getting reports from the survivors .  . 
best wait more light is shed upon them. of course , this is no 
good if you believe in eternal  . 



if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 







from  ( morris the cat ) 
subject re proper gun control what is proper gun control 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 34 


in l . a .  . , the first recorded of a  . 357 . shot to the heart .  . that 
not only killed her , but him down to do it ! all 
four of her shots , fired after she had been shot , the  . 
girl ! the bullet entered her on a angle , went through the 
of her heart , down through the , her and 
her  . it then her back leaving a ball 
hole .  . she died about times on the operating table , but was 
out of the hospital in 15 days and was back on full duty in eight 
months ! she was off duty at the time and not wearing her  . she was 
on her way home so happened to have her gun. no , she does n't think 
civilians should have the same rights. sigh. 

well , if police think they are so special that only they are worthy 
of self defense , perhaps we start putting the on police maybe 
we should start demanding that police are only police when on duty , 
that after that they are just like the ordinary helpless 
they consider civilians .  . 

let 's carrying by police when off duty .  . or , if they make 
the assertion that well , i need to maintain my gun let 's make it 
that they can carry an home , that it 's 
only fair that they be just as helpless as poor schmuck coming home 
from his computer operator job .  .  .  . 

director ex san jose cop states in the latest 
magazine that anti cops better watch out for this between 
folks and the police .  . he asks the rhetorical question of  what 
if what 's left of the gun lobby starts demanding the 
of the police 

well , i guess anti gun cops who think only they should be armed , 
along with the and politically connected , should be made 
to realize that screwing can cut in ways they have yet to imagine. 

from  ( charles scripter ) 
subject re justification was them next time 
distribution usa 
organization michigan tech 
lines 52 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

on wed , 21 apr 1993 03 52 11 gmt , peter cash wrote 

i just got through listening to the 10 o news on channel 4 here in 
 . they out a list of justifications produced by the atf after 
months of investigation for their  . 

just claimed he bought semi automatic assault . and 
they say koresh was n't god like .  .  .  . he managed to buy or build a 
collection of fully automatic semi automatic  .  .  . quite a feat , 
i would say. ) 

they 're still making charges of sexual abuse and such , or course. 
nobody seems to have noticed that the treasury department has nothing 
to do with sex crimes .  . or maybe the feds have recently instituted a 
tax on sex crimes .  .  .  . yeah , that 's why the was there , looking for 
guns ( this is my weapon , this is my gun , this is for 
fighting , this is for .  .  .  . ) .  . 

i could n't believe the junk on this list ! for example , the were accused 
of a bunch of and  . ammunition that can be used in 
and assault . imagine that they had ammunition ! 

i also heard that they 're claiming to be because of koresh 's 
ammunition . i seem to recall that 
tends to at even moderate  . i would be rather 
surprised , after a fire of that nature , if any of his is 
, or  . 

they also had 
!  ( yeah , it 's a component of , but so far i have n't 
heard that it 's illegal to take a to the 
 .  . ) . 

i seem to recall that is a common component of 
 .  .  . the folks on rec . could probably tell you. 

the only thing on the list that could have been 
illegal was an m  .  ( anybody know about this ) 

i think anything is legal if you have the proper license .  . if he had 
a and , i believe he could legally own 
to go with his  . 


charles 
dept of physics , michigan tech , , mi 

 .  .  . when . all government .  .  .  . in little as in great things , shall be 
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render 
powerless the provided of one government on another and will 
become as and as the government from which we 
separated .  . thomas jefferson , 

from  ( kirk hays ) 
subject re gov t break  ( re 60 minutes ) 
nntp posting host 
organization systems division 
lines 23 

in article com . , com . writes 
on a los radio station last , the lawyers for the 
family of the murdered said that the los 's 
department had an done of the 's property before 
the  . 

the documents for the had a on them about a 
similar local property which had sold for , 000 prior to the 
, if recent tv can be believed .  . 

this strongly implies that the 's department wanted the property 
any drugs  ( which were not found ) were only an excuse. 

the came to the same conclusion in the report he 
released , which the 's office. 

too bad the old man was nearly blind , and did n't take a few 
goose drug warriors  ( tm ) with him. 


life , seventh generation .  . 
the only thing necessary for the of evil is for good men to 
do nothing. edmund burke  ( 1729 1797 ) 

from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re insane gun unite ! ! ! 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
distribution na 
lines 38 

in article  ( rob davis ) writes 
do you know how many deaths each year are caused by self inflicted gun 
shot by people wearing 

no , but i have several other of accidental  . 
i 've never seen one that specifically provides the info that davis insists 
that he has , so i 'd love to have a cite .  . 

if you fall , for example , 
and land on the or cause a sudden blow , the gun will  . 

wrong. there 's one gun design where that can happen , and it is 
supposed to be carried with the hammer over an chamber .  . 
 ( cocking the gun turns the so that a loaded is under 
the hammer .  . in other words , it can be carried in a safe 
manner . ) . other designs do n't have that property if their 
is n't , the hammer ca n't hit the firing pin .  . 

the number of people killed in this manner far the number of 
deaths caused by animal attacks or attacks combined .  . 

the that i do have include the above category .  . from them i 
can safely say that if davis is right in all of his claims , a large 
negative number of people are killed by animals , because we know that 
the number of killings by is reasonably large and that the 
number of accidents due to gun failures  ( which is a of the 
described circumstance ) is near zero .  . 

i can find the if you do n't believe me. 

please do. include a cite for those of us who like looking at 
context. make sure that your source other types of 
accidents and that are  . ( gun cleaning 
accident is police speak for the family needs the 
money. ) 

andy 


from  ( james foster x2912 ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization control data 
distribution usa 
lines 

in article ,  ( vincent fox ) writes 
in jason writes 
deleted 
and as far as fully automatic weapons , you can be a lot better 
armed if you want to hit what you aim at. 

what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of 
 . in my post i was referring to your regular in a car 
around the city vs. members .  . of course the police have access 
to the things that you mentioned but do they use and such all of the 
time of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every 
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i 
see are still carrying  . not that there is anything wrong with a 
but if you 're a cop that is up against some member with a couple 
of in his coat (i mean semi handguns ) you 're going to be at a 
even with training .  . i have been at a shooting range where 
members were practicing shooting .  . they were actually practicing 
taking out their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target 
and they were n't doing too either. the university cops here  ( who are 
are state cops ) are armed better than the chicago police .  . it seems most 
state cops are. 

every city and police i 've seen around the cities in the 
last two years has carried a semi of some type  ( different brands though 
i have n't seen any  . 

with regard to this discussion we are getting dangerously far from the usual 
of t . p . g . , and close to the realm of r . g . , but i 'd like to put my two 
worth in. while there 's nothing wrong with a  ( especially a 
large frame s w in  . 357 . my favorite ) there are valid to 
semi  . i suggest reading 's (i know , some people ca n't stand 
him and think he 's full of bull , but i think that in general his material is 
very valid and useful ) book the semi in police work  ( or something 
like  . he defines a number of ways that semi 's are different , and that 
different is good . the main advantage is not in increased , but in 
more accurate followup shots when you go to single action mode .  . there is also a 
certain nature of each gun that takes some to 
learn .  . this may have with time as more criminals become familiar 
with different models of semi , but it was cited as stopping or at least 
slowing down criminals who had a police officers gun. 


define armed better . go shoot a and a semi like the 
colt  . 45 .  . does one than the other nope .  . aside from which 
rate of fire is usually not desirable .  . sure it makes the other 
guys for cover , but just you trying hitting anything with a 
in mode .  . this is why the military is limiting it 's m 16 now to 
3 round fire .  . simple semi would be better , but the troops 
like to be able to and roll even if it is of  ( something 
often in short supply when the enemy is  . 

a is equally capable as a semi in the same  . 

a also has the advantage that if it you just pull 
the again. 
a double action  ( almost all of them) can be hand first , 
but will fire merely by the  . 

yes , but this is best done with a two hand hold .  . with a single hand you either 
pull the gun far off target to , or must fire double action. the semi 
has the same plus is always sa after the first shot .  . 


a in a merely means you must pull the again 
to to the next round. 

i'm not sure if this is meant to be different from your first point. in a 
semi you can pull the again to try dropping the hammer on the same 
round an advantage you do n't have in a where the next pull will 
always go to the next round  ( discussing this point  . this is fine with a 
but what about a situation granted it 's very rare , but your round will 
now go off confined in the with no place to go. the slide 
on a takes very little time. 


a can be carried with the chamber empty and under the 
hammer for safety , but still can be drawn and fired with an 
easy motion , even one handed .  . 

actually with modern designs hammer blocks this is not 
necessary or usually recommended .  . a would have to fall hard enough and 
at the right angle to actually break the hammer and the firing pin into the 
round to set it off. 

for a allow almost as fast as 
on semi  . can be depending on users. 

the best users , especially those using the spring loaded speed 
are very fast .  . a problem is that the spent cases is a two 
handed job where dropping the magazine is one handed .  . this means that 
while you can be inserting a magazine as soon as the old one the 
gun , with a speed you have to go through more motions that will always 
take more time. you also do n't have the advantage of tactical  ( replacing 
a magazine to bring you back to full capacity the magazine can 
still be used if needed  . 


a in a semi will require you to clear a shell 
first , time spent which can be fatal .  . and a vital second or so is often 
lost as you realize hey , it 's ! before starting to do anything 
about clearing it. 

yes , the time to recognize the problem is just as important as the time to clear 
it. really though , in either a or semi the odds of an actual 
with are awfully small .  . you are more likely to get a in a semi 
but even these are rare with modern quality guns  ( sigs , , et . al . ) .  . 


most semi must have the slide worked to chamber the first round 
and the hammer .  . some police carry their semi with the 
chamber loaded and hammer , but a safety engaged .  . i do not consider 
this safe however. you must trade off safety to get the same speed 
of employment as a  . 

there are some double action semi out there , but the complexity of 
operation of many of them requires more training .  . 

all common semi 's can be carried with a round in their chamber without any 
safety problems. while i put that out as a statement that i believe , i should 
say that this applies to all of the ones i 've looked at. for the semi 's it 's 
no different from the situation the guns all have hammer or firing 
pin blocks .  . they also have a safety .  . because there 's no real advantage 
carrying one of these and locked you have the same safety and speed 
of employment as a , plus the advantage of sa followup shots .  . i'm 
not familiar with sa semi except for the  . i admit that i was 
initially skeptical about carrying this and locked , but after examining 
the design , trying to defeat the  ( gun of course) , and 
shooting it a lot , i see no inherent safety problems with it , especially in 
a with the strap under the hammer .  . this design also gets 
you more speed for an accurate first shot than a  . 


some police switched to , and then started 
switching many officers back to the old  . too many were having 
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received .  . not that 
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex 
as the on a  . 

yeah , the infamous  . i still ca n't figure out how it 's worse than a 
for safety .  . if you do n't pull the it does n't go off. i imagine that if all 
your shooting was done double action then you could pull the 
far enough to fire before you realized it. in addition , if you had developed that 
nasty habit of keeping your finger on the when your gun and 
relying on your on the hammer to you to take it off before you blew 
off your foot then you 'd have problems when the hammer was n't there. 


anyone who goes anyone saying that the criminals obviously 
the police do n't know nothing about  . turn off cops and 
and pay attention .  . i do not seek here to say semi are junk 
merely that assuming they are better for all jobs is stupid. a cop 
with a on his hip and a in the is more than 
for anything short of a  . 

i think this is even okay for a  ( as long as it 's a small one b  . 


gun control is hitting what you aim at. if you whip out a 
wonder and fire real fast you may find you do n't hit anything. 
good controlled fire from a is more likely to get you a hit .  . 
i own a myself but consider it inferior as a carry weapon 
to something like the security  . if i have n't hit 
what i'm at in the first 5 shots , something is quite seriously 
wrong  . while i might like having the capacity of those 
extra shots in certain cases , the of shots fired in 
criminal is less than 5. 

i have the poor man 's  ( taurus 99 ) and consider it inferior as a carry 
weapon to the  . 45 .  ( oops , vs. 45 arguments are relegated to 
r .  . you are right , though. if you do n't hit what you aim at then the 
gun combination has failed .  . i do n't ascribe failures in the the 
fire real fast with a wonder scenario you mention to the gun. this is 
a failure , whether through lack of discipline or lack of training .  . 



what do use in crime why the same nice simple 
 . 38 . that the police often use. well actually some police 
prefer the much  . 357 . , but anyway .  .  .  .  .  . 

's are becoming more popular with too , though the  . 38 . does still 
lead the list. and like i said , around here semi 's seem the rule for the 
street cop .  . do n't know about the state however , they may still carry 
the . 


do n't flame me , i prefer semi for most things. but they 
introduce to something as 
as an with a lone criminal .  . 

, please do n't take any of this as a flame .  . just my 0 . 02 .  ( whoops , looks more 
like 2 . worth .  . and much of it is imho , but do check 's book. 



if everything had gone as , everything would have been perfect. 
on 3 2 93 , regarding failed attempt in tx .  . 

from seth adam 
subject re 2nd amendment dead good ! 
organization student , materials science and engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 
nntp posting host po3 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

excerpts from netnews . talk . politics . guns . 18 apr 93 2nd amendment dead 
good ! by 
yea , there are millions of cases where say that 
 deter  criminals .  . , this is not  . i think that that 
there are actually few cases where this is so. 

from a letter i wrote a while ago 

although less apparent to those who have not researched 
the facts , personal protection is as legitimate a reason as 
for the private citizen to own a gun. the most recent 
research is that of dr. of the florida state 
university school of 1 . he found that 
are more often used by victims to defeat crime than by 
criminals to commit it  ( 645 , 000 vs. , 000 respectively in 
this  . these are even more encouraging when 
you consider the number of crimes that never occur because 
of the presence of a gun in the hands of a law 
private citizen .  . in a national institute of justice study 
of ten state across the country they found that 39 
of the had at least one crime 
because they believed that the intended victim was armed .  . , 
and 57 agreed that most criminals are more worried about 
meeting an armed victim than they are about running into the 
police .  . 2 
one of the most of crimes is that against the 
women of this country. it has been my recent observation 
that more women are for defense in 
response to the present danger of these assaults .  . this 
should be taken as encouraging news if the events of 
florida are any  . in the late 's the female 
was with a series of brutal assaults just 
the of the record number of women buying guns and 
obtaining training resulted in an 88 in rape for 
that area , the only city of its size in the country to 
experience a of crime for that year .  . , 
a us justice department study of 32 , 000 attempted 
showed that overall , when rape is attempted , the completion 
rate is 36 . but when a woman herself with a gun , 
the completion rate drops to 3 . 

1 g , point guns and violence in america 
de , ny , 1991 
2 armed and considered dangerous a 
survey of and their , de , ny , 
1986 



unlike cats dogs never you when you them. they just 
become very sad and try to figure out what they did wrong. dave 

seth dept of material science and engineering 
carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
arpa 
or 
bitnet 


from  ( david veal ) 
subject re insane gun unite ! ! ! 
lines 21 
organization university of division of continuing education 
distribution na 

in article  ( frank crary ) writes 

do you know how many deaths each year are caused by self inflicted gun 
shot by people wearing 

there are roughly 1200 fatal , related accidents each year .  . 
the large majority involve and there are under 
fatal accidents each year .  . i really doubt all of those 
occur while the is , so the number of self inflicted 
by people wearing is probably 
well under 250 per year .  . 

i'm neither a doctor nor a tech expert , but it would seem 
that given the way a gun points , accidental inflicted 
that way would be among the least lethal .  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re the usual 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 54 

 ( aaron ray clements ) writes 

yes , i am pro gun , and yes , i do disagree with this statement. 
nuclear weapons in and of themselves are dangerous. 
of and , as well as the in the 
weapon , tends to be somewhat dangerous to living things. 
 ( can you say ) 

can you say , i get more background radiation from living in 
denver or having an office in a building than i do standing 
next to a power reactor at full power or standing next to a nuclear 
that is armed look up in your dictionary .  . you 
do n't need feet of lead to make decent your dead 
cell does an excellent job on particles , and 
are by mere water . what do you think 75 of you is 

plus these things have no self 
defense purposes. it 's kinda hard to justify their use as 
a weapon when at best they are meant for use 
 ( low weapons ) or at worst for industrial target 
 ( translation cities and population  . 

if the has as its job the of an illegal 
government , they are indeed useful weapons to the  . they 
wo n't be too useful in certain areas , but the 
would be a good thing for said and it 's likely one man 
carrying a would stand a better chance than one thousand 
armed with colt  . do n't let self defense become the 
only reason you can have a gun and your sole means of justification .  . 
myself , i wo n't my government until it ceases to be my 
legal government , but if i need to i want every weapon i can get .  . 

one can just as easily say no rifle larger than a  . 22 . is 
needed to kill a human being. they are right. when that human 
being is wearing and riding in an , things get a bit 
different. i do n't see where the weapon is a problem. it 's not. 
only the manner of use is in contention here. 

not to mention that 
for it to be used as a weapon and expect the user to live 
requires some sort of launch . . . 

i guess you either do n't have an or have never 
heard the terms or either. do n't forget remote 
devices .  . that radio in the next to you can 
easily ten in decent  . that 's out of the 
of many nuclear devices .  . 

just what is it about that has you worried 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 59 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article 
 ( paul e. reimer ) writes 
in article ,  ( marciano 
pitargue ) writes 

stuff deleted about causes of people in er 

and your about shooting victims in the er .  . count how many come in 
due to automobile accidents and automobile crimes .  . maybe we should outlaw 
cars .  . 


there are a lot of automobile accidents , but there is some 
to try to combat this. 

such as drivers get back on the road in no time , to kill again. seems 
the 's license process does not work for this. 

when i got my drivers license , i had 
to take a drivers safety class .  . 

because you wanted one while you were  . 

i have to be to drive .  . 

only on public roads .  . 

my car 
must be  . 

only if it is to be driven on public roads , other than between of my 
property .  . 

i must  ( at least where i live ) have 
on both myself driving and my car  ( if someone else had an 
accident with it) .  . 

only on public roads .  . 

hmm , would n't classes , 
of both the owner and gun , and be nice for 
gun owners .  . 

perhaps , if it gave them permission to shoot in public roads and parks .  . ) 


paul 


jim 




i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( strider ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

(c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
writes 
surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. 

do n't tell me you 're the , right 

 . hee , hee. chuckle 

this was absolutely  . i nearly out of my chair laughing .  . 
wonderful ! mr. tavares , my hat is off to you again ! 


mike 


this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

from  ( morris the cat ) 
subject re the second amendment  ( ideas ) 
organization at t 
lines 29 


you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of 
mass destruction i find it hard to believe that you would support a 
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and 
gas on his her property .  . 

there is no law prohibiting having biological weapons or gas 
on his her property , or even walking on government property with such 
items facto it is now one 's right to have such weapons of 
mass destruction .  . 

hell , the u.s. office has on the manufacture of 
gas that anyone can obtain simply by sending a 1 . 50 . to the 
office in washington , d . c .  . o .  . box  . these same are 
to english citizens from their own office , which does n't 
surprise me based on the of the uk government against private 
ownership of semi automatic  . 

if we cannot even agree on keeping weapons of mass destruction out of 
the hands of individuals , can there be any hope for us 

so , you are saying we should have legislation prohibiting 
biological warfare or will you pass laws against 
gas or as well will you pass laws against 
gas that could have been used against the 
had the branch known of their anti engine 
effects will you pass laws against 5 of 
because they could have been used as flame yes , the 
road to hell it 's always for our own good. 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 59 

in article  ( steve manes ) writes 
i do n't know how anyone can state that gun control could have no 
effect on rates. 

i do n't think anyone is arguing that there would be no effect. but 
there would be no net positive effect. you also have to 
consider the negative side law citizens , armed with 
 ( pistols for the most part ) , prevent between 80 , 000 
 ( national crime survey ) and 1 , 000 , 000  . kleck ) crimes 
each year .  .  ( those are the  . most studies find 
the number to be , 000 to 600 , 000 . ) . about 1 of those crimes are 
, so private ownership of saves approximately 
5 , 000 lives each year .  . there are roughly 12 , 000 criminal 
and fatal accidents involving guns each year .  . for there to 
be any net benefit , you would have to show that gun control measures 
would over 40 of the criminals currently using guns .  . 
that would be very hard to do according the the federal , 
only 8 of criminals buy their guns over the counter .  . since 
gun control laws , by their very nature , only effect legal 
sales , such a law would remove all the benefits of armed , 
law citizens while having only a minimal effect on 
armed criminals  ( who , by and large , get their guns ) . 
that does n't sound like a net benefit to me. 

 .  .  . there . were over 250 accidental 
in america in 1990 , most with weapons .  . 

since most were with weapons , i assume you are not 
supporting reasonable laws (i . e .  . waiting periods , background 
, , etc .  .  . ) .  . since only a complete ban would 
alter the statistic you refer to , i assume that 's what you 
are supporting .  . 

by the way , people dies in 1986 from falling down  . 
250 accidental deaths is n't significant next to 
other accidents .  . 

 .  .  . more . 
american children accidentally shot other children last year  ( 15 ) 
than all the in great britain .  . 

children under the age of 10 died by drowning , from 
drinking  ( like drano ) , from 
falls .  . if the real goal is to reduce the tragic , accidental 
deaths of children , would n't a ban on be a 
better to start  ( or , perhaps , ownership to 
like ) 

 .  .  . please .  .  .  . no dictionary arguments about vs 
total numbers , okay they 're offered for emphasis , not  . 

while you might call it emphasis , refering to completely two 
statistics in the same sentence implies a comparison .  . if it 
is n't valid , and you put the numbers together to convince people 
you are right , the thing i could call it is propaganda .  . 

frank 
boulder 


nntp posting host no . 
from thomas 
subject re change of name 
in reply to  ( steve popovich ) 's message of wed , 21 
apr 1993 01 54 51 gmt 
organization dept. of , university of , norway 


lines 37 
originator 


how we survived ww2 
we postings about things we did n't know any thing about 
to only the wrong places. 

i'm not trying to this or any newsgroup , i'm just trying to 
give some hints about other newsgroups .  . 
does n't this belong to alt . conspiracy . 

note ! ! ! 
my posting was in reply to those about fbi the after 
filling it with , and people  . 

we all know what a is , right 
obviously we do n't .  .  .  .  .  . 
is known to be a in norway , not a  . 
if i have betrayed my country  ( norway ) i implied that of 
you to conclusions sound a little then i think there 
is a lot of in norway .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


about 
it looks to me as the and fbi ca n't handle situations like this. 
the way it went reminds me of   bomb dropped on a house 
in la from a  .  ( whole block went up in flames , 5 died .  .  . ) . 

it does n't have to be a conspiracy , maybe they just up 



this is not a  . signature .  . 
it 's merely a text to waste bandwith 
and to bring down the evil internet .  . 


thomas 


from state . edu .  ( matthew porter ) 
subject re reasonable limits 
organization the ohio state university dept. of computer and info .  . science 
lines 42 
nntp posting host python . cis . ohio . state . edu . 

in article writes 
a poster claims he  always asks anti what they think would 
be reasonable personal  . ok then ... 

not greater than 32 
not greater than with any of bullet 
action single shot and single action 
bearing no more than and 
an  anti fanning  mechanism to discourage roy  . 
any non explosive variety , just fine. 

now these leave the 32 h r as about the most powerful 
allowable for or rifle use. it would be 
reasonably effective against home , , 
and other such , even with the type  . at the 
same time , this power limit would reduce the ultimate 
of  . the chances of the average joe a of huge 
individuals all and on and and with a 
bad attitude and all armed and willing to die ... well , it 's about 
zero far less than the chances of getting killed driving your car. 

when will you people realize that our right to keep and bear is n't 
primarily intended to be for protecting against criminals and 
in the wild granted , it is a big part , but we also need military style 
weapons so we can fight off the government when they come to our door .  . 
when ten come to my door , it would be nice to be able to shoot 
all of them for  not upholding the constitution to the best of their 
 . it will be a lot harder doing that with the weapons you 
listed above. 

please read the papers for all clarification on  . these 
documents have cleared up plenty of that friends of mine have 
had. 






matt porter 
state . edu . 
state . edu . 

from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 35 

in article  ( kevin geraghty ) writes 
wrong about the whole guns for protection , it the 
effects of individual actions .  . if you want fire 
on your house that 's and it has no effect on me but 
if you and a bunch of other are in the 
it makes me , and anyone else who does n't chose to protect 
himself in this manner , pretty f king nervous .  . 

why if you 're not a threat , you 're not affected at all. 

i mean , take this to its logical conclusion , suppose we all carried 
all the time , for protection from all the other people 
carrying  . would we collectively be , or feel , safer hell no. 
we 'd feel a lot more  . 

why i note that the available psych info says that feelings of 
security increase .  . the say that that increase 
is rational .  . 

another effect of all the good people protecting themselves 
is that the bad people are going to their behavior in 
response 

yes , they are , but how 

they 're going to be much and much more willing to 
kill people in the course of if they think their 

nope that does n't happen. instead the switch  ( among those who 
change behaviors ) to property crimes .  . that 's an improvement even if 
the economic take is  . sure not everyone , but 
they were killing before. 

andy 


from  ( earl wallace ) 
subject re my gun is like my .  .  .  .  . 
organization . 
lines 10 
nntp posting host apple . com . 

in article writes 
what all you pro and automatic weapons fanatics do n't seem to 
realize is that the rest of us laugh at you. you do n't make me angry , you 
just make me chuckle i being in , washington and seeing a 
... 

you consider laughing at others civilized behavior what was i supposed to 
learn from your article treat people like dogs 

i am not impressed by your attitude. 

from  ( nathan engle ) 
subject re atf update 
nntp posting host mushroom . psych . edu . 
organization psych department , university 
distribution usa 
lines 28 

writes 
ah yes , i see a few liberal have come out of the 
to defend the burning of the children. 

actually all the i 've seen have the burning of 
children. i would far preferred that the had not set the 
fire that burned themselves and their children to death , but i do n't 
believe that the responsibility for the fire  ( or the almost complete 
of attempts to escape the blaze ) can be placed at the door of 
the federal authorities .  . 

probably all over themselves while watching the tv  . 

not so. my wife got me a convenient plastic for christmas .  .  .  . 

probably had a few like that in nazi germany , as well. 

yeah , those nazis .  . you know how we just love those nazis .  . 

oh yeah , atf fbi now claims , according the the media , that there are 
a few survivors .  . the number seems to vary minute by minute. 

yeah , as information in .  .  .  . funny how that works .  .  .  . 


software 
psychology department university 


from  ( andrew diederich ) 
subject acronym 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution usa 
lines 13 

have n't seen this one on here yet , so here it goes 

b. 
a. , 
t. 
f. ed ! 

i do n't know about adequate , but it fits the acronym .  . ) 


andrew 

these opinions are only mine on alternate  . 

from 
subject none 
distribution talk 
organization college , , 
lines 44 

in article ,  ( nigel allen ) writes 
here is a press release from control inc. 

calls on to bill to 
follow clinton 's lead 
to state 
contact of control inc. , 

washington , april 2 in a letter today to gov .  . 
, , wife of former white house 
press james and chair of control inc. , 
called on the to backed legislation 
(s . b .  . 241 ) , which would wipe out existing local gun laws and 
from future governing the 
sale , or of  . 
i'm counting on gov .  . to show the same kind of political 
courage president clinton showed as of , when he 
twice this type of special interest legislation , mrs .  . 
said , referring to clinton 's of backed in 
1989 and 1991. 


i knew that would sell us out. full , he is ) 

seriously folks , if it can happen here  ( remember we all got gun on 
our 4x4s ) , it can happen anywhere. now to get that letter ready. 
, as one who did n't vote for you , i can sincerely say i am unhappy .  .  . ' . 


30 

allen , , ontario , canada 

canada remote systems , ontario 


those who know what 's best for us 
must try to save us from ourselves 
rush 

jason the opinions expressed were given to me 
college , in by living in my  . 
the empire never ended .  . 


from  ( alan greig ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization institute of technology 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( brent irvine ) writes 

sorry , guy , you got it wrong. atf was tear gas into the compound .  . 
the branch  ( going along with their faith ) set their 
own compound on fire killing all but 9 or so. no children survived .  . 

seeing as how people are willing to quote the fbi quoting 
who just yesterday were and not to be trusted  ( hmm the fbi 
or the  .  . ) . i think i 'll quote the quoting  ( actually voice 
interview ) one of the two british survivors .  . he claimed that the fire 
started when the caused an internal roof to collapse 
knocking over and that they had no suicide plan .  . 

maybe true , partly true , or false .  . 

janet 
institute of technology internet 
tel  ( 0382 )  ( int 44 308810 ) 
never the power of human stupidity 

from 
subject re them next time 
reply to 
organization 
distribution usa 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( daniel oldham ) writes 
what happened in is not the fault of the  . if they would of 
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the 
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened. 

the needs more people , better weapons and more 
 . when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use 
more force instead of to a stand off. if you are going to 
do a job then do it right. the is there to protect us and they 
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job. 

with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look 
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country 
of ours. 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 


did you forget to put in a sarcasm flag 

al 
standard disclaimer 





from  ( stephen graham ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
organization computer science engineering , u. of washington , seattle 

in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( stephen graham ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
as far as john q .  . public with a gun , the supreme court has already 
ruled in cases such as us v. miller  ( 307 u.s.  ( 1939 ) , and us v. 
 ( 110 s. ct .  .  ( 1990 ) that that is exactly what 
the amendment  . this interpretation can be found as far back 
as the scott case , in  . 

it 's worth that us vs. miller miller 's conviction 
of of an illegal , that a off 
was not a proper weapon .  . 

no , they noted that no one had claimed that it was a proper 
weapon  ( despite having been used in at least two  . this was true , 
since neither miller nor his lawyer appeared before the court. 

did they or did they not miller 's conviction i do n't have the 
text of the case  . 

yes , had been used in , the spanish american war , and the 
us civil war. that was not in question. the of a off 
was , i.e. , a weapon altered to improve  . 

therefore , us vs. miller supports limited government of 
 . 

do n't go arguing down this road unless you are willing to by 
the consequences that you find at the end of it mainly , that the 
law common man has a right to own any weapon that has a 
purpose , from to off and fully automatic weapons .  . 
that , in fact , is what this decision says .  . 

you are free to produce evidence that i'm not willing to with 
all the implications of this. 

just because i do n't whole the position does not 
mean that i oppose the  . this attitude is what makes the 
unpopular .  . 


stephen graham 
! june ! graham 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re ban all ! 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 34 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( allan j. heim ) 
writes 

 ( paul prescod ) 

drugs are , please tell me when this supply will up 

drugs are easier to manufacture , easier to , easier to hide .  . 
no comparison .  . 

then let 's use another example  . of 
are larger , , and more than of drugs .  . and 
kegs are larger and still , and are difficult to  . 
yet , a lot of people managed to get very rich off of the of 
into this country during the years of  . there was a 
demand , so an entire industry formed to supply it. 

i beleive this was the source of the 's money. 

so unless there 's something i'm missing , i think your argument that guns 
wo n't be because e more difficult to manufacture , 
and hide wo n't  . if enough people want something , somebody will try 
to supply it. 

allan j. ... ! uunet ! ! 1 408 
jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re a universal right to bear not ! 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 25 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( morris the cat ) writes 


wrong again , but if you want proof turn on your tv and look 
for a show  . it was called , the  . 
time how fast he can fire that old action rifle .  . 

believe it or not , i remember seeing an for someone 
selling one of these apparently produced a bunch of 
these to the television show. i believe it was 
being sold as a because of the length and lack of a stock .  . 

i might be the above weapon for the gun used by steve 
in wanted dead or alive .  . if so , sorry. did 
make any models of the rifle used by 
in the movie was an member before he died recently .  .  .  . 

i do n't know for sure if made any  . if i 
recall correctly , the rifle itself was a  . 44 . 40 model with an 
loop  . i do n't think makes this rifle 
any more. make a model look alike in  . 38 . special and 
 . 357 .  . 

aaron 


from  ( steve podleski ) 
subject re with friends like these l. neil smith 
organization nasa lewis research center cleveland , ohio 
lines 15 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 

 ( paul prescod ) writes 
... 
some guns will get through , but far , and far less people will 
die because of them. 

do you have any statistical evidence to back you claim that requires another 
of the freedom 



steve phone 216 
nasa lewis research center 
cleveland , ohio 44135 email 



organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
distribution usa 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( jim de 
arras ) says 

in article jason 
... 

it is kind of funny though how you were the only one who picked up 
the part about my sister being a social and keeping me up to date on 
the 
thing. everyone else seemed to just by that part. 

jason 


i guess that just means everyone else was mistaken 

jim 




actually not jim .  . i just said that everyone else seemed to have skimmed by 
that part and not mentioned it. you can get whatever meaning you want from it. 

jason 




from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject cop kills 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
keywords pepper 
lines 26 

ok , here 's something for all of those people who think cops are always 
more responsible then the rest of the population .  . i found this article in the 
, state university 's newspaper .  . 

police in revenge 

, r . i .  .  ( ap ) a police afraid he would be fired for 
allegedly a ager walked into an body the youth 
worked , said you 're going to die and shot him and two others , police 
said. 

a fourth youth was  . a escaped injury by hiding under a car. 

the youth about two blocks to a house after the shooting at about 
tuesday and called police .  . he was in 
condition  . 

police robert , 23 , of , was at 
over three hours after the shooting at 's in 
foster , a town of about 4 , 000 people in island .  . 

well , this just goes to show that cops are capable of , just 
like everyone else. now who was it who said only cops should have guns 

doug holland 


from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re clinton , 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 40 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( glenn r. stone ) says 


fact both janet and bill clinton have admitted responsibility , 
even grief , over the deaths in  . 

fact regardless of who started the fire , there are more than enough 
things on to make a civil rights case against these two .  . 
cruel and unusual punishment  ( dying tortured on ) 
come to mind. 

fact it is a federal to civil rights under color of 
law where death is involved , this offense carries a penalty 
of life in prison .  . 

fact is allowable for high crimes and  . 
anything that 's a federal should qualify .  . 

conclusion we have no choice , if we are an honest people , but to 
mr. clinton , and remove from office. 


i agree. now that the warrant has been 
, it is clear that clinton and supported an 
illegal  . did they not know this 



no authority for a  no knock 
no authority to use  . 
no authority to search for a drug lab 

and , apparently , not even any authority to search for automatic 
weapons . 

51 days of government lies .  . 




from  ( michael phelps ) 
subject re non lethal alternatives to 
originator 
reply to  ( michael j. phelps ) 
organization ibm ny 
keywords pepper 
lines 27 


 ( douglas craig holland ) writes 
what about guns with non lethal , like or plastic  . 
would those work very well in stopping an attack 

doug holland 

any at or near typical bullet is 
lethal .  . even blanks which have no can cause death if the 
is in close to the victim .  . i have heard of or 
plastic being used effectively during situations where the 
intent is control , rather than close range self defense i 've also 
seen reports of deaths caused by them the british in northern ireland . 
use of a for self defense is appropriate and lawful only in the 
of situations at that point , i consider lethal force to 
be a proper reaction and so does the law . 
furthermore , use of less effective but still lethal force 
has its own set of problems. it may well take more applications of the 
less effective force to stop the incident this places all parties at some 
risk the victim because the attack has not stopped , and the 
since the damage done by the multiple applications may well be 
more  . 


michael ,  ( external )  .  .  . 
 ( internal )  .  .  . at 
 ( and last but not least a disclaimer ) these opinions are mine .  .  . 

from  ( bill green ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
article i.d. 
organization north dakota higher education computing network 
lines 23 
nntp posting host edu . 

just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported  ( ap , etc . ) . that 
there were several witnesses to folks starting the  . it has also 
been reported that the broke out in several places at once , which 
rules out a knocking over a , etc. as the cause. 

what i would like to see is some serious discussion of this incident .  . i 
believe the made were right and proper , but i still have some problems 
with some of the  . after watching the abc special on it , as 
well as and , i question some of the atf and fbi actions .  . 

1 ) could it have been possible to have taken koresh outside the compound at 
some time before the feb .  . 

2 ) could a further wait have resulted in a different outcome .  . 

3) were fbi actions  ( blaring , etc . ) . the right course of action 

and a few other questions. like i said , i believe the actions taken , in 
general , were proper .  . but i still have some  . 

one other point , i'm no fan of janet , but i do like the way she had the 
to go ahead and take full responsibility .  . seems like the boy 
had problems out just where he stood on the issue. 

from  ( dave duff ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization division 
lines 1 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

case ! ! ! ! the gun on the net before getting facts straight ! ! ! ! 

from  ( vincent fox ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization deep , institute 
lines 22 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 

in jason writes 
deleted 
the university cops here  ( who are 
are state cops ) are armed better than the chicago police .  . it seems most 
state cops are. i do n't know where you are originally from david but you live 
in and i live in chicago and see this crap everyday on the news 
and in the papers .  . i think the situation is just a different here 
than there. 

which crap , the ridiculous assertions that are down cops 
right and left the assertions that should be the proper 
and only option available to the law citizens 

a 

56 cops were killed in the whole country last year .  . this is down from 
around 100 in the early '80s .  . wow , a real in cop killings 
there eh ) 


if everything had gone as , everything would have been perfect. 
on 3 2 93 , regarding failed attempt in tx .  . 

from 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
lines 117 

in article ,  ( david veal ) writes 
in article writes 

in article , writes 
self defense is a valid reason for  . 

the vast majority get through life without ever having to 
own , use or display a  . 

you might have missed the u.s. news world report 
i posted. it is fairly with other such , finding 
that approximately 40 50 of have at least one  . 
how this translates into individual ownership is questionable , but i 
think it 's fairly safe to say that you 're wrong about the vast majority .  . 

ok ... a near majority actually own , but i will still 
claim that the vast majority never needs to use them or even 
threaten anyone with them. what do they do right ... or are 
they just lucky in either case , this means the  average 
threat level  in this country is rather low. 

besides , there are other 
means of self protection which can be just as effective 
as  . 

please name them. the key phrase is can be. theories are 
nice , but practicality is more important. a  ( to chose an 
outlawed virtually everywhere ) can be as effective as a gun , 
under conditions when dealing with your absolute average 
... 

i think you have weapons on the brain .  . i never said that these 
alternative means of self protection involved any hardware .  . 
why are  good   good  it is n't because every 
person is armed to the  . it is because of (1) attitude 
and (2)  . in the  good  , the residents 
make themselves aware of their and notice when 
strangers are lurking around.  good  form groups 
like  crime watch  to increase this effect , and the relative 
of the police .  . when are , the 
good step up and say that s the one ! he 
was mr. jones  house . 

in short , the alternative to is ... or at 
least a manifestation of that social cooperative .  . 
replace lead with flesh ... the flesh makes a better 
too and you can it over for a 
block party. 

freedoms and rights are not dependent on public opinion , necessity , or 
scientific scrutiny .  . 

new to this planet everything is dependent on either public 
or political opinion , usually political .  . to imagine that 
inalienable  rights  are somehow wired into the vast cold 
is and a dangerous  . 

in a very real sense everything the government does is based 
on public approval , if for no other reason than at any particular time 
there are n't public commonly trees. 

but and legitimacy also matter. if a government 's charter 
makes a rule , which the government then violates , it is violated the 
basis for its existance .  . enforcement of its will becomes a matter 
solely of force of  . 

north .  . the man is in many 
all american  conservative   . he and big ron 
set up a secret government and did all sorts of severely 
illegal deeds the kind of stuff you and i would be doing 
twenty to life for , yet he walks free. this bs happens all 
the time. in fact , it happens so much that no one really 
cares anymore.  legitimacy  is a non issue. is 
a non issue. so long as we get t bones and our , who 
gives a rats ass 

no arguments against can scientific scrutiny .  . 

they do n't have to. like so many other things , the issue 
is one of perception rather than statistics .  . 

excuse me , sir , but you were the one suggesting that arguments 
for would not stand up to scientific scrutiny .  . 

no. i claimed that no one is interested in the statistical 
aspects of the argument. pure , like the abortion issue. 

every time some young innocent is down in a drive 
by , every time some kid is murdered for a , every 
time a is executed for three dollars in change , 
every time some kills his wife because she took the 
last beer from the , every time someone hears a  bang  
in the night .... the dies .  . 

is hard to argue against .  . but it must be done anyway if 
is wrong. 

argue away ... you ca n't win .  . 

the are not all that 
clearly behind 

and just yesterday you claimed they were n't behind them at 
all. 

the protection factor does not 
strongly the factor .  . 

operating under the assumption that the same conditions absolutely 
both of them. that the of one automatically 
the of the other. 

related will be related to the 
of  . if they become and 
and expensive , a different psychology will take hold .  . 
i think they would be used far less to trivial 
 . 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( tom gift ) writes 

no , they did n't have electrical power , but no , i do n't find the idea of 
lunch with gas on as the fbi the 
buildings down very credible , either. 

i do n't know how quickly you can get a to up from a cold 
start , but mine takes about three hours. 

it 's not like this whole discussion is relevant .  . it started when some 
one made the wholly that the wood 
the fbi shot into the buildings .  . 

 . the 's were prepared to provide their own and light , 
and were doing so for weeks while the power was out. that means the 
compound contained of liquids or  ( that could 
be by a intrusion ) , plus sources , which no one can 
tell for sure were all off at the time. 

i'm not a for the feds , far from it. but wild ac 
like this are ridiculous and legitimate criticism of 
their conduct in this whole affair .  . 

on the contrary .  . we are proposing alternate  . the people who 
are coming to wild conclusions are the feds , who are absolutely positive 
how the fire started , even though none of them were in a position to 
see it , either  ( and the stories they hear from their prisoners changes 
 . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( todd m. helfter ) 
subject re fbi revenge 
organization university computing center 
lines 172 


does anyone have any idea about the size of i'm just curious because 
if it were a small town that may have something to do with it. possibly not. 
it sure did n't take it very long to burn down though. i was watching abc and 
it only took like a little over 30 to burn down. 

is a city of about 100 , 000 people. the population temporarily 
raised to about 102 , 000 people when all the feds , and state police officers 
arrived. 

i tell you what , i stayed in a room about 4 from the 
compound around 3 weeks ago. i have never felt more in my whole 
life. there were at least 100 state police in the  . 






the claim we had the water turned off , so the fire had to bring 
their own does n't hold up if they had cut off the water , they surely 
could have turned it back on just as quickly .  . they just did n't want to 
there were some scores to  . message to anybody else is very clear 
t fuck with us. we will do you in .  .  .  . 

not that i am one to believe that everything that the government tells us is 
true but if that was the message they wanted to send why did they wait 51 days 
i think the message would be better sent by charging in there right away not 
waiting for 51 days and them with sound , etc. 

a bunch of dead members are not going to be so able to tell their 
side of the story , so now all we have is the story according to the 
and fbi .  . also , mr care about the rights of people clinton , or his 
approved this action  ( fbi said  washington had approved 
 . they fbi said the gas used by the have a finite life , 
and were close to running out. why t they have just waited 

well , there are 9 people supposedly alive .  . they can tell their story. as far 
as bill clinton is concerned do n't you think he has more matters to 
to besides some small group of people in texas how about bosnia now 
there 's a problem .  .  .  .  .  .  . why could n't they have waited they waited too long 
as it is. something should have been done earlier. 


they gov is trying to say it was a mass suicide .  . in the past they had 
expressed this was a real possibility , but now they decided it was n't 
a possibility so they could go on with the  . what they 
feel was or was not capable of or going to do was driven by 
what was most convenient at the time .  .  .  . 

now this means that 

1 the public and media will forget about all this having become weary of 
it. 

this has already happened for many people. 

2 there will be no investigation  ( independent or otherwise ) or a  . 

very much a possibility .  . 

3 there will be no of the warrant and related documents .  . 
4 what anybody will know about this incident will be the version. 

with the way our government is i would n't doubt it. 

5 the has just been given for further abuses , with 
the effective support and approval of the  . 

clinton said on the news that he knew about what was happening but that it was 
all in the hands of the fbi .  . that is if you choose to believe the media. 

6 there will be more abuses , with no concern of  . 
7 the has been established that the feds can kill in quantity 
to achieve their  . especially if the target is their 
rights under the second amendment , and the rest of the bill of rights , 
and is a government declared un nice fellow .  . 

if they had rocket and such  ( as the press and gov claims ) why 
should n't they have done something what possible use would a religious cult 
have for a rocket also , is child abuse covered by the bill of 
rights 

and will be pleased.  ( ping(sp ) will be pleased. 
saddam  ( hussein(sp ) will be pleased. would be pleased. stalin 
would be pleased. even hitler would be pleased. any self respecting 
would and say well done , bill clinton ! ! 

well , then there are probably a lot of self respecting in the us cause 
i'm sure they feel the same way. 

god bless america land of the free ! ! !  ( past  . 

well , maybe i am  . but i see on the tv as i am typing where 

maybe , maybe not. there are a lot of questions that should be raised about 
this incident .  . the problem is , who will do it and be heard 

govt  ( the new general , known to be almost 
about private ownership of guns wants to ban  assault guns  and just 
about everything else ) , is saying the fbi had amazing , then 
falls back into the official line about how the were 
of child abuse , and were into it in an on going basis , and so on. 
note that according to the liberal , giving a child a is 
regarded as child abuse  ( seriously if it gets known , the state can 
take your child away from you if you spank your  . she also is saying 

which state is that the federal government or an individual state government 


clinton personally approved this operation she told him it was 
appropriate and so on , and he said ok , do it . somehow , i am not 
surprised the people must know who is boss who is in charge ! ! ! 
and it is no longer the people. 

it seems to me that the people have n't been in charge for a long time. if they 
really were i do n't think the government would be doing as many things as it 
has in the past. 

and i maintain the appropriate response , as far as this by is 
concerned , regarding child abuse is so what . are not our child 
services police .  . yet. after all the had been tried on 
that charge before and found not guilty .  . the gov t people have pretty 
much gone silent on the terrible illegal guns supposedly has , and 
the continued child abuse  ( apparantly to make it a seem as sort 
of a  rescue  operation , everyone hates child , and 
anything is ok to use against them) .  . occasional references to ammunition 
possesed by the and so on is irrelevant it is not illegal to have 
ammunition (yet) .  . 

true but is it illegal to have a rocket 

am i having a hope that an honest investigation will occur on this 
thing or will it simply be under the , and business 
as usual will continue to be the order of the day in the new order 
who will be given the official title of thought police , i wonder .  .  .  . 

and if clinton and friends have their way ,  ( highly likely at this point ) 
the new order government will also have all the guns .  .  .  . so what if 
1984 is going to be ten years late .  .  .  . i think we are going to discover 
that we will be paying for putting this fellow in office for decades 
to come. even some die hard are having serious about 
their savior .  . 

shit , if people dont get what they want right away there is an instant problem. 
clinton has only been in office for a few months. give him a chance to get 
something done. the guy had a lot of shit thrown in his in the beginning. 
give him a chance to work on things a little. as they say rome was n't built 
in a day. 

yes , i am upset .  . i see no good as far as civil individual rights to 
come of any of his decisions for the last month or so .  .  .  . 
we have really been had. or bill of rights is now nothing but a 
curiosity .  . 

i highly doubt that it is that bad yet. how about the rodney king trial the 
two people who were most responsible got the axe .  . how bad the axe falls tho 
is yet to be seen. 

anybody for 

nope .  . i would prefer to give bill a little more than four or five months to 
solve the nations problems. 

without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

jason 



from  ( tim starr ) 
subject re ban all ! 
organization school of life health sciences 
lines 19 

in article  ( paul prescod ) writes 

drugs are , please tell me when this supply will up 

drugs are easier to manufacture , easier to , easier to hide .  . 

no comparison .  . 

you , sir , are an ignorant fool who knows nothing about either the drug 
business or the gun business. 

tim now ! 

assistant editor freedom network news , the newsletter of , 
the international society for individual liberty , 
market st. , san francisco , ca 
 ( 415 ) fax  ( 415 ) 

think universally , act 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject national crime survey 
organization university of division of continuing education 
lines 19 

well , i dropped by the library yesterday , and picked up back copies 
of the national crime survey  ( 1986 1990 ) in an effort to examine what 
it said about self defense with a  . 

i have n't ground through much in the way of numbers yet , but a couple 
of things out at me. first only 1986 and 1987 the type of 
weapon used in self defense .  . 1988 , 1989 , and 1990 refer only to weapon .  . 
the second is that while assaults rose about 3 from 1986 to 1987 , w gun 
reported by almost 25 . unless there 's an explanation for 
this , i'm tempted to mark it as a reporting problem , and as such going 
ahead with any examination of the numbers would be a waste of time. 

anybody have an idea what might have cause a real difference , and 
not just a reporting difference the survey does n't appear to have 
changed between 1986 and 1987 .  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 


from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 34 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( miller , jimmy a . ) . writes 

in writes 

thomas writes 
i also believe texas has some of the most liberal  gun laws  in usa .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

in texas , you cannot carry a  . period. either or open. 

currently , there is a bill before the texas that would make it 
legal for some ordinary folks to carry weapons .  . i do n't have the 
details , sorry. 

fi , 

jim miller 
texas a m university  89 and  91 

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help. 
become one with the student system. be the student system. 
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man. 
, , mike 

if i recall correctly , the bill would provide for carry if 
the person takes a 15 safety course in and a 150 
fee for the license .  . the bill is apparently proof in the house , 
but has said it will never come to the of the 
senate and has to it if it comes to her 
desk. 

aaron 




from  ( rick bressler ) 
subject re proper gun control what is proper gun control  ( was re my gun is like my american express card ) 
organization group 
lines 16 

talk . politics . guns .  ( kirk hays ) 3 31 apr 13 , 1993 

some of the pro gun posters in this group own no guns .  . the dread 
, aka the , owned no for several years 
while posting in this group , as an example. there are others. 

good point ,  . 

he 's still around too. he 's responded by email to a couple of my posts , 
and gosh , he 's gotten down right civil ! this about the time 
he got his first  . wonder if there is a relationship here turns 
out that most people  ( at least the ones who are not criminals to start 
with ) act responsibility once given the chance. 

 . 


from  ( young yoon ) 
subject re boston gun buy back 
nntp posting host aix . edu . 
lines 28 



ron miller wrote 
when you ask the question of the authorities or of 
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer 
no , it 's total amnesty . 
 ( good point about being used only for harassment deleted ) 

i would also like to point out that this is receiving stolen property and is 
no different than a owner doing the same thing. 



, 
y all 

the opinions included in this post are my sole responsibility .  . 
and are protected by the first amendment and by the 
second amendment .  . 

if amnesty was their concern , they should pay in cash rather than 
and they should check to see if the gun turned in was stolen or not. 
this way if a gun turns out to be stolen , then even if they wanted to 
prosecute , they do n't know who to prosecute .  . 
since the only concern of  ( these(hci and the like ) people seems to be the total 
of  ( guns legal or illegal ) , why should they bother to check for 
stolen property .  . if they knew who the owner is , then they would have 
to return the gun and hence contrary to their intent to ban all guns .  . 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 122 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article , thomas writes 

if i would like to have a , i would have to get an gun from 
the police and to be a member of a gun club. 
the police would check my criminal records for any serious crimes and or 
records of serious mental diseases .  . 
now , if a got my , i would have to be an active member of the gun 
club for 6 months before i could my gun. 

so , like , what do you do during those months to be active 
my town has a similar requirement , and it 's rather stupid. before 
you can buy a , you have to be an active member of a gun club. 
well , how active can you be without a gun , chief 

most gun owners feel a check of criminal records for crimes and mental 
disorders would be a very good thing if it could n't be by the 
government. but every time this is proposed , there is always some 
by which the government can deny your even if you 
are perfectly qualified to own a gun. and we oppose this. 

it 's a little like getting a drivers is n't it 
you have to prove that you can drive before you are allowed to .  .  .  . 

since the fatal accident rate for automobile drivers in the us 
is around 50 times the fatal accident rate of largely gun 
owners , i 'd think twice before using this analogy .  . 

besides , the problem is criminal use of guns , not accidents .  .  ( there 
are about , 000 criminal uses of guns in the us every year but 
only 1 , 400 accidents . ) . i do n't think it 's necessary to spend a lot 
of energy making sure a criminal can shoot a gun before he gets one. 

just like the check , most gun owners feel about requiring 
safety if they could n't be by the government. but 
they already have ! one state does n't hold the , another does n't 
them , a third holds them only once a year with limited 
to those with political  . is this fair 

most criminals guns to use them in crimes , and mostly short 
time the crime .  . 

and how many of them acquire these guns from legal 
how many are borrowed , stolen , , bought on the black market 

use of 
it is allowed to in public , but not in your belt or  . 
you  ( americans ) think it 's ok to have a gun , but not to carry it open 
in public 

some states allow only open carry .  . some allow only carry .  . 
some allow both. some allow both , but require for 
carry .  . all you can say is if one of these modes has a clear advantage 
over another in terms of reducing crime or any other public good , 
then state are doing exactly the wrong thing. 
which means that they really do n't have any objective reasons for 
these laws other than their preferences a bad way to  . 

are  aggressive  
we are not as hot as , but when we decide 
to take action we do. 

( hot  . i love that  . here , we say hot headed .  . ) 

individual vs masses 
yes the individual is more important than the masses , but only to some 
extent .  .  .  .  . 
your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses 
what happens when the of some individuals the rights of 
all the others 

typically , the only criminals who can affect the rights of all the other 
people are criminals in government offices .  . the rest of our criminals 
affect the rights of only one or a few people at a time , and they do this 
during the of a crime .  . of a gun by someone 
no one else. it is when they do something violent with that gun that 
the crime occurs .  . of course , it is a crime for a felon or ex felon to 
a gun , but we do n't feel it is right to treat common citizens 
who have lived good lives as if they were just pre waiting to 
commit crimes .  . 

we should n't mix weapons and items that can serve as one .  .  .  .  . 

i do n't understand this sentence. 

if i lived in i would probably have a gun to defend in home. 
but should it have to be like that 

life is n't fair .  . i should n't need a fire either , or 
flood and theft , or to lock the doors of my house and car. 
but for a better world wo n't do anything to address what i have 
to do to live in this one. 

do you think it 's wise to sell guns like  ( some states do .  .  . ) . 

none of ours , i'm sure. 

if you believe it 's smart to have drivers why do you think 
it should be free to buy guns 

frankly , i'm not sure i know what good a 's license does anyone , 
either. the people who drive safely never use it , and the people who 
drive , drive without it ! 

however , a car is a good tool , but not one that my right to life. 
i rank the right to life somewhere north of the right to travel freely .  . 

i'm not a or anti gun. 
i would defend my home , loved ones and country , but i do n't view guns as 
or  . 
i have done army service , and have used a of weapons , but would n't 
want to have one for self defence or because they  feel  .  .  .  . 

the question is not whether or not you want to own guns personally. it 's 
whether or not you think that all people should be forced to do as you do. 
i do n't have any problem with someone who says they would never own a gun. 
i do have a problem with someone who says i should be prevented from 
one , too. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( john lawrence rutledge ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
organization interactive media group university of at 
lines 

in article ,  ( charles scripter ) writes 
this mention of a well is what me. according 
to the paper 's , a well has a well defined 
structure and follows nationally uniform  . 

perhaps you should actually read the papers ! ! 

perhaps you should , reread federal 29 which deals exclusively with the 
well  . here is what is says about its character 

to the great body of the , and of the other classes 
of the citizens , to be under for the purpose of going through 
military and , as often as might be necessary to 
acquire the degree of which would them to the 
character of a well , 

it also talks about the well having a nationally 
uniform in structure and  . 

i will note you did quote the end of this particular paragraph which states 

little more can reasonably be aimed at , with 
respect to the people at large , than to have them properly armed 
and and in order to see that this be not , it 
will be necessary to them once or twice in the course of 
a year .  . 

but , do you knew how much organization is required to training a large 
group of twice a year .  . just to try to get the same people 
every year , provide a basic training to new people so they can 
be integrated into the force , and find a suitable , it 
requires a continually standing of  . 

since a well is nationally uniform in structure and 
, and meet once or twice a year to train , how can you claim 
a well is not well organized .  . but i will 
a well organized is not necessarily a well  . 

several people have stated that the well organized is 
what is defined under 10 usc , which states 

the of the united states consists of all able 
males at least 17 years of age and , except as provided in 
section of title 32 , under 45 years of age who are , 
or who have made a declaration of intention to become , 
citizens of the united states and of female of 
the united states who are officers of the 
national guard .  . 

this define the , but were is the well  . 
10 usc does not define a well in any way , shape , 
or form. it only defines who can become part of a well 
the papers clearly define the well as a 
proper subset of the  . in the same paragraph quoted above , it 
talk above all the of the united states so they 
fit the character of a well  . this is what the 
paragraph states about the associated costs 

it would form an deduction from the labor 
of the country , to an amount which , upon the 
present numbers of the people , would not fall far short 
of the whole expense of the civil establishments of all 
the states. to attempt a thing which would the 
mass of labor and industry to so an extent , 
would be and the experiment , if made , could not 
succeed , because it would not long be  . 


another quote provide by charles is 
james madison , paper 41  ( regarding the general welfare clause ) 
nothing is more natural nor common than first 
to use a general phrase , and then to explain and qualify it by a 
of particulars .  . 

so the phrase the right of the people to keep and bear , shall 
not be must either qualify or explain the phrase a well 
, being necessary to the security of a free state. 
the definition of explain as stated in the american 
dictionary of the language the new college edition , is 
1 ) to make plain or remove from 
it was the who to explain 
this puzzle 
2 ) to define he explained his plan .  . 
3) to offer reasons for or a cause of an answer for  justify 
explain an error 
the second phrase clearly does not explain the first , therefore 
the second phrase must qualify the first. the definition given 
for qualify is 
1 ) to describe by the characteristics or qualities 
of characterize .  . 
2 ) to make or suitable for office , position , or 
task .  . 
3) to give legal power to make legally capable .  . 
4 ) to , limit , or restrict , as giving exceptions .  . 
5 ) to make less harsh or severe moderate 
6 ) grammar to the meaning of (a word or phrase) 
since the right of the people to keep and bear , shall not be 
does not describe , or make less harsh anything and 
it has nothing to do with grammar or some sort of position or task .  . 
by process of elimination it must fall into definition 3. and since 
3 deals with legal power , the same thing the constitution does , it 
must be the correct definition in this case. therefore , the right 
of the people to keep and bear gives legal power to the well 
and this legal power shall not be . 

i thank you very much mr , you have provided me with more 
evidence that the second amendment only concerns with the 
people 's right to form well , and says very little 
about the right of an person to keep and bear a  . 50 . 
machine gun. and since i , totally in the use of any 
 ( something i have meant to correct by going to a gun 
safety course and a gun club ) , cannot legally buy such a machine 
gun , i conclude the courts and elected congress agree with 
me. 

so now we know which category mr. is in he means to destroy 
our liberties and rights. 

i mean to our liberties and rights. is that why a participate 
in the discussion of exactly what our and rights are i 
force my version of our liberties and rights by statements 
of what our liberties and rights with all that the second amendment 
clearly states to me. using expressions , such as states to me , 
clearly mean i intend to force my views on others i do n't think so. 

so in effort not to force my views and not to our liberties and 
rights , i state that nothing i have written , or will write , in 
the matter of liberties and rights is the final word. for i am only 
one person among many and the final word on liberties and rights 
and belongs to the many. 


if only it were a modern document , with a 
john lawrence smart index and links all 
research assistant through the world data net. it was terribly 
frustrating to flip back and forth between 
interactive media group the pages and crude flat that 
computer science department never even moved .  . nor were there 
or  . it completely a 
1 university  . for sound. 
, ma most of all was the problem of new 
words .  .  .  . in normal text you 'd only have to 
 ( 508 ) touch an word and the definition 
would pop up just below. 
from david 's earth 


from  ( michael mcclary ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization to the 
lines 23 

in article writes 
gordon writes 

, are we also forgetting the near genocide of the native american 
for the act of being heathen (i . e .  . a non christian ) by a 
predominantly christian government. that 's a little over 200 years as i 
recall .  . i 'd say that for the most part it was religious persecution 
 ( their religion their  . 

this is a stretch .  . in fact , a great many of the persecuted were 
christian , a great many. it would be simpler to state the obvious , that 
white people wanted land the dominated or threatened .  . i really 
do n't think the government cared a hill of about the  religion. 

my native american asks if the government really does n't 
 care a hill of  about our religion , how come they 're still 
us for it in , washington , and a few other places 
you 'd be a christian , too , if the u.s. army you into church 
at  . 


michael 
for response , address electronic mail to 

from  ( christopher morton ) 
subject re ban all ! 
reply to  ( christopher morton ) 
organization north coast public access , cleveland , oh 
lines 24 

as quoted from by 

tend to fall into this low dollar area. 
it would not be economic to them in. all 
would have to be local .  . there are not all that many people 
who have both the and motivation to worthwhile 
from  . high crime could 
obtain and such , but the average person , and 
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would 
pay through the nose for it. 

you do n't know much about modern automatic weapons , do you just about anybody 
with basic manufacturing can turn out high quality  . a 
couple of high school teachers were recently for building 
in the school  . 

i suggest that you go to the library and find a copy of of the 
world . your entire premise is based on non factual assumptions .  . 



you 're like a bunch of over , new york jewish lawyers 
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in 


from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re 2nd amendment dead good ! 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 14 

in article 
 ( jim de arras ) writes 
the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way. 

it ai n't dead , yet. and even if it were , remember , it just 
our , it does not grant any rights. there would then have to be 
additional laws passed to outlaw gun  . 

even if they outlawed private of , there would be no moral 
force behind that law i imagine would be low. 





from  ( ron miller ) 
subject re boston gun buy back 
organization , , co , usa 
lines 18 

re more on gun 

the denver buy back , trading guns for denver was pretty much 
a  . very few guns were turned in. the news tried to it but 
when the best they could do was .... including a loaded  . 38 .  .  .  . well , 
you get the picture .  . 

a side note the news also reported that the guns would be checked for 
whether or not they were stolen .  . stolen guns will be returned to their 
owners ! ! ! ! !  ( they say ) 

 ( does this have anything to do with the on the capital steps yesterday 
in support of the ) 

even the made the 5 news on 3 ) 


ron miller 

from  ( steven r fordyce ) 
subject re andy how do we stop people with a gun 
summary guns can kill that 's why i have them. 
keywords guns 
reply to  ( steven r fordyce ) 
distribution na 
organization designs , salem , or , usa 
lines 

in article 
 ( nikolaus maack ) writes 
come on. a gun kills people. 

rather , people kill people with guns .  . the sad truth is sometimes that is 
good , or at least , better than the alternative .  . 

but let 's ignore guns for defence and or crime and look at gun accidents .  . 

ok. there are about 1400 fatal accidents per year 1 , and the 
number has been in decline since early this century 2 . most of these 
accidents involve or shot guns , not  . 

... 
but seriously a gun is designed to fire a bullet .  . this is not so you 
can shoot cut down at the range .  . 

in fact there are both guns and designed specifically for that. 
the idea that my mark ii bull (a semi 0 . 22 . 
handgun ) was designed to kill or hurt people , even for self defense , 
would , i'm sure , come as a surprise to its designer .  . it certainly is n't 
why i have it. it certainly would hurt someone if you shot them with it , 
and might even kill them , but it is simply wrong to say it was designed to 
kill people. 

this is not designed to act as a tool for home defence where you show 
someone that you have a gun and they go gee , perhaps i should leave . 

in fact , that is what happens most of the time. most self uses 
of do n't involve firing any shots .  . most criminals would prefer 
not to be shot , and will go to some effort not to be , including doing what 
you say when you point a gun at them. 

if you were called on to design a tool , that could be easily carried , to 
immediately stop someone attacking you , what would it be a is 
about the best anyone has come up with and experience shows it does work 
the best. 3 

no , you see the gun was designed to fire that little bullet into a human 
body and hurt them. not a tough concept to swallow , for most. 

certainly , no one argues that  ( of the type we are discussing ) 
are n't weapons .  . however , it simply is n't true to say that all of 
them were designed to kill people. moreover , what exactly is wrong with 
having weapons there are times when it is perfectly legitimate to 
use force , e.g. in self defense .  . i consider it not just my right , 
but my duty to defend myself and my family , and that includes having and 
knowing how to use the tools to do that. 

the strongest reason for the people to the right to keep and bear 
is , as a last resort , to protect themselves against tyranny in 
government. 
t. jefferson .  . 

i think what jefferson said is still true. 

and the trouble with having such an item is often the little bullet goes 
off into the wrong target. 

not very often compared to other use. 3 

or else frank gets and away his wife .  . 

this is n't that common either , at least when compared to other uses .  . it is 
very rare that a non violent person will suddenly get and kill 
someone , gun or not. in most cases , the people who murder have long 
histories of violence .  . if you have good reason to believe that these 
people would n't kill if they did n't have a gun , feel free to present it. 

having a thing designed to kill means it is much easier to 
kill things. right 

right , but there are times when killing things is called for. i hope i 
never have to shoot a person , but i 've had to kill a number of animals from 
to , and when i do , i do n't want them to suffer any more than 
is necessary. i prefer they die , but failing that , i want them 
to drop so i can quickly finish them with the next shot , and failing that , 
i do n't want them to go fast or far. i try to choose the best weapon and 
ammunition i have to try to achieve that goal for the size of animal i'm 
after , but it does n't always work as i plan .  . without the point , 
people who are overly impressed with the killing or shopping power of guns , 
particularly , have n't used them much for that purpose. 


1 accidental deaths in 1988 
deaths by 
deaths by fall 
deaths by drowning 
deaths by fire 
deaths by poison 
deaths by food 
1400 deaths by 

source statistics department , national safety council .  . 
accidents facts 1988 edition . national safety council .  . 
n .  . michigan avenue , chicago il  ( 800 ) 


2 trend of accidental deaths by 
version 1.1  ( last changed on 90 04 23 at 22 28 19 ) 

description 

the accidental deaths by per has been steadily 
for almost years. in , the accidental deaths by per 
1 , 000 , 000 people was 24 . 03 .  . in 1987 , it was 5 . 74 .  . the decline has been 
, consistent , and a fairly straight line when  . at the rate 
of the last years , it will reach zero sometime around ad .  . 

conclusion 

have been a factor in accidental deaths for over 
years , despite per gun ownership .  . 



1 year .  . 
2 population .  . 
3 accidental deaths .  . 
4 accidental deaths per 1 , 000 , 000 .  . 


1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 
124 , , 000 3 , 000 24 . 03 . , , 000 2 , 12 . 00 . 
1933 , , 000 3 , 24 . 00 . , , 000 2 , 11 . 21 . 
, , 000 3 , 24 . 00 . , , 000 2 , 11 . 
, 250 , 000 2 , 22 . 00 . 191 , , 000 2 , 11 . 86 . 
128 , , 000 2 , 22 . 00 . , , 000 2 , 12 . 06 . 
128 , , 000 2 , 20 . 00 . , , 000 2 , 13 . 01 . 
1938 129 , , 000 2 , 21 . 00 . , , 000 2 , 14 . 57 . 
1939 130 , 880 , 000 2 , 20 . 00 . 200 , , 000 2 , 11 . 93 . 
, 122 , 000 2 , 17 . , , 000 2 , 11 . 39 . 
1941 , 402 , 000 2 , 17 . , , 000 2 , 11 . 74 . 
, , 000 2 , 19 . 86 . 1971 , , 000 2 , 11 . 36 . 
, , 000 2 , 16 . , , 000 2 , 11 . 63 . 
138 , , 000 2 , 17 . 28 . , , 000 2 , 12 . 35 . 
, 928 , 000 2 , 17 . 04 . , , 000 2 , 12 . 22 . 
, , 000 2 , 19 . 215 , , 000 2 , 11 . 03 . 
1947 , , 000 2 , 16 . , , 000 2 , 9 . 44 . 
, , 000 2 , 191 14 . 94 . 1977 , , 000 1 , 9 . 00 . 
1949 , , 000 2 , 15 . 62 . , , 000 1 , 8 . 11 . 
1950 , , 000 2 , 14 . 33 . , , 000 2 , 8 . 90 . 
154 , , 000 2 , 14 . 56 . , , 000 1 , 8 . 
, , 000 2 , 14 . 08 . 230 , 138 , 000 1 , 8 . 13 . 
, , 000 2 , 14 . 27 . 232 , , 000 1 , 7 . 55 . 
162 , , 000 2 , 13 . , , 000 1 , 7 . 22 . 
, , 000 2 , 120 12 . 1984 , , 000 1 , 7 . 04 . 
, , 000 2 , 13 . 09 . 1985 , , 000 1 , 6 . 89 . 
, 274 , 000 2 , 13 . 1986 , , 000 1 , 600 6 . 62 . 
, , 000 2 , 172 12 . 47 . 1987 , , 000 1 , 400 5 . 74 . 
, , 000 2 , 12 . 75 . 
, , 000 2 , 12 . 

sources 
u.s. bureau of the , historical statistics of the united states , 
times to , edition , part 2 , washington , ,  . 

u.s. bureau of the , statistical abstract of the united states 
 .  ( 103th edition . ) . washington , , sic  .  .  . 

u.s. bureau of the , statistical abstract of the united states 
1989  ( 109th edition . ) . washington , , 1989. 


3 ,  . guns and self defense crime control through the use of 
force in the private  . social problems  ( 35(1988 ) 4 , pp. 7 9. 

! ! bug ! i am the r. 
uunet ! ! ! . . . the only fair tax is no tax ! 

from  ( jim wray ) 
subject re with friends like the 
organization bbs houston , tx 
lines 27 
reply to  ( jim wray ) 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


paul 

state . edu .  ( cathy smith ) writes 

oppose both waiting periods and background 
or any for exercising rights that are supposed to 
be guaranteed .  . 

let me get this straight .  . unlike the other idiots in this newsgroup , 
you actually support anybody having unlimited access to guns , 
criminals .  .  ( or would you them from them , 
but not from buying them ) 

you are a supreme idiot .  . you make the other idiots look like members .  . 

thanks paul , for yet another fine example of the than thou gun control 
 . why do n't you add something intelligent to the debate , like maybe 
 . 

. 2.2 . fight crime .  .  .  .  .  . shoot back ! 



bbs 
houston , texas com . home of alt . 


from  ( robert paull ) 
subject re dates are these coincidental 
distribution usa 
organization laboratories , ca 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
lines 50 

richard wrote 

i believe this was ill because they only had 2 days to plan it , 
and it was continued when failure was obvious because it had a bit part 
in the much larger political of president clinton .  . i would even 
suggest that the loss of 4 atf is inconsequential in this the 
context of his political  . it might even be beneficial to his , 
as it helps point up just how evil these weapons are. further proof 
might be that the atf denied their  ( street stories report ) requests 
for sufficient fire power. 

important dates 
feb nj assembly votes to assault weapon ban .  . 
feb compound in attacked .  . 

on feb .  . the new jersey assembly voted to the assault weapon 
ban in that state. it looked like it might be a vote , but the senate 
in n . j .  . was going to vote to the ban .  . it would not sit well to have 
an eastern state an assault weapon ban , given stated 
on gun control. i suspect clinton gave the order to get someone or 
some group with weapons and have the press present  ( they were 
initially 
at the incident in waco ) to record the event for the tv audience .  . the 
on street stories reported that a was urging them all to get 
ready fast , as they know we are coming . i believe this attack continued , 
even tho the of failure was high , because it came from the top 
down. after the n . j .  . assembly vote , the atf had a limited amount of time to 
come up with something , and the in fit the bill nicely .  . 

 .  .  . rich . 


i do n't know rich. last year when the congress was the 
 crime bill  , the incident at  occured .  . most of the anti gun 
crap was out of the bill anyway. 


could a president  order  go find some  assault weapons  and bring the 
media . i hope not. frankly , the me. of course 
having a democratic majority in congress does n't help.  ( apologies to all 
 who support rkba ) 

( definition a name for the current 
president of the u.s. clinton aka , aka ) . 

rob p. 





from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re bill  blame america first  clinton strikes again. 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 

in article  ( emil chuck ) writes 
this argument sounds very stupid .  .  . if the ability to make guns from 
simple was easy , then drug would make their own 
would n't they  .  .  . 

they do. according the the los police department , illegal 
manufacture is one the three primary sources of machine guns and 
guns used in crimes  ( sumggling and theft from the 
police and military being the other two . ) . washington d . c .  . police 
have stated that 40  ( if i'm remembering the figure correctly ) of 
the guns they were built .  . 

 .  .  . why . spend hundreds of dollars buying a gun that 
somebody else made cheap and is selling it to you at an 
... 

it takes about 6 hours and a few tools to make one  ( at least one 
of reasonable  . unless the drug 
around on a  ( say , as a hobby ) , he 's going to have to 
pay someone anyway. materials plus hours of a 's 
time for something legal would run about 100 .  . the 
for guns are usually in the 50 to 200 range  ( at least 
those few i 've seen cited in newspaper articles were .  .  . ) . 

 .  .  . the . simple truth of the matter is , that regardless 
of how easy it is to make guns , banning guns will reduce the 
the number of new guns and the efforts of a 
killer intent on buying a weapon .  .  .  .  . 

washington d . c .  . has a total ban on and prohibits assembled 
within city limits .  . it 's rate is almost ten 
times the national average .  . it is also illegal for a d . c .  . 
resident to drive to the virginia or maryland and 
buy a gun  ( dealers are required by federal law to check 
and make sure the is n't from another state ) so the ban 
can not be easily side  . 

to show why the tools argument is the i have ever seen .  .  . take an 
analogy from computer science .  .  .  . almost every computer science major 
can write a yet  ( we(comp sci majors ) would willingly pay 3 
to 400 for a software like  .  .  . why do n't we 
just all write our own software  .  .  .  .  .  .  . because it is highly 
! ! !  .  .  . 

sure. but it you could n't buy one , you would write your own  ( in 
fact , people did write their own 15 years ago .  .  . ) . more likely , 
you would find a friend who was a particularly good 
and get him give you a copy of his. software is a very bad 
example for your case how many people do you know with illegal 
copies of 400 word if people want something , and 
it is n't available  ( or affordable ) legally , they will usually 
get it  . 

same with guns .  .  .  . 

quite .  . 

secondly .  .  . how does one get this for the 
home made gun 

13 3 2. the has been around for half a million years. 
or are you going to restrict sales of , and 
that 's alot than modern , but 
it works very well. the only real problems are a 25 
in energy  ( so a  . 357 . would only be as as a 9mm ) 
and it makes alot more  .  .  . of course , a smart black 
could just make the gun in and steal the ammunition from the 
police  ( the police are often , and things are known 
to disappear from police evidence and and 
on the streets .  .  . ) . 

if guns were really that simple to make .  .  .  . the bosnian muslims would 
be very happy people  ( or is it the case that tools are 
in bosnia  ( deep sarcasm ) ) .  . 

perhaps you were n't watching the news two years ago , but the serbs 
also tried to invade  . they were driven out after a few 
weeks by armed with home made anti weapons .  . 
the frequently made their own  . 

frank 
boulder 

subject is it really apples to apples  ( lawful vs. use of guns ) 
from  ( john kim ) 
distribution world 
organization university science center 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 30 

i have been convinced of the right of americans to an effective 
self defense , but something strikes me as odd among the 
pro arguments presented here. 

the numbers comparing hundreds of thousands  ( indeed , even a 
million ) of instances of law citizens 
criminal activity , seem valid to me. likewise the number 
of gun caused each year  ( about 11 , 000 year ) .  . however , 
it is surprising that the evil empire  ( darth 
sound effect here ) never tries to compare 
all legitimate gun vs. all gun crimes .  . instead , 
it 's always all legitimate gun , which includes 
cases in which the criminals are shot but not killed , and 
cases in which the criminal is not here , vs. just 
criminal gun , which only includes case sin which 
the victim died. 

why is this of course , it would n't be unreasonable to say 
that in each crime already measured  ( involving guns ) , the 
are already known and it is safe to assume that 
a gun based bank last week will not suddenly turn 
into a gun  . whereas in the legitimate 
gun , one may assume that all those criminals who 
were would have committed more crime or more 
serious crimes had they not been  . 

case kim 




from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( scott w roby ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( scott w roby ) writes 

the original question was about who started the fire and whether the 
madmen were inside or outside the compound .  . to which i replied on 
the possible level of those inside and outside .  . 

was that your argument. well , you did n't make it very well. you started 
from the questionable premise that the fire was necessarily an act of 
insanity , rather than an act of or an accident. recall , one 
claims that the fire started when a knocked over a 
 . kind of makes arguments regarding relative somewhat , no 

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off 
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ .  . koresh 
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound .  . 
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of 
his . ex members describe him in ways not 
to the way jim jones has been described .  . 

point noted .  . have you your faith and sex life for 
better i believe the was april 15 .  . 

i paid my taxes .  . there was no reference to sex or religion on the form. 

nice , mr. , but they 're still on our tail .  . 

let me ask it more plainly .  . which of the above about david 
koresh 's religious or sexual justified an armed by the 
bureau of , , and 

two of the who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set 
by cult members .  . 

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same details , 
will you believe them 

believe them i wo n't even recognize them. and neither will anyone else 
who does n't know them personally. 

do you believe they would put before the national tv 

it 's not entirely far fetched .  . nobody outside the compound would know 
everybody inside the compound .  . do n't forget , the admits having 
inside the compound , in any case. 

at this point , we are getting reports from the survivors .  . 
best wait more light is shed upon them. of course , this is no 
good if you believe in eternal  . 

i'm simply being the devil 's advocate .  . there 's reasonable doubt by the 
standing in the way of anybody totally the official 
government story on  . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 

from  ( robert a. boudrie ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( charles scripter ) writes 
in article 
 ( john lawrence rutledge ) wrote 

in article 
 ( aaron ray clements ) writes 
the second amendment is a of the right to bear  . clearly 
and , without  . 

unfortunately the second amendment is not as clear as you state. if last 
part of it is taken along , it follows what you have said. the problem 
i have is with the first part of the single sentence which makes up the 
amendment .  . the second amendment is 

a well , being necessary to the security 


of a free state , the right of the people to keep and bear 
state 

, shall not be  . 


you did n't even get the correct ! try reading on 
the constitution , or get any other correct version of the 
constitution .  . 

this mention of a well is what me. according 
to the paper 's , a well has a well defined 
structure and follows nationally uniform  . 

perhaps you should actually read the papers ! ! 

james madison , paper 46 besides the advantage of 
being armed , which the americans over the people of almost 
every other nation , the existence of governments , to 
which the people are attached , and by which the officers 
are , forms a against the of 
ambition , more than any which a simple government 
of any form can admit of. the military 
establishments in the several of europe , which are 
carried as far as the public resources will bear , the governments 
are afraid to trust the people with  . 


james madison , i of congress , 8 june the right 
of the people to keep and bear .  .  .  . shall not be  . a 
well , of the body of the people , 

trained to , is the best and most natural defense of a free 
country .  .  .  . 

, paper 29  ( on the organization of 
the militia ) little more can reasonably be aimed at , with 
respect to the people at large , than to have them properly armed 

and and in order to see that this be not , it 
will be necessary to them once or twice in the course of 
a year .  . 

, paper 29  ( speaking of standing 
armies ) ... if circumstances should at any time the 
government to form an army of any magnitude that army can never be 
to the liberties of the people while there is a large 
body of citizens , little , if at all , inferior to them in 

discipline and the use of , who stand ready to defend their 

own rights and those of their fellow citizens .  . 


but surely and madison did n't mean the people when they 
said people , right that 's why the amendment refers to the right 
of the ... ) 

your average 
17 45 year old male does not fall into the definition .  . 

you 're right , the consists of all able males  ( and 
probably under current  . 

therefore most 
members of the , the one the every gun advocate refers to , are 
not members of a well organized and therefore are not directly 

the amendment does nor refer to well organized , it says well 
. i have some targets you may examine if you wish to check 
how well i am .  . 

mentioned in the amendment .  . 

if this amendment wanted to allow every member of the to keep 
and bear , why did it mention a well organized 
in the same sentence as the right to keep and bear 

correct. that 's why the right is to the people. and that 
was to the people could form a well , not a 
well organized . 

it could be 
argued that the first part of the sentence is separate from the last 
part. if so , why was it include in the same atomic of written 

what do atomic units have to do with this argument any can set 
h bar c 1 .  .  .  . 

instead of a separate sentence 

oh , i see what your question is why do n't you read the 
papers ! 

james madison , paper 41  ( regarding the general 
welfare clause ) nothing is more natural nor common than first 
to use a general phrase , and then to explain and qualify it by a 
of particulars .  . 

but what does madison know about the style of the 2nd he 
only wrote it. 

the amendment also implies that the right to has to due with 
the security of a free state. the paper 's mention of a 
well gives many examples of how this 
the security of a free state. all these examples are actions of a 
very organized force , not some john q .  . public with a gun. 

that 's obviously because you 've never actually read the 
papers .  . 

all that the second amendment clearly states to me is that the people 's 
right to form well shall not be  . that is 
people have the right to join a well organized  . this well 
organized will , of course , provide training in how to use 
and in basic military  . these training members of the 
can keep and bear the  . 

ca n't read , huh show me where the document says well organized 
. 

lastly , reading through the paper 's on well organized 
it is very clear that many of the reasons for these  . 
one reason stated is the protection from a standing army .  . these days 
the standing army could easily defeat a group consisting of every 
17 45 year old male and female not in the forces .  . 

that is exactly why every person should be allowed to own any 
weapon currently in use in the armed forces .  . 

another 
reason stated for well organized is to reduced the need 
for a standing army .  . well , the us forces have been a standing 
army for more than half the history of the us. 

but the major reason is to protect against that very same army .  . 

it seems to me the whole reason for the second amendment , to give 
the people protection from the us government by that the 
people can over through the government if necessary , is a little bit 
of an is this day and age. maybe its time to re think 
how this should be done and amend the constitution  . 

abraham lincoln , first address , march 4 , this 
country , with its , belongs to the people who 
it. whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government , 
they can exercise their constitutional right of it , or 
their right to it or it. 

 . of , spoken during debate 
over the second amendment , i of congress at 750 , 17 august 
what , sir , is the use of a it is to prevent the 
of a standing army , the bane of liberty .  . ... 
whenever governments mean to invade the rights and liberties of 
the people , they always attempt to destroy the , in order 
to raise an army upon their ruins .  . 

so now we know which category mr. is in he means to destroy 
our liberties and rights. 


charles 
dept of physics , michigan tech , , mi 

 .  .  . when . all government .  .  .  . in little as in great things , shall be 
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render 
powerless the provided of one government on another and will 
become as and as the government from which we 
separated .  . thomas jefferson , 

in article 
 ( aaron ray clements ) writes 
the second amendment is a of the right to bear  . clearly 
and , without  . 

unfortunately the second amendment is not as clear as you state. if last 
part of it is taken along , it follows what you have said. the problem 
i have is with the first part of the single sentence which makes up the 
amendment .  . the second amendment is 

a well , being necessary to the security 


of a free state , the right of the people to keep and bear 
state 

, shall not be  . 


you did n't even get the correct ! try reading on 
the constitution , or get any other correct version of the 
constitution .  . 

there are several ways in which one can choose to any 
issue 

 ( a ) original intent 
 ( b ) subjectively to political of the day. 

if we use original intent as the basis for the constitution , 
it is clear that the founding fathers intended that the individual citizen 
be allowed to bear similar to those used by soldiers of the day. 

for references , i cite 

papers 

the second , yale law review , 
 . stanford sorry , i do n't have the date 

sought to prove that the 2nd did not 
convey an individual right , but concluded that it did , hence the 
in his title .  . 

report of the on the , united states , 
congress , second february  . 

u.s. vs.  ( supreme court case in recent  . 
although this case did not to , justice 
notes that the term the people is a term of art individual 
rights , and specifically cited several used , 2nd included , 
in his opinion. 

title 10 , u.s. code. this states that all males between the ages of 
18 45 not part of the organized , and all female officers of 
the national guard are part of the unorganized  . 

feel free to cite any scholarly and historical references you have to 
support your position. i could go on a greater length with my personal 
proof by assertion , however , such a would carry no more or 
less weight that your dubious by assertion .  . 


from 
subject re gun control 
reply to 
organization 
lines 94 


in article ,  ( steve manes ) writes 

i would be surprised if there were n't contrary studies .  . i might add that 
and was by the police of both seattle 
and vancouver and is considered by most of the references i have at hand the 
most exhaustive study of its kind , even by those who take issue with some of 
the 's conclusions .  . s k 's statistics speak largely for themselves 
without postulate .  . 

and , i might add , vitamin c has been by a as a 
for almost everything from the common cold to  . 

in order to compare violent crime trends , s k compared all 
violent crime categories , from simple assault through various mechanisms of 
 . 

wait a minute. s k did not compare trends .  . if they did , they would 
have seen that the advent of canada 's gun law had no effect on 
, total or  . without a pre vs. post comparison , one 
cannot speculate as to the utility of anything. all they have is a 
correlation , and correlation does not prove causality .  . 


if your point is that non commit more crimes than 
then yours is the dubious assumption .  . conventional social theory is that 
economic status , not color , is the primary factor for crime , 
especially violent crime .  . what 's your point anyway , that white people 
are more responsible gun owners should we assume that it 's a coincidence 
that there are white people below the poverty 
line and living in where most violent crime occurs 

hold it again. you dismiss a point about , then you ask 
about socio economic very slick .  . 

differences between the two cities in the 
render these two numbers strictly  . 

on the contrary , it 's these differences that are the very basis of the study 
the easy of legal in seattle and the much more 
difficult restricted weapons required in vancouver .  . 

once again , correlation does not prove causality .  . looking at pre vs. 
post data , the canadian gun law had no effect. 


not so. measures and with 
against a survey based estimate of the number of legal and 
illegal guns in circulation within a city. 

sir , if you were a canadian , and owned a gun before the restrictive 
gun laws were passed , and decided to hide it rather than turn it in , 
would you answer a question about gun ownership from 
someone who calls , writes , or asks you on the street that is one 
problem with  . nobody will answer an question. 
another is that people will often tell you what they think you want to 
here. 


again , your author misses the core issue that vancouver citizens are 
from on the basis of self defense .  . they 
do n't have a choice in the matter. 

does that mean no vancouver citizens have i think not. you 
are guns purchased , and guns purchased for 
purposes other than self defense , which can also be used for defense .  . 


hmmm .  .  .  . sounds like your author might like a bumper that reads guns 
do n't kill people , black people kill people ! honestly , his , 
backed up by zero evidence , zero studies and even less common sense , are n't 
worth the time it must have taken you to type in. his 
assumptions look close to those pseudo scientific studies 
that the white love .  .  .  . the crap that takes published 
statistics , twisted around in an attempt to prove the inherent criminal 
nature of black people. 

he makes valid points about differences .  . you then resort 
to the kind of argument that the politically correct movement often 
uses to stifle any debate. nice , real nice. 


this author 's contains 0 independent study upon which to base his 
conclusions , just some , statistical discourse attempting 
to blame seattle 's murder rate on blacks .  . 

one does n't have to produce his own data in order to point out the 
flaws in the and conclusions of another 's study .  . again , 
you resort to pc  . 


al 
standard disclaimer 


from  ( cochrane , james shapleigh ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization institute of technology 
lines 20 

hmm .  .  .  . am i the only person that this is n't the first time 
a group has committed suicide to avoid persecution capture .  .  .  . and you seem to 
miss the point that the should never have happened in the first place ! ! ! 
i find the fbi actions too damn of the  .  .  . fitting 
that al was in poland for events the of that .  .  .  . 
remove any references to dates and you have two raids by government troops 
wearing black uniforms , carrying automatic weapons , backed by , 
against religious minorities they claim were practicing deviant 
behavior and weapons .  .  .  . too damn similar .  .  .  . 

james 

ps i am not advocating the 's , i just find the whole situation too damn 
 . 



james s. when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space 
circles , and  . for 


from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re the atf 
organization sun 
lines 14 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host central . sun . com . 

true , congress has said that of an automatic 
weapon is a violation of the law. congress did not , however , say 
that such was a capital offense or a worth 
getting four good government killed and 16 others  . 


even if it were a capital offense , the warrant was not even an arrest warrant , 
but a search warrant .  . in other words , there was no evidence of illegal 
, just enough of a suggestion to get a judge to sign a license to 
search for illegal evidence. 

question as in the rodney king case , will the us institute 
criminal civil rights against the or at least an 
investigation ok , sorry i asked. 

from  ( phil ngai ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization systems incorporated 
lines 12 

in article  ( brent irvine ) writes 
do you eat all your food cold 

ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 

the did n't have that option after the fbi cut off their 
 . 


flag do n't bother me as much as seeing the american flag on 
the church of americans who had never bothered anyone. 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
lines 53 
organization university of division of continuing education 
distribution usa 

in article  ( vincent fox ) writes 
in jason writes 
deleted 
the university cops here  ( who are 
are state cops ) are armed better than the chicago police .  . it seems most 
state cops are. i do n't know where you are originally from david but you live 
in and i live in chicago and see this crap everyday on the news 
and in the papers .  . i think the situation is just a different here 
than there. 

which crap , the ridiculous assertions that are down cops 
right and left the assertions that should be the proper 
and only option available to the law citizens 

a 

56 cops were killed in the whole country last year .  . this is down from 
around 100 in the early '80s .  . wow , a real in cop killings 
there eh ) 

well , if we 're going to discuss being a police in 
america today. 

the fbi lists police officers killed  ( feloniously and 
accidentally ) in 1990. that 's apparently everybody at all levels .  . 

year officers killed rate 100 , 000 police officers 
47 . 6 . 
40 . 2 . 
1984 39 . 4 . 
1985 37 . 9 . 
1986 34 . 9 . 
1987 39 . 0 . 
1988 41 . 9 . 
1989 145 38 . 1 . 
1990 32 . 0 . 


includes one in islands 
includes one each in and islands 
includes one in and two in foreign 
includes one in american and two in foreign countries 
includes one in and one federal killed in 



god , i love the information age ! ) 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( cathy smith ) 
subject denver tomorrow 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university , , co 
lines 23 



! ! 
for the right to own and carry weapons 

tomorrow , sunday , april 18 , 1993 , from 1 00 to 3 30 p . m .  . , 
the denver libertarian party will a 
at the state capitol in support of 
the individual right to own and carry weapons .  . 

speakers will include former general 
david , radio host ken , chair david , 
, and l. neil smith .  . 

your presence and participation are highly welcome. for more 
information call david at  ( 303 )  . 



smith 

my opinions are , of course , my own. 


from  ( jim wray ) 
subject fbi revenge 
organization bbs houston , tx 
lines 55 
reply to  ( jim wray ) 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


jason writing 

... 
if they had rocket and such  ( as the press and gov claims ) why 
should n't they have done something what possible use would a religious cult 
have for a rocket also , is child abuse covered by the bill of 
rights 
... 

this is taken a little out of context and i'm not flaming jason .  .  . it . 's just 
that this was the straw .  .  .  .  . 

i grow a little weary of the allegations  ( here , the media , people on the 
street ) that the 's had all these horrible illegal weapons and other 
of destruction capable of blowing 50 feet into the air .  .  .  . 
and then , without missing a , discuss how the 's commited 
mass suicide , or killed their own less and then commited mass 
suicide , etc. , etc. 

if the 's had all these things and intended to blow up their , blow up 
, blow up the entire country , or whatever suits your fancy , what happened 
to all the violence they were supposed to why would n't they have gone 
out in the of glory and come out shooting with an attitude 
of let 's take as many of those dogs as possible with us 

instead , they seemed to have preferred death to whatever they thought was in 
for them at the government 's hands. 

it 's totally whether they were all crazy , all fanatics , all followers 
of the , of the government , of , or 
whatever .  .  . they . must have felt that they were being into renouncing 
their beliefs , however how strange or lunatic those beliefs might appear to you 
and me . there is much precedent for such devotion to cause. 

my conclusion at this point is that the authorities seriously misread their 
danger to society  ( else why did the 's not do as suggested above) and or chose 
this incident to make some point or some internal , up to 
and including ag j. using this as an opportunity to assert her  . 

some people really do believe it is better to die than be to what 
they perceive as the government. when i force myself to not judge 
others by my own personal standards and beliefs , i can almost admire their 
stand. 

i surely believe in the constitution but i do n't know that i have such strength 
of conviction as evidenced by the 's .  . 

. 2.2 . non ! 



bbs 
houston , texas com . home of alt . 


from  ( kevin vanhorn ) 
subject american file call for help 
organization users kevin  . organization . 
lines 30 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 


today 's in has finally me to start working on 
something i 've been thinking about for some time. over the last few 
years i have heard of one case after another of government running 
completely  . unfortunately , most people are of the 
government 's crimes and still think of it as their  . so i 
intend to put together what i call the american file a 
compilation of cases where the american government has run 
over the rights of its citizens over the last few years , focusing 
especially on deaths and resulting from no knock warrants , 
and financial ruin to innocents resulting from civil laws , 
but including any other cases for which i can find decent 
documentation .  . i hope to make people blood , , 
red hot enraged at their government. 

the end result will probably be a book in electronic form  ( ascii text 
and files ) detailing the government 's crimes of recent 
years. this book will be at cost , and i will encourage 
people to post copies to bbs 's , send copies on to friends , and 
print out copies and give them to neighbors. 

this is a call for your help. any information that you can send me on 
how government is running will be greatly appreciated. i would prefer 
information that is well documented , with sources given , about specific 
instances of abuses .  . i also welcome anyone who wants to 
join me in and researching information for this project .  . 


kevin s. van is your religion approved 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
distribution usa 

lines 73 

in article ,  ( vincent 
fox ) says 

stuff deleted. all mine 

define armed better . go shoot a and a semi like the 
colt  . 45 .  . does one than the other nope .  . aside from which 
rate of fire is usually not desirable .  . sure it makes the other 
guys for cover , but just you trying hitting anything with a 
in mode .  . this is why the military is limiting it 's m 16 now to 

come on. it worked great in the 's  ( or the movie version of the  
anyways ) ) 

3 round fire .  . simple semi would be better , but the troops 
like to be able to and roll even if it is of  ( something 
often in short supply when the enemy is  . 

a is equally capable as a semi in the same  . 

stuff deleted about how are just as good as semi 

all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as 
i am not really familiar enough with  . 

some police switched to , and then started 
switching many officers back to the old  . too many were having 
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received .  . not that 
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex 
as the on a  . 

hell , a is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing 
that i know about a is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is 
that little thing in the but that is n't too great of a safety .  . 

anyone who goes anyone saying that the criminals obviously 
the police do n't know nothing about  . turn off cops and 
and pay attention .  . i do not seek here to say semi are junk 
merely that assuming they are better for all jobs is stupid. a cop 
with a on his hip and a in the is more than 
for anything short of a  . 

actually i do n't watch those shows ) and you 're right  ( at least  . 
i do n't know much about  . i'm more familiar with  . 

gun control is hitting what you aim at. if you whip out a 
wonder and fire real fast you may find you do n't hit anything. 
good controlled fire from a is more likely to get you a hit .  . 
i own a myself but consider it inferior as a carry weapon 
to something like the security  . if i have n't hit 
what i'm at in the first 5 shots , something is quite seriously 
wrong  . while i might like having the capacity of those 
extra shots in certain cases , the of shots fired in 
criminal is less than 5. 

what do use in crime why the same nice simple 
 . 38 . that the police often use. well actually some police 
prefer the much  . 357 . , but anyway .  .  .  .  .  . 

do n't flame me , i prefer semi for most things. but they 
introduce to something as 
as an with a lone criminal .  . 


if everything had gone as , everything would have been perfect. 
on 3 2 93 , regarding failed attempt in tx .  . 

no flames here. all your points are well taken .  . guess i still have a 
lot to learn but thanks to this discussion i already am ) guess i 
assume too many things like more are better and that sort of 
thing. of course you know what happens when you assume  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ) 

jason 

from  ( glenn r. stone ) 
subject clinton , 
summary civil rights 
keywords tv 
reply to 
organization the group w 
lines 21 


fact both janet and bill clinton have admitted responsibility , 
even grief , over the deaths in  . 

fact regardless of who started the fire , there are more than enough 
things on to make a civil rights case against these two .  . 
cruel and unusual punishment  ( dying tortured on ) 
come to mind. 

fact it is a federal to civil rights under color of 
law where death is involved , this offense carries a penalty 
of life in prison .  . 

fact is allowable for high crimes and  . 
anything that 's a federal should qualify .  . 

conclusion we have no choice , if we are an honest people , but to 
mr. clinton , and remove from office. 

glenn r. 
wearer of 

from  ( john nagle ) 
subject re the 
keywords we them 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution usa 
lines 7 


move. 

the smart move would be to in someone with a tv camera 
and video  . 

john 

from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject re i believe in gun control. 
organization ideology , inc. 
lines 22 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( larry cipriani ) writes 
no , you have n't read it very closely . it says you may answer no if your 
civil rights have been that can be done either by the feds  or a 
a state. i think the feds stopped doing this for those convicted of violent 
 . at least a dozen states still a civil rights , some 
immediately upon release , some after a waiting period. i will post a list 
of the states later. 


a quick question , then larry , if a person 's civil rights have been , 
then are they still considered a felon 

good question i do n't know what the law considers them. 

imo , if rights have been , then it makes sense to me that the 
record of the , and everything else has been , and the 
person in question is no longer a felon .  . 

i believe this is what happens in some states. 

larry 

from 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
distribution world 
lines 4 

as a minor point of interest , earlier news reports claim to have 
been quoting the of texas when her referred to 
the as mormons and called for their 
from tx .  . any have details 

subject news says indictment warrant  .  .  . 
from  ( john kim ) 
distribution world 
organization university science center 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 19 

something about how koresh had threatened to cause local 
problems with all these he had and was alleged to 
have. 

someone else will post more details soon , i'm sure. 

other news 
9 outside in l . a .  . man suspect 
was of universal , which 
is a division of m . c . a .  . 


question 
what will do with all those guns after the 
trial 

case kim 



from  ( kennedy james scot ) 
subject re a universal right to bear not ! 
organization state university , computer science , 
lines 73 

 ( nathan f. janette ) writes 
in article 
 ( kennedy james scot ) writes 
 ( gary coffman ) writes 
in article 
writes 
in article  ( stephen d. grant ) 
writes 
 ( nathan f. janette ) writes 

i suppose that 's true if you maintain that and ar are 
weapons .  . i think they are fun to targets random with , 
but not suitable for real  . 

wrong. both are legal to hunt with here in  . i have a picture of 
a friend with a nice 8 point which he shot with his ar 15 rifle .  . 

i do n't think many deer would your friends choice of 
rifle .  . 

i must agree with  . as a deer , i find it inhumane to use 
weapons for deer  . to kill with the little 
 . requires extremely good  . most situations do n't 
allow for perfect shots .  . should use sufficiently powerful 
weapons to drop the deer with a single hit to the  . the 7 . 
from the 47 or is adequate to this task , having similar 
to the familiar 30 30 , but the little  . is very marginal .  . in the 
hands of the expert , or the lucky , it will do , but really 
should have more respect for their  . 



i 'll agree that the popular 55  . for  .  . is too small for 
deer game. however , if you use a 70  . semi or the 
63  . semi pointed bullet this would be suitable  ( like any round , 
you keep your shots within a reasonable  . it would still be on the 
lower end of what i 'd consider acceptable , especially those 
long distance shots out west deer .  . the  .  . has 
been declared legal for deer in  . 

the  . is excellent for and control. the ar 15 in 
particular is well suited , given its heavy and  . 
add a high power , and you 're in dog heaven . 

however , i do n't think was refering to the specific 
of the rifle in question. maybe he thinks self have no 
place in deer  . that may  ( or may not ) be his opinion , but many 
do use self and  . 

, man. i was definitely referring to the round , not the 
aspect of the rifle .  . i have no problem with responsible 
 . that does n't include machine guns from , but a semi is 
fine. my has several deer with 12  . i would prefer 
that a use as much of the as possible , and i do n't 
for only .  . 

imho , of course. 

two questions 

1 ) you asserted that both the ar 15 and 47 are not suitable for 
real . if you have no problem with , or using 
self for , why did you say this if not 
for deer , then what about other , smaller game 

2 ) when did i get the nickname man notice i have never referred 
to you as which you do n't seem to like. do i get any 
super powers , like spider man or man 

scott , , and now man , of truth , 
justice , and the 2nd amendment .  . 



from  ( the lawnmowerman ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
keywords thing ! ! 
nntp posting host kent . edu . 
reply to matthew 
organization kent state university cs 
lines 

in article , writes 
i will be surprised if this post makes it past the , 
but here goes 

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt 

murder most foul ! ! 

is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all 
the buildings of the branch near , tx .  . the 
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and  non lethal  tear 
gas in . a few after this started the whole thing went up. 
all buildings are  . no one has escaped .  . i think it obvious that 
the atf used flame to in 
, then let the wood inside it. 

this is murder ! 

atf murderers ! ! ! 

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children ! 

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it me to see 
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was 
still some of the america i grew up with , and loved , left 
alive .  . i was wrong. the nazis have won .  . 

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors ! 

god help us all. 


please t let them get away with the slaughter of the children ! 


w. k. an american in  . 

flame on ! ! 

is this guy serious 

if he would ever really pay attention to the news  ( oops i forgot that the media 
for the most part loves to jump right on top of a story before all the facts 
are known , as well as to what we see and thus what we  . 
any ways one of koresh 's devoted followers that did i repeat did survive this 
genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people . besides there are 
survivors in the burn of the local hospital and was reported that david 
was in one of the when the shit hit the fan .  . besides , a majority of 
these children were children that he was supposed to have been the father of , 
this then makes them bastard children to a  . also 
someone should have told david and his followers that if they ca n't the 
then they should stay out of the kitchen ! !  ( pun intended ) 

flame off 

fight , fight me ! ! 


matthew r. a . k . a . 
cs physics major  ( the lawnmowerman ) 
kent state university 



look here for future advice . quotes . sayings . 




from  ( strider ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 34 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

 ( paul e. reimer ) writes 
there are a lot of automobile accidents , but there is some 
to try to combat this. when i got my drivers license , i had 
to take a drivers safety class .  . i have to be to drive .  . my car 
must be  . i must  ( at least where i live ) have 
on both myself driving and my car  ( if someone else had an 
accident with it) .  . hmm , would n't classes , 
of both the owner and gun , and be nice for 
gun owners .  . 

as i'm sure others will have pointed out to you by now , none of the above 
measures are required for you on your own property . you do not have to 
have a license , your car does not have to be or , and 
you do not have to have or safety training classes , when you own 
and operate that on your own premises .  . if you are going to make use 
of this dubious analogy , at least make it accurate. and by the way , in texas 
you can drive a car in public  ( with the proper credentials ) , but an ordinary 
civilian ca n't carry a gun legally in public to save his her life. 

so i wo n't even consider , safety classes , or 
unless i get a federal law 
all local , state , and federal gun control laws which the second 
amendment , and a non federal weapons carry , good 
anywhere in the united states. come on , you wanted the analogy .  . 


mike 

this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

from  ( andrew diederich ) 
subject re the atf 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution usa 
lines 19 


a few comments on the atf 's handling of this case 

dan s. 

and another one 

has n't heard of a leader 's this is when the leader of the 
goes and looks at the objective to see if anything has changed that 
would affect the mission .  . even the freshman here in 
know about them. mostly because they know it as the part where they 
lie on the cold ground for an hour or so , but they 've heard about it. 
maybe the atf should have out to the local guys ! 



andrew 

these opinions are only mine on alternate  . 

from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re gun talk update for states 
keywords gun talk , 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
distribution usa 
lines 15 

 ( larry cipriani ) writes 

iowa all related are dead. senate file 
dealing with off duty police officers carrying remains 
viable .  . 

the power of the word processor and a stamp at work. 
the fact that around here the state generally lives no more than 
from any does n't hurt , either. 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 


from  ( cochrane , james shapleigh ) 
subject re them next time 
distribution usa 
organization institute of technology 
lines 44 

in article  ( daniel oldham ) writes 
what happened in is not the fault of the  . if they would of 
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the 

with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 

i hope this is a joke .  .  .  . if not , here 's my response 

the has a history of no knock raids with poor evidence , often resulting in 
innocent people being killed or suffering injury to person or property .  . i will 
not support the until they clean up their act .  .  .  . maybe .  .  .  . as to equipment , 
the has damn near anything it wants .  .  .  . their were in intelligence 
 ( military and civilian definitions apply ) ,  ( attacking during daylight ) ,  ( the fbi stated that it is against government policy to assault 
a position where there are non combatants potential without attempting 
first ) , and  . the 's jurisdiction is taxes on 
and  . they are a branch of the department of the treasury .  . they have 
very backed away from their claims of illegal to push the 
child abuse charges .  .  .  . the has no jurisdiction over non 
issues ! and the charges of child abuse had been investigated in the past with 
no violence and no  . this was a clear case of first the , then 
the fbi , having watched too many  .  .  . my opinion is that the 
in charge should be charged with executing an illegal , criminal , 
murder , civil rights , and breaking his her oath to uphold and defend 
the constitution of the us. the warrant should be to reveal to the 
public what justification the thought it had in committing an armed assault 
on american citizens .  . and while on the issue of investigating this issue , 
the case and the case should be investigated for 
 . 

james 

btw , if the came in my with , you could damn well bet i would return fire to the utmost of my ability .  . 





james s. when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space 
circles , and  . for 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
distribution usa 

lines 31 

in article , 
 ( frank crary ) says 

 .  .  . i . have never seen anyone else practice by 
taking their gun out of their coat as fast as possible and start shooting .  . 

that is the recommended way to practice with a , too. aim alone is no d 

for defense , if you ca n't get the gun rapidly .  . 

very true but the way it was being done was just a little unusual .  . it looked 
to me like they were practicing to shoot someone .  .  .  . 

the point that i forgot to bring up here  ( and this has nothing to do with being 
a member or not ) is that it is illegal to carry a weapon in this 
area  ( or in the state of illinois for that  . this is not to say that 
people in illinois do n't carry weapons but practicing like 
that when there are other people around was n't too bright of an idea. 


there is n't necessarily a conflict between practicing with a 
weapon for self defence and practicing to shoot someone .  . armed 
self defence does involve shooting an  . 

frank 
boulder 

i agree. if you do n't practice at all and carry a gun for self defense you 
most likely would be in big trouble if a situation were to arise .  . 

jason 

from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re non lethal alternatives to 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
keywords pepper 
lines 18 

in article writes 

ask the  . enough people have been killed by that they now 
use them under only certain controlled circumstances .  . and they are fired 
from something that looks like a tear gas  . 

there are smaller and  ( for  . i understand that 
they are only intended to be , ie .  . for the but not truly 
dangerous animal .  . in general , they do not seem capable of really stopping 
someone who wants you or past you. they are fired at very low 
 ( the  . 38 . ball round is intended for a  . finally , as your mother 
warned you , you can put an eye out with that thing. ) 

oh , ok. just wondering .  . i am not a real expert on weapons , i was just 
wondering if they would do the job. 

doug holland 


from  ( bill meyers ) 
subject ( a gun law i can live with ! ) 
distribution usa 
organization n i 
lines 115 


congress 
1st 

h. r. 

to establish the right to obtain for security , and to use 
in defense of self , family , or home , and to provide for the enforcement 
of such right. 



in the house of representatives 

march 10 , 1993 

mr. introduced the following bill which was referred to the 
on the 



a bill 

to establish the right to obtain for security , and 
to use in defense of self , family , or home , and 
to provide for the enforcement of such right. 

be it by the senate and house of 
of the united states of america in congress assembled , 

section 1. short title .  . 

this act may be cited as the citizens  self defense 
act of 1993 . 

 . 2. right to obtain for security , and 
to use in defense of self , 
family , or home enforcement .  . 

 ( a ) of right. a person not pro 
by federal law from receiving a shall have 
the right to obtain for security , and to use fire 
in defense of self , family , or home. 

 ( b ) defined .  . as used in  ( a ) , 
the term means a 

(1)  ( as defined in section  ( 921(a)(5 ) of 
title 18 , united states code ) 

(2) rifle  ( as defined in section  ( 921(a)(7 ) of such 
title) or 

 ( 3 )  ( as defined in section 10 of public 
law  . 

 ( c ) enforcement of right. 

(1) in general. a person whose right under 
 ( a ) is violated in any manner may bring 
an action in any united states district court against 
the united states , any state , or any person for 
, relief , and such other relief as 
the court appropriate. 

(2) authority to award a reasonable at 
s fee .  . in an action brought under 
(1) , the court , in its , may allow the 
prevailing party , other than a state , a reasonable 
's fee as part of the costs .  . 

 ( d ) of  . an action may not 
be brought under  ( c)(1 ) after the 5 year period 
that begins with the date the violation described 
is discovered .  . 

 ( end of 1276 ) 


well , this sounds good to me. the key is section  ( 2)(c)(2 ) , which 
will effectively open up the federal court system to all the folks 
who ca n't afford to adopt an with whom to fight city hall .  . 
all of you who 've been saying hey , is n't that illegal could just 
go your own on a pay if you win ( fee ) 
basis , and the ... ) 

what you can do now 

(1) write your representative , and ask them to co  . 

(2) write representative , the 

representative 
house office building 
washington , d . c .  . 

to tell him who your own representative is , and that you 've 
asked them to join him as a co of  . 

 ( 3 ) contact gun owners of america 

gun owners of america 
place 
, virginia 

which has committed to lobby on behalf of  . 

 ( 4 ) for those of us with a  ( tm ) , find out how to reach 
representative 's campaign  ( i'm working on it) 
and toss in a few  . you can bet your that he 's 
going to be one of the targets in the next election , 
which is n't that far away  . 

 ( 5 ) tell your family , friends , gun club , etc. enjoy ... ) 


from () 
subject re guns in no thanks 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 40 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 

in article  ( guy m. trotter ) writes 

hi , 

in canada , any gun that enters a national park must be (i think it 's a 
small metal that 's placed over the  . the net result of this is 
that you ca n't use a gun to protect yourself from bears  ( or psychos ) in the 
national parks .  . instead , one has to be sensitive to the and 
of in bear country , and take the appropriate  . 

i think this policy makes the users of the national parks feel a little closer 
to nature , that they are a part of nature and , as such , have to deal with 
nature on it 's own terms. 

guy 

, 

i understand this philosophy .  . the bears are a national 
, the area is their and people who enter it 
do so at their own risk. it is better that that rare human be 
killed by a bear than that bears be provoked or shot by 
 . the bears are n't having a population , humans 
are so it is better that a human be killed than the bears .  . 
i do n't agree with this , but i understand it. 

the are a bit different. they are not a national 
but i suppose the decision has been made that to allow 
for defense against them would also allow 
for defense against bears .  . again , i suppose it has been decided 
that it is better for the rare human to be killed by a than 
to take a chance on threatening the bears .  . 

personally , i would n't go into an area where i would be 
managed so as to reduce my safety ..... but ... come to think 
of it i guess i live in a managed myself ) 

v 



from  ( jeffrey c. strait ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization the university of illinois 
lines 17 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( earl wallace ) writes 

the themselves out. neither mormons nor jews have a 
for themselves with , so i'm not particularly 
concerned.  ( or shall we blame jim jones on the government also ) 
... 

it is silly to make this statement. after the fire 
started , the official word out of fbi in was 
that the 's committed suicide .  . it would seem logical that the 
story has more credibility .  . you ca n't even to pretend to 
know for sure what happened .  .  .  . although clinton is doing just that. 


jeff 
university of illinois phone  ( 217 ) 


from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 85 

in article thomas writes 
drivers 
forgot that usa is the land of cars .  .  .  .  .  . 
getting one in  ( and northern europe ) is not easy .  . 
average time is about 20 hours of training , and the cost is rather .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

is the license required for driving a car exclusively on private 
property , such as a farm here in the united states , the license 
is required only for the use of public roads .  . 

abuse by the 
this seems to be one of the main problems any harder gun control 
would just be by the ( . ! ) 
either some of you are a little  ( no  .  . ) . or you should 
get a new  .  ( you do have elections ) 

we also have a nation of 250 million people , many issues and 
usually only two for a given office. a president 
might be willing to abuse mild gun control laws and create 
a de facto ban  ( something a majority of the people would object to) 
and still be elected the voters might look at issues like the 
civil rights of minorities , health care , etc .  .  .  . and vote 
for the lesser of two evils .  . i do n't think this is a matter 
of paranoia , since local governments in  ( for example) new york 
and chicago have existing , mild gun control laws to 
create a virtual ban .  . 

guns  n criminals 
most weapons used by criminals today are stolen .  . 
known criminals can not buy weapons , that 's one of the points of gun control. 

in which case , the united states already has gun control laws 
according to federal statistic , only 7 of gun criminals 
legally their own guns from  . if that 's 
the point of gun control  ( to prevent criminals from legally 
guns ) then america does n't need any additional laws to 
this. 

mixing weapons and things that can be use as one 
what i meant was that cars can kill , but they are not guns ! 

how is this any different from guns there are legal purposes for 
and using a gun they are appropriate tools for , 
target shooting and self defence .  . like cars , murder is n't 
their only  ( or even a common ) use. 

if 50 of all murders was done with axes , would you impose some on them 
or just say that they are to be used at trees , and that the axe is not a problem , 
it 's the   

i certainly could n't imagine the american public accepting 
of axes .  . while the politics of other nations may be different , 
in america there is strong opposition to any law that 
primarily would effect the average , law citizen who had 
not done anything wrong. 

think about the situation in los where people are buying guns to protect 
themselves. is this a good situation is it the way to deal with the problem 

a good way to deal with which problem it is an way to deal 
with the short term problem of and violent attacks .  . of course , 
it does n't do anything for the long term issues that start riots .  . but 
at this point , what can these individuals do about long term social 
problems 

if everybody buys guns to protect themselves from criminals  ( and their neighbor who have 
guns ) what do you think will happen (i mean if everybody had a gun in usa) 

there are , according to , guns in 40 of american homes .  . 
in many parts of the country , this is closer to 100 . those places 
where almost everyone owns a gun are , on average , safer than those 
where guns are less common .  . 

last word 
responsible gun owners are not a problem , but they will be affected if 
you want to protect your  . 

this is , i think , a fundamental difference between american government 
and that of other nations .  . here it is not acceptable to punish 
or restrict the average , law citizen in the name of some 
vague common good. 

frank 
boulder 


from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 87 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( stephen graham ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( stephen graham ) writes 

re is john q .  . public with a gun protected 

it 's worth that us vs. miller miller 's conviction 
of of an illegal , that a off 
was not a proper weapon .  . 

no , they noted that no one had claimed that it was a proper 
weapon  ( despite having been used in at least two  . this was true , 
since neither miller nor his lawyer appeared before the court. 

did they or did they not miller 's conviction i do n't have the 
text of the case  . 

miller was convicted of a off and not paying the 
 34 tax .  . of the court 's decision 

the second amendment was intended to the and render 
possible the of such a force the ... it must be 
interpreted and applied with that end in view. 

the includes all males physically capable of acting in 
for the common defense .  . 

however , regarding off , certainly it is not within 
judicial notice that this weapon is any part of the ordinary military 
equipment or that its use could contribute to the common defense .  . 

judicial notice is the term of art here it meant that no such 
evidence had been formally presented .  . this is different from claiming 
that they had ruled that it was n't .  . 

yes , had been used in , the spanish american war , and the 
us civil war. that was not in question. the of a off 
was , i.e. , a weapon altered to improve  . 

i'm not talking about plain in war i'm talking about short 
( off ) in war. 

compare war in the spanish american 
war and in i. they were also put to good use by 
us soldiers in ii , not to mention being to rats 
in vietnam , but , of course , miller took place in 1939 .  . 

therefore , us vs. miller supports limited government of 
 . 

do n't go arguing down this road unless you are willing to by 
the consequences that you find at the end of it mainly , that the 
law common man has a right to own any weapon that has a 
purpose , from to off and fully automatic weapons .  . 
that , in fact , is what this decision says .  . 

you are free to produce evidence that i'm not willing to with 
all the implications of this. 

here is my you seem to be arguing that certain types of 
guns fall outside the of the second .  . this is n't a useful argument 
unless you believe that some significant gun or class of gun belongs 
in that class .  . 

i think we both agree that zip guns probably are n't protected .  . maybe 
we also both agree that all the weapons that random state governments 
have been banning or trying to ban because they have no purpose 
and no citizen would ever need these guns do fall under the 
protection of the second .  . 

so , given that damn near any gun of any practical utility is or has at 
some time been used by the military , even if only for 
training purposes , i need to understand why you are intent on 
this point , arguing that that something is not protected by the second .  . 

just because i do n't whole the position does not 
mean that i oppose the  . this attitude is what makes the 
unpopular .  . 

often , what makes someone unpopular is what other people say about him. 
how much did any of us fear or the branch months ago 
how many of us or saddam hussein five years ago 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( christopher c. morton ) 
subject re total of the 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 13 
reply to  ( christopher c. morton ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( brent irvine ) says 

come on , guys , looks like its time to move that juvenile public post 
either to e mail or to a different newsgroup sex . ) .  . 

no , that would be 
alt . sex . anti .  .  .  .  . ) 



if you were , you 'd have these opinions .  .  .  .  . 


from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re the usual 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 41 
distribution na 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( the polymath ) writes 

the of nuclear  ( actually weapons grade fissionables ) is 
currently only by market forces .  . i.e. to own them you have to 
either make them , buy them or steal them. the only thing that stops you 
is the cost  ( more than most nations can afford ) , the fact that 
no one who has them wants to sell to you and the security 
on existing stocks .  .  ( just ask saddam  . 

i was under the impression that to obtain materials (i . e .  . , 
or reactor weapons grade uranium ) one was required to obtain 
a federal to own such materials .  . 

given a source of , you can build a bomb in your with 
parts from hardware stores and electronic junk  . you might have 
to engage in some shady dealings to get the explosive charge , but that 's 
trivial compared to getting the  . the basic information on the 
design was years ago and can be out of any technical 
library by a physics student .  . 

actually , why bother looking it up from the material we covered last 
term  ( in 10 weeks ) of  ( nuclear chemistry ) , i could derive 
what it would take to build a bomb .  . and as far as the explosive charge , 
i  ( as a chemist ) could a variety of from commonly 
available in the if i felt like. the 
behind the and the charges are a little , 
however . . . but not impossible using a few of the trade .  . 
and if i really wanted to be nasty , i could include a core of 
and . . . 

of course , the part is getting the material 
to start with , and living long enough to put a bomb together. 
 ( plutonium has some nasty properties . .  . ) . 

the  ( aka jerry , m . a .  . , , aka 
head at laws define crime .  . 
park  .  ( 310 ) , police enforce laws .  . 
santa , ca citizens prevent crime .  . 

aaron 


from  ( brent irvine ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 63 

in article writes 
i will be surprised if this post makes it past the , 
but here goes 

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt 

murder most foul ! ! 

is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all 
the buildings of the branch near , tx .  . the 
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and  non lethal  tear 
gas in . a few after this started the whole thing went up. 
all buildings are  . no one has escaped .  . i think it obvious that 
the atf used flame to in 
, then let the wood inside it. 

actually if  a few  translates into 6 hours , you have it 
right. but you  ( and i guess your single source news agency cnn ) 
failed to mention the all over and it in plain 
view. 

this is murder ! 

well , small scale jim jones type suicide with fire instead of aid .  . 


atf murderers ! ! ! 

sorry , guy , you got it wrong. atf was tear gas into the compound .  . 
the branch  ( going along with their faith ) set their 
own compound on fire killing all but 9 or so. no children survived .  . 

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children ! 

self slaughter , anyway. i pity the children who were to young to be able 
to make a conscious choice. 

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it me to see 
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was 
still some of the america i grew up with , and loved , left 
alive .  . i was wrong. the nazis have won .  . 

you are wrong. thank goodness .  . i would suggest , however , that you take 
a deep , and wait 30 or so before posting. also make sure 
your facts are correct before making your ) .  . 

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors ! 

you repeated wrong. there were 9. 

god help us all. 

god help the branch  . 

please t let them get away with the slaughter of the children ! 

no t ! ! ! ! there is way too much of this crap being all over 
creation as it is ! ! ! ! ! ! 


personal opinions why , 
yes. what did you think 
they were  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( graham k. glover ) 
subject the cold war who really won 
nntp posting host mac . org . 
organization the corporation , , va 
lines 13 

if one reasons that the united states of america at one time represented 
and protected freedom individual liberty and personal responsibility 
 ( and i do , in fact , think that this is true ) and that 
absolute government control and tyranny represents freedom 's opposite 
 ( which it does ) , did the usa really win the cold war 

standard disclaimers always apply ! 


graham k. 




from  ( herman rubin ) 
subject re liberty lobby libertarian .... 
organization university statistics department 
lines 49 

in article f writes 
in article ,  ( karl kluge ) writes 


 .  .  . and . i'm sure that people who were big of and 
about the emergence of the modern nation state. imagine , the king 
allowing their freedom if they could live in the city for a year ! 
times change , technology changes , viable forms of social organization 
change .  . while concerns about western notions of civil liberties 
in the face of cultures with very different values is a valid one , it 's 
a waste of effort to try to turn back the  . it 's much to focus 
on trying to make sure that the forms of social organization are 


your response is yet another sign of the trend towards one world 
government. many people such as yourself , who are otherwise probably 
and intelligent , show every sign of having been successfully 
 . you do n't recognize that your inevitable is 
into chaos and in no way represents an advance for civilization .  . some 
of us do indeed lament the passing of old forms , such as the bill of 
rights , which are indeed inalienable rights of man that cannot be 
changed , transferred or  .  . rights . of man that far 


yes , napoleon wanted a grand new order. hitler wanted a 
thousand year reich .  . lenin knew that would give us the 
universal new man. the new world order is just so much of the same 
old tired garbage .  . the pathetic part is that so many americans seem 

put not your trust in is the biblical  . the modern 
is governments .  . at the time of the founding of the us , the 
idea that citizens had rights above those of the government was not 
that common , but was explicit in the writings of the  . to a 
extent , also had those rights. 

yes , times change , and technology changes .  . the possibility of 
a few governments all of mankind was not possible until 
quite recently. in the feudal system , the lord was almost as 
restricted as the , so having the people themselves 
does not make anything better most feudal , and even most 
, did not those under them. 

freedom of speech and freedom of religion are under real attack now. 


, dept. of statistics , univ .  . , west 
phone  ( 317)494 ) 
 ( internet , bitnet ) 
, ee ! snap . stat . !  ( hrubin(uucp ) 

from  ( anmar caves ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university 
distribution usa 
lines 17 

in article stanford . edu .  ( andy freeman ) writes 
in article jason writes 
all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as 
i am not really familiar enough with  . 

that 's not all that does n't know. 

k 

guys , guys ,  ( and gals ) , let 's off jason here. though he 
in it , he has been very good so far about admitting he does n't know 
what he 's talking about , and even more is that he seems 

chief of tranquility my opinions ! 's ! 
d base , lawrence co .  . in legalize ! 
 ( tech ) somewhere out on the politicians prefer 
tech .  . over unarmed  . 

from 
subject re ban all ! 
lines 40 

in article ,  ( allan j. heim ) writes 

 ( paul prescod ) 

drugs are , please tell me when this supply will up 

drugs are easier to manufacture , easier to , easier to hide .  . 
no comparison .  . 

then let 's use another example  . of 
are larger , , and more than of drugs .  . and 
kegs are larger and still , and are difficult to  . 
yet , a lot of people managed to get very rich off of the of 
into this country during the years of  . there was a 
demand , so an entire industry formed to supply it. 

if were again today , it would be much more 
difficult to a large scale operation. 
the cops now rank just a narrow below the military 
in communications , intelligence and  . 

in a similar vein , the amount of marijuana into 
this country has greatly  . this is because its 
value per is very low when compared to cocaine or 
heroin .  . it 's simply not worth the risk , it 's  . 
now , most is domestic .  . there is less pressure on 
the domestic  ( showy raids notwithstanding ) and 
thus it is economical .  . of note though ... domestic 
is now very strong , so a small volume goes a long way. 
you cannot make stronger than 200 proof not a 
good dollar deal. 

tend to fall into this low dollar area. 
it would not be economic to them in. all 
would have to be local .  . there are not all that many people 
who have both the and motivation to worthwhile 
from  . high crime could 
obtain and such , but the average person , and 
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would 
pay through the nose for it. 

from  ( peter cash ) 
subject justification was them next time 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 
organization the 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 27 

in article  ( francis chiu ) writes 

initial assault on the compound ( more like a farm house if 
it burned to the ground like it did ) for what regardless of who 
started caused the fire , none of this would have happened if the 
atf can honestly justify their initial assault and it 
properly ! 

i just got through listening to the 10 o news on channel 4 here in 
 . they out a list of justifications produced by the atf after 
months of investigation for their  . 

i could n't believe the junk on this list ! for example , the were accused 
of a bunch of and  . ammunition that can be used in 
and assault . imagine that they had ammunition ! they also had 
!  ( yeah , it 's a component of , but so far i have n't 
heard that it 's illegal to take a to the 
 .  . ) . the only thing on the list that could have been 
illegal was an m  .  ( anybody know about this ) 

months of investigation ! for this 80 people died ! 



die ist , was ist .  . 
peter cash  ( apologies to wittgenstein ) 


from  ( clay finley ) 
subject re carrying 
nntp posting host com . 
organization america , radio software dept 
distribution usa 
lines 22 

in article  ( dan white ) writes 

however , have n't we already lost our right to bear 

it seems that in most states , like texas , a citizen may own a 
gun and carry while at his home or business. but a citizen is severely 
restricted from bearing outside these areas .  . here in texas you cannot 
carry in your car except when which is usually defined as 
across a line. how did this come about are there 
any court rulings on the of the carrying of a 
weapon outside the home 


in texas , it is legal to carry while , and also to and from 
activities. 

chapter 46 of the texas state code does not restrict long guns .  . 
therefore , it is legal to carry and transport long guns any place in texas .  . 

regards , 



from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( scott w roby ) writes 

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people 
come out with their hands up several weeks ago. 

now will you answer my question up top 

a suggestion over planted automatic weapons , followed by 
a show trial and all around for the forces of order 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( brad jones ) 
subject re letter to the president 
nntp posting host com . 
organization engineering , computer corp .  . , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 8 

 ( kenneth d. whitehead ) writes 

the or of lloyd , of the treasury , 


in case you have n't sent it yet , it 's , not . 

brad 

from  ( strider ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 28 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

 ( brent irvine ) writes 
(c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
 ( michael rhein ) writes 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm 
day in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 

hey , einstein , ever tried to use an electric or without 
it 's been shut off for weeks now , courtesy of your local fbi 
assault squad .  . 

now , are you going to put your foot in your mouth or shall i get a 
and assist you 


mike 

this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

from  ( miller , jimmy a . ) . 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization university of houston administrative computing 
lines 37 
distribution world 
nntp posting host admin . uh . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 1993 12 34 13 gmt 

in writes 

in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
i my gut reaction to question authority together with the 
independent facts as i see them on video .  . i usually adopt the 
scenario that is simplest and most plausible .  . i do not generally 
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely 
 . 

then answer the question why was no one else to talk to koresh , 

koresh had a lawyer ,  ( deguin ) who he spoke to in person several times during 
the last few weeks. 

it cannot be denied that if they had left them alone , there would have been 
no fire yesterday. 

this strikes me as a  . if x had done note done y , then z would 
never have happened. i tend to place tha responsibility on the group person 
actually committing the act , not on those forced them to do it . 

after all , to take an extreme example , if the british were not in northern 
ireland , the ira would not be forced to place bombs in shopping  . 

that said , this whole sorry story was a totally , utterly 
up mess from the get go. 

fi , 

jim miller 
texas a m university  89 and  91 

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help. 
become one with the student system. be the student system. 
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man. 
, , mike 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re what to do if you shoot somebody 

lines 40 

in article , 
 ( jason  think ! ' steiner ) says 

jason writes 

say you 're in a situation where you have to pull a gun on somebody .  . 
you give them a chance to get away but they decided to continue in 
their action anyway and you end up shooting and killing them. my 
question is what do you do should you stay and wait for the cops 
or should you your  ( if you 're using a semi auto ) and 
get out of there  ( provided of course you do n't think that you have 
been seen ) what kind of laws are on the books regarding this type 
of situation what would be the most likely thing to happen to you 
if you stayed and waited and it was a first offense what would 
happen if you took off but someone saw you and you were caught 

 . do you have any idea how much trouble you 'd get into for 
taking off like that leaving the of an accident is bad 
enough ! killing someone leaving is 10 times worse. who 's going 
to seriously believe it was self defense when you took the time 
to your spent but , i ! 

well , like someone said in a reply to this it really all depends on the area 
that you live in. see david veal 's reply to this. i have heard exactly the 
same thing that he said in his reply to away if you think that you 
have n't been seen (i heard this from a police  . for the record though 
he was talking about in not everywhere. 

even if you could get away with it , you 're still a  . do 
it nice legal , keep your law status send your story 
into the armed citizen of american  . 

jason 


jason 





from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject re need info on 43 1 and suicide for refutation 
organization ideology , inc. 
distribution usa 
lines 203 

here 's something  ( professor of ethics at cmu ) wrote 

from k. 
subject gun risks 
date mon , 15 feb 1993 18 35 05 0500  ( est ) 


folks , 

from the world. on february 4th , the street journal 
carried a front page article by entitled armed force. i 
felt a reply was in order to his citation of the notorious stat 
that a gun is 43 times more likely to kill than to protect .  . i sent 
the following to the  . 



gun risks 

k. 


s even handed article on ( armed force , 
2 4 93 , wsj ) cites the world s most notorious statistic regarding guns 
in the home a study of deaths in king 
, washington , found that a gun in the home was 43 times more 
likely to be used to kill its owner , spouse , a friend or child than to 
kill an  . the 43 times stat is everywhere these days it 
has grown in media lore like the myth it was 
by one talk show to 93 .  . given the value of 
the finding , the conclusion of the 1986 new england journal of medicine 
 ( nejm ) study is the of keeping 
in the home for protection must be questioned .  . 

responsible people should indeed question the risks and benefits of 
bringing a into their home. but what we need to know is this 
what exactly are the risks and benefits the testimony is neither 
the whole truth about the benefits nor nothing but the truth about the 
risks .  . further , as with , we want to know what control 
do we have over the risks and benefits and , as with the risks of 
or heart disease or accidents how can we minimize the 
risks like raw death , the stat is not very helpful 
here. 

the finding to us , but it is to warn us 
off. it is widely in the media as a stat , a 
half truth whose very is calculated to prejudice 
and terrify .  . the statistic for itself the risks far 
the benefits , yes what fool would run these risks if your 
car were 43 times more likely to kill you , a loved one , a dear friend or 
an innocent child than to get you to your , should you not 
take the 

citation puts the good name of statistics in the bad company 
of lies and damned lies .  . surely , we can do better where lives are at 
stake .  . let s take a closer look at this business 

the 43 times stat of the study is the product of the 
number of home killed in self defense 
 ( the divisor ) into the number of family members or killed 
by a gun in the home  ( the  . the of this risk equation 
is 9 in the study s five year there were 2 and 7 other 
cases of self defense .  . the dividend is in the study there were 12 
accidental deaths , 42 criminal , and  . divided 
by 9 43 .  . there were a total of gun related deaths in king 
between and , so the study leaves deaths outside of 
homes  . 

the s notorious 43 times statistic is seriously on 


1. the dividend is characterized in the media the or 
of the study  ( who include your friendly drug and 
neighborhood members ) is equated to friends. the implication is 
that the offending guns target and kill only beloved family members , 
dear friends , and innocent children. deaths may all be equally tragic , 
but the character and of both victims and killers are 
relevant to the risk. these crucial risk factors are by the 
calculated impression that the death is generated by 
shooting dear friends and friendly neighbors. this is 
hogwash .  . 

2. the study itself does not distinguish or 
populated by people with violent , criminal , or substance abuse histories 
where the risk of death is very high versus 
by more civil folk  ( for example , people who avoid high risk activities 
like drug dealing , and wife beating ) where the risk is 
very low indeed. in , adults allow fatal but 
accidents and are mostly by people with 
histories of violence or abuse , people who are and 
at high risk for  . to ignore these obvious 
risk factors in accidents and is as as 
ignoring the role of in deaths by tautology , neither 
gun deaths nor deaths would occur without or 
but the person and of the gun owner or 
crucially affect the risk. 

3. one implication of the way the stat is is 
that the mere presence of a gun in the home is much more likely to kill 
than to protect , and this indeed , the role of 
personal responsibility .  . the typical quotation of this study  ( unlike 
s) fatal agency to the gun a gun in the home is 43 
times as likely to kill . . . .  ( the center to prevent 
violence , a major of the statistic , uses this 
particular ) . we can with the silly debate about 
whether it s people or guns that the killing again , by 
tautology , gun deaths would not occur without the guns .  . the question 
is how many deaths would occur anyway , without the guns .  . in any 
case , people are the death dealing , the guns are their lethal 
 . the moral core of the personal risk factors in gun deaths 
are personal responsibility and choice. due care and responsibility 
gun accidents human choice and suicide  ( by 
gun or  . the choice to own a gun need not condemn a person to 
s high risk pool .  . the gun does not create this risk by itself. 
people have a lot to say about what risk they run with guns in their 
homes .  . for example , of s personal protection 
course do not run the 43 times risk any more than and 
drivers run the same risks of causing or suffering death 
as do or drivers .  . disregard 
and obscure the role of personal responsibility and choice , just as they 
disregard and obscure the role of socio economic , and 
other risk relevant factors in related death. this is why we 
and to risk pools whose 
norms disregard our  . fortunately , nothing can 
us to the risk pool but our own lack of choice or responsibility in 
the matter. 

4. suicide accounts for of the deaths by gun in the home in the 
study .  . as against the total deaths by gun in king , 
including those outside the home , in house are 44 of the total 
death , which is closer to the roughly 50 found by other 
studies .  . suicide is a social problem of a very different order from 
or accidents .  . the implication of the study is that these 
might not occur without readily available guns .  . it is true 
that attempted suicide by gun is likely to succeed .  . it is not obviously 
true that the absence of a gun would prevent any or all of these 
 . this is widely assumed or alleged , but the of 
research on guns and suicide actually shows otherwise , that this is 
wishful thinking in all but a few truly cases.  ( see bruce 
l. et al. , the human side of , university press , 
charles rich et al. , guns and suicide , american journal of 
, march 1990 . ) . if were removed from the dividend of 
the study s risk equation , the 43 times stat would to 
 . the of in the risk equation like the 
causes , , or of intent itself is a 
profoundly matter. quotations of the study totally 
disregard this issue. 

5. of the study also regarding the 
rate of and excusable  . most measures , like the 
rate , are based on the immediate of cases. 
but many initially ruled criminal are and later ruled 
self defense .  . in the literature on women , immediate case 
are notorious for under the rate of 
or excusable  . time s 18 , 1993 , cover story 
on women fighting back reported one study s finding that 40 of women 
who appeal have their murder convictions thrown out. time s 17 , 
1989 , cover story on a week of gun deaths reported 51 of the domestic 
cases as by abuse victims but only 3 of the were 
reported as self defense .  . in a may 14 , 1990 , update , time reported 
that 12 of the had eventually been ruled self defense .  . in 
time s , the originally reported rate of self defense was in error 
by a factor of four. the possibility of such error is not acknowledged 
by of the statistic .  . 

6. while both the dividend and the product of the risk equation 
are arguably , the is  . the 
of this equation only who are killed , not 
who are successfully without being killed or even 
shot at. the utility of armed self defense is the other side of the 
coin from the done with guns in homes .  . what kind of moral 
is it to measure this utility only in terms of killings do we measure 
the utility of our police solely in terms of killed as 
opposed to the many many more who are otherwise , , or 
should we not celebrate  ( let alone count ) those cases where 
no human life is lost as successful armed the question posed 
to media that cite the stat is this why the 
research on successful armed defense , notably by 
 ( point guns and violence in america , 
de , 1992) 
s of the rate and risk of use are 
based on as well as other studies the rate is 
high  ( about one million a year ) and the risk is good  ( gun 
better than anyone , either those who resort to other forms of resistance 
or those who do not  . one million gun a year 
by 30 , 000 gun deaths  ( from self defense , , , and 
accidents ) 33 .  . thus , we can construct a much more 
statistic than the stat 

a gun is 33 times more likely to be used to defend against assault or 
other crime than to kill anybody .  . 

of course , s the dividend of this 
what is good news for gun is bad news for gun control. we 
should indeed question the basis and method of s high 
of use , as i have questioned the statistic .  . 
clearly , the issue of how to risks is not by 
citation of statistics .  . one thing me still we 
can hardly escape the stat in our media , but we 
hardly ever find s good work mentioned , even  . 


larry 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re carrying 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution usa 
lines 32 

in article  ( dan white ) writes 
i have a question about the second amendment that has bothered 
me for  . the amendment our right to keep and bear 
 . currently , the gun are trying to restrict or 
eliminate our right to keep with the bill and the assault 
weapon ban .  . however , have n't we already lost our right to bear 

it seems that in most states , like texas , a citizen may own a 
gun and carry while at his home or business. but a citizen is severely 
restricted from bearing outside these areas .  . here in texas you cannot 
carry in your car except when which is usually defined as 
across a line. how did this come about are there 
any court rulings on the of the carrying of a 
weapon outside the home 

there are , but not any that would help in many states , 
such laws have been found to violate the state constitution .  . 
but the federal second amendment does not apply directly to the 
states. it was written to limit the federal government only .  . 
the amendment was written to extend the restrictions 
of the bill of rights to the state level. however , the exact 
wording of the amendment is very vague .  . the supreme 
court has been dancing around the issue without facing it 
directly for over 100 years. in practice , the bill of right 
 ( indirectly applies through the fourteenth ) applies to the 
state governments only if the supreme court has ruled that 
particular  . the court has made no such rulings on 
the second amendment .  . 

frank 
boulder 


from  ( earl wallace ) 
subject re proper gun control what is proper gun control 
distribution usa 
organization apple computer inc. cross software 
lines 26 
nntp posting host apple . com . 

in article  ( morris the cat ) writes 
... 
let 's carrying by police when off duty .  . or , if they make 
the assertion that well , i need to maintain my gun let 's make it 
that they can carry an home , that it 's 
only fair that they be just as helpless as poor schmuck coming home 
from his computer operator job .  .  .  . 

director ex san jose cop states in the latest 
magazine that anti cops better watch out for this between 
folks and the police .  . he asks the rhetorical question of  what 
if what 's left of the gun lobby starts demanding the 
of the police 

well , i guess anti gun cops who think only they should be armed , 
along with the and politically connected , should be made 
to realize that screwing can cut in ways they have yet to imagine. 
... 

we all know this will never happen. because the police are under the wings 
of government , they will always be considered more important than citizens .  . 

government , and paper are considered more important than 
citizens .  . 

i think we have a problem with our government. 

from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re non lethal alternatives to 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
keywords pepper 
lines 102 

in article  ( michael j. phelps ) writes 

in article ,  ( mark shepard ) 
writes 
how effective are personal defense products like , pepper , 
and other non lethal devices compared to 
any statistics on 's and types in use 

these products seem very attractive compared to 
because , being non lethal , they are more forgiving of accident or 
mistakes wrongful shooting  ( such as the case ) , and 
allow the justice system to deal with the criminal  ( rather than 
criminals simply being dead , which has a certain vigilante feel 
which seems to bother anti gun  . 

the more forgiving nature also has its down side it allows a criminal 
to use them w o the assault with a weapon charge .  . they also 
can have lethal or dangerous side effects 
some people have violent reactions to pepper 
guns can harm people with weak hearts 
people have suffered eye damage from the stuff that is available 
now is less than it used to be. 
some of the are 


the arguments i see against these non lethal weapons compared to 
are lack of range , lack of stopping power or , 
and limited . true how about cost 



using any of the based eg , pepper is bound to 
affect anyone else in the room  ( like the victim ) due to the nature 
of the stuff. 

using the in any sort of its 
 . 

from reading various articles , it appears that , especially the 
available to citizens , is pretty ineffective on people under 
the influence of drugs or  . 

pepper appears to be more effective , but has the inherent 
problem. it still does not appear to be anything better than 
a distraction that might buy you time to run like hell if you can . 

consider that running like hell is n't always a viable solution .  . for 
example , if you are dressed in and the is dressed in 
 .  .  . you might have a tough time them ! 

and guns 

require contact with for a like a 
leather one will its 

the user must be extremely close to the that puts them 
at a risk of injury .  . 

the user must keep the gun in contact with the for some 
non negligible period of time. 

can be out. 

consider the problem a small women would have keeping a gun in 
contact with a average size man for any length of time w o 
serious injury .  . 


have any anti gun groups suggested non lethal weapons , to counter 
the pro gun argument that people will be left 

i have n't heard of any. generally they that people do n't 
need to or are n't able to defend themselves. 


and , what legal restrictions apply to non lethal devices 

civilian ownership of guns is frequently illegal ny . the 
are also illegal in some states. believe it or not , they are still 
illegal in ny , although about half the state thinks they are legal ! 
i believe that ny almost them i have heard that the reason 
they did n't was due to their 

i feel that the are better than nothing , but only if the user 
does not believe the this 'll drop 'em in their stuff 
and uses it as a o n l y . 


marks 

mark , ca 


michael ,  ( external )  .  .  . 
 ( internal )  .  .  . at 
 ( and last but not least a disclaimer ) these opinions are mine .  .  . 

what about guns with non lethal , like or plastic  . would 
those work very well in stopping an attack 

doug holland 


from  ( rick bressler ) 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
organization group 
lines 37 

talk . politics . guns . 6 26 am apr 14 , 1993 

the vast majority get through life without ever having to 
own , use or display a  . 


i suppose that depends on how you define  vast  majority .  .  .  .  . 

you are correct about ' . somewhere between 1 out of three and 
one out of 10 will at some period in their lives experience a violent 
assault .  . the risk is generally higher than emergency medical problems 
like heart attack and  . 

 vast  is probably too loose a term .  . with approximately 1 , 000 , 000 americans 
using each year , over a 30 year period we get  ( roughly , since some 
may have to do this more than once ) 30 million americans with experience in 
using for self defense .  . 30 250 12 percent of the population .  . 
 ( yes , i know that is a real rough estimate .  . we 're closer to million now , 
but many of these are and should be included etc , thus the percentage 
if anything is low . ) . 

at any rate , most minority groups in this range are not usually referred 
to as  tiny  minorities , so i do n't see how the other part of the group 
can be referred to as the  vast  majority .  . a little more work might 
support a  simple  majority of americans never use , own or display a  . 

certainly when you are talking about ownership you are wrong. nearly half 
of your fellow citizens own one or more  . 

besides , there are other 
means of self protection which can be just as effective 
as  . 

please provide a list of other means that are as effective. then you might 
convince your local police to switch .  . good luck. 

 . 

from  . nice guy ) 
subject will cs burn or explode 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 13 

the fbi released large of cs tear gas into the compound in 
 . cs tear gas is a fine power. is cs  . grain 
in air can form an explosive mixture , will cs in air 
form an explosive mix could large of cs have the 
spread of fire in the compound 

please note i am directing all followups to talk . politics . guns . 


the only acceptable 
boulder , co for brains is silence .  . 
solomon short 
on 16 

from  ( tim starr ) 
subject re with friends like these l. neil smith 
organization school of life health sciences 
lines 28 

in article  ( paul prescod ) writes 
in article  ( allan j. heim ) writes 
look , if you can figure out a reliable means of keeping guns away from 
bad people , while not interfering with good people , i think we 'd all be 
for it. the problem is , the methods we 're using now do n't do the trick. 

do n't manufacture them. do n't sell them. do n't import them. 

japan did this. it required near total isolation from the rest of the world 
for 2 centuries .  . 

some guns will get through , but far , and far less people will 
die because of them. weapons could be allowed , of course , as 
long as they are big , and , and require after a few 
shots  ( how many times can you shoot at the same animal , anyways one 
assumes they are moving ! ) 

weapons are great for  . send me money or 
else i 'll pick you off from 2 away. 

tim now ! 

assistant editor freedom network news , the newsletter of , 
the international society for individual liberty , 
market st. , san francisco , ca 
 ( 415 ) fax  ( 415 ) 

think universally , act 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 19 

in article  ( mike van pelt ) writes 
in article  ( david 
veal ) writes 
be if koresh hit the trail .  . 

maybe he was bodily assumed into heaven. would n't that just 
make ag 's day 

snort i doubt it .  .  .  . 

however .  .  .  . no bodies by the time this message gets out 
they 'll doubtless have found , but would n't it be 
interesting if they had a and are long gone 


if they had n't killed the atf people in the original , i think i would 
laugh my ass off.  ( actually , to be honest , i still might . ) . 

ryan 

from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re criminals 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

in article jason writes 
people are getting killed by violence every day every single day i hear 
about more people getting killed by violence and see some of the weapons 
that are being  . 

is claiming that he can distinguish an m 16 
from an ar 15 that he can see the difference between a semi and 
a full that he can see the difference between the various 
versions  ( some full , some semi only ) of the m 11 9 

if so , i 'd love to hear the details , if only because they 'll demonstrate 
that is blowing  . 

considering that one can design a gun so that it looks just like 
another gun , yet have very different properties , and that that 's 
quite common .  .  .  .  . 

most kids in my neighborhood were quite young when they out 
that my parents car was n't much like richard petty 's , even though it 
looked just like it  ( except for the  . things must have been 
different with  . 

sure it 's on tv but why does that make a difference 

no , it does n't , but that 's irrelevant .  . if inspection of the 
outside worked , tv would be acceptable , but since it does n't , the fact 
that it 's just as good as seeing in person does n't mean much. 

andy gave a chance to back down on this in private 


subject re my gun is like my american express card 
from  ( jason  think ! ' steiner ) 
nntp posting host jupiter . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 

jason writes 
 ( david veal ) says 
jason writes 

do n't be silly. of course you can. the police have everything 
the have and then some. plus they 've got access to the 
national guard  ( via the governor ) if things get too rough .  . that 's 
for those of you who 've never seen them at play .  . of course , 
they 've got and  . 

and as far as fully automatic weapons , you can be a lot better 
armed if you want to hit what you aim at. 

what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally 
blown out of  . in my post i was referring to your 
regular in a car around the city vs. 
members .  . of course the police have access to the things that you 
mentioned but do they use and such all of the time of 
course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every 
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the 
majority that i see are still carrying  . not that there 
is anything wrong with a but if you 're a cop that is up 
against some member with a couple of in his coat (i 
mean semi handguns ) you 're going to be at a even 
with training .  . 

how so i think you 're making assumptions here that might not 
necessarily be true. my personal choice would be a semi , but 
are just as effective , if not more so. 

i have been at a shooting range where members were 
practicing shooting .  . they were actually practicing taking out 
their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target and they 
were n't doing too either. 

, please you sound shocked , but that hardly proves anything. 

the university cops here  ( who are are state cops ) are armed better 
than the chicago police .  . it seems most state cops are. i do n't 
know where you are originally from david but you live in 
and i live in chicago and see this crap everyday on the news and in 
the papers .  . i think the situation is just a different here 
than there. 

wait , does n't chicago have serious gun control if so , why do the 
police need all that in the first place  ( sarcasm alert ) 

all the cars i 've seen around here have to 
the board. imho , that 's all the police need to just about 
anything. 

jason 


` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` 
` , ` the wind is the storm , and the storm is data , and the data ` , ` 
` , ` is life the 's , from the long run by d . k .  . ` , ` 
` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` , ` ` , ` , ` , ` 

from  ( nicholas sylvain ) 
subject re proper gun control what is proper gun control  ( was re my gun is like my american express card ) 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 17 

in article  ( david barton ) writes 
for what it is worth , i own no of any sort .  . as long time 
readers of this group know , i am dedicated to the  . 

a long time reader of t . p . g . , i am also a supporter , yet 
i own no  . 

this is not about  . it is about freedom .  . 

amen , brother .  . 


i am the 



i am the 

from  ( kenneth d. whitehead ) 
subject re change of name 
nntp posting host com . 
organization allen company , inc. 
lines 47 


in article , thomas 
writes 
1. make a new newsgroup called talk . politics . guns . or 
talk . politics . guns . here . to . take . me . away . 


well , may i point out that paranoia is an irrational fear , without basis 
in reality. as we 've seen here in the us , there is nothing irrational 
about it. perhaps you folks in finland have been down on your 
being good little and girls so that the former soviet union did n't 
come across the border and the out of you for so long that 
you just figure everybody should be so to tyranny .  . 



2. move all postings about and burn to  ( guess  .  . 

3. stop posting on this newsgroup 


if you do n't like us talking about political issues involving attacks 
on people for guns , do n't read talk . politics . guns .  . 



we are all so glad you 're trying to save us from the evil 
, but would you mail this in regular mail to 
let 's say 1000 people 


nobody 's trying to save you from anything , so butt out. i could n't 
care less about what somebody on the other side of the world thinks 
about this. of course , you do have a right to an opinion .  .  .  . but i 've 
always that are like  . every 's 
got them , i just do n't care about yours. 




i remember what i was doing bad boy , gonna do 
when i heard that jfk had been shot .  . gonna do 
will you remember the battle of when they come for you .  .  .  . 

ken 



from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject the gun buy back  ( re boston gun buy back ) 
organization ideology , inc. 
lines 11 

according to 9 . radio this morning , , ohio is operating a 
gun buy back . they are giving 50 for every functional gun turned in. 
they out of money in one day , and are now passing out 50 of 
some sort .  . they are looking for more funds to keep operating .  . another 
media event brought to you by  . 

is there something similar pro gun people can do for example , pay 100 
to anyone who their life with a sounds a bit 
, but hey , whatever works. 

larry 

from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 32 

in article writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 

well they had over 40 days to come out with their hands up on national tv 
to get the trial they deserved .  . instead they chose to set fire to their 
hours after the dropped off the tear gas .  . 

this is about the third person who 's the fbi 's line about the 
being set hours after the tear gas was  . suppose you 
want to explain to us the footage shown on national tv last night 
in which a with the gas is its injection 
out of the second story of a building as the building begins to 
and then fire 

i 've already my mistake earlier in this thread. i saw a brief 
news report which led to the above  . i have since seen detailed 
that show the returned in the late morning. 

so , why did n't the 's leave when the gas was first introduced much 
earlier in the morning did n't they care about the children 

why did n't they release the children weeks ago 


do tell. 

joe 






from  ( rick bressler ) 
subject re non lethal alternatives to 
organization group 
lines 25 

talk . politics . guns . 12 07 am apr 15 , 1993 
douglas craig holland writes 
 .  .  . crap deleted. trim your articles ! ... 

what about guns with non lethal , like or plastic 
 . would those work very well in stopping an attack 

last i heard , non lethal was a bit of a misnomer for these things. 

also , you need to consider our legal system. since any of these things 
can be lethal , you are going to have a hard time explaining why you applied 
lethal force when you t think it was necessary.  ( if you thought lethal 
force was necessary , you would n't be using , would you )  . 
if you are justified in shooting them at all , you are justified in using 
the best self defense ammunition you can get your hands on. it might actually 
improve the legal outcome .  . 

this is why points hold up in court. they are safer for you , safer 
for innocent by ,  ( do n't as a rule go through the perp ) and actually 
safer for the  . if you are using military hard ball , you may have to 
shoot him  many  times , where one or two points might stop him and 
do the job. as a rule , the wound , the better the chance 
for his surviving the incident .  . 



from  ( cathy smith ) 
subject re upi news release 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university , , co 
lines 12 


smith posting for l. neil smith 

dear bill 

very , very good you made my whole day with this post. thanks 
a lot. 

l. neil smith 

my opinions are , of course , my own. 


from  ( david veal ) 
subject re need info on 43 1 and suicide for refutation 
lines 85 
organization university of division of continuing education 
distribution usa 

in article  ( entropic destroyer ) writes 

the following is quoted from the tail end of a  ( rather condescending ) 
article about , that appeared in us and world lies , 
 .  .  . i think it was in the street journal .  .  . ) . 
and was repeated in the  ( people 's ) daily , a student newspaper 
at the university of at boulder .  . 

a study of deaths in king ,  . , found that 
a gun in the home was 43 times more likely to be used to kill its owner , 


spouse , a friend , or child than to kill an  . 

the used to kill is the heart of the misinformation .  . it 's one 
of those technically accurate that the wrong impression .  . 
what mr. is more than aware of , i'm sure , is that when people 
read this they think violent arguments where one member of the family 
grabs a gun and another , thereby creating a tragic situation 
which could easily have been avoided had the gun not been there , or 
a tragic accident , especially involving a child. 

unfortunately , that 's not the way things stack up. the majority 
of that 43 times  ( 37 i believe ) are  . that is , someone 
intentionally took a and shot themselves to kill 
themselves. and why it 's popular to try and blame on guns , 
the evidence does n't support this. internal studies , as well as 
comparative studies with other countries , indicate that cultural 
factors far whether a person will kill themselves or not. 
 ( japan , for instance , has a slightly higher rate than the u.s. there 
people jump off buildings . ) . 

according to the national crime survey , 40 of violent crime 
is commited by non strangers , which mistakenly has been 
regarding the king study to mean , friends and family. that 
is , mr. , and others who quote this statistic , are banking on 
the mental image that a friend , family member , or child , 
to a loving relationship , and that it was cut short in a moment of 
 . unfortunately , all too often husbands and kill wives , 
children assault parents , or vice  . most are commited by 
someone known to the victim , for instance .  . essentially , that a gun 
was used against a friend or family member does n't mean they 
were n't trying to hurt the other person. crime is highest among 
poor families , and those are also the areas most at risk 
for family problems , especially violent ones. a son in a may 
not be as loving his parents if they than a 
kid might .  . 

finally , it hinges on the fallacy that a dead is the 
only value of a self defense  . using the minimum i 
worked out using the i got about an 80 1 ratio between 
self  ( justifiable homicides ) and with gun self  . 
between the fbi uniform crime report and the there 's an enormous 
amount of data and anybody with the can the numbers. 
as such it is incorrect to assume that a dead body is the only valid 
means of determining the success of such a defense , since according 
to the  ( which has been considered by many to seriously under report 
defenses ) there were far more successful with gun than 
killed. 

not it also confines itself to the home , where attack by a friend 
or family member is far , far more likely , and any defense 
which occurs outside the home. (i believe a large number occur in 
) . 

studies by the 
western institute , in pittsburgh , found that the mere presence 
of a gun in the home the likelihood a family member 
will commit suicide , even in the absence of  . 

i have not seen the exact data for this , so i ca n't comment. i 
will point out canada 's and japan 's suicide rate as that 
culture far more than affect suicide rates. 

there was also a comparative study between canada  ( for what 
it 's worth , considering the difficulty of comparing across cultural 
lines ) published in the new england journal of medicine (i can get the 
exact cite if you need it) that concluded that restrictive laws 
would not impact the over all suicide rate .  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
reply to 
organization 
distribution na 
lines 35 

in article ,  ( steve manes ) writes 


what relevance are all in this debate what do you think gun 
control advocates are saying that if we get rid of all we will 
live in a free world 

they sure make it sound like that. 


the issue is guns , not baseball  . even a knows that 
he stands a better chance of surviving an attack with a baseball  .  .  . 
certainly of a  . 


even a knows a baseball is considered a weapon .  . 
if one cannot run away (e . g .  . old , , even middle if the 
is younger ) , a is the most effective means of 
defense .  . you wo n't even have to fire a shot of the time. 

as for , see my earlier post. i 'd much rather face a knife 
than a gun , thanks. fortunately , the best defense against a knife is n't 
another knife .  . anyone trained in unarmed self defense wo n't have 
much of a problem a knife in knife 
assault  ( which probably means 9 . of knife  . 

any real  ( and there are lots of them) , with or without a 
knife , will kick the living out of most people trained in 
unarmed self defense . for the majority of people , a gun is the most 
effective form of self defense .  . 

al 
standard disclaimer 



from  ( john l. scott ) 
subject apology  ( was ! ) 
organization j. random site 
x posted from 1 . edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 10 

i was shocked to see that the subject of my last rely to was 
! that was certainly not my intention .  . i meant to leave the 
subject line  . i believe that the nntp server i use at 
must have put in that subject line in over problems with my  . 
that was rather rude of them , but ca n't be , i suppose. 

in any case , i did n't do it and i apologize to for the apparent 
insult .  . 

john l. scott 

nntp posting host no . 
from thomas 
subject re the second amendment  ( ideas ) 
in reply to  ( aaron ray clements ) 's message of 21 apr 
1993 12 34 51 gmt 
organization dept. of , university of , norway 




lines 24 
originator 



chemical weapons are not a very weapon against 
forces .  . on on the other hand .  .  .  .  . 

that 's one good reason for banning it. 

you need vast of to be , so the best reason 
to have use it is price .  .  ( that 's why it 's called the poor a bomb ) 

any thoughts on weapons 

if this is about having weapons 
what should they use them on rob a bank 



this is not a  . signature .  . 
it 's merely a text to waste bandwith 
and to bring down the evil internet .  . 


thomas 


from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re non lethal alternatives to 
keywords pepper 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


in article ,  ( douglas craig holland ) writes 

what about guns with non lethal , like or plastic  . would 
those work very well in stopping an attack 

ask the  . enough people have been killed by that they now 
use them under only certain controlled circumstances .  . and they are fired 
from something that looks like a tear gas  . 

there are smaller and  ( for  . i understand that 
they are only intended to be , ie .  . for the but not truly 
dangerous animal .  . in general , they do not seem capable of really stopping 
someone who wants you or past you. they are fired at very low 
 ( the  . 38 . ball round is intended for a  . finally , as your mother 
warned you , you can put an eye out with that thing. ) 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



from  ( james douglas del vecchio ) 
subject re do n't knock the  ( was re my gun is like my am ex card ) 
organization western washington university 
distribution usa 
lines 20 



in article , 
com 


seriously. there is no difference in the and any 
 . intellectually , think of the as a very high cap  . 
ignoring , and all the other that 
give you , that is. 

on a , you get another try on a  . on a where 
the does not the hammer , like a , or an , 
or a , a requires the slide be to get the gun to 
function. 

rather than a high capacity , think of a as an 
with no manual safety and a pull .  . 

jim del 

from  ( cochrane , james shapleigh ) 
subject re so much for infinite patience 
organization institute of technology 
lines 32 

in article  ( fuller m ) writes 

so much for infinite patience .  . 

i find it hard to swallow that exposure to massive of 

and they said that the bomb dropped on move would n't start a fire , either. 

the real , though , is the stated justification for the government 's 
sudden loss of patience they would n't be able to their teams 

this outcome could be a  ( or two ) away , but did n't even 

fuller , engineering , university of new 

the really good part at this point we 're not , fbi spokesman 
bob said at a news about a half hour before the fire began .  . 
we 're saying ,  come out . come . out with your hands up. this matter is over . ' . 

criminal .  .  .  . so much for saying we wo n't force the issue .  .  .  . anybody 
have the information number figure ol' bill could use a lesson from the 
he scorned you are responsible for all that your troops do or fail 
to do. want to ask him how he enjoys being responsible for violating the 
constitutional rights of a group , resulting in the deaths of over a hundred of them , plus four federal  .  .  . 

james 



james s. when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space 
circles , and  . for 


from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 56 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( bill green ) 
writes 
just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported  ( ap , etc . ) . that 
there were several witnesses to folks starting the  . it has also 
been reported that the broke out in several places at once , which 
rules out a knocking over a , etc. as the cause. 

widely reported , eh remember , this has had a news since day 2. 
the fbi is the single , sole , source of these  . it may be the truth , but 
it may not be. we may never know. we must question it , though. why no media 
what were they hiding 


what i would like to see is some serious discussion of this incident .  . i 
believe the made were right and proper , but i still have some problems 
with some of the  . after watching the abc special on it , as 
well as and , i question some of the atf and fbi actions .  . 

1 ) could it have been possible to have taken koresh outside the compound at 
some time before the feb .  . 

it would seem so. 

2 ) could a further wait have resulted in a different outcome .  . 


they would still be alive , today. another day is another chance. 

3) were fbi actions  ( blaring , etc . ) . the right course of 
action 

i think it contributed to the outcome .  . folks that are sleep deprived tend not 
to think clearly 

and a few other questions. like i said , i believe the actions taken , in 
general , were proper .  . but i still have some  . 

i feel strongly they were not proper .  . 

one other point , i'm no fan of janet , but i do like the way she had the 
to go ahead and take full responsibility .  . seems like the boy 
had problems out just where he stood on the issue. 

as expected .  . if it had come out well , he would not have to take full 
credit .  . 


jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re 2nd amendment dead good ! 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 29 

in article 
writes 
the of are used against unworthy and 
opponents ... those who a cool you want , those who 
would argue with you about a space , those who would 
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes .  . 

that 's open for debate. certainly , an excessive number of people are 
murdered every year but people also do save innocent lives with  . 
the media just do n't tell us when it happens .  .  .  . 

too much of this has you cause. there is no  . 
in the near future , federal will come for your  . 

i think there are more of us than there are federal  .  .  . 

no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking , 
than the  . this is your own fault. 

crap. it 's simplistic thinking on the part of headed  . 

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way. 

nuts .  . 






from  ( bill vojak ) 
subject upi news release 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization technology corp .  . 
lines 


upi washington , update 4 15 93 

for the past several months the clinton has been 
by coming from the economy .  . while most 
has shown an apparent improvement in the 
economy , there has been no improvement in the area 
of jobs creation. 

the seem at the 7 mark. last month , 
in an effort to understand this problem , president clinton 
a blue to try to resolve the apparent 
economic  . this was by vice president  . 

today the released their results , providing a conclusion .  . 
it 's the guns vice president said. apparently members , and other 
gun nuts are at in record numbers , the 
economy out of the  . their buying them five times than 
ever before , and left and right , the vice president said. 

however , since many domestic and ammunition have 
been experiencing hard times during the past few years , including several 
of by many american gun makers , they have 
not to increase to meet the new demand .  . 

we want to see if this run will continue before more people , said 
the president of colt  . as long as clinton is in office , we 
suspect it will , he added .  . 

in response to this new information , president clinton a new 
gun control measure to be introduced into congress this session. it 's 
called the ban one a month gun control bill. under the terms of this law , 
every make and model of all will be written on individual index 
cards. the cards will all be put in a big hat and the president will draw 
one card every month .  . days later that gun will be from any 
further manufacture or sale in this country , except to the 
politically connected and to members of the national police force. 

the president said , this law will benefit america two ways. when the 
gun of the month is every thirty days , the gun nuts will run 
out and buy thousands of them , the economy even more. in addition , 
over the long run , we will get all of these evil guns off of the 
street. he also announce the of to 
this program , her honesty , and unbiased view on the subject 
of gun control . 

, , , and have proposed an 
amendment to the bill which would add additional index cards containing 
for all know  . their , 
, during a press conference 
at the national of control inc. 

simon , , and also introduced an amendment 
that would make all guns illegal to once the last card has been 
drawn from the hat .  . simon was quoted as saying , first we 'll 
fuck em , then we 'll kick em out of in the morning , during a press 
conference he held in the second of the senate 
building .  . he of course was referring to the fact that he would allow 
the people to the guns to help the economy , but would require 
the to all of the guns in america sometime in the year , 
after all of the cards have been drawn .  . 

the head of the responded by saying , we will have to see if this 
thing in is over by then. we may be too busy to all those 
guns . 

us house representatives schroeder and david of 
declared this proposed law as being reasonable gun control which wo n't 
affect anybodys constitutional right to own guns . 

end article 

for the humor ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) 

bill 

, , 


the cbs propaganda with dan rather .  .  ( rather not ! ) 
the cbs propaganda with dan rather .  .  ( rather biased ! ) 


organization penn state university 
from 
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal 


lines 50 

in article ,  ( paul havemann ) says 

in article ,  ( tom smith ) writes 
in article u 

 ( frank crary ) writes 
in article  ( david slack ) writes 
the idea of the card is bull in and of its self , but i'm curious to know , 
do 
they plan on making it a requirement to always have it on you , or is it 
only going to be required to be presented when trying to medical aid 

this , at least , has already been determined the blue cross medical 
for all federal employees is a good model for a future 
national system. to get emergency medical care , anyone so 
must always carry their blue cross card .  . before entering a hospital , 
you must blue cross , or they will refuse to pay your  . 
in an emergency , where you must be treated before them , 
you must them within 24 hours or  ( if you are unable to do 
so for medical reasons ) the hospital must. failing to do so within 
24 hours means they will not cover the  . in you need 
your card to them  ( and without the card , the hospital certainly 
would n't know they had to . ) . therefore , you are required to carry 
the card at all times , or do without emergency medical  . 

which works fine until you end up in the hospital because you were hit on 
the 
head and your , with your card , is stolen .  . this happened to 
me , and it took months to sort the mess out. these sorts of plans sound 
nice at first , but in the end they just create a lot of paperwork and 
to deal with all the checking and filing they involve .  . 

tom the non hacker 

! have a care what you say , tom .  . the obvious answer to that problem 
is to your national i.d. number on you say , your so you 
can never leave home without it. hell , it worked once before .  .  .  . 

and that brings us back to my original , sarcasm post where 's the 
from the liberal over the national id card my god , if some 
conservative had proposed this plus clinton 's national police proposal 
the would be sieg heil ! and police state ! 

you self ought to be of yourselves .  . hypocrites ! 

i do n't know what you watch , but i saw a spokesman for the voice 
opposition to this idea on nbc the very first night. 




subject re washington state 
from  ( john kim ) 
organization university science center 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 14 

in article writes 
in article , writes 
what is a 
acronym for carrying of weapon basically , a to carry 
a or  . 

i division in washington state to ask for an application 
for a  . instead they sent me an becoming a 
in washington ! 

they even sent me a safety  . 
case kim 



from  ( douglas craig holland ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization state university , computer science department 
lines 27 

hmm , would n't classes , 
of both the owner and gun , and be nice for 
gun owners .  . 

the two are not the same , as i pointed out above. there are 
significant difference between making rules for use on public property 
and making rules for ownership . 

the other half of the objection is trust .  . similar things to this 
have been tried in many local across the country , and 
have been in far too many cases. safety classes which are 
never , never funded , or only one or two is held a year for 
a limited number of participants .  . lists in new york , 
chicago , and california have been used for  . many gun 
owners would , in theory , support these  .  ( although the 
numbers show that is not the problem , that 
intentional misuse is) .  . they 've simply seen it and are of 
the next person who comes down the with a reasonable suggestion 
they 've already seen  . 

gun safety classes sound good in theory , but they kind of me of 
the used in the bad old days to keep blacks from voting .  . 
they came with the clause if your could vote , 
you could vote .  . sort of like the gun safety laws that only let the 
political ass have guns .  . 
doug holland 


from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re ( a gun law i can live with ! ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 27 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

(c .  . d. tavares ) writes 

in article com . ,  ( bill meyers ) writes 

a bill 

to establish the right to obtain for security , and 
to use in defense of self , family , or home , and 
to provide for the enforcement of such right. 

maybe i'm too religious , but when i see a bill to establish a right , 
i  . keep in mind , what the law , the law can away. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 

i do n't think your objection is beyond the bounds of rationality .  . the 
right mentioned in the bill is already established under the second 
amendment the bill should be to the second amendment 
, and then establish the for through the federal 
court system. 

the right already exists and is already embodied in our constitution .  . 

aaron 


from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 22 

in article jason writes 
all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as 
i am not really familiar enough with  . 

that 's not all that does n't know. 

hell , a is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing 
that i know about a is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is 
that little thing in the but that is n't too great of a safety .  . 

now we know that does n't understand what a safety is supposed to 
do.  ( he also things he can see with things that exist 
have multiple even though only one is from the 
outside . ) . 

a safety is supposed to keep the gun from going off unless that 's 
what the user wants. with , one says i want the gun to go 
off by the  . if the it has make that work , 
it has a real safety , no matter what thinks .  . 

andy 


from  ( daniel oldham ) 
subject them next time 
organization computer engineering and science , case western reserve university 
lines 21 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host king . cwru . edu . 

what happened in is not the fault of the  . if they would of 
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the 
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened. 

the needs more people , better weapons and more 
 . when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use 
more force instead of to a stand off. if you are going to 
do a job then do it right. the is there to protect us and they 
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job. 

with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look 
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country 
of ours. 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re what to do if you shoot somebody 

lines 43 

in article ,  ( david veal ) 
says 

in article jason 


i have heard many opinions on this subject and would like to hear more from 
the people on the net. 

say you 're in a situation where you have to pull a gun on somebody .  . you 
give them a chance to get away but they decided to continue in their 
action anyway and you end up shooting and killing them. my question is 
what do you do should you stay and wait for the cops or should you 
your  ( if you 're using a semi auto ) and get out of there 
 ( provided of course you do n't think that you have been seen ) 

as a data point from , a friend of mine and a police 
essentially that if you can , away. even if 
you were perfectly justified you 're likely in for a great deal of 
 . (a side note , carrying a gun is a ) . 

this is exactly what i have heard before. if you were to away and 
nobody saw you what kind of evidence would they be able to get to you 
 ( this is assuming that you either your or had a revolver ) 

what kind 
of laws are on the books regarding this type of situation what would 
be the most likely thing to happen to you if you stayed and waited and 
it was a first offense what would happen if you took off but someone 
saw you and you were caught 

it 's one of those by state things , pretty much. 

guess it 's time to take a trip to the library and look at the illinois 
again ) just for the record folks i'm just asking this because i'm curious. 
i'm just trying to find out from people who have read more on stuff like this. 

david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

jason 

from  ( cochrane , james shapleigh ) 
subject re riddle me this .  .  .  . 
organization institute of technology 
lines 18 

on the subject of cs tear gas when i received my initial introduction to 
tear gas , the first thing that came to mind was the of the  . if 
there had been anything in the way , to negotiate , doors to open , or 
any other obstacles to movement , i would have had a difficult time the 
chamber .  . and any concentration of tear gas is to individuals with 
problems , and the wearing of soft contact in a tear gas 
area is considered a real bad idea. so the 's would 
come out the door after being gassed is a bit  . 
if they could have found the door , having them out would n't 
be too far fetched .  . in the factor of 50 51 days of being under and 
subject to psychological warfare , and all on functional abilities are off. 
anybody tried to get amnesty international to jump in on this one 



james s. when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space 
circles , and  . for 


from  ( john l. scott ) 
subject re that silly outdated bill  ( was re koresh and miranda ) 
organization j. random site 
x posted from 1 . edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 86 

i wrote 
nice strawman indeed. the discussion is not about whether there were 

used in sixties riots instead , it is about whether those fired 
their 
main guns in one of those riots .  . you claim they did. that claim is 
ludicrous .  . 

replied 
i repeated what i had been told , under what context i had heard it , 
supporting the claim that were indeed used in in 67 .  . 

the issue has never been whether were used in in  . it 
has been whether they fired their main guns .  . you did not merely claim that 
were used you claimed that they fired their main guns to suppress 
fire and that they were quite effective at this. you continue to 
back away from this claim and defend something else that nobody is 
 . 

went on 
i 
spent a few in a library today found their computer was 
down and they do n't have a card catalog .  . anyway , it took about 10 
to find this in in , a and it 's 
victims by and , on page , telling of the death of 
, age 4. 

when the was fired upon by it turned in the direction 
the shots came from. ... the fifty machine gun mounted on the 
fire into the buildings .  . after a short round into the front 
of the buildings , the guns again , tearing apart huge holes out 
of the side of the apartment .  . 

well , it 's not the main gun. 

well , it 's not the main gun. gee , that 's only the entire point. are you 
now going to admit that you were wrong 

i wrote 
will i see any pictures of firing their main 
guns will i see pictures of buildings by the will i 
read 
the reports of the fire i 'll bet you dollar to i wo n't .  . 
it will take more than second hand accounts from a few old national guard 
shooting the shit to convince me that american 
cities in the sixties .  . 

replied 
well , if you bothered to read them , it would n't take long at all to 
find reports of fire although not necessarily of the main 
guns .  . 

i will never read of firing their main guns in in the  67 
riots .  . there is simply no way that such an event could have taken place 
without it being common knowledge even 26 years later. the american 
military firing from in american cities on blacks would have 
been big news. 

goes on 
you can also read of the troops using  . 

to fire i doubt that as well. to fire 
perhaps. to fire tear gas certainly .  . but you would be 
perfectly willing to let us believe they fired , would n't you , since 
it makes your other claim seem more plausible .  . 

and on 
i do n't 
expect to convince you you 'll have to open your mind and eyes and 
actually 
do a little research to be convinced one way or the other. let me know 
what you find .  . 

i already know what you found nothing. if i claimed that the used 
f to launch at buildings in , new jersey would you 
believe me would you suspend judgment until you had a chance to research 
it or would your bullshit kick in 

if had fired their main guns in , people would have been 
screaming about it for the past two and half decades .  . i would know about 
it. unless you also claim that the national guard managed to cover it up. 
if your mind is open enough to believe that , well , good for you. i prefer 
to live in reality. and here in reality , i find it hard to believe that 
those even had any , much less fired them. 

john l. scott 

from  ( miller , jimmy a . ) . 
subject re fbi revenge 
organization university of houston administrative computing 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host admin . uh . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
in reply to 's message of tue , 20 apr 1993 17 10 52 gmt 

in writes 

anyway , here 's how i see the affair i 'd be interested in other peoples  
interpretations .  .  .  . 

1. koresh and his people were basically their own business. 
2. some weapons may have been committed and i would n't have 
of him for those  . however , i think 
the was criminal for starting with a military style 
assault and for firing into a house where there were children and other 
 . 
3. i do n't see they could n't just leave a guard on the place and wait 
the out i do n't approve of the tear gas approach and , if it caused 
the fire to be started , i think the fbi responsible should spend 
10 20 years in jail .  . 

i think the legal term would be 

4. however , if koresh 's response to the tear gas was to kill everyone there , 
i hold him largely responsible for their deaths .  . 


well , it 's nice to see someone with a brain , a general lack of paranoia , and 
a to put his thoughts in public. i tend to agree with all you have 
said. 

never assume foul motives when stupidity will do. jim 's to 
occam 's razor 

fi , 

jim miller 
texas a m university  89 and  91 

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help. 
become one with the student system. be the student system. 
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man. 
, , mike 

from  ( kirk hays ) 
subject re proper gun control what is proper gun control  ( was re my gun is like my american express card ) 
nntp posting host 
organization systems division 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( rick bressler ) writes 
talk . politics . guns .  ( kirk hays ) 3 31 apr 13 , 1993 

some of the pro gun posters in this group own no guns .  . the dread 
, aka the , owned no for several years 
while posting in this group , as an example. there are others. 

good point ,  . 

he 's still around too. he 's responded by email to a couple of my posts , 
and gosh , he 's gotten down right civil ! this about the time 
he got his first  . wonder if there is a relationship here turns 
out that most people  ( at least the ones who are not criminals to start 
with ) act responsibility once given the chance. 

i 'd like to point out that i was in error began posting only 
months before he purchased his first , according to private email 
from him. 

i ca n't produce an posting of his earlier than 1992 , 
and he purchased his first in march 1992 .  . 

i guess it only seemed like years. 

back to your regularly scheduled flame  . 


life , seventh generation .  . 
the only thing necessary for the of evil is for good men to 
do nothing. edmund burke  ( 1729 1797 ) 

from  ( alan greig ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization institute of technology 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( scott w roby ) writes 

so , why did n't the 's leave when the gas was first introduced much 
earlier in the morning did n't they care about the children 

why did n't they release the children weeks ago 

because most of the children were with their  . do you understand 
that concept here 's a bunch of people who believe in their minds that 
the forces of satanic evil are outside and you expect them to hand over 
their own children were you born that stupid or does it take a lot 
of effort 


janet 
institute of technology internet 
tel  ( 0382 )  ( int 44 308810 ) 
never the power of human stupidity 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re what to do if you shoot somebody 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 32 

in article jason writes 
say you 're in a situation where you have to pull a gun on somebody .  . you 
give them a chance to get away but they decided to continue in their 
action anyway and you end up shooting and killing them. my question is 
what do you do should you stay and wait for the cops or should you 
your  ( if you 're using a semi auto ) and get out of there 
 ( provided of course you do n't think that you have been seen ) 

for me , it would be an obvious choice armed self defence is clearly 
and strongly protected by the constitution and the laws 
of the state. in the very clear cut situation of your hypothetical , 
i would n't have anything to fear from the police  ( unless i had been 
publicly carrying the weapon , something i'm not in 
the habit of doing .  .  .  . even then , the worst i 'd have to deal with 
was a class 2 ) . even if the situation were not so 
clear , and i might have to worry about arrest for or 
, it would still be safer to wait for the police .  . if 
i were to leave and try to avoid police involvement , i 'd be committing 
several and my chances of claiming self defence 
in court ( if it really was self defence , the would 
ask , why did you run away and hide from the police ) 

in other states , however , this decision might not be so clear cut 
if someone in , say , washington d . c .  . were to use a gun in self defence 
he would automatically be guilty of several of 
that city 's gun control laws .  . such a person 's choices would be 
between certain conviction for a couple of versus possible 
conviction for half a dozen .  . 

frank 
boulder 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
distribution usa 
stanford . edu . 
lines 44 

in article stanford . edu . , 
 ( andy freeman ) says 

in article jason 

all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as 
i am not really familiar enough with  . 

that 's not all that does n't know. 

hell , a is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing 
that i know about a is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is 
that little thing in the but that is n't too great of a safety .  . 

now we know that does n't understand what a safety is supposed to 
do.  ( he also things he can see with things that exist 
have multiple even though only one is from the 
outside . ) . 

excuse me but i do know what i safety is supposed to do. it 's basic purpose 
not to let the gun fire until you 're ready. christ , i 've known that since i 
had my first air gun. you do n't know me so do n't make assumptions 
about what i know and do n't know. i do know that the has multiple 
from reports , looking at them at a gun , and friends who own one. 

a safety is supposed to keep the gun from going off unless that 's 
what the user wants. with , one says i want the gun to go 
off by the  . if the it has make that work , 
it has a real safety , no matter what thinks .  . 

andy 

from the things i have read heard are always knocked because of the 
safety .  . they are supposedly harder to learn to use properly. every 
article that i have read ca n't be wrong about the damn thing. and do n't ask 
me to quote my sources because i do n't keep a of gun and or 
rec . guns . articles around. boy , you ca n't make a simple statement on 
here without someone getting right on your ass. no wonder why there are so 
many problems in the world. everyone takes everything just a little too 
seriously. by the way , i'm not going to reply to any of this stuff anymore as 
someone made the good point that this discussion is getting too close to r . g . 
 ( and yes i know that i had something to do with  . 

jason 

from  ( guy m. trotter ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
organization , a division of 
lines 14 


hi , 

in canada , any gun that enters a national park must be (i think it 's a 
small metal that 's placed over the  . the net result of this is 
that you ca n't use a gun to protect yourself from bears  ( or psychos ) in the 
national parks .  . instead , one has to be sensitive to the and 
of in bear country , and take the appropriate  . 

i think this policy makes the users of the national parks feel a little closer 
to nature , that they are a part of nature and , as such , have to deal with 
nature on it 's own terms. 

guy 

from  ( dale farmer ) 
subject re gun control proud to be a 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 27 
nntp posting host access . net . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

frank wrote 
in article com .  ( dave duff ) writes 
the population is  ( and well was ) far larger than that. i think 
your question should be ,  .  .  . sleep over a million expert 
certainly he could have conquered , but 
a million armed  ( especially in a area , 
where  is limited ) would have made it a 
real pain. the question a would ask , is is it worth 
the trouble the more difficult an invasion is , the more likely 
the answer would be no. certainly a million  ( as 
opposed to a army of only ten or twenty thousand , the 
best a country the size of could support) , makes 
invasions more difficult. 

hitler invaded yugoslavia and it. the portions were 
sometimes by the , but they were certainly not in control. 
there were two major native factions each other and the germans , 
it was basically useless to the germans  ( no production ) and a on their 
resources (a division and a couple of divisions ) which if 
my memory is correct , were kind of stuck there up until the allies accepted 
their surrender .  . (i think that the allies also let the germans keep some 
of their weapons for self defense they were able to get to the 
, away from the resistance factions .  . this is from memory , and 
it is unreliable .  . 




organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re statement to everyone on t . p . g . 
stanford . edu . 
lines 43 

in article stanford . edu . , 
 ( andy freeman ) says 

clue  position is n't a defense against  . 

i oppose gun control because it does n't work. if it did , i 'd support 
it. in fact , i supported gun control before i did my homework .  . 

there 's no demand for pro gun people who do n't know what they 're 
talking about. in fact , they 'd be much better off if they did n't say 
anything. 

and why is this freeman even if a pro gun person does n't know what they are 
talking about there is always the possibility that they will learn a thing or 
two .  . i am and will continue to post even if people get angry with what i have 
to say. i have several good sources of material now that i know where to look 
so calm down. 

there 's lots of information on for those interested in 
learning. one can participate in those discussions without 
 . failure to do so has consequences .  . 

ah , freeman seems to forget from my statement that i am learning. i have also 
asked several of the not so hostile folks on this group for sources of 
information to read. do you think , freeman , that maybe this means i am 
interested in learning i think it does because as you said people who do n't 
know anything wo n't be good for the pro gun cause. 

another good habit to get into is to go read only for a while , to take 
the time to figure out how things work. 

another good habit to get into is to realize that not everyone is you freeman 
and accept mistakes .  . sure , maybe it could have been some type of 
misinformation being by some anti gun but it was n't .  . i made my 
statement to everyone of this and everyone who replied said do n't worry 
about it but also to learn as much as you can. they accepted my mistake and 
gave me sources of information and told me to read as much as possible. i have 
read several posts of yours and have found them  . why do n't you 
give me the same chance 

andy 

jason 

from  ( wayne j. warf ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization university 
lines 32 

in article writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 

well they had over 40 days to come out with their hands up on national tv 
to get the trial they deserved .  . instead they chose to set fire to their 
hours after the dropped off the tear gas .  . 

this is about the third person who 's the fbi 's line about the 
being set hours after the tear gas was  . suppose you 
want to explain to us the footage shown on national tv last night 
in which a with the gas is its injection 
out of the second story of a building as the building begins to 
and then fire 

do tell. 

joe 

not to mention that the story was today. those two 's who 
admitted to starting the fire , forget 'em , they do n't exist anyone. 
today , a few saw someone starting a fire and our surveillance 
showed them starting at this morning 's press conference .  . 
tomorrow , even this excuse may  . a reporter pointed out 
that a being brought to that knocking 
over started the fire .  . and  . 



wayne j. i speak for myself only 
clinton fbi bomb atf resist 
christian god satan nazi communist explosive 
fundamentalist revolution federal reserve constitution gold 

from  ( strider ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 31 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

 ( brent irvine ) writes 
writes 
hey , , it 's not about , or about dark , 
it 's about black , and troops 
houses and violating civil rights under color of law. 

are you ready to defend your constitution 

its also about crazy types blasting the 
out of people who accidentally onto his land in the 
name of  self defense . ' . 

well , the count is now at least 86 dead by government action. how many 
have been killed in the last year in the manner you described what , no 
facts oh , how silly of me i forgot , you do n't like guns , so you do n't 
need no  facts .  . 


do n't get too self righteous , mr. gun  . 

do n't get too , mr. gun  . 


mike 

this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 46 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article com .  ( dave duff ) 
writes 
case ! ! ! ! the gun on the net before getting facts straight ! ! ! ! 

i really do n't understand all this ! i watched on network as 
perhaps 90 people died before my eyes , while the two 's the flames , 
and the fbi stopped the at the gate .  . 

something was very wrong with that  . 

perhaps if i 'd watched , i might 've been to the pain of 
fellow humans dying .  . 

thank god i still feel .  . i'm very sorry for you who do n't .  . for you who think 
they got what they deserved .  . can you really believe that even if koresh was 
the sadistic mad man they said he was , did the others his fate if , 
in fact , he was mad , was n't that even more reason to believe he his 
followers , and therefore they were innocent , , victims is there 
any that all that death 

and if not , it is clear that the deaths would not have occured if the has 
not up initially , and now the fbi got and pushed over 
the  . 

and that 's if you buy the latest version of the story , line , and  . 
i have believed all along that they could not let them live , the embarrassment 
to the and the fbi would 've been too severe .  . 

remember , this was a suspicion of tax evasion warrant .  . there were no 
witnesses , except the fbi .  . all information filtered through the fbi .  . all they 
had to do was allow one remote controlled pool camera be near the 
building , and the press could 've done their job , and would 've been able to back 
the fbi 's story with close up video , while no risk to the press. 
unless they did not want the public to see something. the complete lack of any 
other source of information other than the fbi really causes me concern. 


sick to my stomach , and getting from all the government apologists 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization joe 's bar and 
lines 16 

in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 

well they had over 40 days to come out with their hands up on national tv 
to get the trial they deserved .  . instead they chose to set fire to their 
hours after the dropped off the tear gas .  . 

this is about the third person who 's the fbi 's line about the 
being set hours after the tear gas was  . suppose you 
want to explain to us the footage shown on national tv last night 
in which a with the gas is its injection 
out of the second story of a building as the building begins to 
and then fire 

do tell. 

joe 

from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject gun talk state update 
organization ideology , inc. 
distribution usa 
keywords gun talk 
lines 208 

april 19 , 1993 

as william o .  . douglas noted , if a powerful is lacking , 
individual liberty in spite of glowing opinions and 
constitutional phrases .  . 

the below resulted from , 
, and action. many important , however , come 
from with to ensure anti gun anti 
legislation is either , rejected , or never voted .  . 
these quiet are no less impressive in protecting our 
fundamental civil liberties guaranteed by the second amendment to the 
u.s. constitution .  . 



arizona , supported legislation concerning in 
criminal of passed the house 36 18 , is currently 
action by the  . 

1447 , legislation was signed by the 
making this the forty first state to pass  . 
had passed twice in previous only to be by 
then gov .  . bill clinton .  . , mandatory of , 
and then killed in  . 

42 , the of with a 
lock , killed in  . , prohibiting the sale of 
certain semi was killed in  . , 
so called violence act , including a 
for a 10 day waiting period , killed in  . 

bill no. , a 6 tax on all 
, ammunition , and equipment killed in environment 
 . 

florida a bill to require a 3 year license at a cost of 150 to own 
or semi automatic with a second degree 
 ( 15 years in prison ) died in along with numerous 
other anti gun owner  . no anti gun legislation passed in 
florida this year .  . 

12 , supposed instant check with allowing for 
up to a 7 day waiting period , in house public safety 
and sent to study  . mandatory 
bill was 39 15 in the senate .  . the same bill 
passed the house 52 2 in 1992 .  . 


illinois 90 , prohibiting the sale , , manufacture , 
, , or carrying of certain semi , was 
in house ii on  . 91 , 
mandatory legislation , failed in house 
on  . , and makes , point of sale 
check permanent , passed out of by a 10 4 2 vote .  . 
presently on the for third reading in the house. 

40 , mandatory bill , in  . 
, a tax , failed in senate on 
's on tax increases .  . 
272 , a tax on all persons engaged in the business of 
selling , failed in senate 's 
on tax increases .  . 

, , passed in the senate 
34 16 , and in the house 22 .  . twelve were introduced on 
the house to  . among these were a ban on 
certain semi , mandatory , lock , a ban on 
saturday night  ( similar to 1988 maryland bill ) , and 
rationing  ( one per  . all were  . 

i read this morning  ( 4 20 ) s . b .  . was 

kansas , providing for a 72 hour waiting period on all 
was in  . , presently on the 
's , and and all to victims  
rights , are expected to be into law. 

funding for the department of fish and 1993 94 
, was following severe in the 's 
proposed  . , an anti bill which included reverse 
posting and 1000 safety , killed in  . 

maryland 6  ( firearms ammunition ) died in on 
a 8 3 vote , 41  ( reckless sale or 
transfer ) died in on a 11 0 vote ,  ( gun control 
assault weapons ) died in on 9 2 vote ,  ( weapons 
free school zone ) was ,  ( weapons on school property 
's license was , ( assault 
sale , or transport ) died in on 8 3 vote , 
( assault act of 1993 ) died in on a 8 3 vote , 
 ( baltimore city and shotguns ) died in 
on a 9 2 vote .  . 

274  ( pistol and with 
laws ) was ,  ( regulated sales and transfer ) 
died on the senate ,  ( handguns and assault weapons 
for sale or transfer ) died in ,  ( handguns 
and assault weapons exhibitors ) died in , 
( assault act of 1993 ) died in on a 14 9 vote , 
 ( gun shows sale , trade , or of firearms ) died 
in on a 19 6 vote ,  ( firearms assault 
board ) was ,  ( rifles and 
registration ) was ,  ( pistols and 
private sales or required notice ) died in , 
and prince 
weapons free school zone ) was  . 

, a loophole allowing to 
, passed both houses and signed by the  . the bill 
into law mechanism for certain to have their second 
amendment liberties  . 

nebraska and , mandatory lock , killed in 
 . 

new hampshire h . b .  . , providing for for 
carry passed .  . h . b .  . , increasing the term of a license 
to carry loaded passed .  . 

new mexico , a 7 day waiting period , in 
senate  ( 0 5 ) and then on of the senate  ( 15  . 
, mandatory legislation , was killed by a vote of 1 8 in 
 . 230 , legislation in the field 
from harassment by animal rights extremists , signed into law by the 
on march 30 .  . 

new york seven day waiting period was in the city of 
buffalo .  . ban on certain semi was in  . 
the tax and fee to be imposed on guns and were not 
included in the 1993 94  . , making 
provides for validity of license throughout the state , passed 
senate .  . currently action in assembly  . 

north dakota , victims in certain 
circumstances , was signed into law by the on april 8. 

, banning on school grounds and in court 
buildings , as a result of gun owners opposition .  . 

island , mandatory legislation , 
in by a vote of 8 5. , an act prohibiting 
from by vote in  . 
, excepting from the safety 
requirement , reported  . , persons with an 
general 's from the 7 day waiting period , reported to 
the by a vote of 11 1. 
, the term of a to carry from two years to 
three years , reported to the  . 

utah 290 , the state 's carry , passed 
out of house  . 32 , creating civil for 
so called of a , and 33 creating the 
offense of with a , killed on senate 
 . 

virginia s . b .  . , and s . b .  . , requiring proof of state 
to obtain virginia 's license passed .  . s . b .  . , which 
increases the penalty and a mandatory minimum sentence for 
straw man of multiple passed .  . s . b .  . , 
allowing of off and in 
with federal law passed .  . s . b .  . , making it a for first 
offense of carrying a without a license  ( which the 
until law citizens can acquire a carry 
license for self defense ) , was  . h . b .  . 1900 , increasing the 
penalty for use of a in committing a was passed .  . h . b .  . 
, requiring proof of to obtain a 's license 
passed .  . h . b .  . , providing for a on the of a 
three day waiting period in was 
 . 

washington , calling for waiting periods and for 
all semi automatic , died in  . 

west virginia s . c . r .  . 18 , which calls for a study to control 
of and assault weapons was in the 
senate 24 10. 

wisconsin in a up against all odds , the determined 
efforts of the madison area citizens against crime paid off on april 
6 when a banning the of in 
madison , wisconsin , was  . despite opposition to the ban 
largely by owners at a series of public meetings on 
the issue the common council voted on february 17 to place the 
on the ballot , allowing only seven weeks of campaigning to 
reverse public opinion on the issue. 

an october 1992 conducted by the wisconsin state journal found 
57 in support and 38 opposed , with 5 expressing no opinion. by 
election day , of the more than 56 , 000 voters who went to the , 
51 cast in opposition to the proposal while 49 voted to 
have the madison common council such a ban .  . the campaign 
, by the wisconsin pro gun movement and , 
relied on neighborhood , direct mail and radio tv 
to voters on the civil liberties implications 
raised by enforcement of the ban if the was approved .  . 

despite the surprising defeat , it is expected that the madison 
's chief , paul , will attempt to have 
the common council an banning  . 

from gun talk  ( 703 6406 ) 
a service of the 
national rifle association 
institute for action 
washington , 

larry 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 76 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article thomas 
writes 


observations from a naive 

1 ) guns are made to kill people , not to shoot target or to 
have something more than to  .  .  .  .  . 

2 ) it is more easy to kill someone with a gun than 
with a knife or a  ( as in  . 

3) it 's not very wise to compare two completely different 
countries like usa and , let 's say , island on issues like 
crime and violence .  . 

4 ) yes , the problem is people committing crimes , not the tools 
used , but 1 ) should be taken into  . 

only as far as it the crime rate .  . 

we have a very strict gun legislation in norway , but until recently 
it was possible for over 18 years to buy a  . 
are used mainly for in  .  . ) . , but because it 
was so easy to one , it was the most used gun in crimes .  . 
the solution was to restrict the sale , so it 's now necessary to 
apply and your  . 
and the use of guns in crime  .  .  .  .  . 

did the rate of crime fall if not , the ban was of no use. it is the rate of 
violent crime that matters , not the tools used. it 's the crime , stupid ! 

there are now a new law against wearing long in public , 
and why should it be allowed 


apparently that became the weapon of choice after the were banned. 
after that , they 'll decide the car of choice is the , and propose a ban on 
that ! 

what i , as an , have problems to understand is that 
you  ( americans ) have a more liberal view on guns and violence 
than on and sex. 
try showing a bare on tv of violence and murder .  .  .  . 

yes , i know a little american history , but is it a civil human 
right to have an assault gun in your home and or an 
in your car 


yes. we still trust honest people here. for the time being. 


the bad english is not my fault , it 's probably 
the keyboard software or the quality of the 
on tv .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


 ( disclamer(not ) 
these are the views of all at my university , 
all and probably whole of the universe .  .  .  . 


thomas 







i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( rob davis ) 
subject re insane gun unite ! ! ! 
summary 
distribution na 
lines 16 


 ( frank @ university of , boulder ) 

i do n't know about animal attacks , but there are 23 , murders 
each year and under die in the manner you suggest .  . if only 
2 . 1 . of the murders were killings by s , you would be 
wrong. worse , there are also 102 , and 1 , , 000 aggravated 
assaults each year .  . these numbers make violent attacks , and 
preventing them , thousands of times more significant than the 
accidents you are worried about. 

these are invalid we 're talking  . these for 
assaults deaths do not represent the the 
great majority represent incidents .  . you should have pointed this out. 

rob 

from  ( lance w. bledsoe ) 
subject re atf drug lab in compound 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 24 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

in article  . nice guy ) writes 
a associated press news story 3 28 93 reports 

in other developments saturday , david , intelligence chief for 
the atf , confirmed reports that authorities suspected the cult had a 
lab .  . he said evidence of possible drug activity 
late in the atf  investigation of the cult 's gun dealings .  . 

wow , the of the mission of the atf continues to expand .  . besides 
, , and , they now seem to be in child 
services , drug enforcement and tax evasion .  . 

they look to be on the road to being the nations in blue ! 
no knock in one hand , m 16 in the other. heil ! ! ! 







w. (512) 
shall know the truth , and the truth shall make you free. 


from  ( kenneth d. whitehead ) 
subject letter to the president 
nntp posting host com . 
organization allen company , inc. 
lines 46 

here 's a copy of a letter i'm e mailing to the at 
his address of 



to william j. clinton 
president of the united states of america 

mr. president 

i am writing to express my utter at the conduct of various 
government in regards to the in  . i demand 
the or of lloyd , of the treasury , 
who bears responsibility for the initial and attack 
by the atf against the branch , and of janet , who 
the final assault on the very day that we were the 
 . and i would truly appreciate it if you would make 
sure something like this never happens again on your watch .  . 

yours , 

d. 




get involved ,  . it 's your  . let 's take it back .  . 



i will be much more willing to believe the government 's side of the 
story after we are allowed to hear from the survivors .  . so far , 
all we 've gotten has been by the very people who have the 
most to cover up. and i 'd really like to know how they got the 
press , who so loudly about being kept off the front lines 
during the gulf war , be such obedient dogs in  .  .  . kind of 
makes me wonder if this so called freedom of the press is n't 
highly  . 

ken 







from 
subject re 2nd amendment dead good ! 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 49 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
originator 

oh christ , here we go again. i'm actually going to assume that 
this was a serious posting , fool that i am .  . 

in article writes 
yea , there are millions of cases where say that 
 deter  criminals .  . , this is not  . i think that that 
there are actually few cases where this is so. 

and i suppose i should just take your word for it. did you ever 
think that many people who use to protect themselves 
might not admit to it because of the ridiculous laws which exist 
carry 

the of are used against unworthy and 
opponents ... those who a cool you want , those who 
would argue with you about a space , those who would 
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes .  . 

i already own a cool  . i ride a bicycle to work and park 
it behind my desk. and if my woman decides to go with someone 
else , i 'd be but killing her new will probably 
not her to me any more than before. frankly , i 've never 
met a woman worth killing for anyway.  ( now , an ar 15 with a 
, that 's worth killing for ... !  ) 

too much of this has you cause. there is no  . 
in the near future , federal will come for your  . 
no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking , 
than the  . this is your own fault. 

does this know something the rest of us do n't 
i'm not too worried about federal coming to get my guns .  . 
the government ca n't seem to keep violent criminals in jail since 
they do n't have enough prison space , and the legal system is over 
anyway. where are they going to put all the millions of 
gun owners who wo n't over their weapons maybe you 'd like to 
the services of your humble , since you obviously 
feel strongly about this. 

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way. 

your argument has been useless. accept this. find another 
newsgroup .  . 


my opinions. 
no one else 's .  . 



from  ( peter nesbitt ) 
subject newspapers gun 
lines 88 

recently while looking around in traders , a very well 
stocked , i discovered a printed document that was being 
by the good folks who work there. traders , btw , is in 
san , ca .  . 

granted , the document may be asking you and i to help out traders , but in the 
big of things , i feel that we would do all gun owners a favor by helping 
to this cause. 

anyway , here it is 

newspaper ad censorship 

are you letting the newspapers tell you how to live your life , what 's good for 
you , what 's not , and exercise blatant censorship over what you read in their 


the newspapers have now decided to gun which is why you no longer 
see the that traders , san , has run for many years. 

these were run for the law honest citizens who own for 
use or self protection. they certainly have the right to do so , under 
the second amendment right to bear  . 

if you are tired of newspapers who run sex and , yet refuse to 
run legitimate gun , please send a letter to the indicating your 
over their censorship doctrine .  . 

following is a list of bay area newspapers who gun  . perhaps you 'd 
like to send them your thoughts on this issue ! 

daily review times star 
oak st. 
, ca , , ca 

tri san times 
 . w.  . 
, ca , ca san , ca 

times san times san francisco 
mission st. 
, ca san , ca san francisco , ca 

san  . independent san  . examiner san jose news 
evans 110 st. 750 park dr. 
san  . , ca san  . , ca san jose , ca 

then there are pages of facts . i can not validate these facts , and 
there were no sources , but many feel and sound very true. here are the topic 


big media job 
blaming for murder is like blaming hospitals for death 
i could use the same nazi of cbs and abc to prove 
that hospitals cause death 
how nbc , cbs , and abc have the american people on gun control 
american tv is based on nazi 
why tv journalists lie 
the government with the help of the tv , has succeeded in playing 
one group against the other 
gun laws are 
american gun laws are based on nazi gun laws 
the government is trying to and conquer 
the wants your 

and so on for pages. 

so now we have the media trying help put gun out of business by trying 
to limit their exposure to potential , and preventing the 
from reading about sales of ammunition and for , , or 
other use. 

let me know if you write to any of these  . 



peter d. air traffic 

bay 



member s w  . 41 . 






from  ( francis chiu ) 
subject re them next time 
organization san diego state university , college of sciences 
lines 39 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

daniel wrote 
what happened in is not the fault of the  . if they would of 
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the 
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened. 

initial assault on the compound ( more like a farm house if 
it burned to the ground like it did ) for what regardless of who 
started caused the fire , none of this would have happened if the 
atf can honestly justify their initial assault and it 
properly ! 

question authority ! 

snip 
with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look 
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country 
of ours. 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 

show me some instead of repeating what the fbi atf 
told you. 

fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 

then i'm sure you wo n't mind if the atf or the your house 
someday on a bogus  . so what if they killed your 
family accidentally during the , it 's just a fair price to pay 
for law and order in this country , right answer this question 
honestly before making anymore ignorant statements ! 

what is even more than out of control government 
are citizens who allow them to be  . 

f. 

nntp posting host no . 
from thomas 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
in reply to  ( jim de arras ) 's message of 15 apr 1993 
13 08 14 gmt 
organization dept. of , university of , norway 

lines 73 
originator 


i hate long postings , but this turned out to be rather lengthy .  .  .  .  . 


overall crime rate 
it  .  .  . just . like that .  .  .  . 

weapons in norway 
you can buy  ( almost ) all kinds of weapons in norway , but you must have a 
, and a good reason to get the  .  .  .  . 
if i would like to have a , i would have to get an gun from 
the police and to be a member of a gun club. 
the police would check my criminal records for any serious crimes and or 
records of serious mental diseases .  . 
now , if a got my , i would have to be an active member of the gun 
club for 6 months before i could my gun. 
it 's a little like getting a drivers is n't it 
you have to prove that you can drive before you are allowed to .  .  .  . 

use of guns in crimes  ( in norway ) 
some crimes are commited with guns that have been in the owners   
for a long time , but these are rather the  . 
most criminals guns to use them in crimes , and mostly short 
time the crime .  . 

use of 
it is allowed to in public , but not in your belt or  . 
you  ( americans ) think it 's ok to have a gun , but not to carry it open 
in public 

are  aggressive  
we are not as hot as , but when we decide 
to take action we do. 
ask any historian or with an knowledge of europe .  .  .  .  . 
 ( or ask any german who served in norway in ww2 .  .  .  .  . ) . 

individual vs masses 
yes the individual is more important than the masses , but only to some 
extent .  .  .  .  . 
your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses 
what happens when the of some individuals the rights of 
all the others 


the issue 
i believe the issue is guns , and gun legislation .  . 
we should n't mix weapons and items that can serve as one .  .  .  .  . 
if i lived in i would probably have a gun to defend in home. 
but should it have to be like that 
do you think it 's wise to sell guns like  ( some states do .  .  . ) . 
if you believe it 's smart to have drivers why do you think 
it should be free to buy guns 

her 
i'm not a or anti gun. 
i would defend my home , loved ones and country , but i do n't view guns as 
or  . 
i have done army service , and have used a of weapons , but would n't 
want to have one for self defence or because they  feel  .  .  .  . 







this is not a  . signature .  . 
it 's a text to waste bandwith 
and to bring down the evil internet .  . 


thomas 


from  ( myron p030 ) 
subject re boston gun buy back 
organization bnr inc. , nc 
lines 17 

ron miller wrote 
when you ask the question of the authorities or of 
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer 
no , it 's total amnesty . 
 ( good point about being used only for harassment deleted ) 

i would also like to point out that this is receiving stolen property and is 
no different than a owner doing the same thing. 



, 
y all 

the opinions included in this post are my sole responsibility .  . 
and are protected by the first amendment and by the 
second amendment .  . 

from  ( dave duff ) 
subject re gun control proud to be a 
organization division 
lines 11 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

does anyone really believe the have had no war within their borders 
because every adult male owns a rifle i'm a great of the , but 
years of peace on their has to do with gun ownership .  . can you 
picture hitler , with and on the border , 
sleep over a few thousand expert sure. 
hitler stayed out of because the run the money in this 
world. we 'd do well to emulate them on that and forget about getting more 
on the street. let 's the and start a national investment 
banking association , with red and black for the back 
of 's mercedes 600 ! we could fire and get paul 
for a spokesman .  . 

from  ( emil chuck ) 
subject re bill  blame america first  clinton strikes again. 
summary repost from alt . rush . 
distribution na 
organization duke university , n . c .  . 
lines 31 
nntp posting host duke . edu . 

 ( anheuser busch ) writes 
this argument sounds very stupid .  .  . if the ability to make guns from 
simple was easy , then drug would make their own 
would n't they  .  .  . why spend hundreds of dollars buying a gun that 
somebody else made cheap and is selling it to you at an 
... the simple truth of the matter is , that regardless 
of how easy it is to make guns , banning guns will reduce the 
the number of new guns and the efforts of a 
killer intent on buying a weapon .  .  .  .  . 
to show why the tools argument is the i have ever seen .  .  . take an 
analogy from computer science .  .  .  . almost every computer science major 
can write a yet  ( we(comp sci majors ) would willingly pay 3 
to 400 for a software like  .  .  . why do n't we 
just all write our own software  .  .  .  .  .  .  . because it is highly 
! ! !  .  .  . 
same with guns .  .  .  . secondly .  .  . how does one get this for the 
home made gun take a quick trip to the local 7 . 
if guns were really that simple to make .  .  .  . the bosnian muslims would 
be very happy people  ( or is it the case that tools are 
in bosnia  ( deep sarcasm ) ) .  . 

well this is my two  .  . 
i will now reading all these post from people 
who must make their living doing stand up  . 
end of material 


and so , the beneath the  . 
headed for a of dreams he 'd dreamt of all those nights. 
the as the ball descended would it grant their wish 
there was no doubt in 's mind , he knew it was a ! 

from  ( francis chiu ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
organization san diego state university , college of sciences 
lines 50 
nntp posting host 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 
you are  . 
there is no question about it. 
of those who vote , your cause is considered an  . no matter 
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the  . 

care to show some real numbers instead of something make up 
i thought so , all foaming at the mouth shouting but nothing is 
ever said .  .  .  . 

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton , your 
will be null and  . tough  . 

well , we 'll just have to wait and see about that , wo n't we or are 
you quite with living in your little fantasy 

snip 
cases of abuses has your cause. there is nothing you 
snip 
the press is against you , the public  ( the voting public ) is against 
you , the of history is against you ... this is it ! 

not true , it is only those who are ignorant and are afraid to understand , 
accept , and deal with the real problems behind this violent society 
who are proposing gun control as a aid solution .  . may be i should 
your memory with a quote from  . 

it 's the criminals , stupid ! 

hey , why is he cutting the for more may be someone need 
to him of what he promised .  .  . on . second thought , why bother .  .  .  . 

surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. they will you one at a time. 
your will not help you. they will consider you more if an 
immediate threat than the abstract  . 

oooh , ii , coming to your living room soon .  .  .  . when was the last 
time you turned off your tv ca n't remember i thought so .  .  .  . 

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the  . violent solutions 
are  . avoid situations which encourage criminals .  . then you will 
be as safe as possible. such as it is ... 

wait , i got it , this is a late april fool post , right i did n't 
think anybody is stupid enough to post something like this .  .  . good . one 
guys , this group was getting without and  . 

francis , student , programmer , tax  . 


from 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
reply to 
organization 
lines 51 

in article ,  ( john lawrence rutledge ) writes 

so the phrase the right of the people to keep and bear , shall 
not be must either qualify or explain the phrase a well 
, being necessary to the security of a free state. 

stuff deleted 

since the right of the people to keep and bear , shall not be 
does not describe , or make less harsh anything and 
it has nothing to do with grammar or some sort of position or task .  . 
by process of elimination it must fall into definition 3. and since 
3 deals with legal power , the same thing the constitution does , it 
must be the correct definition in this case. therefore , the right 
of the people to keep and bear gives legal power to the well 
and this legal power shall not be . 

ah , clarification by  . 

actually , the words a well , being necessary to the 
security of a free state is a present , used as an 
to   , which is followed by the main clause of 
the sentence , the subject being  the right  , the verb  . it 
asserts that the right to keep and bear is essential for 
maintaining a  . the sentence does n't restrict the right , or 
state or imply of the right by anyone or anything other 
than the people. all it does is make a positive statement regarding a 
right of the people. the people , as in you and me , as in the first , 
fourth , ninth , tenth , as well as the second amendment .  . 
the existence of this right is assumed it is not granted by the 
amendment .  . there is no stated or implied condition the right 
to bear to the necessity of a well to the security of 
a free state. 
in other words , the entire sentence says that the right to keep and 
bear is  . 


so in effort not to force my views and not to our liberties and 
rights , i state that nothing i have written , or will write , in 
the matter of liberties and rights is the final word. for i am only 
one person among many and the final word on liberties and rights 
and belongs to the many. 

the final word on liberties and rights should not belong to the 
many . that is why we have a constitution .  . otherwise , a of 
the majority can from popular opinion , a concept which you 
should be familiar with from the papers .  . 

al 
standard disclaimer 


from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re important information 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 19 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( vincent fox ) writes 
in a separate post over on soc . culture . usa . she explicitly said that while 
she cross posts to t . p . g . and sets follow to there , she does not read 
talk . politics . guns .  . if you think about it , it 's a clever way of keeping 
some of the respondents who will edit their line , or 
properly use the follow up from being heard over there. it also makes it 
easier for her to claim all she ever sees is weasels . 

so if you want her to see your analysis , e mail it. if you 
want to point out her flaws in public , make sure your newsgroup line 
includes soc . culture . usa .  . 

to keep from s . c . u . , i e it. however , i agree that it 's 
quite the trick. no more than i would expect , however. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from node . org .  ( nigel allen ) 
subject fbi director 's statement on 
organization r node public access unix 1 
lines 26 

in the interests of , i thought readers of these 
newsgroups would want to see fbi director william  
statement , as released by the fbi press office. 

fbi director 's statement on 
to national 
contact federal bureau of investigation , press office , 


washington , april 19 the following is a statement by 
fbi director william s. regarding the branch 
incident in , texas 

i had hoped to be making a very different statement this evening. 
after very careful planning and extensive we all thought 
that today 's efforts by the fbi to bring the branch out of 
their compound would result in the peaceful resolution of the 
stand off or at least meaningful  . 
instead , we are with devastation and death. however , i 
have no question that our plan was correct and was conducted with 
extreme and care. i the shown by 
in the face of life threatening , and i thank them for 
their lives to try to end this  . i have only the 
greatest admiration for the courage and of all 
involved. 
30 

from  ( tim crowley ) 
subject re clinton press conference , part 1 
organization inc. 
lines 13 
nntp posting host com . 

 ( catherine anne foulston ) writes 

could y all please stop posting this stuff to tx . general .  . tx . politics . 
is sufficient and is where this stuff belongs .  . thanks. 



rice university network systems support 

why 




from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( brent 
irvine ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. 
tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael 
rhein ) writes 

, then let the wood inside it. 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm 
day 
in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 

shows his ignorance once again. power had been cut for weeks. and he 's 
never lived in a area if he thinks electric have favor there. 
they stop working when the power fails , and power come much 
in the country , than the city. gas and are very much  . 


personal opinions why , 
yes. what did you think 
they were  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

jim 




i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  . nice guy ) 
subject re them next time 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
distribution usa 
lines 35 

in article  ( daniel oldham ) writes 
what happened in is not the fault of the  . if they would of 
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the 
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened. 

the needs more people , better weapons and more 
 . when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use 
more force instead of to a stand off. if you are going to 
do a job then do it right. the is there to protect us and they 
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job. 

with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look 
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country 
of ours. 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 



i hope that you are in the way of the noble federal and 
are blown away accidently by the governments  . 

you would the death to 25 

this is the sort of person who served as a death camp guard .  . 

the only acceptable 
boulder , co for brains is silence .  . 
solomon short 
on 16 

from  ( bill vojak ) 
subject policies 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization technology corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 59 

official policies .  . 

policy 18 , for example , systems for motion 
pictures industry sponsored systems create the 
potential for the creative process and thus 
the of ideas. despite the stated goal of 
providing to parents , experience has shown that 
inevitably have serious chilling effects on freedom of 
 . 

in regards to the pledge of allegiance , the states in its 
policy the insertion of the words god  into the 
pledge of allegiance is a violation of the constitutional 
principle of separation of church and state. 

policy 120 states that , military under any 
circumstances is a violation of civil liberties and 
constitutional  . the objects to the draft even 
during because of the anti democratic power it gives 
government to war without support of the people. 

policy states , the calls for a broad based inquiry into 
war crimes within the possible definition of war crimes 
against humanity , and crimes against the peace , focusing upon the 
actions of the united states military and other combatants 
against the people of south vietnam , , , and north 
vietnam .  . 

policy states , the that us government 
upon nuclear as a dominant element of foreign 
and domestic policy , while as a defense of democracy , 
is in fact a great threat to civil liberties .  . four decades of 
adherence to this policy has fundamentally altered the nature of 
our constitutional democratic process and poses a 
threat to our civil liberties .  . 

policy 217 objects to where drivers are stopped for 
because they violate fourth amendment 
principles .  . 

policy states the following on criminal 
the most appropriate approach is 
the offender into the community , and the goals of 
are much more readily by working with the 
offender within the community than by  . 
should be by the in every case exceptions 
to the principle are not , and any exceptions , if made , 
should be limited to the most serious of offenses , such as murder 
or treason .  . 

bill 

, , 


the cbs propaganda with dan rather .  .  ( rather not ! ) 
the cbs propaganda with dan rather .  .  ( rather biased ! ) 



from  ( jeffrey c. strait ) 
subject re address 
organization the university of illinois 
lines 15 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
keywords 

in article ,  ( james barker ) writes 
could someone email me a address for the i 'd like to write them 
a letter encouraging them to see to it very emphatically that the 2nd 
amendment is to the form that the founding fathers intended .  . 

national rifle association 
island  . 
washington , 
1  ( membership ) 


jeff 
university of illinois phone  ( 217 ) 
if you leave this island , if you survive basic recruit 
training , you will be a weapon , a of death praying for war 

from  ( young yoon ) 
subject re of 18 u . s . c .  ( 922(o ) 
nntp posting host aix . edu . 
distribution usa 
lines 50 

 ( brian sheets ) writes 

you know , i was reading 18 u . s . c .  . and something just did not make 
and i was wondering if someone could help me out. 

say u . s . c .  . 

(1) except as provided in paragraph (2) , it shall be for 
any person to or a  . 

well i got to looking in my law dictionary and i found that a person 
might also be an artificial entity that is created by government 
and has no rights under the federal constitution .  . so , what i 
do n't understand is how a like can be enforced on 
an individual .  . so someone tell me how my government can tell 
me what i can or cannot  . just passing a law 
does not make it law. everyone knows that laws are 
until it goes to court. so , has it ever gone to court , not 
just your run of the mill ok i had it i am guilty , put me in jail 

has anyone ever claimed that they had a right to and was told 
by the supreme court that they did n't have that right 




brian sheets ! what 
support engineer o  
inc. ( ) of the lost 
u 

i'm not a lawyer but to the best of my understanding , the congress has no 
more rights than what is in the constitution .  . that is the 
prime reason why the national act is based on  . 
since the congress has the authority to taxes , the is a tax act and 
the requirement within it is to assist in that tax collection. 
u . s . c . , in order to be constitutional , must have a basis on a particular 
authority granted to the congress by the constitution .  . congress can not 
arbitrarily ban a substance or product .  . that is why came into 
effect , only by passing an  . what you said about 
of law needs to be clarified .  . i believe that an law was 
never constitutional .  . when a law is determined by the supreme court , to be 
, that law was never really a law. the very nature of the law 
being invalidates the law at it 's inception .  . please correct 
me if i'm wrong , but when a law is deemed to be , anyone 
convicted of breaking that law is  . 
i do n't believe u . s . c . has ever been challenged in court. has been 
in two federal district court  ( cases one may have been 
level u.s. vs island and u.s. vs ) .  . 


from 
subject re funded gun propaganda campaign to 
reply to 
organization 
distribution usa 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( steve manes ) writes 
the cat wrote 

well , as of the points out , the full 
force of the anti gun ruling class , their millions , their 
organizations , their schools , their news media , their 
media 

the media .  .  .  . a force of the anti gun ruling class 
is this the same media that 's made billions producing films and 
television that glorify guns and gun users or is that another 
anti gun media 

you 've got to be kidding. 

i'm afraid he is n't .  . they are a lot. 

al 
standard disclaimer 


from  ( john lawrence rutledge ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
organization interactive media group university of at 
lines 76 

in article , writes 
actually , the words a well , being necessary to the 
security of a free state is a present , used as an 
to   , which is followed by the main clause of 
the sentence , the subject being  the right  , the verb  . it 
asserts that the right to keep and bear is essential for 
maintaining a  . 
a free state. 

yes , i agree the first half of the amendment does the 
 . but the of that applies to how well 
is 
to qualify or limit the meaning of. for example , wet 
day in the phrase a wet day. 

the amendment is to the statement 
a wet day , being , the right of the people to keep 
and wear , shall not be  . 
so how does a day the right to use , 
what does the unorganized have to due with the right to 
own guns 

the sentence in the second amendment does n't restrict the right , or 
state or imply of the right by anyone or anything other 
than the people. all it does is make a positive statement regarding a 
right of the people. the people , as in you and me , as in the first , 
fourth , ninth , tenth , as well as the second amendment .  . 
the existence of this right is assumed it is not granted by the 
amendment .  . there is no stated or implied condition the right 
to bear to the necessity of a well to the security of 
in other words , the entire sentence says that the right to keep and 
bear is  . 

no not , , but shall not be . 
is defined as 
to break or ignore the terms of or  ( an oath , 
an agreement , law , or the like ) to violate .  . 
to go beyond the or limits  . 
this definition implies the following of some form of existing 
agreement .  . laws and agreements are made in advance. 
or limits of behavior are set by society as a whole .  . the word 
implies no agreements or all previous agreements 
are off , which is the opposite .  . 

the words used in the first amendment are much stronger , i.e. , 
congress shall make no law , are much stronger .  . they clearly 

imply  . if the writers of the amendment , wanted 
did n't they says , congress shall make no 
laws the the right of the people to keep and bear 
the second amendment implies a sort contract between the people 
the people and the state. the bigger part of the contract is 
the people have the right to the government and its laws 
at any time. to this right , the laws cannot stopped 
the people from forming a well  . the duties 
of a well to the government are in 
no. 29 .  . and the limits of of the control 
of the are in article i section 8 , article ii 
section 2 , and the second amendment of the constitution .  . 



if only it were a modern document , with a 
john lawrence smart index and links all 
research assistant through the world data net. it was terribly 
frustrating to flip back and forth between 
interactive media group the pages and crude flat that 
computer science department never even moved .  . nor were there 
or  . it completely a 
1 university  . for sound. 
, ma most of all was the problem of new 
words .  .  .  . in normal text you 'd only have to 
 ( 508 ) touch an word and the definition 
would pop up just below. 
from david 's earth 


from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 25 

in article  ( john k. gever ) writes 
public health will tell you that you are far more likely 
have your gun stolen , use it yourself on a family member or 
have it used on you than you are to use it on an actual criminal .  . 

actually , they wo n't .  . what they 'll tell you is that if you add up the 
number of , murders of one drug by another , 
self of a spouse , and so on , you 'll end up with a 
number that is much larger than the number of self defense killings 
against strangers committed in the  .  ( btw they did n't 
honestly count the latter either , but let 's not quibble . ) . they 
try to claim that comparison is between the costs of self defense 
and the benefits , but they 're wrong. 

this comparison does n't measure the costs of self defense and it 
does n't measure the benefits either. for example , the goal is not to 
kill the , whatever your relationship to him , but to stop him. 
while the number of killings may be proportional to the number of 
stops , it is n't equal .  . 

anyone who that comparison with an honest evaluation 
is either lying or .  .  .  .  . 

andy 


nntp posting host no . 
from thomas 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
in reply to  ( dan sorenson ) 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 
07 24 55 gmt 
organization dept. of , university of , norway 



lines 72 
originator 


gun 
if you are a member you can borrow weapons .  .  .  . ) 
you are supposed to train with a  . 22 . for the 6 months , then 
you can start with anything bigger .  . 

drivers 
forgot that usa is the land of cars .  .  .  .  .  . 
getting one in  ( and northern europe ) is not easy .  . 
average time is about 20 hours of training , and the cost is rather .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
but we think this is acceptable because a car is not a , and 
bad drivers tend to hurt others. 
 ( if you are really bad , you won t get a ! ) 

abuse by the 
this seems to be one of the main problems any harder gun control 
would just be by the ( . ! ) 
either some of you are a little  ( no  .  . ) . or you should 
get a new  .  ( you do have elections ) 

guns  n criminals 
most weapons used by criminals today are stolen .  . 
known criminals can not buy weapons , that 's one of the points of gun control. 
and because gun control are strict in whole  ( and most of europe ) , 
we dont have any problem with guns .  . 

mixing weapons and things that can be use as one 
what i meant was that cars can kill , but they are not guns ! 
someone said that if we  ban  guns we 'd have to ban cars to , because they  kill  to .  .  .  . 
i do n't think we should argue on this one .  .  .  .  .  . ) 

the issue (i hope .  . ) . 
i think we all agree that the criminals are the main problem. 
guns are not a problem , but the way they are used is .  .  .  .  .  ( and what are they for ) 

i think this is interesting when you think of  ( ex)jugoslavia ) 
they should all have weapons , it 's their to have them , and if they use them 
to kill other  ( innocent ) people the problem is humans , not guns .  . 

if 50 of all murders was done with axes , would you impose some on them 
or just say that they are to be used at trees , and that the axe is not a problem , 
it 's the   
 ( an example , do n't flame me just because not exactly 50 are killed by guns .  .  . ) . 

think about the situation in los where people are buying guns to protect 
themselves. is this a good situation is it the way to deal with the problem 

if everybody buys guns to protect themselves from criminals  ( and their neighbor who have 
guns ) what do you think will happen (i mean if everybody had a gun in usa) 

do n't flame the because of northern , they have gun control that works 
 ( in england ) and from usa are one of the reasons why ira can bomb innocents .  .  .  . 
 ( something about throwing stones in glass houses .  .  . ) . 
do n't flame them because of what to  ( three ) children did either. 
 ( can an have an on guns or even peace )  ( yes ! ) 

 ( my numbers about crime after restrictions on shot guns are from the police 
and the sentralbyraa )  ( understood that one ) 

last word 
responsible gun owners are not a problem , but they will be affected if you want to protect 
your  . 



this is not a  . signature .  . 
it 's merely a text to waste bandwith 
and to bring down the evil internet .  . 


thomas 


from  ( bill meyers ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
organization n i 
lines 16 

in article  ( stephen graham ) writes 
... 
it 's worth that us vs. miller miller 's conviction 
of of an illegal , that a off 
was not a proper weapon .  . therefore , us vs. miller supports 
limited government of  . 

then it also supports basing such on ignorance .  . 

miller had disappeared , and nobody bothered to present his 
side to the supreme court in particular , that off 
were used in the world war i , and in other 
ever since guns had been invented .  . would you 
turn one down if you had to clean an in e. st. 

vegetarians kill , too 

from  ( bill mallon ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
reply to  ( bill mallon ) 
organization , inc. , , ny 
lines 18 

in article 
, writes 

surrender your  . soon enough , 
officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. they 

will you one at a time. 

are you certain you did n't mean to post 
to alt . french . 

you 'd better rush home .  .  . i . hear 
calling come to papa , ! 

i am , ma am , to construct a memory 
, using and  . 
humble 

from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 66 

in article writes 
you are  . 

what 's 

of those who vote , your cause is considered an  . no matter 
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the  . 

i vote .  . i do n't consider an  . 

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton , your 
will be null and  . tough  . 

i'm sure would be to hear your and 
raving .  . however , clinton has not publically stated that he would 
like to the second amendment .  . tough to you. 

you had better discover ways to make do without  . the number of 
cases of abuses has your cause. there is nothing you 
can do about it. those who live by the sword shall die by it. 

are we going to make do without like the people in new york city 
you know new york city that gun ban utopia you dream about , with 
the millions of new york city , by the way , 
has a very high crime rate .  . 

perhaps you should know about a 's  . 
here in , the police give carry to anyone 
over 21 without a criminal record .  . there are no 
such as , waiting periods , gun a month , or  . and 
of horrors ! you do n't even need a to carry a 
weapon while outside of city limits  ( although you do need a 
for carry in an  . 

i feel a hell of a lot safer in than i would in your gun ban 
dream state (e . g .  . , washington , d . c . ) .  . 

the press is against you , the public  ( the voting public ) is against 
you , the of history is against you ... this is it ! 

the voting public in is pro gun. both 
are a rated ! buy a clue ,  . 

surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. they will you one at a time. 
your will not help you. they will consider you more if an 
immediate threat than the abstract  . 

get out your and buy another clue .  . there are millions upon 
millions of pre (i . e .  . , non 4473'ed ) out there. 
they have a half life eternity .  . and is not 
exactly by the feds .  . 

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the  . violent solutions 
are  . avoid situations which encourage criminals .  . then you will 
be as safe as possible. such as it is ... 

gun control laws were passed to protect the from blacks ! 




brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 138 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
in article  ( jim de 
arras ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
in article 

 ( andrew betz ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their 
hands up while national tv watch .  . 

watch from where two away far enough away that whatever 
really must be explained through the filter of 
a agency that said  ( quote ! ) enough is enough. 

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people 
come out with their hands up several weeks ago. 

it did n't happen. 

and who is responsible for it not happening 
certainly not the children. koresh was calling the shots .  . he was 
talking with his lawyer and the fbi .  . since others were released safely , 
there is no sane reason for keeping the children inside the compound .  . 


the fbi and koresh were calling the shots .  . and there were very sane reasons 
for keeping the children , if they let them go , the parents would never see them 
again. that is not an easy choice , in spite of you cold attitude about it. 

scenario that is simplest and most plausible .  . i do not generally 
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely 
 . 

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating 
that was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly 
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government. 

more than someone who would not release children from the compound .  . 

obviously. you are an authority  . 

not at all. are you a koresh 

i am a constitution  . you quite obviously eat anything the 
authorities feed you , without doubt , which makes you no different that a koresh 



i.e. , more than david koresh jesus christ . 
i saw lengthy excerpts from an australian documentary made in 
1992 that clearly showed that this was a cult .  . 

give me a camera , and time with you , and i can present excerpts that show 
you 
to be a cult leader.  . 

thanks for my laugh of the day ! definitely a very silly  . 

if you do not believe this , you are truly naive .  . it is not only possible , it 
is easy .  . i worked in the profession , at a network station , in the 
late , i know what i'm saying here. footage is easy to get , add 
a little music , and the right voice over , and i 'll have you mother 
to commit you. 

you should at least view the whole 
documentary before you claim it as a source. 

i would if i could. the news show that showed the lengthy excerpts also 
had with the who made the documentary who basically 
confirmed what was shown in the excerpts from the time he spent at the 
compound in 1992 .  . 

the news shows were looking for excerpts which backed their position. do you 
think they would show excerpts which disproved their points 

i am not pleased with the handling of the affair .  . i think they 
bungled it from the start. but i do n't think they are 
responsible for the fire , which started in two different places. 

two places , eh you saw this or did the wonderful fbi tell you this 
i saw one place. 

i believe that this was reported by local radio reporters on site. 
a fire started in a three story at the same time as the two 
story shown on the tv  . 

the reports of starts came solely from the fbi .  . anyone observing the 
fire from the available video would be hard pressed to see more than one point 
of fire .  . which spread across the compound as a uniform rate .  . 

the is by no means of fault in the handling of this affair .  . 
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is 
ludicrous .  . 

i suspect that there were plenty of willing to 
risk small fire to get some good footage .  . these people 
were told to get the hell out of camera range .  . why 

could n't answer this one , eh this is the most important question of all , 
it 
is the root cause of all the other suspicion .  . 

i thought about mentioning how reagan and the military treated the press 
in grenada and how that set the precedent , but decided it was n't worthy 
of discussion. if the news reporter got shot , you can bet his family 
would the government for letting him into the danger area. 

no reported has ever the government for such a situation. they know the 
 . remember , the invited the initial  . and how about a 
simple , remote controlled , camera or two there were ways to provide media 
access. the fbi obviously just did n't want any. 


the root cause of suspicion in my mind is why 100 people would n't flee 
a building that had numerous during the 30 time it took 
to burn down. or why did n't they flee hours earlier when the tear gas was 
first introduced i can find no rational explanation for their behavior. 

i can find several .  . tear gas and making it impossible to remove the 
 . flames blocking to the  . perhaps the gun shots were 
from the fbi , keeping them in who knows 




jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re the usual 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 

in article  ( dan sorenson ) writes 
yes , i am pro gun , and yes , i do disagree with this statement. 
nuclear weapons in and of themselves are dangerous. 
of and , as well as the in the 
weapon , tends to be somewhat dangerous to living things. 
 ( can you say ) 

can you say , i get more background radiation from living in 
denver or having an office in a building than i do standing 
next to a power reactor at full power or standing next to a nuclear 
that is armed look up in your dictionary .  . you 
do n't need feet of lead to make decent your dead 
cell does an excellent job on particles , and 
are by mere water . what do you think 75 of you is 

but whatever the hit has a good chance of the 
and becoming itself. mostly , that means water 
turning into  ( harmless ) heavy water .  . but some would 
also hit bones , and the resulting , 
would remain in the body for decades .  . i think an nuclear 
could reasonably be considered a public health hazard .  . 

as for a , i think a fair amount of 
is required for it to remain safely (e . g .  . in 
a , , etc .  .  . ) . for private 
ownership to be , i think a single individual must 
be able not only to keep the weapon , but keep it in a safe 
condition. if any random private citizen could not properly 
keep , maintain and a nuclear weapon , then some 
is clearly appropriate. 

plus these things have no self 
defense purposes. it 's kinda hard to justify their use as 
a weapon when at best they are meant for use 
 ( low weapons ) or at worst for industrial target 
 ( translation cities and population  . 

if the has as its job the of an illegal 
government , they are indeed useful weapons to the  . 

i disagree with this purpose the job of the is to defend 
themselves and their community. if you look at the american 
revolution as an example , the won by themselves 
from , and becoming independent of , a government. they 
did n't it , and those communities  ( canada and england , for 
example) that did n't defend themselves were still under that same 
old regime .  . if the role of the were offensive , to go out and 
destroy governments , nuclear weapons might be appropriate. 
but their jobs is , and nuclear weapons are n't suited 
for that. 

there is also the question of personal and collective the 
second amendment definately ownership of personal 
weapons  ( since the very nature of the requires members 
to provide their own ) . but it is n't clear if it covers 
other  . certainly , not all members would supply  ( for example) 
a , only a few could or  ( if they were to be used effectively ) 
should .  . however , those providing the heavy weapons have a 
control over the and its  . 
the , as the them , were extremely 
democratic if only 50 of the members supported the cause , only 
50 would respond to a , and the 's would 
be proportionately reduced .  . and the popular 
will were , therefore , linked .  . but if a small minority of the 
members a large of the  ( in the 
form of heavy weapons ) this would all change the 's 
would depend on the will of a small minority , not 
of the general public. worse , that minority would be quite 
different from the general public  ( at the very least , they 
would be much ) . as a result , i think the nature and 
character of the requires that each member provide 
a roughly equal share of the 's his personal 
weapons , and some of a squad 's  . 

frank 
boulder 


from  ( jason kratz ) 
subject re criminals 
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign 
distribution usa 
lines 52 

in stanford . edu .  ( andy freeman ) writes 

in article jason writes 
people are getting killed by violence every day every single day i hear 
about more people getting killed by violence and see some of the weapons 
that are being  . 

is claiming that he can distinguish an m 16 
from an ar 15 that he can see the difference between a semi and 
a full that he can see the difference between the various 
versions  ( some full , some semi only ) of the m 11 9 

well , let me see. , no. m 11 9 , no. m 16 ar 15 , maybe. i remember there 
being a on the ar 15 .  . if i remember correctly  ( please correct 
me if i'm wrong) the switch would set to an off position or an on position 
because the gun  ( ar 15 ) is semi automatic .  . would n't the m 16 have a position 
for semi fire and full fire  ( or maybe 3 round bursts ) if this is 
correct would n't it be easy to distinguish each gun by this alone of course 
if the ar 15 were modified to full fire i would n't think it would be that 
easy but i'm talking about between an ar 15 and m 16. 
how about the other guns do they also have switch to switch between 
semi and fully fire 

if so , i 'd love to hear the details , if only because they 'll demonstrate 
that is blowing  . 

considering that one can design a gun so that it looks just like 
another gun , yet have very different properties , and that that 's 
quite common .  .  .  .  . 

most kids in my neighborhood were quite young when they out 
that my parents car was n't much like richard petty 's , even though it 
looked just like it  ( except for the  . things must have been 
different with  . 

actually it was pretty hard for the kids in my neighborhood to figure that out 
as richard petty lived in my neighborhood and left his stock car in the 
 . ) 

sure it 's on tv but why does that make a difference 

no , it does n't , but that 's irrelevant .  . if inspection of the 
outside worked , tv would be acceptable , but since it does n't , the fact 
that it 's just as good as seeing in person does n't mean much. 

well , what about what i said above if that is correct i guess tv would be 
acceptable  ( if you had a good enough picture and a picture of the lower 
receiver of the ar 15 m  . 

andy gave a chance to back down on this in private 

jason did n't take andy 's offer to back down in private 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
lines 67 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article  ( paul e. reimer ) writes 

in article ,  ( marciano pitargue ) writes 

stuff deleted about causes of people in er 

and your about shooting victims in the er .  . count how many come in 
due to automobile accidents and automobile crimes .  . maybe we should outlaw 
cars .  . 


there are a lot of automobile accidents , but there is some 
to try to combat this. when i got my drivers license , i had 
to take a drivers safety class .  . 

, at least , does not require any sort of safety class to 
get a 's license .  . all that is required is one twenty question 
quiz and to drive a car around the block without  . 

i have to be to drive .  . 

in all probability , no you do n't .  . you are required to be 
to drive on public roads .  . a license is not necessary on private property .  . 

my car 
must be  . 

most states do not require the of cars that are 
not used on public roads .  . those that do  ( california i know of ) do 
so for tax purposes more than anything else. 

i must  ( at least where i live ) have 
on both myself driving and my car  ( if someone else had an 
accident with it) .  . 

many states do not currently require this , and most , again , 
only make this requirement for public roads .  . a car sitting unused 
is not required to have  . 

hmm , would n't classes , 
of both the owner and gun , and be nice for 
gun owners .  . 

the two are not the same , as i pointed out above. there are 
significant difference between making rules for use on public property 
and making rules for ownership . 

the other half of the objection is trust .  . similar things to this 
have been tried in many local across the country , and 
have been in far too many cases. safety classes which are 
never , never funded , or only one or two is held a year for 
a limited number of participants .  . lists in new york , 
chicago , and california have been used for  . many gun 
owners would , in theory , support these  .  ( although the 
numbers show that is not the problem , that 
intentional misuse is) .  . they 've simply seen it and are of 
the next person who comes down the with a reasonable suggestion 
they 've already seen  . 





david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( strider ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

writes 
you are  . 

well , i 'll avoid the flames and see if this person 
can make up for it. 


there is no question about it. 

oh , there 's lots of question about it. people are becoming more aware each 
day that their rights are being threatened , so much so that membership 
is growing at the rate of nearly 2 , 000 per day . we are 
our voice , despite the , , and veiled motives of 
the liberal media and anti gun politicians .  . we will win .  . 

of those who vote , your cause is considered an  . no matter 
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the  . 

what do you base this on some highly skewed conducted by nbc news 
the same group who faked just to make news right. 

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton , your 
will be null and  . tough  . 

it is true that we face even greater obstacles to our rights , betrayed by 
those lying politicians who swear an oath to protect the constitution from 
all enemies , both foreign and domestic .  . but the people will take only so 
many lies and  . 

you had better discover ways to make do without  . the number of 
cases of abuses has your cause. there is nothing you 
can do about it. those who live by the sword shall die by it. 

then the criminals who live by murder shall die by it. honest , law 
citizens need have no fear on that count. you , however , will evidently 
die by  ( or at least in ) ignorance .  . and the number of self 
shall out our ultimate victory .  . 

the press is against you , the public  ( the voting public ) is against 
you , the of history is against you ... this is it ! 

the of history was against the founding fathers , but they managed to 
successfully form the first real free on the face of this planet , 
a that has become the model for all others to follow. the press 
is against us , for its own selfish motivations .  . and the people will soon 
realize the depths of deceit being spread by that media , and its 
ill directed power. the people are with us. 

surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. they will you one at a time. 
your will not help you. they will consider you more if an 
immediate threat than the abstract  . 

i shall never submit to an illegal , police state. i will 
take my own to uphold the constitution , and i shall defend it and my 
country against a tyrannical government gone mad , should it become 
necessary. 

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the  . violent solutions 
are  . avoid situations which encourage criminals .  . then you will 
be as safe as possible. such as it is ... 

i will not be your , and i shall not bow down to you or 
anyone else who seeks to control my life. being an unarmed target is the 
way of encouraging criminals , and believe me , i shall avoid it as 
much as possible. then i shall be as safe as possible. i will answer 
with violence only when no other option exists , but i shall surely answer. 

mike 




this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

from  ( steve manes ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
organization and , 
distribution na 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 44 

jim de wrote 
in article  ( steve 
manes ) writes 
... 
i do n't know how anyone can state that gun control could have no 
effect on rates. there were over 250 accidental 
in america in 1990 , most with weapons .  . more 
american children accidentally shot other children last year  ( 15 ) 
than all the in great britain .  .  ( source national 
safety council .  . please .  .  .  . no dictionary arguments about vs 
total numbers , okay they 're offered for emphasis , not  . 


you 're a great  . you chose your sources of information , claim them 
to be superior , 

i 've made no such claim .  . please direct my attention towards any 
posting of mine where i claimed superior sources of information. 
it 's probably because i bothered to post any references at all while 
others seem content to post numbers from the , that 
you 've confused it with fact  . if so , i apologize .  . 

then take those twisted numbers and twist them further by trying 

well then , here 's fair opportunity for you to prove that i 've twisted 
numbers. on what grounds do you contradict those references do you have 
any  .  .  . any sources of your own that i can take similar 
shots at 

to compare absolute numbers between two countries that have major population 
differences , the usa and gb , and then that you are afraid someone might 
attack your process , and so claim the numbers are for emphasis , not 
comparison emphasis of what 

and is a style , jim .  . 

anything else is blowing  . 

you ,  . 


stephen 
and new york , ny , usa o o 


from  ( steven b syck ) 
subject wi and il law questions 
organization university of wisconsin , milwaukee 
lines 39 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 9 . 13 . 



a couple of questions for you law out there 

question 1 

according to the state , in wisconsin it is 
 for any person except a peace to go armed with a 
and dangerous weapon .  . there is no for 
obtaining a or to carry a weapon . ' . 

jury instructions indicate that  to go armed  one must have a 
on one 's person or within his immediate control and available for use. 



does this mean that open carry is allowed if so , just how  open  does it 
have to be would an in the pants be considered what 
if one had their on and it covered the weapon also , 
is there any way to be allowed to carry , or is it just not allowed , 
period 

question 2 

as i understand it , in , il , they have a banning  . 
is there any way to get around this what would the penalty if 
you were found out be what if you used said in a shooting 
in your apartment there how would the city law apply to your 
trial for the shooting 
also , what is il state law concerning short weapons short 
is what i would be interested in if a were not available , 
either that or a  ( ie colt ,  . 
one more thing , what is the chance of getting a in il without being 
rich or famous or related to the 

please send replies via e mail , as things seem to be up around t . p . g . 
a little than i can handle .  . thanks again 
steve 


from  ( steve manes ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
organization and , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 24 

j. wrote 
 ( steve manes ) writes 

jim de wrote 
last year the us suffered almost 10 , 000 wrongful or accidental 
deaths by alone  ( fbi  . in the same year , the uk 
suffered 35 such deaths  ( scotland  . the population 
of the uk is about 1 5 that of the us  ( 10 , 000  ( 35  . 
for population , the us has as many related deaths as the 
uk .  . and , no , the do n't make up for this by murdering as 
many people with baseball  . 

snip 

if you examine the , they do. is favourite , closely 
followed by , , kicking .  . many more people are to 
death in britain as are shot to death. take at look and you 'll see for 
yourself. 

it means that very few people are shot to death in great britain .  . 

stephen 
and new york , ny , usa o o 


from  ( geoff miller ) 
subject re ban all ! 
organization australian defence force , canberra , australia 
lines 18 

writes 

tend to fall into this low dollar area. 
it would not be economic to them in. all 
would have to be local .  . there are not all that many people 
who have both the and motivation to worthwhile 
from  . high crime could 
obtain and such , but the average person , and 
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would 
pay through the nose for it. 

so why did the australian service make a public statement to 
a last year that weapons was a problem 
which it was not able to control possibly criminals do n't have your 
grasp of economics 

geoff miller  ( g 
computer centre , australian defence force 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re of 18 u . s . c .  ( 922(o ) 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 53 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( brian sheets ) writes 
you know , i was reading 18 u . s . c .  . and something just did not make 
and i was wondering if someone could help me out. 

say u . s . c .  . 

(1) except as provided in paragraph (2) , it shall be for 
any person to or a  . 

well i got to looking in my law dictionary and i found that a person 
might also be an artificial entity that is created by government 

and has no rights under the federal constitution .  . so , what i 
do n't understand is how a like can be enforced on 
an individual .  . so someone tell me how my government can tell 
me what i can or cannot  . just passing a law 

does not make it law. 

sorry , but i really ca n't figure out what you 're trying to say , above. 

everyone knows that laws are 
until it goes to court. 

not exactly 

an act is not law it no rights it 
no duties no protection it creates no office it is in legal 
, as as though it had never been passed .  . 
vs. , us p . 

the general rule is that an , though having the 
form and name of law , is in reality no law , but is wholly , and 
ineffective for any purpose since dates from the 
time of it 's , and not merely from the date of the decision so 
it. 

no on is bound to obey an law , and no courts are 
bound to enforce it. 
16 am , 
late , 256 

so , has it ever gone to court , not 
just your run of the mill ok i had it i am guilty , put me in jail 
has anyone ever claimed that they had a right to and was told 
by the supreme court that they did n't have that right 

automatic weapons no. the supreme court has never heard such a case. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( chuck harris wa3uqv ) 
subject re riddle me this .  .  .  . 
organization university of maryland , department of electrical engineering 
lines 15 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host eng . umd . edu . 

in article  ( fuller m ) writes 
does a not harmful gassing mean that you can , with a little , 
stay inside indefinitely without suffering any serious health problems 

if so , why was cs often employed against in vietnam 

what is the difference , anyway 

cs tear gas was used in vietnam because it makes you so hard that 
your stomach comes out thru your throat. well , not quite that bad , but 
you ca n't really do much to defend yourself while you are blowing cookies. 

harris 



from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 53 

in article  ( charles scripter ) writes 
in article 
 ( john lawrence rutledge ) wrote 

... excellent exchange deleted ... 
it seems to me the whole reason for the second amendment , to give 
the people protection from the us government by that the 
people can over through the government if necessary , is a little bit 
of an is this day and age. maybe its time to re think 
how this should be done and amend the constitution  . 

abraham lincoln , first address , march 4 , this 
country , with its , belongs to the people who 
it. whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government , 
they can exercise their constitutional right of it , or 
their right to it or it. 

 . of , spoken during debate 
over the second amendment , i of congress at 750 , 17 august 
what , sir , is the use of a it is to prevent the 
of a standing army , the bane of liberty .  . ... 
whenever governments mean to invade the rights and liberties of 
the people , they always attempt to destroy the , in order 
to raise an army upon their ruins .  . 

so now we know which category mr. is in he means to destroy 
our liberties and rights. 

what i find so hard to understand is how come some people , 
not connected with government or otherwise , will 
go to great lengths , redefinitions , re interpretations , in a full bore 
attempt to away the protection of their own rights under the 
constitution ! ! ! 

almost makes me think of running into the sea during a 
year .  .  .  . 

i really wonder that jefferson and madison would say to these folks 


 .  .  . when . all government .  .  .  . in little as in great things , shall be 
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render 
powerless the provided of one government on another and will 
become as and as the government from which we 
separated .  . thomas jefferson , 

excellent quote. 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( robert sipe ) 
subject murrey 's tax proposal 
organization 
lines 19 

if you have n't heard yet , us murrey , a mom in 
shoes , is planning to introduce legislation to tax 
all and increase costs in 
order to raise money to cover the costs of un shooting 
 . she plans to start with 00 . per year 
and 40 . 00 . or so , depending on the type of , per gun 
 . she plans to make it federal .  . 
she was elected in washington state under the trade mark as 
just a mom in shoes .  . she can be written to via the 
united states senate ,  . she is looking for your 
shoes .  . so if you have a pair please send them to her 
with your feelings regarding this tax .  . 
she claims she has heard little from the opposition .  . 

lets her ! 



bigot ! the definition of a bigot is a conservative an argument ! 

from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re that silly outdated bill  ( was re koresh and miranda ) 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 9 

in article ,  ( larry cipriani ) writes 
as for the move incident , was n't the of philadelphia at the time black 

for the first move incident  ( no bomb , several members killed in 
, 1978 ) the was the very white frank  . 
for the second  ( bomb included ) the was , who 
is indeed black .  . 

jim halat 

from  ( young yoon ) 
subject re a of road , please 
keywords , 
nntp posting host aix . edu . 
lines 62 

(c .  . d. tavares ) writes 

your posting for the day , from rec . humor . funny . 

in article ,  ( pete bellas ) writes 

there is a new ice cream flavor inspired by the incident at  . 

it 's called mount , it 's full of nuts but you ca n't get it out 
of the  . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


even though i find this to be funny on the surface , the original poster of the 
joke has tried and convicted the members of the to be a bunch of nuts . 
this may be a dangerous thing to do. it is my opinion that most 
or well informed people of this country have some distrust of the government. 
this should exist because as a , any government given enough time 
will tend to exist for it self and not for the original purpose it was 
created for. this distrust by the people should keep those in power in line. 
that and a properly press. when a oriented press 
a group of people as nuts or crazies , a violation of those 
people 's civil rights seem justified .  . since we , as american 's , have the 
of rights as in the constitution , to include the 
2nd , the government must the public 's opinion or risk 
voted out of existance , or if it has become corrupt enough to with 
process itself , being thrown out by force. 
our government as it stands , must the public. therefore the 
official press the 's as fanatics who are a threat to 
public safety .  . we must not people based on one information. 
so far the only information that we are being given is from the very 
agency that was by the  ( bd(branch sp ) .  . it is to their 
advantage to make the 's as and dangerous as possible. if they 
were as law citizen 's , then  ( they(atf ) had no justification 
what so ever of doing what they did. 
so let 's keep an open mind. like above , even though it may be funny , 
may the public from the truth of the matter. 

just as an aside , my understanding of u.s. vs island and u.s. vs 
leads me to believe that the national act , which allows the fed 's 
 ( in this case atf ) to  ( firearms(machine guns ) , has been deemed to be 
since 1986 . two federal district courts at  . 
and since , i believe the only reason atf was involved 
in this case is because of , it would be interesting to 
find out whether or not the search was based on the  . 
it would be very embarrassing indeed if a search based on a possibly 
law has resulted in 4  ( deaths(law  . 



the above opinions are mine and mine only .  . 
i'm solely responsible for my opinions and my actions .  . if you must flame 
then flame away , but a well constructed argument will be much more respected .  . 

young 
north hall 
polytechnic institute 2  ( hl9kmt(former ) 
, ny 


from  ( wayne j. warf ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
nntp posting host silver . edu . 
organization university 
lines 46 

in article  ( bill green ) writes 
just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported  ( ap , etc . ) . that 
there were several witnesses to folks starting the  . it has also 
been reported that the broke out in several places at once , which 
rules out a knocking over a , etc. as the cause. 

the only folks claiming this are the atf fbi who have an interest in 
putting the blame on the 's .  . wake up. 


what i would like to see is some serious discussion of this incident .  . i 
believe the made were right and proper , but i still have some problems 
with some of the  . after watching the abc special on it , as 
well as and , i question some of the atf and fbi actions .  . 

right and proper how it was from day 1. 

1 ) could it have been possible to have taken koresh outside the compound at 
some time before the feb .  . 

from all independent sources. yes. 

2 ) could a further wait have resulted in a different outcome .  . 

it would have hurt nothing to wait and the result could hardly have been 
worse. 

3) were fbi actions  ( blaring , etc . ) . the right course of action 

sure , it you want to someone you claim is a dangerous even 
more  . 

and a few other questions. like i said , i believe the actions taken , in 
general , were proper .  . but i still have some  . 

one other point , i'm no fan of janet , but i do like the way she had the 
to go ahead and take full responsibility .  . seems like the boy 
had problems out just where he stood on the issue. 

and what makes you think that boy did n't tell her to take the 
 . it was job preservation not . 

wayne j. i speak for myself only 
clinton fbi bomb atf resist 
christian god satan nazi communist explosive 
fundamentalist revolution federal reserve constitution gold 

from  ( tom smith ) 
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal 
nntp posting host cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 34 

in article  ( frank crary ) writes 
in article  ( david slack ) writes 
the idea of the card is bull in and of its self , but i'm curious to know , do 
they plan on making it a requirement to always have it on you , or is it 
only going to be required to be presented when trying to medical aid 

this , at least , has already been determined the blue cross medical 
for all federal employees is a good model for a future 
national system. to get emergency medical care , anyone so 
must always carry their blue cross card .  . before entering a hospital , 
you must blue cross , or they will refuse to pay your  . 
in an emergency , where you must be treated before them , 
you must them within 24 hours or  ( if you are unable to do 
so for medical reasons ) the hospital must. failing to do so within 
24 hours means they will not cover the  . in you need 
your card to them  ( and without the card , the hospital certainly 
would n't know they had to . ) . therefore , you are required to carry 
the card at all times , or do without emergency medical  . 

frank 
boulder 

which works fine until you end up in the hospital because you were hit on the 
head and your , with your card , is stolen .  . this happened to 
me , and it took months to sort the mess out. these sorts of plans sound 
nice at first , but in the end they just create a lot of paperwork and 
to deal with all the checking and filing they involve .  . 

tom the non hacker 

the return address is set wrong , send personal 
response to the above address. 



from  ( young yoon ) 
subject re has gone a bit too far 
nntp posting host aix . edu . 
distribution usa 
lines 29 

 ( morris the cat ) writes 


would somebody please post evidence that the gun control act of 
is a transcription of a nazi law 

the evidence is that the two laws are basically identical .  . 
however , that 's not evidence that one is a copy of the other. 

there 's no evidence that the 's authors used the nazi law as a 
guide .  . yes , they ended up with roughly the same thing , but that comes 
from their shared goal , those menacing minorities .  . 

i thought the same thing too , until 's article 
in the latest guns 
at the  . this article makes it certain that  . thomas 
 ( d md ) back before definitely asked for a translation of the 
german weapons laws back then. read the article , and see what you think 
of 's argument. they note that and john are 
among the three of the originals left from the stuff , and they 
are asking that folks request of john that he introduce 
legislation to lift  , something which i would support whole 
! 

andy 

can someone post a general idea of what  does 
thanks. 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 

lines 

in article , 
 ( david veal ) says 

stuff deleted 

me 
what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of 
 . in my post i was referring to your regular in a car 
around the city vs. members .  . of course the police have access 
to the things that you mentioned but do they use and such all of the 
time of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every 
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i 
see are still carrying  . not that there is anything wrong with a 
but if you 're a cop that is up against some member with a 
couple 
of in his coat (i mean semi handguns ) you 're going to be at a 
even with training .  . 

david 

this is the race fallacy .  . that somehow bigger guns make an 
individual safer .  . the problem is that for each level of 
offensive power the is not an automatic level of defense increase .  . the 
problem is that there 's a sort of that once you get 
past you 're only talking about a of degree. 

regardless of what cops are up against there 's really no reason 
for the average cop to have anything bigger than a on him 
as a personal weapon and maybe a rifle and a in the  . 

i mean , think about it. carrying a or sub 
does n't make the cop any less if somebody him. a lot 
of police have switched to semi , as better 
more reliable weapons , and more stopping power , but there 's a point 
of returns .  . 

this is a very , very good point. who cares what kind of gun you 've got if 
you 're lying on the ground dead. 

and as far as go , any member carrying around a 
couple of  ( an incredible rarity ) is going to be far more of 
a to himself and innocent than anything he might be 
to aim at. one is hard enough to control. anybody who 
could control two is going to get the police regardless of 
what the police is armed with. 

more stuff deleted. mostly mine 
my question is this what would a police gain from 
having a sub or similar personal weapon that he already 
does n't have with a or semi automatic i do n't see 
as how the police should be around full fire , nor has 
my experience with police officers  ( or the regarding how many 
police officers get killed by other cops ) made me feel such would be a 
good idea. precise fire is far more preferable .  . nor should they using 
bigger guns .  . most standard have more then sufficient 
stopping power when properly applied .  . all more powerful weapons would 
do is make the likelihood of death higher without really giving police 
more options .  . 

another very good point that is well taken .  . it seems that when lots of lead 
is flying  ( either the cops or the gangs ) someone innocent always gets caught 
in the crossfire .  . 

david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

all points made above are well taken .  . i guess i am in the of 
having more makes it better which is obviously not the correct 
to take in this discussion. now that i think about the situation a 
little more carefully i see your point exactly david and i 
(sp ) agree. like i said i'm just assuming that more 
and or bigger is better . once again though i want to 
state that i am a pro gun individual and do not believe that gun control 
is really a viable option here in the united states regardless of the drivel 
that i here ) 

jason 

from (a t furman ) 
subject re the cold war who really won 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
lines 51 

if one reasons that the united states of america at one time represented 
and protected freedom individual liberty and personal responsibility 
 ( and i do , in fact , think that this is true ) and that 
absolute government control and tyranny represents freedom 's opposite 
 ( which it does ) , did the usa really win the cold war 

standard disclaimers always apply ! 


graham k. 


the cold war has not ended .  . the only thing that has happened is that 
the two sides have roles .  . 

the usa has a higher imprisonment rate  ( 400 per 100 , 000 population ) 
than any country in europe by a factor of 10 or so. in california , 
it is over 600 per 100 , 000 population .  . the prison population in 
california is now over 100 , 000 , a since  . most of 
these were convicted under the drug laws .  . police 
now property , without trial , under a good faith probable 
cause standard , in the name of the horrible drug 
of their ill gotten  . conduct an opinion , and a 
majority will answer yes if you ask them whether civil liberties and 
due process should be in order to send our young people the 
message that we are serious about the war on drugs .  . i do n't 
know whether anyone has measured such a figure among gun owners , but 
i would expect the same result. they certainly seem to vote that way. 

according to jack 's book the wears no clothes , over 
twelve million years of prison time have been served under the 
marijuana laws , by people who were their own 
business and causing no harm to others  ( and less harm to themselves 
than users of , with 400 , 000 confirmed kills  . under 
the war on drugs campaign of zero tolerance due process 
have , and mandatory sentences of ten years without parole have 
 . by and large , gun owners have voted for the politicians 
who favor such measures .  . and now , all the not only 
legal , but political my fellow americans , we must send our young 
people the message that we are serious about the war on 
murder are going to be applied to the wave of gun 
laws .  . gun owners are about to get a taste of the medicine 
they voted for believing it would be used only on those with different 
in drugs .  . 

what goes around comes around. 


t. do n't blame me i voted libertarian 

 ( 800)682 ) 1776 for more information 

from 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
reply to 
organization 
distribution na 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( steve manes ) writes 

for , take out your and work out the numbers. 
here .  .  .  . i 've them for you to make it easier 

population 

24 6 , , 000 
uk 8 55 , , 000 

.... and then tell me again how is safer with a more 
liberal law than the uk is without .  .  . by . rate or total number .  . 
your choice. 

please , pay attention .  . 
i , and others , were referring to total deaths , not just 
 . in terms of how likely are you to be killed , 
 ( regardless of how it 's done ,  cause dead is dead ) , the uk has a 
higher rate .  . period. you are more likely to be killed in the 
uk than in  . if you were to be murdered with a , 
then yes , has a higher rate .  . but , to the point , 
you are more likely to be murdered in the uk .  . in that sense , the 
weapon is irrelevant .  . the uk is more violent , period. 

al 
standard disclaimer 



from  ( charles scripter ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization help , my server 's fallen , and ca n't get up  ( mtu ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 

in article 
 ( john lawrence rutledge ) wrote 

in article 
 ( aaron ray clements ) writes 
the second amendment is a of the right to bear  . clearly 
and , without  . 

unfortunately the second amendment is not as clear as you state. if last 
part of it is taken along , it follows what you have said. the problem 
i have is with the first part of the single sentence which makes up the 
amendment .  . the second amendment is 

a well , being necessary to the security 


of a free state , the right of the people to keep and bear 
state 

, shall not be  . 


you did n't even get the correct ! try reading on 
the constitution , or get any other correct version of the 
constitution .  . 

this mention of a well is what me. according 
to the paper 's , a well has a well defined 
structure and follows nationally uniform  . 

perhaps you should actually read the papers ! ! 

james madison , paper 46 besides the advantage of 
being armed , which the americans over the people of almost 
every other nation , the existence of governments , to 
which the people are attached , and by which the officers 
are , forms a against the of 
ambition , more than any which a simple government 
of any form can admit of. the military 
establishments in the several of europe , which are 
carried as far as the public resources will bear , the governments 
are afraid to trust the people with  . 


james madison , i of congress , 8 june the right 
of the people to keep and bear .  .  .  . shall not be  . a 
well , of the body of the people , 

trained to , is the best and most natural defense of a free 
country .  .  .  . 

, paper 29  ( on the organization of 
the militia ) little more can reasonably be aimed at , with 
respect to the people at large , than to have them properly armed 

and and in order to see that this be not , it 
will be necessary to them once or twice in the course of 
a year .  . 

, paper 29  ( speaking of standing 
armies ) ... if circumstances should at any time the 
government to form an army of any magnitude that army can never be 
to the liberties of the people while there is a large 
body of citizens , little , if at all , inferior to them in 

discipline and the use of , who stand ready to defend their 

own rights and those of their fellow citizens .  . 


but surely and madison did n't mean the people when they 
said people , right that 's why the amendment refers to the right 
of the ... ) 

your average 
17 45 year old male does not fall into the definition .  . 

you 're right , the consists of all able males  ( and 
probably under current  . 

therefore most 
members of the , the one the every gun advocate refers to , are 
not members of a well organized and therefore are not directly 

the amendment does nor refer to well organized , it says well 
. i have some targets you may examine if you wish to check 
how well i am .  . 

mentioned in the amendment .  . 

if this amendment wanted to allow every member of the to keep 
and bear , why did it mention a well organized 
in the same sentence as the right to keep and bear 

correct. that 's why the right is to the people. and that 
was to the people could form a well , not a 
well organized . 

it could be 
argued that the first part of the sentence is separate from the last 
part. if so , why was it include in the same atomic of written 

what do atomic units have to do with this argument any can set 
h bar c 1 .  .  .  . 

instead of a separate sentence 

oh , i see what your question is why do n't you read the 
papers ! 

james madison , paper 41  ( regarding the general 
welfare clause ) nothing is more natural nor common than first 
to use a general phrase , and then to explain and qualify it by a 
of particulars .  . 

but what does madison know about the style of the 2nd he 
only wrote it. 

the amendment also implies that the right to has to due with 
the security of a free state. the paper 's mention of a 
well gives many examples of how this 
the security of a free state. all these examples are actions of a 
very organized force , not some john q .  . public with a gun. 

that 's obviously because you 've never actually read the 
papers .  . 

all that the second amendment clearly states to me is that the people 's 
right to form well shall not be  . that is 
people have the right to join a well organized  . this well 
organized will , of course , provide training in how to use 
and in basic military  . these training members of the 
can keep and bear the  . 

ca n't read , huh show me where the document says well organized 
. 

lastly , reading through the paper 's on well organized 
it is very clear that many of the reasons for these  . 
one reason stated is the protection from a standing army .  . these days 
the standing army could easily defeat a group consisting of every 
17 45 year old male and female not in the forces .  . 

that is exactly why every person should be allowed to own any 
weapon currently in use in the armed forces .  . 

another 
reason stated for well organized is to reduced the need 
for a standing army .  . well , the us forces have been a standing 
army for more than half the history of the us. 

but the major reason is to protect against that very same army .  . 

it seems to me the whole reason for the second amendment , to give 
the people protection from the us government by that the 
people can over through the government if necessary , is a little bit 
of an is this day and age. maybe its time to re think 
how this should be done and amend the constitution  . 

abraham lincoln , first address , march 4 , this 
country , with its , belongs to the people who 
it. whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government , 
they can exercise their constitutional right of it , or 
their right to it or it. 

 . of , spoken during debate 
over the second amendment , i of congress at 750 , 17 august 
what , sir , is the use of a it is to prevent the 
of a standing army , the bane of liberty .  . ... 
whenever governments mean to invade the rights and liberties of 
the people , they always attempt to destroy the , in order 
to raise an army upon their ruins .  . 

so now we know which category mr. is in he means to destroy 
our liberties and rights. 


charles 
dept of physics , michigan tech , , mi 

 .  .  . when . all government .  .  .  . in little as in great things , shall be 
drawn to washington as the centre of all power , it will render 
powerless the provided of one government on another and will 
become as and as the government from which we 
separated .  . thomas jefferson , 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 21 

in article  ( david slack ) writes 
the idea of the card is bull in and of its self , but i'm curious to know , do 
they plan on making it a requirement to always have it on you , or is it 
only going to be required to be presented when trying to medical aid 

this , at least , has already been determined the blue cross medical 
for all federal employees is a good model for a future 
national system. to get emergency medical care , anyone so 
must always carry their blue cross card .  . before entering a hospital , 
you must blue cross , or they will refuse to pay your  . 
in an emergency , where you must be treated before them , 
you must them within 24 hours or  ( if you are unable to do 
so for medical reasons ) the hospital must. failing to do so within 
24 hours means they will not cover the  . in you need 
your card to them  ( and without the card , the hospital certainly 
would n't know they had to . ) . therefore , you are required to carry 
the card at all times , or do without emergency medical  . 

frank 
boulder 


from  ( tn ) 
subject definition of 2nd 
organization university of 
lines 9 


the debate over the second amendment on. 
arguments continue over what a well 
is and what means in practical terms. however , the 
only authority in this area , is a binding court decision 
on the matter. even a decision in this area is subject to 
an by a higher court. is there anyone who 
has the facts of a legal precedent , a supreme 
court decision on the specific meaning of the 2nd amendment 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 70 
distribution na 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( steve 
manes ) writes 
jim de wrote 
in article  ( steve 
manes ) writes 
... 
i do n't know how anyone can state that gun control could have no 
effect on rates. there were over 250 accidental 
in america in 1990 , most with weapons .  . more 
american children accidentally shot other children last year  ( 15 ) 
than all the in great britain .  .  ( source national 
safety council .  . please .  .  .  . no dictionary arguments about vs 
total numbers , okay they 're offered for emphasis , not  . 


you 're a great  . you chose your sources of information , claim them 
to be superior .  . i'm not aware of using any numbers from the , unless 
you consider those i got from you to be such. 

i 've made no such claim .  . please direct my attention towards any 
posting of mine where i claimed superior sources of information. 
it 's probably because i bothered to post any references at all while 
others seem content to post numbers from the , that 
you 've confused it with fact  . if so , i apologize .  . 


yes , you state the reference , and then you claim it 's a good or fair treatment .  . 

then take those twisted numbers and twist them further by trying 

well then , here 's fair opportunity for you to prove that i 've twisted 
numbers. on what grounds do you contradict those references do you have 
any  .  .  . any sources of your own that i can take similar 
shots at 


you fail to see the differences between absolute numbers and rates. 

to compare absolute numbers between two countries that have major 
population 
differences , the usa and gb , and then that you are afraid someone 
might 
attack your process , and so claim the numbers are for emphasis , not 
comparison emphasis of what 

and is a style , jim .  . 


no , you just miss the point. by your methods , i can prove gun control to be a 
total failure .  . new york 's total count , with it 's strict gun control , 
is much higher than island 's , with it 's less strict gun control. far 
more folks are killed in new york , than island .  . therefore , according to 
 ( logic(tm ) , gun control has made new york a much more dangerous place than 
island .  . remember , it 's and a style to 
point out the differences between new york and island that might defeat 
my argument. 

anything else is blowing  . 

you ,  . 

now you agree wow , a break through ! 


stephen 
and new york , ny , usa o o 



jim 

from  ( rick bressler ) 
subject re gun lovers  ( was re my gun is like my american express card ) 
organization group 
lines 35 

hell , a is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing 
that i know about a is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is 
that little thing in the but that is n't too great of a safety .  . 

you 're getting  . the  little thing in the  has to be 
depressed before the can move. what this means is the damned 
thing wo n't go off until the is  . this makes it just 
about  ( there have been some problems , but we 're assuming the gun is 
correctly .  . ) . as safe as a  . the gun when working 
correctly is totally drop safe .  . 

now , in police work this is a consideration .  . there is not a single 
documented case i'm aware of where a police was killed because 
he failed to operate the safety on his  . there are quite a few 
documented cases where criminals got hold of the cops gun and could n't 
figure out how to get the safety off in time to use the gun , thus the 
nature of the safety  ( to the criminal at least ) very likely 
prevented the office from getting shot .  . 

the purpose of a safety is to make the gun safe from unintentional fire .  . 
this does not mean it should be so complicated as to slow down 
intentional use ! thus the safety is perfectly adequate from a 
 safety  standpoint , but not necessarily the most desirable from the 
standpoint of open carry where it is easily by somebody else. 
by this it does make a lot of sense as a carry piece .  . 
from the standpoint of police use , it is no better  ( or worse ) than a 
as far as being   to the in the method of 
firing it. 

the ideal solution may someday be sensing of the user so that 
the ca n't be used by anybody but it 's owner , but for now the 
wide variety of safety systems helps , unless the criminal happens to be 
familiar with that particular type of  . 

 . 

from william 
subject re them next time 
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma .  . 
lines 29 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host stratus . com . 


deleted because it sounds twisted 
with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look 
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country 
of ours. 

flame on 
well i do n't want my tax dollars going to that kind of philosophy .  . 
maybe if the good folks you are talking about are people like you 
than i might be inclined to accept it. what does the do anyway 
why do n't we have a bureau for militant , , freedom killers 
like yourself. people like you are more dangerous than , 
and  . 
with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 
maybe we should just have the whole city , i mean , what 's a 
100 , 000 good souls anyway 
get real , you sound like a racist .  . i guess life is n't so precious 
to you , do you realize that there were 24 children killed ! ! ! 
they will never get to fall in love , they wo n't see another , 
no , no first date , no , baseball no nothing. why does n't 
some people think first before they let everyone know how narrow they 
are. 

flame off 

from 
subject re newspapers gun 
organization university of california , berkeley 
lines 33 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
originator 

in article  ( peter nesbitt ) writes 

recently while looking around in traders , a very well 
stocked , i discovered a printed document that was being 
by the good folks who work there. traders , btw , is in 
san , ca .  . 
. 
. 
. 
the newspapers have now decided to gun which is why you no longer 
see the that traders , san , has run for many years. 

these were run for the law honest citizens who own for 
use or self protection. they certainly have the right to do so , under 
the second amendment right to bear  . 

are you sure about this i'm currently looking at a copy of last 
thursday 's sf and there is the typical one traders 
ad on page in the sports section .  . not only that , but there is 
a part in the middle which rather says wanted we pay 
cash for assault and  . . granted , i have n't seen today 's 
paper yet. but i 'd be surprised if there was n't a traders ad in it. 
it 's probably worth it to write to the  ( and other papers ) 
anyway , because all their anti gun are disgusting .  . 

by the way , let me put in a plug for traders .  . i have all 
over the sf bay area and i have never seen another with lower 
 . and their selection is amazing .  . 


my opinions. 
no one else 's .  . 


from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
organization ideology , inc. 
lines 88 

in article writes 
you are  . 

there is no question about it. 

of those who vote , your cause is considered an  . no matter 
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the  . 

not so. have shown while the public thinks certain types 
of gun control may be acceptable they do believe they have an 
individual right to keep and bear , and that the police should 
not have over who may and may not own  . 

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton , your 
will be null and  . 

by the end of the clinton a lot of things will be 
up. hell , we 'll probably be just like england .  . 

tough  . 

tough my how eloquent you are. 

as for your claim , i think clinton has a big fight ahead of him if 
he thinks he 's going to pass some comprehensive gun legislation .  . 
he will sign the bill if it gets to his desk. we will do 
whatever we can to either keep that from happening , or it 
such that it is acceptable to us. 

you had better discover ways to make do without  . 

sorry , that 's not possible. and that 's why we wo n't give them up 
either. legally or , american 's will keep their  . 
the number of weapons in new york city is in the millions .  . 
there are n't even close to that number of violent criminals there. 

the number of cases of abuses has your cause. 

if the gov t was serious about stopping violent crime they would 
keep violent criminals in jail for a long long time where they 
belong instead of letting them out on early release .  . 

there is nothing you can do about it. 

hey , we can go into politics too if we feel like it. 

those who live by the sword shall die by it. 

i do n't believe this one bit. 

the press is against you , the public  ( the voting public ) is against 
you , the of history is against you ... this is it ! 

 . like i take advice on the from a  . no way. 

surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. 

you watch too much star . actually , this is an understandable 
attitude from a you are a subject of the state. 

they will you one at a time. 

not necessarily .  . there are ways of oppression without 
getting caught by the  . 

your will not help you. they will consider you more if an 
immediate threat than the abstract  . 

the abstract criminal like the ones who killed a relative of mine 
while she was working in a carry out. 

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the  . violent solutions 
are  . 

while undesirable , they are sometimes unavoidable .  . if you do n't want 
to resist a criminal attack by all means do nothing. i will  ( a ) take 
my chances violent attack , and  ( b ) stand a better chance of 
being than someone who does nothing. 

avoid situations which encourage criminals .  . then you will 
be as safe as possible. such as it is ... 

what a joke. criminals want a population .  . how can you keep 
criminals from preying on us after our best means of self defense is 
taken away 

larry 

from  ( executive protection assoc ) 
subject re them next time 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
distribution usa 
lines 32 

and we thought the unfortunate people in the branch were 
they do n't hold a to this guy .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


d d 



b 

daniel wrote 
what happened in is not the fault of the  . if they would of 
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the 
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened. 

the needs more people , better weapons and more 
 . when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use 
more force instead of to a stand off. if you are going to 
do a job then do it right. the is there to protect us and they 
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job. 

with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look 
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country 
of ours. 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 


from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject re my gun is like my .  .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 

in article writes 
what all you pro and automatic weapons fanatics do n't seem to 
realize is that the rest of us laugh at you. you do n't make me angry , you 
just make me chuckle i being in , washington and seeing a 

warning to follow .  .  .  . 

ah , that british sense of humor .  . probably got a real gut going 
when the ira blew that kid up a couple of weeks ago , huh of course , 
in britain , your government has ordered you , so your way 
of with violent criminals is to laugh at victims .  . 

pick up in front of the car that my friend and i were in. it had a bumper 
proclaiming gun control is a firm grip on a  . 45 .  . now i'm sure that 
that thought he was pretty cool. 

i do n't know about a  . 45 .  . my own preference is for  . 

what he did n't realize was that we took a photo of the back of his , and 
showed it to our friends when we got back to vancouver , canada  ( where i'm from 
 . people were at the basic stupidity of such a 
, and the even greater stupidity of the person who put it there in the 
first place ! ) 

ah , canada .  . where the criminals do n't bother with checking to see 
if the victims are home. they just break on in. america 's a little 
different , you see. criminals worry a bit more about getting shot , 
so they more frequently check to see if anyone 's home. 

i knew somebody else who went to one of your gun places , just 
so he could experience the sight of people putting guns and into shopping 
! i did n't believe it myself until i by one in last year ! ! ! 

i 've heard gun world in phoenix , arizona , is ! i'm 
to visit there myself soon. 

now that i live in britain , i can see how the rest of the civilized world 
you gun  . the recently referred to the american 
for , automatic weapons , etc. very it was 
called a national  . 

ah , britain again. is n't that the place where you 're guilty until 
proven innocent tell me , mr. did n't britain 
come begging to us gun in the early for guns to 
defend yourselves against hitler seems as though your supposedly 
enlightened government had you chaps , you can 
give up your guns .  . if that hitler man starts to threaten , we can 
always hit up the for a few guns .  . they 've got a bloody 
habit about those guns , you know. just hand in your 
, that 's it. thank you. 

the only problem is that canada , i hear , is suffering from your national 
, in that easy to weapons are being cross the 
border .  . 

ai n't it just amazing how those black work damn if those 
drugs from south america keep coming over our borders , too , even 
though we 've them. guess we might as well legalize them. 
makes you want to send fifty to the libertarian party just 
thinking about it , does n't it 

anyway , all you gun rush , please keep up your 
against and other evil liberal media you 're so damn funny ! 
you provide endless of in your arguments and examples of 
why someone should be allowed to carry a piece ! keep us all ! 

your close minded ignorance is without parallel .  . i guess that 's what 
happens when you 're raised as a subject without rights. your 
type to those who desire to hold power over you. 

hell , i miss those with now that i'm over here ! those 
were like monty python ! 

just chuckle as the cops you to get a  . 
just laugh yourself silly when you find that is valid 
in court. hey , this is justice , british style .  . 




brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 

from  ( brian sheets ) 
subject of 18 u . s . c .  ( 922(o ) 
organization inc. 
disclaimer views expressed do not necessarily represent those of my employer .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 28 

you know , i was reading 18 u . s . c .  . and something just did not make 
and i was wondering if someone could help me out. 

say u . s . c .  . 

(1) except as provided in paragraph (2) , it shall be for 
any person to or a  . 

well i got to looking in my law dictionary and i found that a person 
might also be an artificial entity that is created by government 
and has no rights under the federal constitution .  . so , what i 
do n't understand is how a like can be enforced on 
an individual .  . so someone tell me how my government can tell 
me what i can or cannot  . just passing a law 
does not make it law. everyone knows that laws are 
until it goes to court. so , has it ever gone to court , not 
just your run of the mill ok i had it i am guilty , put me in jail 

has anyone ever claimed that they had a right to and was told 
by the supreme court that they did n't have that right 




brian sheets ! what 
support engineer o  
inc. ( ) of the lost 
u 

from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject re clinton list of genocidal leaders 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 13 

in article  ( michael writes 
pot 100 , killed 

i 've read estimates that pot killed somewhere in the neighborhood 
of 2 million .  . 




brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject re dates are these coincidental 
distribution usa 

lines 19 

i do not think it is at all unlikely that clinton his policy 
the as a display piece for the 
gun war on the constitution .  . look at what the bush did to 
get material for the drug war on the constitution remember that of 
crack george at the they took a from the 
and brought him to the white house so they could say drugs had been 
dealt the white house  . 
and i do n't think anybody could honestly think clinton would have any 
moral about the  .  .  . 
the only really thing is that the 's defense of 
their will make clinton 's gun war on the constitution more 
exactly as he wanted .  . the media and politicians will 
filter this so that the general public will think the 's 
are bad guys ! do n't help them. stand up for the 's with your 
friends and family in public anytime you can their supposed 
moral are not important to the issue. they are heroes in the 
fight against government it could just as well have been 
you. 
 ( brian e watkins ) 

from  ( richard cower ) 
subject dates are these coincidental 
organization , stanford university 
distribution usa 
lines 34 


the atf on street stories reported that the was 
ill , and went ahead even when they  ( the 's ) knew the atf was 
coming .  . why 

i believe this was ill because they only had 2 days to plan it , 
and it was continued when failure was obvious because it had a bit part 
in the much larger political of president clinton .  . i would even 
suggest that the loss of 4 atf is inconsequential in this the 
context of his political  . it might even be beneficial to his , 
as it helps point up just how evil these weapons are. further proof 
might be that the atf denied their  ( street stories report ) requests 
for sufficient fire power. 

important dates 
feb nj assembly votes to assault weapon ban .  . 
feb compound in attacked .  . 

on feb .  . the new jersey assembly voted to the assault weapon 
ban in that state. it looked like it might be a vote , but the senate 
in n . j .  . was going to vote to the ban .  . it would not sit well to have 
an eastern state an assault weapon ban , given stated 
on gun control. i suspect clinton gave the order to get someone or some 
group with weapons and have the press present  ( they were initially 
at the incident in waco ) to record the event for the tv audience .  . the 
on street stories reported that a was urging them all to get 
ready fast , as they know we are coming . i believe this attack continued , 
even tho the of failure was high , because it came from the top 
down. after the n . j .  . assembly vote , the atf had a limited amount of time to 
come up with something , and the in fit the bill nicely .  . 

 .  .  . rich . 



from  ( jim wray ) 
subject my gun is like my 
organization bbs houston , tx 
lines 23 
reply to  ( jim wray ) 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


mark responding to c . d .  . tavares 


mw so the laws exist , and the penalties are as you say , but nobody is ever 
mw under these laws .  . they are away for easy  . 

mw having such gun laws on the books is still better than nothing. 
mw what would the have away in order to get the guilty plea if the 
mw gun law had not been in effect. 

our liberty 

right .  .  . do . n't even think about enforcing the law and the prescribed 
penalty .  .  .  . let . 's the citizens instead. 

. 2.2 . madness takes its please have exact change 



bbs 
houston , texas com . home of alt . 


from  ( strider ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 43 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

 ( scott w roby ) writes 
 ( strider ) writes 

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off 
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ .  . koresh 
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound .  . 
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of 
his . ex members describe him in ways not 
to the way jim jones has been described .  . 

i do n't know how accurate the documentary was however , koresh was never 
convicted of any crimes against children , nor was the after him for 
child abuse .  . their  ( in this case ) is strictly in , 
so this information is irrelevant to the discussion. 

fbi have to pass rigorous psychological and background 
 . plus , those in charge will have to explain their 
decisions in great detail to congress .  . why would the fbi want to fulfill 
koresh 's own prophecy 

those in charge will have to explain something , but whether 
their answers even remotely the truth we may never know. and who 
is left alive to care whether the prophecy is fulfilled it only holds 
meaning for the who survived .  . 

correction the fbi said that two of the cult members said this so far , 
no one else has been able to talk to them. 

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same 
details , will you believe them 

if they the story , i probably will. definitely not until then , 
however. 


mike 

this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

from  ( steve manes ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
organization and , 
distribution na 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 39 

steve wrote 
frank posted 
sure , but the difference in per crime the 
gun control laws the rate in england was a tenth that 
of america , back when anyone in england could buy a gun without 
any paperwork at all. 

steve asks 
got a citation for this 

colin from scotland did a study that showed that gun 
control has had no effect on crime or murder in the uk .  . his book , 
, has been published in london by paul  ( name 
may be  . 

others dispute that , like richard , america as a gun culture , 
and newton and 's and violence in american life . but , 
again , statistics between too cultures are difficult to 
quantify .  . 

i do n't know how anyone can state that gun control could have no 
effect on rates. there were over 250 accidental 
in america in 1990 , most with weapons .  . more 
american children accidentally shot other children last year  ( 15 ) 
than all the in great britain .  .  ( source national 
safety council .  . please .  .  .  . no dictionary arguments about vs 
total numbers , okay they 're offered for emphasis , not  . 

if mr. believes that are much too and 
to make such mistakes i 'd like to introduce him to my 
friend , from  . i used to have some pretty nice 
in my place until she moved in. i 've gotten used to the 
snide comments from about the clown on my 
wine  . 


stephen 
and new york , ny , usa o o 


from  ( glenn r. stone ) 
subject re change of name 
reply to 
organization the group w 
lines 15 

in  ( thomas parsli ) writes 

1. make a new newsgroup called talk . politics . guns . or 
talk . politics . guns . here . to . take . me . away . 

2. move all postings about and burn to  ( guess  .  . 

what does this from norway think he 's doing telling us 
how to run the place i know .  .  .  . somebody please  . 

guess how norway survived the third reich give you a hint , 
it was n't by passive resistance the way the did it .  .  .  .  . 

glenn r. 
wearer of 

from  ( earl wallace ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization apple computer inc. cross software 
lines 16 
nntp posting host apple . com . 

in article writes 
in article  ( john w. redelfs ) writes 
now that big brother has out one minority religion in , who is 
next the mormons or jews 

the themselves out. neither mormons nor jews have a 
for themselves with , so i'm not particularly 
concerned.  ( or shall we blame jim jones on the government also ) 
... 

let 's see if i have this straight .  . a law is created that says you can not 
have a automatic weapon and therefore it 's ok for the government to use 
any level of force to enforce that law. does n't matter if the entire 
population of the planet is as long as that law is  . 

do i read you correctly 

from  ( ron phillips ) 
subject trail day 3 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization , view , ca 
distribution usa 
lines 85 

this was posted to the politics mailing list. 

hi folks 

thursday , april 15 day 3 of the trial .  . 

this day the first testimony of the trial .  . 
u.s. larry cooper took the stand for the prosecution .  . 

the short version is that his testimony was consistent with 
the statements for the prosecution .  . 

cooper that he had arrived in  ( washington ) 
on august 17 , 1992 to participate in a surveillance operation 
with five other near the  . the team was 
using night vision equipment for surveillance , and split up 
into two teams of three people. the later met at an 
observation point above the  . after this , 
cooper , william , and began a descent to 
scout further possible surveillance sites .  . 

cooper told the court that threw two large into 
a to see , whether the family dogs would respond .  . 
, the 's lab , started them 
loudly .  . led the three in a run from the area. 

they through some woods into an open area called the 
field with the dog in pursuit .  . by this time , kevin 
harris and had joined the  . the surveillance 
team had reached a y in the road cooper decided that they should 
take cover in the woods because otherwise they would be an easy 
target and might be shot in the back .  . 

as reached the y , he coming down the 
road from the ahead. was but did not fire .  . 

at this moment , reached , and cooper had to 
him off with his gun. it is whether this means he 
the dog or shot the dog . both cooper and then 
took cover in the woods .  . according to cooper , kevin harris and 
continued walking down the road , apparently not 
the two .  . after they had passed by on the road , 
got up on one knee , raised his gun , and , stop ! u.s. 
! harris then  .  .  . brought . the weapon around at hip level 
and fired .  . he did n't bring the weapon up to eye level. i saw 
bill 's going back , and i knew he had been hit .  . cooper fired 
at harris , and harris went down. cooper then brought his weapon 
to bear on , but did not fire .  . at this point , cooper then 
heard two shots to his right. looked in the 
direction of the shots , , you son of a bitch ! and 
them. cooper then realized that shots were coming at him 
from directly ahead , so he fired a three round at the 
 . at this point he then saw running 
the  . when cooper reached , he placed his first two 
fingers on , counted two or three beats , and 
then his heart stopped .  . shortly thereafter , and the 
other three joined him. they then all heard a large 
of from the area around the  . 

on cross examination , david questioned the point of 
throwing into the , asking , you wanted to that 
dog out so you could shoot that dog , did n't you also 
pointed out that in last september 's testimony , cooper had 
claimed that he after the dog had left him. 
cooper claimed that he had gone over the events in his head and 
decided that thursday 's account was correct. continued the 
cross examination by asking what cooper would have done had an 
armed man dressed in full out of the woods at 
him no answer was available . 

friday , april 16 marks continued cross examination of cooper .  . 

notes there was no of  . 






ron 
customer engineer 

east evelyn avenue voice  ( 415 ) 
view , ca fax  ( 415 ) 


from  ( glenn r. stone ) 
subject re my reply to ny times dear member of the 
reply to 
organization the group w 
lines 32 

in  ( john kim ) writes 


as a legal gun owner , i must disagree. even when i do n't see eye 
to eye with the n . r . a .  . on a particular issue , they are the only 
national group which has effectively fought for my rights to target 
shoot , hunt , and protect myself from dangerous criminals .  . 

one more time. 

it ai n't about  . 

it ai n't about lone on streets. 

it 's about defending our rights from the government , which 
has seen fit to ignore history and attempt once again to take 
them from us. they will succeed if we do n't do something now. 

that 's why i think the is a bunch of , because they 
have forgotten that fundamental fact. 

pardon all my shouting , but there seem to be a whole lot 
of people on condition white , fat , , and happy , sucking that 
glass for all they 're worth .  .  .  .  . wake up and smell the , 
, they 're shooting at us , and it 's high time we shot back , 
at least with our  .  .  .  .  . 

my two bits  

glenn r. 
your at half and down , 
to mourn and the death of the  . 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 47 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( dwayne 
fontenot ) writes 
in  ( bill green ) writes 
just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported  ( ap , etc . ) . that 
there were several witnesses to folks starting the  . it has also 
been reported that the broke out in several places at once , which 
rules out a knocking over a , etc. as the cause. 

consider this the had more than one the made more than 
one hole in the building .  . did anyone else notice on the video that it 
appeared that wherever there was coming out of the building , there 
was a nearby 

the fact that it appears that started in several places does not 
rule out anything. 

i watched it live , and have re watched it several times , and from the press 
point , there was only one starting point , where the 
in on the side , and the that fire across the 
whole , , , structure in minutes. by the 30 , and the 
 . if there were other started , they were not , nor were 
they needed to cause the flame progression i observed .  . 

also , where are these several witnesses the way i heard it  ( from the fbi 
spokesman on cnn ) the witnesses were all people driving the  . 

all witnesses get thier from the fbi .  . 

one other point , i'm no fan of janet , but i do like the way she had the 
to go ahead and take full responsibility .  . seems like the boy 
had problems out just where he stood on the issue. 

too bad nothing will happen to her or him. the fbi and the media have 
done their job well. 

yep .  . they media has the fbi version without question. sad .  . 


jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 51 

in article  ( jim de arras ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
i agree that they deserved a trial .  . they had more than 40 days to come 
out and get their trial .  . they chose to keep the children with them and 
to stay inside. they chose to stay inside even after they were tear gassed .  . 
i do not find these actions rational .  . even was smart enough to 
give up and go for the trial he deserved .  . 


mr. , you are a government sucking bastard. 

unworthy of comment. 

humans died 
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the 
actions 
they did. that is the undeniable truth. i cried for them. 

nor would they have died if they had come out with their hands empty .  . 
that is undeniable truth. my heart just as much as yours for 
the children who were never released given 51 days of ample opportunities 
to do so. my heart also for people so by religious devotion 
to not have the common sense to leave the compound when came up 
and started dropping in tear gas early in the morning. 

you seem to say 
they got what they deserved .  . 

i do not think this. however , if they did set the fire  ( which started in 
more than one place and spread very quickly ) , then they got what they 
wanted and put into motion themselves. 

i see the is going to be investigated by the justice dept. and likely 
by and congress .  . this is good. they have bungled the affair 
from the start. 

jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 






from  ( morris the cat ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 43 


what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of 
 . in my post i was referring to your regular in a car 
around the city vs. members .  . of course the police have access 
to the things that you mentioned but do they use and such all of the 
time of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every 
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i 
see are still carrying  . not that there is anything wrong with a 
but if you 're a cop that is up against some member with a couple 
of in his coat (i mean semi handguns ) you 're going to be at a 
even with training .  . i have been at a shooting range where 
members were practicing shooting .  . they were actually practicing 
taking out their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target 
and they were n't doing too either. the university cops here  ( who are 
are state cops ) are armed better than the chicago police .  . it seems most 
state cops are. i do n't know where you are originally from david but you live 
in and i live in chicago and see this crap everyday on the news 
and in the papers .  . i think the situation is just a different here 
than there. 

however , do n't forget that the police in chicago can carry just about 
anything they want except for the , which is not approved for 
carry  ( guess they figure all cops are like the police chief of , 
who happened to let off a round of  . this is the same anti gun 
police chief that wanted full for his cars .  .  . ) .  . 

perhaps in the judgement of the majority of chicago 's , a close to 
100 reliable weapon like a is preferable to a reliable 
automatic .  . i note that in germany , where certainly the semi 
is king , some of the more police types want  . 

i do n't think the issue is cost , because chicago police certainly make 
on the order of at least year .  . 

your of i think is not borne out by the 
experiences of new york city 's cops there the cops usually come out 
on top with their standard  . 38 .  . 

i 've seen s , and in addition to the 
carried by chicago cops .  .  .  .  . in the past , i 've seen  . 45 . others 
have seen browning hi powers .  .  .  . 

jason 

from  ( josh a grossman ) 
subject re puts foot in mouth , film at 11 
organization the at the university of pittsburgh  ( aka the pitt ) 
lines 17 


i have also heard about claiming anyone they get an address 
from is a member. if this is the case their membership rolls are 
grossly and we should not call them and give them a name 
and address to add to their already false rolls .  . perhaps 
if you could get a copy of their existing membership , then pretend to 
be an existing member , do that several thousand times , you could 
hurt  . but names are power. the uses the fact 
that it has 3 million paid members in order to its  . 

perhaps politicians do n't realize the lying of , wait a 
minute , learned it from politicians .  .  .  .  . 

later , 




from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re gun control proud to be a 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 29 

in article com .  ( dave duff ) writes 
does anyone really believe the have had no war within their borders 
because every adult male owns a rifle i'm a great of the , but 
years of peace on their has to do with gun ownership .  . can you 
picture hitler , with and on the border , 
sleep over a few thousand expert sure. 

the population is  ( and well was ) far larger than that. i think 
your question should be ,  .  .  . sleep over a million expert 
certainly he could have conquered , but 
a million armed  ( especially in a area , 
where  is limited ) would have made it a 
real pain. the question a would ask , is is it worth 
the trouble the more difficult an invasion is , the more likely 
the answer would be no. certainly a million  ( as 
opposed to a army of only ten or twenty thousand , the 
best a country the size of could support) , makes 
invasions more difficult. 

hitler stayed out of because the run the money in this 
world. 

really in 1939 i'm not even sure you could prove that today  ( despite 
the ) . certainly the were not essential 
to the german war time economy .  . 

frank 
boulder 


from  ( david feustel ) 
subject 's prime 
organization 2 software support 
lines 7 

, them them , bury them. 

dave 

i'm beginning to look forward to the 100 of taxes 
to pay for the interest on the national debt .  . at that point the 
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds .  . 

from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 50 

in article  ( andrew betz ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their 
hands up while national tv watch .  . 

watch from where two away far enough away that whatever 
really must be explained through the filter of 
a agency that said  ( quote ! ) enough is enough. 

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people 
come out with their hands up several weeks ago. 

scenario that is simplest and most plausible .  . i do not generally 
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely 
 . 

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating 
that was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly 
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government. 

more than someone who would not release children from the compound .  . 

i.e. , more than david koresh jesus christ . 
i saw lengthy excerpts from an australian documentary made in 
1992 that clearly showed that this was a cult .  . 

i am not pleased with the handling of the affair .  . i think they 
bungled it from the start. but i do n't think they are 
responsible for the fire , which started in two different places. 

the is by no means of fault in the handling of this affair .  . 
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is 
ludicrous .  . 

i suspect that there were plenty of willing to 
risk small fire to get some good footage .  . these people 
were told to get the hell out of camera range .  . why 




brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 






from 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( michael rhein ) writes 
in article writes 
i will be surprised if this post makes it past the , 
but here goes 

in short mr. (i am assuming mr. as a title because i do n't think a 
woman would be stupid enough to make this post ) i do n't know what of you 


what an sexist remark ! come now , mike , what ever you to 
make such a un pc remark i hope all women out there reading this are as 
as i am .  . remember , woman are just as good as men ! ! ! ! 

women stand up for your right to be just as stupid as men. in fact , insist on 
every to be even more stupid than men ! you 've got the right , use 
it ! 

hey , it 's a slow afternoon and i really do n't want to get back to that 
report .  .  .  . ) 

btw smileys for the humor  .  .  . 

karl 

from  ( larry sacks ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
organization advanced devices , inc. 
lines 29 

writes 

you are  . 

stuff deleted 

avoid situations which encourage criminals .  . then you will 
be as safe as possible. such as it is ... 

really how do you avoid situations which encourage criminals i 'd 
really like to know. would you , say , female college 
students from riding their bicycles near the university during the 


sounds a bit , does n't it especially when the university is 
in a nice area. a friend of mine was attacked and 
nearly in just this situation. the police did n't feel she was 
in a situation which  encouraged  . 

what do you think should we just tell her , that it was her fault 
for to ride a bicycle in the middle of the day that she 
did n't avoid a situation that encouraged criminals if that 's the 
case , then we 'd all better put on our doors and and 
pray for a police state to keep us all safe .  . crime happens in all 
situations there are no defined areas that criminals avoid .  . 

larry 
advanced devices 


from  ( pete zakel ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host cadence . com . 
organization cadence design systems , inc. 
lines 24 

in article  ( charles scripter ) writes 
you did n't even get the correct ! try reading on 
the constitution , or get any other correct version of the 
constitution .  . 

this is really stupid  . rules in the late 
century were quite different from today , and what was posted current 
rules. 

we also do n't make  s  look like  f  and other such things done in the late 
hundreds .  . 

in the original constitution , , , etc. were simply 
because they were  . this is also done currently in german .  . there is 
no special significance to these words simply because they are  . 
the denotes no special emphasis .  . 


or  .  .  . ! uunet ! cadence ! phz ) 

 ( mar 21 apr 19 ) 
you are the type and hold most people in  . you are 
quick , , and of advice. you are not very 
nice. 

from  ( michael rhein ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization polytechnic institute 
lines 74 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article writes 
i will be surprised if this post makes it past the , 
but here goes 

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt 

murder most foul ! ! 

is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all 

i watched the report and i never heard them report that the atf started the 
fire .  . they did speculate that the type of cs gas might have 
started the fire .  . 

the buildings of the branch near , tx .  . the 
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and  non lethal  tear 
gas in . a few after this started the whole thing went up. 

from my understanding of the report it was 6 hours after they started .  . 

all buildings are  . no one has escaped .  . i think it obvious that 
the atf used flame to in 

the track that i saw in the of the building where fire was 
first noticed looked more like an  ( the type used to 
of battle fields ) and not an flame  . 

, then let the wood inside it. 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm day 
in texas .  . it seems to me that it would be very poor to hope for a wood 
to the when the would probably not be in use. and 
i doubt that it would have taken 6 hours to it. 


this is murder ! 

atf murderers ! ! ! 

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children ! 

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it me to see 
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was 
still some of the america i grew up with , and loved , left 
alive .  . i was wrong. the nazis have won .  . 

right clinton is in office.  ( sorry i could n't resist , please no flames  ) 


i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors ! 

god help us all. 


please t let them get away with the slaughter of the children ! 


w. k. an american in  . 

in short mr. (i am assuming mr. as a title because i do n't think a woman 
would be stupid enough to make this post ) i do n't know what of you 
were watching but it obviously was not the same one that i was watching or your 
to have your hearing along with your eye sight. 

please excuse any words as i am a product of the education 
system which slick of the double has so improved 
during his as of my great state  ( taking it from in the 
nation in and allowing it to drop to , how i do n't know , and bringing 
it to and back to either or in 1990 sorry i ca n't the 
source of these numbers but they can be  . 

michael f. 



from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject trial update day 1. 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 49 


here is a copy of my first update on the trial .  . 
after a large response  ( about 15 email messages ) , i 've decided 
that there is sufficient interest here on t . p . g .  . to warrant 
posting. 

file follows 

hi folks 

as perhaps the only resident on the list , i guess it 
kind of falls on me to keep people updated about the 
kevin harris trial .  . 

yesterday the of the jury .  . apparently no other 
legal activities occurred .  . the jury was and things 
start today. 

more interesting is what outside .  . about a dozen 
showed up to stage a outside the 
 . one woman carried a sign that read , who stands 
trial for the murder of and  ( son 's name i forget ) 
on the evening news she said , i am here protesting 
because i believe in freedom of speech and freedom of religion. 
i thought we all did. nice sound  ( grin ) ! 

the news reporter also some guy named tim 
who refused to give his last name. not to the 
guy , but he looked like a nazi .  . he also said he 
expected many nazis to show up throughout the trial .  . 
tim had been handing out in support of 
and harris and the news had footage of a cop 
telling him to move along or he 'd arrest .  . i do n't know 
the points of this one. perhaps there 's a law 
against political activity within x feet of a 
or something  ( what to the first amendment ! ) .  . 

most of all was that the local reporter 
an of the gestapo .  .  . err .  .  . atf . with a 
the ! welcome to the world of big brother .  . 

anyhow , came out and asked the to 
leave because he did n't think it would help 's case 
any. he said he was confident that , once the evidence 
came out , that would be  . 

more stuff as it comes available. 



from  ( steve kao ) 
subject re them next time 
organization site 
lines 16 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host rose . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 8 . 

daniel wrote 
the needs more people , better weapons and more 
 . ... 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 

is this a joke the legal way to serve a search warrant is to knock on 
the door .  . in a to serve a search warrant violates the 
us constitution and is hence , illegal .  . the with legal 
search warrants in the past. i do not understand why the used an 
illegal means to serve their search warrant last february .  . 

steve 

from  ( morris the cat ) 
subject re news says indictment warrant  .  .  . 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 26 


question 
what will do with all those guns after the 
trial 

the street journal had an article on how the police were 
about all the new guns excuse me , but police are employees of the 
government. rather like having your complain about job 
conditions .  . 

i say should form armed block that would engage 
in should attempt to them based 
on the theory of law enforcement .  . unlike , 
should be able to destroy in city 
streets with weapons , after slowing them down 
with abandoned car  . m 1 should easily 
troops with their h k 5 , and there should be 
enough and boxes to any fbi war 
operation .  .  .  . yes , a good time would be had by all. clinton 
would get what he wanted , a war on , the would attempt 
to show the anti gun press they they really , really were in charge 
with a man charge of the light , and the fbi would attempt 
to show how they really were in charge by asking the 
national guard to level the area with ! 

) ) ) 

from  ( robert paull ) 
subject re newspapers gun 
organization laboratories , ca 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
lines 17 

andy freeman wrote 
newspaper ad censorship 

san  . independent san  . examiner san jose news 
evans 110 st. 750 park dr. 
san  . , ca san  . , ca san jose , ca 

hmmm , the  . carries west , national shooting club , 
, supply and big 5  . they all sell guns .  . 
no they do n't have any like in news. if they wo n't at least 
run the current i swear i 'll my and end to cash 
to the  . 

rob p. 




from  ( dan swartzendruber ) 
subject re the atf 
organization open software foundation research institute 
distribution usa 
lines 64 


a few comments on the atf 's handling of this case 

1. attempting to storm the compound in broad daylight the explanation 
we were given  ( at least at one point ) was that they thought the cult 
members would be at religious services .  . my only comment on this bit 
of is that if you 're going to operate as a military , 
you 'd better understand basic military  . one rule 
is that only a fool plans an operation where if one assumption is 
incorrect , the operation will fail  . 

2. we were told that atf got four killed because they were 
, they did n't expect such heavy resistance .  . when 
questioned about why such an overwhelming military style assault 
was , we were told that it was because the were 
thought to be armed .  . can you say contradictory i knew 
you could ! 

3. the has had a bad reputation for years as a bunch of arrogant , 
 . i was talking to relatives a couple of weeks ago and 
referred to them as a bunch of and  . i'm 
more than ever convinced that 's right on target. an anecdote not 
related to the is that apparently the up 
some of the evidence in the world trade center bombing .  . there 's 
now an excellent chance some of the evidence gathered by 
the fbi will not be in court. this is not  . i 
was told this by a relative of my wife 's who happens to be an fbi 
 . his opinion of the was , , well , let 's just say 
 . 

4. i have still not been presented with one of evidence that 
the 's had any of the alleged illegal which was the 
reason for the in the first place. btw , we 're still hearing 
this justification .  . ag , on yesterday , made references 
to this issue , without any  . she also around 
the he 's a child and we heard he was beating the children ! 
flag .  . sigh. 

5. a point re the feds in general their handling of the whole 
a complete lack of understanding of the probable thought 
processes of the  . ag said they pushed the 
because they were afraid a mass suicide was in the  . my 
only comment on that is that if the were that close to 
the , what the hell did she think their reaction would be to 
an hours long assault on the compound where holes were in 
the walls and cs gas in if i were a , i 'd expect the 
forces of the government to assault me at any time. in 
that light , whether they themselves or drank jim jones 
aid is irrelevant .  . also , look at how the was conducted 
bright , loud music , cutting off communications and 
other contact with the outside .  . all measures designed to make the 
's feel more and more isolated and threatened .  . this might have 
been a great strategy if they were dealing with criminals .  . as it 
was , it looks to me like everything they did fed into koresh 's 
 . 






include disclaimer . h . 

dan s. 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 22 

in article writes 
women stand up for your right to be just as stupid as men. 

our new general seems determined to do so. in the past 
few days she has said 

she hopes the king beating will not reduce public 
in law enforcement .  . 

the of using tear gas and driving through 
walls in were intended to further a peacefull solution 
to the crisis .  . 

those same were intended to prevent a mass suicide , 
but she never expected the to react by killing themselves. 

it 's comforting to know , at least , that she was n't clinton 's first 
choice .  .  .  . 

frank 
boulder 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
distribution usa 

stanford . edu . 
lines 28 

in article stanford . edu . , 
 ( andy freeman ) says 

i have been at a shooting range where 
members were practicing shooting .  . 

how do we know that they were members and not undercover cops 
or even law menacing minorities .  . btw why the quotes 

we know because the area that the gun shooting range is in is right on 
the border of the west side of chicago .  . that is a area. there 
are many , many bad things going on in that area. also , i have several friends 
that live very close to that area who have had problems with some of these 
folks .  . by the way , where did i say that they were minorities do you think 
that only minorities have not so. as far as the quotes are concerned 
it was totally obvious that they were n't just practicing for  . i 
do n't know about you but i have never seen anyone else practice by 
taking their gun out of their coat as fast as possible and start shooting .  . if 
you would have been there andy it would 've been obvious to you too. of course 
it might not have been. who knows. all i do know is that i was there , i live 
here and i know that they were  . when you live here long enough it 
becomes pretty easy to them via , signs , etc. one last 
thing. my sister is a social  . she makes it her point to find these 
things out  ( gang signs , , etc ) because it is in her best interest to do 
so. she is nice enough to let me know these things so i can watch out for 
myself as i live right on the border of the west side of the city. enough said. 

jason 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article , writes 
as a minor point of interest , earlier news reports claim to have 
been quoting the of texas when her referred to 
the as mormons and called for their 
from tx .  . any have details 

the are a 60 year old splinter from the seventh day adventists , 
if that 's the information you were looking for. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 22 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 
keywords thing ! ! 

in article ,  ( the lawnmowerman ) writes 

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children ! 

is this guy serious 

if he would ever really pay attention to the news  ( oops i forgot that the media 
for the most part loves to jump right on top of a story before all the facts 
are known , as well as to what we see and thus what we  . 

besides , a majority of 
these children were children that he was supposed to have been the father of , 
this then makes them bastard children to a  . 

oh , then , i guess that shooting those kind of babies is all right. 

you sick bastard. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( jim wray ) 
subject re my turn 
organization bbs houston , tx 
lines 29 
reply to  ( jim wray ) 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


dan writing 

... 

i 'd rather not get into the medical care debate 
here , but i find it amazing that criminals often live better than the 
rest of the population , in some aspects , and that we 're paying for 

them to do so. as an example , in i had my 

... 

here , you are somewhat in error .  .  .  .  . in . all respects we are paying .  . when we 
are not paying for their , we are paying with our 
lives and as their prey .  . upon what would they practice their 
acts if not for the citizens of this country. what is 
amazing to me is the of those who and perpetuate 
a justice system  ( har ) that essentially that some of us offer up 
ourselves as that prey while they suitably themselves from the 
 . 

. 2.2 . church of crime justice .  .  .  . come . , let us prey ! 



bbs 
houston , texas com . home of alt . 


from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 16 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

writes 

new to this planet everything is dependent on either public 
or political opinion , usually political .  . to imagine that 
inalienable  rights  are somehow wired into the vast cold 
is and a dangerous  . 

we hold these truths to be self evident , that all men are created 
equal , that they are by their creator with certain 
rights , that among these are life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness. 

declaration of independence 
4 1776 

aaron 


from  ( jack schmidling ) 
subject re liberty lobby libertarian .... 
organization , chicago , il 
lines 28 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( john w. redelfs ) writes 
how many are aware that the gun control act of is a translation 
of a nazi gun control law passed shortly before the 

for those of you who think i'm being in asking these questions , 
pray that you are right. democracies usually end in 
dictatorship .  . remember , germany was a democracy when hitler rose to power. 
can we be absolutely certain nothing like that could happen today 

i ca n't speak for the organizations you cited but everywhere you look in 
our society and government , one can see the movement 
one world government. the fact that the media such 
values as patriotism , and are some of the 
clues .  . the fact that we are the economic strength of americans 
to up a former and possibly future enemy is just another. the fact 
the words like community of nations , and international 
business are in are others. international are 
destroying our and economy and the propaganda they are playing 
through the media and government is over our ability to resist .  . 
our border both people and trade are an that we have 
already lost a great deal of  . 

the line is that the single most evil aspect of one world 
government is that you have nowhere to run to and history has proven 
that would be a disaster .  . 

beware the liberal and the conservative and the moderate .  . think for yourself 


from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re the second amendment  ( ideas ) 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 41 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( foxvog douglas ) writes 

gas and gas are well defined .  . other 
should be individually only if it can be shown that there 
is no use not related to  . should be available for 
research purposes on such  . 

i am not a lawyer , but these ideas could certainly be a basis for 
definitions .  . 

i hope you realize how trivial it is to manufacture these  . given 
about in lab equipment and  ( which are available ) 
and given the knowledge that i have  ( graduating bs , , 1993 ) i could 
enough of these to make a serious in the population 
of several major us cities .  . as also noted , the knowledge is there for 
the of nuclear weapons .  . it 's not even that restricted .  . the 
only thing is the expense .  . 

now i'm not going around making these things , but it 's not  cause of any 
law i simply do n't get any marginal benefit out of killing anyone. any 
law you in this respect is only going to give you the ability to 
add a charge against someone who does make and use said weapons .  . in the 
case of chemical , i seriously doubt that you would even know that 
someone had set up a lab until after the weapons had been used. 

part of the trouble with the chemical weapons ban treaty between the us 
and the ussr is that many of the to chemical weapons such as 
gb and , etc. , is that they have very valid uses , and 
it is very easy to those to chemical weapons manufacture 
without anyone knowing about it. 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 



doug 


aaron 


from com . 
subject re gov t break  ( re 60 minutes ) 
organization bank america systems engineering , pasadena , ca 
lines 20 

on a los radio station last , the lawyers for the 
family of the murdered said that the los 's 
department had an done of the 's property before 
the  . 

this strongly implies that the 's department wanted the property 
any drugs  ( which were not found ) were only an excuse. 

in , was tried and convicted of murder because his 
troops , in a war setting , deliberately killed innocent people. it is time 
that the domestic law enforcement in this country to 
standards at least as moral as the military 's .  . 

greed killed the , possibly greed killed the children. 
government greed .  . 

it is time to prosecute the leaders who perform these invasions .  . 


fred  ( these are my own opinions ! ) 

organization stanford center 
from 
subject re cost benefit analysis  ( was fbi director 's statement .  .  . ) . 

bedfellow . mit . edu . 
lines 6 

has anyone noticed or commented on the fact that so many of those who 
were willing , demanding , that we wait forever for mr hussein and 
iraq , that we use sanctions , to avoid a loss 
of life , are now at the front of those that we should 
have those religious and we were wasting money allowing 
this stand off to go on how the worm turns when the changes .  . 

from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization sun 
lines 20 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host central . sun . com . 

the two situations are hardly analogous , unless you wish to make the 
dubious claim that the us legal system would provide equivalent treatment 
to children that the romans did for those of conquered  . 

actually , all the analogy calls for the the branch feeling 
their treatment would be along these lines. after a military 
 ( instead of a peacefull effort to serve a warrant ) and 
weeks , such a feeling might not be completely irrational .  . 


actually , if i were one of the survivors and wanted to institute a civil 
rights violation lawsuit against the treasury dept. , i would claim that 
the fbi itself was to blame for any mass hysteria insanity .  .  .  . 

without due process , the , laser , 
, all the while playing loudly music consisting of 
everything from tibetan to heavy metal , and coupled with the fear , 
the poor , the rampant paranoia , i 'd say it was very likely 
those poor nuts were made even  . after all , is n't sleep , 
sensory , etc. , part of the new age method of torture 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re ban all ! 
lines 89 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( allan j. heim ) writes 

 ( paul prescod ) 

drugs are , please tell me when this supply will up 

drugs are easier to manufacture , easier to , easier to hide .  . 
no comparison .  . 

then let 's use another example  . of 
are larger , , and more than of drugs .  . and 
kegs are larger and still , and are difficult to  . 
yet , a lot of people managed to get very rich off of the of 
into this country during the years of  . there was a 
demand , so an entire industry formed to supply it. 

if were again today , it would be much more 
difficult to a large scale operation. 
the cops now rank just a narrow below the military 
in communications , intelligence and  . 

in a similar vein , the amount of marijuana into 
this country has greatly  . this is because its 
value per is very low when compared to cocaine or 
heroin .  . it 's simply not worth the risk , it 's  . 
now , most is domestic .  . there is less pressure on 
the domestic  ( showy raids notwithstanding ) and 
thus it is economical .  . 

here 's a question if most marijuana is domestic and 
producing it here is economical , why would we expect it to be 


of note though ... domestic 
is now very strong , so a small volume goes a long way. 
you cannot make stronger than 200 proof not a 
good dollar deal. 

yet it was done. done quite successfully for a number of years. 
somebody thought it was worth the risk. 

tend to fall into this low dollar area. 
it would not be economic to them in. 

your assumption is that this low dollar area is 
sufficiently low as to make gun running  . on what 
do you base this 

and given that are already established , 
and given the of scale , would it really add 
more expense to start , especially considering 
doing so would be less  ( in terms of getting caught ) than 
drugs 

all 
would have to be local .  . 

now that was a jump .  . in any case , define local .  . it 's 
a big country. 

there are not all that many people 
who have both the and motivation to worthwhile 
from  . high crime could 
obtain and such , but the average person , and 
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would 
pay through the nose for it. 

wow , you gotta love the speculation .  . 

as i posted before , we import billions upon billions of raw 
across the border .  . not only that but come in and 
out of u.s. every day full stuff. and does n't even 
have the extra advantage of being able to them out. 

i 'd be willing to wager that a of would be 
worth more than a of raw , and you 're virtually guaranteed 
to get it past , because they 'd have to hand search every hold of 
every which came through. 

it 's not simply a matter of how much money are they worth , but how 
much more money are they worth than other , based on the likelihood 
of being caught. less money than drugs , but also a safer thing to  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from 
followups to talk . politics . guns . 
subject re atf update 
distribution usa 

lines 11 

ah yes , i see a few liberal have come out of the 
to defend the burning of the children. probably all over themselves 
while watching the tv  . 

probably had a few like that in nazi germany , as well. 

oh yeah , atf fbi now claims , according the the media , that there are 
a few survivors .  . the number seems to vary minute by minute. 




from  ( alan greig ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization institute of technology 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( bill green ) writes 

and a few other questions. like i said , i believe the actions taken , in 
general , were proper .  . but i still have some  . 

we 've heard a lot of talk about brainwashing in but the brainwashing 
of the general population never ceases to me. here is an 
example of action being taken which results in the worst possible 
outcome and despite people 's deep intuition telling them something 
is wrong the programming will still cut in and say that the 
probably acted in good faith. no they  . they either did 
not have enough information to act in good faith or else they acted 
knowing the risk. sums up human stupidity all over and one of these 
days it will destroy the fucking planet oh sorry. did n't think they 
would respond by a strike .  . all our best calculations told 
us they were  . 


janet 
institute of technology internet 
tel  ( 0382 )  ( int 44 308810 ) 
never the power of human stupidity 

from  ( olsondl ) 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
lines 20 

in article , writes 
the vast majority get through life without ever having to 
own , use or display a  . 
... 

given society 
as we now experience it it seems safer to get rid of 
as many guns as possible. 

considering that the uses include self defense , , target shooting 
and , i do n't buy the notion that the vast majority of people 
do n't own , use or display a . 

but let 's say your contention is true. what 's the point of get 
rid of as many guns as possible , if they were n't being used anyway 

david 
well , i did say we 'll put it out and we 'll put it out when we can. 
but i do n't know what we can put out or when we can put it out. 
george  . 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization university of division of continuing education 
lines 46 

in article  ( steve manes ) writes 
wrote 
in article ,  ( steve manes ) writes 

rate per rate .  . the uk is more dangerous. 
though you may be less likely to be killed by a , the average 
individual citizen in the uk is twice as likely to be killed 
by whatever means as the average  . would you feel any better 
about being killed by means other than a i would n't .  . 

what an absurd argument. is one the size of the 
uk with one as many people therefore at any given point on 
you are more likely to be crow  . more importantly , 
you are as likely to be killed by the next stranger 
you on a street than in the uk .  . 

you are your lack of understanding about rate versus total 
number .  . are expressed , often , as 100 , 000 population .  . 
therefore , if a place had 10 deaths and a population of 100 , 000 , the 
rate would be 10 100 , 000 .  . a place that had 50 deaths and a population 
of 1 , 000 , 000 would hav a rate of 5 100 , 000 .  . the former has a higher 
rate , the latter a higher total .  . you are less likely to die in the 
latter .  . simple 

for , take out your and work out the numbers. 
here .  .  .  . i 've them for you to make it easier 

population 

24 6 , , 000 
uk 8 55 , , 000 

.... and then tell me again how is safer with a more 
liberal law than the uk is without .  .  . by . rate or total number .  . 
your choice. 

if you want to talk less likely to get killed with a 
you 'd have a point. safer includes other things than simply , 
and you ca n't conclude safer by ignoring them. 

now if somebody 's got the total  .  .  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
 ( mail to will ) . 
taxes are not for the benefit of the  . long 

from  ( dwayne fontenot ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization rice university 
lines 25 

in  ( bill green ) writes 
just to shed some light on the fire , it was widely reported  ( ap , etc . ) . that 
there were several witnesses to folks starting the  . it has also 
been reported that the broke out in several places at once , which 
rules out a knocking over a , etc. as the cause. 

consider this the had more than one the made more than 
one hole in the building .  . did anyone else notice on the video that it 
appeared that wherever there was coming out of the building , there 
was a nearby 

the fact that it appears that started in several places does not 
rule out anything. 

also , where are these several witnesses the way i heard it  ( from the fbi 
spokesman on cnn ) the witnesses were all people driving the  . 

one other point , i'm no fan of janet , but i do like the way she had the 
to go ahead and take full responsibility .  . seems like the boy 
had problems out just where he stood on the issue. 

too bad nothing will happen to her or him. the fbi and the media have 
done their job well. 



from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re the usual 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 30 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( colin 6842 ) writes 

i just heard some anti gun control people giving the usual arguments 
it 's everyone 's right to bear , and the way to solve the problem 
of people getting killed by guns is better law enforcement .  . 

it strikes me that this argument could be logically extended as follows 

a nuclear weapon is an , hence anyone has a right to have 
nuclear weapons .  . and if someone uses his nuclear weapons to blow 
up new york , l . a .  . , and chicago , that 's okay as long as we have a 
good police force capable of finding him and putting him in jail , 
which will serve as a deterrent to others. 

do any anti gun control people disagree with this , and if so , why 

yes , i am pro gun , and yes , i do disagree with this statement. 
nuclear weapons in and of themselves are dangerous. 
of and , as well as the in the 
weapon , tends to be somewhat dangerous to living things. 
 ( can you say ) plus these things have no self 
defense purposes. it 's kinda hard to justify their use as 
a weapon when at best they are meant for use 
 ( low weapons ) or at worst for industrial target 
 ( translation cities and population  . not to mention that 
for it to be used as a weapon and expect the user to live 
requires some sort of launch . . . 

aaron 


from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject re ban all ! 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 

in article writes 
if were again today , it would be much more 
difficult to a large scale operation. 
the cops now rank just a narrow below the military 
in communications , intelligence and  . 

proof by assertion ! i love it ! uh , please explain why the 
do not also rank a below  ( or above) the military in terms 
of communications , intelligence (e . g .  . , why fight 
when you can them .  .  .  . i 'll give you a hundred grand to let that 
semi past .  .  .  . ) , and  . 

in a similar vein , the amount of marijuana into 
this country has greatly  . this is because its 
value per is very low when compared to cocaine or 
heroin .  . it 's simply not worth the risk , it 's  . 
now , most is domestic .  . there is less pressure on 
the domestic  ( showy raids notwithstanding ) and 
thus it is economical .  . of note though ... domestic 
is now very strong , so a small volume goes a long way. 
you cannot make stronger than 200 proof not a 
good dollar deal. 

what 's the point here you 're arguing that the black market 
works  ( which it does , of course) .  . 

tend to fall into this low dollar area. 

this is the wrong way to quantify things. the would 
be concerned about value foot. go to a gun show and 
price out a of good quality  . 

it would not be economic to them in. all 
would have to be local .  . there are not all that many people 

what 's local 

who have both the and motivation to worthwhile 
from  . high crime could 

what is a worthwhile hell , anything that works ! go 
get yourself a copy of the army 's manual .  . 
see how easy it is to make a functional  . 

obtain and such , but the average person , and 
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would 
pay through the nose for it. 

if paying 10 for parts at the local k is 
through the nose .  . 




brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 

from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject trial update day 4. 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 87 

note these trial are summarized from reports in the 
and the local nbc television 
station , channel 7. 

kevin harris trial update day 4. 

friday , april 16 , 1993 was the fourth day of the trial .  . 

defense cross examined 
cooper under repeated objections from ronald 
 . moved for a but was denied .  . 

the day was by a cross examination of 
larry cooper by defense  . although 
has not explicitly stated so , one angle of his 
must involve destroying the credibility of cooper .  . cooper is 
the government 's only to the death of  . 
attacked cooper 's credibility by pointing out 
between cooper 's statements last september and those made in court. 
cooper that , you have all these things into 
a few seconds .  .  . it . 's difficult to remember what went on first. 

cooper acknowledged that he carried a colt 
gun with a  . i thought a colt was a ! 
cooper continued by stating that the federal had no specific 
plans to use the weapon when they started to kill 's dog .  . 

when asked how seven could be fired by 's 
m 16 rifle when was apparently dead , cooper could not say for 
sure that did not return fire before going down. 

continued by asking with how many  ( and to what extent ) 
had cooper discussed last august 's events , cooper responded , if 
you 're implying that we got our story together , you 're wrong , 
 . continued to advance the defense 's version of 
the events namely , that a had started the shooting by 
killing the 's dog .  . cooper  . 

assistant u.s. ronald repeatedly to 's 
cross examination of cooper , arguing that the questions 
were and was wasting time. also 
that was improperly using a cross examination to advance the 
defense 's version of the events. u.s. district judge edward 
many of the objections however , both lawyers 
until judge had the jury leave the room and to 
both  . i'm not going to play games with either 
counsel .  . this has been a problem from day 1 , so start 
acting like  . 

told the judge that , when all the evidence is in , we 'll see 
that ... his larry cooper testimony is not credible , that 
he was and cannot remember the sequence of events. 
continued , we 're going to find .  .  . that . there is a very unlikely 
similarity almost as if it had come out of a between 
the testimony of mr. cooper and the other witnesses .  . 

then moved for a on the grounds that 's repeated 
objections would prevent a fair trial , we ca n't have a fair trial if the 
jury believes i'm some sort of , if the jury believes i'm 
the rules or engaging in some tactic or that i'm 
violating court orders .  . 

judge called the notion that his repeated of 's 
objections had somehow prejudiced the jury was and 
denied the motion for a  . did tell to restrict 
his comments when objecting .  . 

the trial resumed with the prosecution calling fbi special greg 
 . the prosecution 's purpose was simply to introduce five 
weapons found in the as evidence however , the defense 
on the opportunity to further address cooper 's credibility .  . 

defense matthews  ( harris' other attorney ) questioned 
about the dog .  . stated that there were no specific 
plans to kill the 's dog without being detected .  . matthews then 
had read a 15 , 1992 in which 
had said that cooper had said that the purpose of the weapon 
was to kill the dog without being detected , if the dog them. 
then acknowledged that he believed that cooper had said that , 
but he could not remember when. he then stated that , i did not conduct 
the primary with cooper , but i have had 
with him since the was conducted .  . 

monday , april 19 , 1993 will begin the day of the trial .  . scheduled 
is the continued cross examination of fbi greg  . 



from  ( tom gift ) 
subject re fbi revenge 
keywords fbi child abuse guns murder control 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 10 

 ( pat myrto ) writes 

well , maybe i am  . 

this is probably the best part of your post. everything else is 
speculation .  . 

tom gift 



from  ( david veal ) 
subject re change of name 
lines 31 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article thomas writes 

note ! ! ! 
my posting was in reply to those about fbi the after 
filling it with , and people  . 

... 

about 
it looks to me as the and fbi ca n't handle situations like this. 
the way it went reminds me of   bomb dropped on a house 
in la from a  .  ( whole block went up in flames , 5 died .  .  . ) . 

it does n't have to be a conspiracy , maybe they just up 

i do n't think we 've got a conspiracy on our hands , or anything 
similar. i do think that the feds showed a distinct lack of 
both intelligence and disregard for others safety throughout this whole 
mess. 

i do think the fbi and the up big .  . what made me 
really concerned was fbi director william being on engaging 
in what could only be called spin control before the place had even 
down. had literally blown up in their faces and i felt 
there had to be something more important he should have been doing .  .  .  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( rick bressler ) 
subject re gun lovers  ( was re my gun is like my american express card ) 
organization group 
lines 

talk . politics . guns .  ( vincent fox ) 10 34 am apr 14 , 1993 

this is n't rec . guns . , so maybe this is getting a bet technical , but i 
ca n't resist .  .  .  .  . 

a also has the advantage that if it you just pull 
the again. 

sometimes .  .  .  .  .  . depends on why it  .  .  .  . 

a double action  ( almost all of them) can be hand first , 
but will fire merely by the  . 

i ca n't imagine doing much combat type shooting single action .  .  .  .  .  . 

a in a merely means you must pull the again 
to to the next round. 

assuming the will  .  .  .  . 

a can be carried with the chamber empty and under the 
hammer for safety , but still can be drawn and fired with an 
easy motion , even one handed .  . 

never to err on the side of safety , but if you 've got one of those 
 new  hammer blocks or bar , it 's unnecessarily 
 . i 'd rather have the extra round. 

for a allow almost as fast as 
on semi  . can be depending on users. 

quite true. speed are a little less convenient to pack around 
than though. 

a in a semi will require you to clear a shell 
first , time spent which can be fatal .  . and a vital second or so is often 
lost as you realize hey , it 's ! before starting to do anything 
about clearing it. 

true , but this is a training function. 

most semi must have the slide worked to chamber the first round 
and the hammer .  . some police carry their semi with the 
chamber loaded and hammer , but a safety engaged .  . i do not consider 
this safe however. you must trade off safety to get the same speed 
of employment as a  . 

and locked for single actions or hammer down on double actions 
are the only carry modes that make sense .  .  .  . the 80 series colt 's for 
example are quite safe to carry this way. 

there are some double action semi out there , but the complexity of 
operation of many of them requires more training .  . 

agreed. 

now that i 've shot off my mouth a bit , let me back some of this up. it 
is true that a simple on a does n't cost you much. on 
the other hand , i 've had all sorts of interesting things happen over the 
years. for example , i 've had ammunition that has had high 
 . a high primer will tie your up somewhere from seconds 
to while you try to the action open to clear the problem. 
an jack the slide and continue. 

i 've had come out of the case , keeping the from 
turning , see clearing paragraph above. about the worst that can happen 
with a semi is a double feed .  . this can be cleared in seconds .  . 

most are more   then semi 's .  . there are all sorts 
of close tolerance parts and fitting involved. dropping the gun , or a 
blow to the gun or all sorts of things can take it out of action. many 
of the problems that can be cured on the with a  ( quality ) semi 
take a gun smith for a  . in short a may be less likely 
to , but as a rule when it does , you 're out of the fight. 
the majority of that occur with semi does not fall 
into that category .  . 

makes many good points in this post , but leaves off the 
view of most of them. a real good starting place is 's the semi 
for police and self defense .  . 

in general , i 'd agree , the is an excellent first gun and self 
defense weapon for somebody that does not have the time , and 
that is necessary for the training and practice needed to use a semi 
effectively as a self defense  . 

most cops are notoriously to  . if the department 
is n't going to train them , they are n't going to take the time on their 
own. there is no doubt that training is an issue. the amount of 
training required for effective use of a semi is probably several 
times that of a  . many cops do n't bother .  . 

for myself , i 'd hate to be limited to one or the other. i 'd rather pick 
what fits better with my personal , what i'm wearing that day 
and so on. like the on rec . guns . says , buy em all ! 

that said , i have to admit that often my advice to people thinking of 
buying their first defense is  ( right after taking a class ) get a 
or smith  .  .  .  .  ( sorry colt  . colt are ok 
too ! ) 

if this post had gone the other way , i 'd be arguing for  . ) 

 . 

from  ( chris bartz ) 
subject re ( a gun law i can live with ! ) 
organization national , austin , tx 
lines 26 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host eagle . com . 

in article com .  ( bill meyers ) writes 
 ( a ) of right. a person not pro 
by federal law from receiving a shall have 
the right to obtain for security , and to use fire 
in defense of self , family , or home. 


so , you have the right unless the federal government says you do n't .  . 
i do n't think i like this very much. 

this would be much better if it said everyone except those who have 
been of this right by due process of law or some such thing. 

also , i do n't care for the federal government on states rights 
regardless of which state right is being on. if the constitution 
does n't give the feds some power then they have to just shut up about 
it. 

the only way the feds should have anything to say is if the constitution 
prohibits from infringing on the  . in which case this 
bill should just reiterate that the is guaranteed by the constitution 
and that the feds will take appropriate action if it is  . 



chris 

from  ( miller , jimmy a . ) . 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization university of houston administrative computing 
lines 43 
distribution world 
nntp posting host admin . uh . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 1993 16 26 47 gmt 

in writes 

in article  ( miller , jimmy a . ) . 
writes 
in writes 

according to radio in houston , all survivors are either in 
or in  . including the two who allegedly helped start the 
 . 

in the fbi , no mention was made of having the fire starters in 
 . 

which one the one yesterday , or has there been another if it was 
day , up. 

imo , 90 of all conspiracy charges are easily explained by the simple 
fact that in these days of news , all kinds of 
stuff gets said when people really just do n't know what the hell 's going on. 
then the story changes once the facts are in and suddenly cries of its all a 
! start. naturally , everybody wants to cover his her ass. 

why the total isolation 

well , it was n't total , 100 isolation .  . after the lawyer in the 
first time , they  ( the fbi , etc ) let him go back inside several times , in 
, i think , the day before the final  . 

why not his mother why not the media 

 . i just tend to take issue with absolute statements that are ob 
wrong on their face and tend to , not  . the isolation 
was significant , but not total .  . 

fi , 

jim miller 
texas a m university  89 and  91 

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help. 
become one with the student system. be the student system. 
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man. 
, , mike 

from 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
reply to 
organization 
lines 39 

in article ,  ( john lawrence rutledge ) writes 

no not , , but shall not be . 
is defined as 
to break or ignore the terms of or  ( an oath , 
an agreement , law , or the like ) to violate .  . 
to go beyond the or limits  . 
this definition implies the following of some form of existing 
agreement .  . laws and agreements are made in advance. 

the rights guaranteed by the constitution were considered to be 
pre existing .  . the only agreement was that they exist. therefore , no 
law grants such rights. laws can only , protect , or 
such rights. 


websters third new international dictionary of the english language , 
1986 


1 . a .  . to break down destroy 
b. defeat , 
c. , refute 
d. , 
2. to commit a of to fulfill or obey violate , 
transgress 
, 


1. the act of infringing , violation , 
2. an or on a right or 


now , by what stretch of the imagination do you get your ideas about 
of rights 

al 
standard disclaimer 


from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re the usual 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
distribution na 
lines 45 

 ( aaron ray clements ) writes 

i was under the impression that to obtain materials (i . e .  . , 
or reactor weapons grade uranium ) one was required to obtain 
a federal to own such materials .  . 

no , you merely have to start working on or else 
devise a system to get it from other sources. btw the doe handles 
reactor , and merely it to  . the these 
 . the military have their own sources. a private citizen has 
none of these official sources. 

actually , why bother looking it up from the material we covered last 
term  ( in 10 weeks ) of  ( nuclear chemistry ) , i could derive 
what it would take to build a bomb .  . 

that 's freshman level chemistry .  . big deal. can you make it 
work that 's level physics .  . big difference. 

and as far as the explosive charge , 
i  ( as a chemist ) could a variety of from commonly 
available in the if i felt like. the 
behind the and the charges are a little , 
however . . . but not impossible using a few of the trade .  . 
and if i really wanted to be nasty , i could include a core of 
and . . . 

so you admit that there 's no law that could stop you physics 
aside , could you make one if you had the funds and time the answer 
is yes. so , do we lock you up now because of this surely you can 
see where the comparison with anti gun laws comes into play here 

of course , the part is getting the material 
to start with , and living long enough to put a bomb together. 
 ( plutonium has some nasty properties . .  . ) . 

precisely why it 's not as readily as you seem to have 
been lead to believe. btw is far better for home made bombs 
than trying to use  . the laws of physics make the creation of 
a device without serious manufacturing facilities very low in probability .  . 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 

from  ( morris the cat ) 
subject re wi and il law questions 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 56 


question 2 

as i understand it , in , il , they have a banning  . 
is there any way to get around this 

why do n't you call the city and ask oak park also has an illegal 
ban as well , but does allow those with a to 
( )  . 

what would the penalty if you were found out be 

probably a fine in practical terms. 

what if you used said in a shooting in your apartment 
there how would the city law apply to your 
trial for the shooting 

it would n't your defense at all. there was an actual incident 
in oak park where a gas station owner engaged in a with a 
the grand jury decided not to  . on the other hand , 
a black man used an owned in oak park to defend 
himself , and the tried to make an example out of him. an 
director who lived there made a stink about this , and it was decided 
not to charge the guy. of course , off anti gun police 
has it 's own , like when the oak park police chief came to his 
house , and told him this is over the line this could get 
dangerous for you. the few black oak park police officers 
watched over his house to ensure that the white anti gun police chief 
and his anti gun would n't f with him , his home or family. 

also , what is il state law concerning short weapons short 
is what i would be interested in if a were not available , 
either that or a  ( ie colt ,  . 

l . v .  . states that the any other weapon category is allowed , 
but the exact relationship between an , which i 
believe is in the any other weapon category and a 
h k 94  ( class 3 for sure ) is not clear to me .  .  .  . 

one more thing , what is the chance of getting a in il without being 
rich or famous or related to the 

in your dreams , buddy. as long as reign in chicago , illinois 
residents will always be and helpless in the streets. politicians 
get around this by in the law that allow them to carry 
weapons .  . voters in chicago are too stupid to vote these a holes 
out of office because the are always in power , the illinois 
supreme court is always to the democratic party 's views on guns .  . 
all supported by political david are 
anti gun , which explains anti states 
 ( jack(ass ) o being a so called republican .  . 

get rid of the chicago , get rid of their members on the il 
, and you got a fighting chance of a law and a 
law .  .  .  . 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re  . , hit in support of bill 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 14 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article node . org . , node . org .  ( nigel allen ) writes 
here is a press release from control inc. 

it is ironic that jim and i are observing this march 30 in a 
country that finds america 's level of gun violence not only 
unacceptable , but , said mrs .  . , chair of 
control inc. 

so where was she and would she consider staying there 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re the atf 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 14 

in article 
writes 
even if it were a capital offense , the warrant was not even an arrest warrant , 
but a search warrant .  . in other words , there was no evidence of illegal 
, just enough of a suggestion to get a judge to sign a license to 
search for illegal evidence. 

it 's hard to know what who to believe. however , the letter i received from 
the , in response to one i sent to , said that there was a search 
warrant and an arrest warrant .  . 





from  ( john nagle ) 
subject re gov t break  ( re 60 minutes ) 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 9 

 ( pat weber ) writes 
ever notice that people in these cases are always described by clever 
handles such as , religious , gun nuts , , 
, etc. so the general public will not identify with them 

the san jose news described him as a 61 year old 
chemical engineer . 

john 

from  ( foxvog douglas ) 
subject re the second amendment  ( ideas ) 
organization 
lines 55 

in article  ( dan sorenson ) writes 
 ( foxvog douglas ) writes 

you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of 
mass destruction i find it hard to believe that you would support a 
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and 
gas on his her property .  . 

that really depends upon where you draw the line while defining 
these weapons , 

this means you would support a ban if it were narrow enough. good. 

and also on if you intend the law to be of 
modern practice five months or five centuries down the road. 

i would hope so. let 's define a nuclear weapon as an explosive weapon 
whose majority of energy comes from and or fusion of atomic 
 . let 's define a biological weapon as live or viruses 
in such state , quantity , and with such a that they could cause 
death or serious disease further defined to a significant number of 
people if released in a city , similarly populated area , , or 
 . 


gas and gas are well defined .  . other 
should be individually only if it can be shown that there 
is no use not related to  . should be available for 
research purposes on such  . 

i am not a lawyer , but these ideas could certainly be a basis for 
definitions .  . 

i 'll give 
you a little hint see that pile in the 's field down the 
road in the usa , that is a weapon of mass destruction , 

nope .  . it is not considered a weapon .  . 

biological in 
nature , because if it gets washed into an open well it will 
the that supply thousands of cities with drinking water .  . so , 
where do you draw the line in the usa , the has ruled that 
a pile of iron is illegal .  . care to draw a line this time 

it is not defined as a weapon of mass destruction .  . many things are 
for other reasons. 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 



doug 


from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re nuclear heavy weapons and the long 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 

 ( frank crary ) writes 

down to some odd lines. we must be making progress ! 
on an ironic note , where i deleted lines continually gave me 
the message garbage  .  .  . done. think it 's trying to 
tell me something 

 ( dan sorenson ) writes 

and thank you it 's a great change from the same tired old  .  .  . 

you can join in at any time , you know ! ahhh .  .  . 
talk . politics . guns . the , newsgroup .  . who would 
have thought 

no , not exactly the only reason for this sort of is 
the possible of others. a poorly 
rifle is dangerous , but only to the user since it does n't 
others , there is no justification for such restrictions .  . 

i you of  . i consider 5  a reasonable space 
, but make no mistake a gun blowing up is a hazard to 
those nearby , say in the next at the range .  . my point was at 
what distance , or level of threat , we draw the line. is it the 
of others , so we do a 5  , or the possibility 
of being shot , hence we draw a 1 . 5 . , or a nuke and 
draw a 5 to me they al suffer from the fundamental 
flaw that they restrict based upon the instrument rather than 
the responsibility for usage upon the of the user .  . 
perhaps  . declaring the light fifty an assault 
rifle has made this more apparent to me , since the has 
only range and going for it. 

they have determined that their lives are worth the effort to 
protect their homes and families .  . using nuclear weapons close 
to home will not this. 

i disagree , on the grounds that a house can be much 
more easily than my family once i have died. i assume that word 
would get to the citizens that such an attack was  . if this 
is not the case , the tactical and strategic implications change 
quite a bit. personally , my home is worth , say , twenty 
intent on taking over the world. my family all of them. the 
balancing act here is hard to judge sitting at my desk. 

there is , however , another problem in any case of civil war , 
the strength of the fighting on each side should 
reflect the popular will. if the public is split 67 versus 
33 , then the minorities  should be at a 2 1  . 
such a need for popular support would , , prevent 
unless the people really were behind the  . 
but heavy weapons owned by a small of the 
could distort this what if the 33 minority included all the 
and owners 

that seems to be the case already , given that heavy 
weapons are n't commonly owned by the  . with such low 
numbers , obviously due to cost , i do n't think the superior 
weapons are going to be of great effect against a 
superior  . furthermore , it is even more doubtful their training 
includes proper tactical movements that best , 
whereas the commonly is not so in  . 

i think it is vital to avoid such a situation , where a small 
minority would have a reasonable chance of political power 
through violence .  . to prevent this , it may be necessary to give 
control of heavy weapons (e . g .  . those which only a small number 
of individuals would own and whose would grossly 
distort the relation between popular support and military 
strength ) to someone other that individual  . this is 
certainly not a good thing , but i think it is the lesser of two evils .  . 
whoever these weapons must be a democratic body , 
to the will of the people. 

i had that the , perhaps the officers 
of a select group , and the like would exercise control over the 
, more complex weapons .  . but , if joe bob owns an old sherman 
i certainly would n't ask him to give it up. follow orders 
from the officers , yes. since the expense of a is so large , 
though , chances are it would be purchased and should 
therefore be and operated .  . 

here , i think we have to be about which state we 
are talking about certainly one role of the is to 
a government , and it would be completely 
destructive to that end for that same government to control 
the 's  . but the united states have several levels 
of government , each able to act independently , but not all 
likely targets of  . 
as such , against state and 
local governments are very unlikely .  . i think , therefore , that the 
state  ( or possibly local ) governments could safely be allowed to 
keep the select 's heavy weapons .  . the risk of abuse , while 
still something to consider , is far less than the similar risk 
were the federal government in control. 

this i 'll agree with to a point. the state having control 
over the heavy weapons should not be justification for the state 
to have them  . keep them spread out , such that 
the ability of the state to lock them up is n't so easy .  . otherwise , 
i would have to assume that state control would rest on the 
authority of the and officers .  . 

that is why i think they should be removed the select 
should the 's heavy weapons and highly trained 
 . for the reasons i have above , i think 
these heavy weapons  ( tanks , , , etc .  .  . ) . are 
better off being kept by local governments than by a small 
number of individuals .  . however , local governments should n't 
be able to use the select without the support to the 
people. ideally , the general , under the direct 
control of the people , and the select , under the direction 
of democratic , local governments , would together. 
but even in the worst case , the general should be able 
to functional without the select  . similarly , the 
select should be incapable of action without the 
aid of the general  . 

i'm having a hard time seeing how these heavy weapons , 
fairly few in numbers , could not be easily by a few 
people with government support .  . just as you argued above that 
the weapons should be up and under democratic control 
so one side does n't have all of them , i ca n't see where this 
situation is in having the select holding 
all the weapons and the unorganized being the  . 
i think a better mix is called for. but , i would argue that 
the federal army should rely upon the select and the 
unorganized for the of its units. 

consider , then , the effect of removing the national guard 's 
and the guard under the control of local 
governments .  . the government select could 
not fight effectively without support provided by 
the general  ( an inherently organization . ) . 
on the other hand , the general could function  ( although 
at a disadvantage ) without the backing of local governments and 
the select  . 

we have to assume that there would be those who would 
side with the government controlled forces , and if they 've all 
the equipment an force the size would be in trouble .  . 
i 'd like to see that heavy stuff , say , offset by the 
local having a few 's and anti weapons in their 
 . these would be much more useful to than the 
would be when cost and training requirements are in. 
i suppose i'm over what constitutes heavy equipment. 

 .  .  . but . a is what 
in times of flood , sets up disaster relief cities , and 
the like. 

i would much rather see these things by the local , 
general  . 

so would i , but the resources often are n't available to 
local units well enough. thus , we will certainly have to 
call in others , and a carries more stuff 
than anything else. 

perhaps the national guard is n't as close to my conception of 
the select as i thought i was considering them to 
be the heavy weapons of the , not the 
of the regular army .  . 

perhaps our ideas of heavy weapons are different i think 
main battle , self , and and up 
field pieces are heavy stuff. , 2 1 2 
, 's , old , , are more the stuff 
of a  . actually , this is what the guard units 
in iowa are currently in some units. 

perhaps it is just my fear of having the real heavy 
equipment under state control , with little but numbers and light 
stuff to act as a deterrent .  . allowing main battle to the 
states should be balanced with anti capability in the local 
ranks .  . similarly , local units would need to together quickly , 
hence small and fast response means  . finally , 
the is more than just fighting .  . equipment is needed for 
other responses. the federal army , i'm convinced , should have a 
very of , relying on the state and local 
for these functions .  . 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 









from paul 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization computer science , university 
lines 

 ( scott w roby ) writes 

in article  ( dwayne fontenot ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 
in article  ( bill vojak ) writes 

... 
5 ) point out that even if the fire was set by someone inside of the 
building , it came as a direct result of the actions of the fbi  . 
and the people inside  ( including 17 children ) deserved a trial , instead 
of this. 

well they had over 40 days to come out with their hands up on national tv 
to get the trial they deserved .  . instead they chose to set fire to their 
hours after the dropped off the tear gas .  . 

correction the fbi says that the set fire to their buildings .  . 

and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their 
hands up while national tv watch .  . 

well the of the reported on larry king that 
the had actually the structure to the extent that 
from the building was difficult at best. 
with a rapidly spreading fire and large of and 
tear gas , finding the right , or holes in the walls 
were nearly impossible. i find this explanation to be completely 
plausible .  . does n't mean that it 's true , but i do n't find it 
intrinsically less than the government stories. 

the fbi also said that the had a lab in their 
and that the had  . 50 . cal machine guns .  . 

do you believe everything the fbi says 

do you disbelieve everything the fbi says 
i my gut reaction to question authority together with the 
independent facts as i see them on video .  . i usually adopt the 
scenario that is simplest and most plausible .  . i do not generally 
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely 
 . 

i concur .  . 

the is by no means of fault in the handling of this affair .  . 
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is 
ludicrous .  . 

indeed. according to the lawyers , the survivors say that 
were knocked over during the and that 's how 
the fire started .  . a tragic accident , if true. 

do you trust that little 
piece of t special he seems to think he is a , and 
the media who laugh at his sick are just as guilty as he , imho .  . 

up until now the had been making me sick .  . today the people inside 
the compound who set the fire made me sick .  . keeping the children inside 
the when they should have been released earlier with the other 
people weeks ago is absolutely  . not them before 
to set the place is the work of madmen .  . 

two of the who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set 
by cult members .  . 

correction the fbi says that two of the said the fire was deliberately 
set by the members .  . 

if the fire were set by accident or by people outside the compound , i would 
have expected far more cult members to flee the compound .  . or at least come 
out shooting .  . 

see above. this one is going to be thoroughly investigated .  . maybe 
we 'll eventually get some idea of what happened. my view is that , 
from beginning to end , this operation was a and that it is 
completely possible that cases who were otherwise law 
citizens were victims of a execution .  . 

paul 

i would give the devil benefit of the law for my own safety 's sake. 
from a man for all by robert 

from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re  ( was re  .  .  . ) . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 17 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

paul writes 

the 2nd amendment does say keep and bear. if bear is defined to 
mean carry , then most people are physically unable to carry a several 
hundred nuclear device. 

as i understand it , sub nuclear are man 
and carried in a  . 

as i recall , in the 60 's the had sub 
nuclear weapons from europe and  . they were man 
and made for use in shoulder mount rocket  . the 
smallest nuclear test i 've seen data for was a  . 1 .  ( yes , one tenth ) 
weapon tested either in the late 40 's or early 50 's .  . 

aaron 


from h .  . holden ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
lines 9 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . ac . uk . 

from article com . , by  ( dave duff ) 
case ! ! ! ! the gun on the net before getting facts straight ! ! ! ! 

i like it ! 

dave  . dept. email 
university .  . 
 .  . england .  . 
x 

from  ( david n .  . bixler ) 
subject re criminals 
nntp posting host eng . edu . 
reply to 
organization university engineering 
lines 14 

there 's only one way i know of to tell an ar 15 from an m 16. 
pick it up , hold it about a foot from your face and look closely 
at the  . if it has two positions , its an ar 15 , if 
it has three , its an m 16. there are numerous internal differences 
as well , but since one would have to field strip the weapon to see 
them , they are not valid in this discussion. so , in conclusion , 
there is very little external differences to distinguish an ar 15 
from an m 16 except at close  ( very close ) range .  . 

david 
university 

all standard disclaimers apply. 


from  ( rick bressler ) 
subject re ban all ! 
organization group 
lines 21 

 . i'm not sure if i up , but this is either or some 
sort of mistake  ( aborted post that did n't abort ) on my part. 

bogus article below if seen in another post should be ignored .  .  . 


talk . politics . guns .  ( rick bressler ) 3 29 apr 13 , 1993 
talk . politics . guns .  ( paul prescod ) 1 49 am apr 12 , 1993 
in article  ( cochrane , james shapleigh ) writes 

i certainly hope this is somebody 's idea of a joke , as poor as it it .  .  .  . 
my earlier posting mentioning an illegal manufacturing site being 
searched for by the feds in the florida area was evidently ignored .  .  . 

let 's look at this 
1 . how . many guns did this illegal manufacturing site make compared to 

and so on .  .  .  . 

sorry. 
 . 

from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject do n't knock the  ( was re my gun is like my am ex card ) 
lines 36 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 
distribution usa 


in article , jason writes 
in article ,  ( vincent 
fox ) says 

all your points are very well taken and things that i have n't considered as 
i am not really familiar enough with  . 

some police switched to , and then started 
switching many officers back to the old  . too many were having 
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received .  . not that 
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex 
as the on a  . 

hell , a is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing 
that i know about a is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is 
that little thing in the but that is n't too great of a safety .  . 

ahem ! ! ! ! ! ! ! you have the wrath of owners .  . we will 
you with our  . , do n't have any ) 

seriously. there is no difference in the and any 
 . intellectually , think of the as a very high cap  . 
ignoring , and all the other that 
give you , that is. 

every gun has its safe moment and its dangerous moment .  . if you just learn how 
to handle it , it becomes a lot less dangerous  ( to you) .  . 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



from 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
distribution usa 

lines 27 

in article ,  ( vincent 
fox ) says 
... 
this measure as it will prevent the evil killers from , 
and another will fight it for the interference with nature that it is. 

such a measure would also have another benefit .  . it would the 
various states of the problem of what to do with the hundreds 
of millions of dollars pour into the economy  . i'm 
sure that , to sure a , , liberal and 
 ( not to mention politically ) correct goal , the environmental and animal 
rights groups individuals supporting such a measure would be more than 
willing to add their names to a list of seeking increased 
to replace these lost  . i am equally confident that 
these same entities , given their noteworthy record in the area of social 
responsibility and respect for private property , would feel morally 
and bound to raise the necessary funds to acquire the 
hundreds of thousands of of land now held in private hands 
solely for use as private preserves by the  . to 
do less than this would place these same groups individuals in 
the  ( to say nothing of environmentally and 
politically incorrect ) position of the and 
subsequent development and of these former private 
lands , which would no longer be by , or of any 
benefit to , the  ( landowner(s ) in such a capacity .  . 

w. k. 

from (j .  . e. shum ) 
subject re change of name 
originator 
nntp posting host org . 
organization the corp .  . va .  . 
lines 33 


in article , thomas writes 
1. make a new newsgroup called talk . politics . guns . or 
talk . politics . guns . here . to . take . me . away . 

2. move all postings about and burn to  ( guess  .  . 

3. stop posting on this newsgroup 

we are all so glad you 're trying to save us from the evil 
, but would you mail this in regular mail to 
let 's say 1000 people 




this is not a  . signature .  . 
it 's merely a text to waste bandwith 
and to bring down the evil internet .  . 


thomas 


how about a group called talk . that . thomas . 

clinton e mail addresses  ( mcimail ) 
provided as a public service by  ( compuserve ) 
jon edward  ( america online ) 

clinton e mail addresses  ( mcimail ) 
provided as a public service by  ( compuserve ) 
jon edward  ( america online ) 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from 
subject re liberty lobby libertarian ... 
lines 5 

note that was on the party with david 
duke  ( for veep ) in 1988 until he found out that duke was 
he , when he his  . so gave up his 
chance to be vice president of the us just to supporting 
duke .  . 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
in article  ( jim de 
arras ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
in article  ( jim de 
arras ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
i agree that they deserved a trial .  . they had more than 40 days to come 
out and get their trial .  . they chose to keep the children with them and 
to stay inside. they chose to stay inside even after they were tear 
gassed .  . 
i do not find these actions rational .  . even was smart enough to 
give up and go for the trial he deserved .  . 


mr. , you are a government sucking bastard. 

unworthy of comment. 

but apparently true. my opinion , only , of course. 

so , your opinion is truth. i see .  .  .  . ) 


still the language , eh notice the use of apparently . 

humans died 
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the 
actions 
they did. that is the undeniable truth. i cried for them. 

nor would they have died if they had come out with their hands empty .  . 
that is undeniable truth. 

no , it is not. it is possible the fbi for this to happen , and the 
heard was the fbi keeping the folks inside. i'm not proposing this 
as 
the way it went down , but just to point out that it 's not undeniable that 
if 
they walked out yesterday , they would be alive today. 

you can believe that if you wish. it is undeniable , however , that people 
have left the compound and alive in the  . 

and since their leader was preaching that they would have an , you 
can not say that there would n't have been a mass suicide if the 
fbi had simply stayed outside and waited another 51 days. 


i'm not denying that at all. but every day is another chance for a good 
ending , why push it mr. , you are going to die , anyway , why not today 
every moment of life is precious .  . 

my heart just as much as yours for 
the children who were never released given 51 days of ample opportunities 
to do so. my heart also for people so by religious 
devotion 
to not have the common sense to leave the compound when came up 
and started dropping in tear gas early in the morning. 

my heart for no one. you are the heart . and i'm sure 
beyond any possible doubt that you do not feel for those people as i do. 
you 
can not say the things you have said if you did. 

i am the heart you are not making sense. 

no , you are the heart . a flaming liberal who cares 
deeply , who your pain . 

you seem to have no concern that someone would keep children inside this 
compound when they had 51 days to let them out. that sounds pretty 
to me. 


you have continually raised this issue , without any understanding of the bonds 
between parent and child. it is not easy to say a final to your 
children , i do not think i could do it , either. if that makes me , so 
be it. how many children do you have i have three. 


i just heard on the news that some of the survivors regret they had n't 
stayed in the to prove their loyalty to koresh .  . this makes me 
sad and sick .  . 


it just makes me sad .  . i never claimed koresh was an angel .  . 

you seem to say 
they got what they deserved .  . 

i do not think this. however , if they did set the fire  ( which started in 
more than one place and spread very quickly ) , then they got what they 
wanted and put into motion themselves. 

they got what they wanted . what kind of creature are you that you can 
believe this 

have you ever heard of 
the sad thing is the people inside the compound were the authority 
and their only authority was koresh  . if these 
people were able to think for themselves , there would likely be a lot 
more survivors today. koresh preached a as early as 
last year .  . 


i made the same authority point about you a few lines back .  . and once 
again , , however sick it was , was doing ok , until the authorities 
showed up and pushed a person over the  . 

a bull in a china  . 

i see the is going to be investigated by the justice dept. and likely 
by and congress .  . this is good. they have bungled the 
affair 
from the start. 

we agree on this. now lets have your god , the fbi , investigated , too. 

by all means , the fbi should be investigated , too. 
btw , i thought the second was god. ) 


nope , the constitution in total is , for me. if you think the is all i'm 
about , you me. 

jim 







jim 




i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from 
subject re text of white house announcement and q as on clipper chip 
organization joe 's bar and 
distribution na 
lines 24 

in article  ( david sternlight ) writes 

though i agree this is not the place to discuss guns , i note in passing that 
a number of gun apologists seem to have ignored the words well 
in their interpretations of the second amendment .  . 

what interpretations just read it as it 's written. 
a well , being necessary to the security of a free 
state , the right of the people , to keep and bear , shall not be 
 . 

where does it say the right of the people to be members of a shall 
not be or the right of the to keep and bear shall 
not be nowhere .  . 


well being necessary to the ability of the nation to 
in the international , the right of the people to 
schools shall not be  . 

would you interpret this to mean that only should have a 
protected right to schools why or why not 

joe 

from  ( ed ipser ) 
subject re total of the 
nntp posting host solomon . 
organization , singapore 
lines 20 

in article  ( andrew @ , phoenix , arizona ) writes 
in article ,  ( steve davis ) writes 
(c .  . d. tavares ) writes 

if she needs a gun right now , why does n't she already have one 

you are the victim of a cut and run purse  . he makes off 
with your purse , containing your id , your house  .  .  . and your gun. 

so you 're saying she can run right into a , buy a gun , run back 
outside and shoot the guy in the back as he runs off this does n't 

no , he 's saying she just lost her gun and she wants to buy another 
so that as she home alone , she 's not a sitting to 
any bastard who wants to break in. 

in fact , the situation is more that that , even .  . the purse 
now has her home address. if the woman lives alone , she is in great 
personal danger .  . 


from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 44 

in jason writes 
what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of 
 . in my post i was referring to your regular in a car 
around the city vs. members .  . of course the police have access 
to the things that you mentioned but do they use and such all of the 
time of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every 
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i 
see are still carrying  . 

so look in the some time. heck look at the  . that 
funny thing attached with a quick release is a gun. the ones in the 
are better . (i do n't have numbers for chicago , but 
philadelphia police cars carried multiple automatic weapons and 
thousands of as standard issue in the ) . 

not that there is anything wrong with a 
but if you 're a cop that is up against some member with a couple 
of in his coat (i mean semi handguns ) you 're going to be at a 
even with training .  . 

what is the nature of this if the cop can shoot , 6 
will do the job against a single opponent  ( especially since the 
cop has guaranteed  . if the member can shoot , the extra 
do n't help. the only time this difference can matter is if 
neither can shoot , and cops are n't supposed to be throwing lead around 
like that. 

btw most cops carry multiple guns .  . you 're not supposed to know 
about the second , third , and so on. 

i have been at a shooting range where 
members were practicing shooting .  . 

how do we know that they were members and not undercover cops 
or even law menacing minorities .  . btw why the quotes 

they were actually practicing 
taking out their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target 
and they were n't doing too either. 

then the extra wo n't make any difference , so why is it an issue 

andy 


from  ( david feustel ) 
subject re clinton press conference , part 1 
organization 2 software support 
lines 10 

i that the outcome of the study of what went wrong with the 
federal assault in will result in future assaults of that type 
being conducted as full scale military with explicit 
shoot to kill  . 

dave 

i'm beginning to look forward to the 100 of taxes 
to pay for the interest on the national debt .  . at that point the 
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds .  . 

from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization sun 
lines 32 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host central . sun . com . 

this is a stretch .  . in fact , a great many of the persecuted were 
christian , a great many. it would be simpler to state the obvious , that 
white people wanted land the dominated or threatened .  . i really 
do n't think the government cared a hill of about the  religion. 

my native american asks if the government really does n't 
 care a hill of  about our religion , how come they 're still 
us for it in , washington , and a few other places 
you 'd be a christian , too , if the u.s. army you into church 
at  . 

are you saying that the who became christians did so because the 
us army them into church at 

this will be news to the of the great and 
of the of mexico and south america who converted even 
before there was such a thing as the us. are you saying that are 
incapable of coming to a decision themselves about their religion without 
being forced to at what about the christian who were 
given the by the us government after the civil war .  .  .  . because the 
nation gave mild support to the , since they themselves 
owned black slaves .  . no , reducing it all to a matter of religion is to 
support a much too narrow view of history. 

i 've never heard of a single treaty , whether broken by the us government or 
not  ( were any not ) , that said , if you guys convert to christianity , you 
get to keep all the land you claim .  . no , treaties were invariably about land .  .  .  . 
it meant claims to the government. sometimes in return the 
us government promised the tribes  ( and plenty of tribes were 
already for centuries , but we do n't hear about non 
in movies ) food and training in return for taking up a non existence .  . 
promises , of course , which all to often proved empty .  . 

from  ( david feustel ) 
subject janet and responsibility 
organization 2 software support 
lines 11 

i see no difference between janet 's claim of responsibility for 
the massacre and the ira 's claims of responsibility for various 
acts of terrorism against british citizens .  . 



dave 

i'm beginning to look forward to the 100 of taxes 
to pay for the interest on the national debt .  . at that point the 
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds .  . 

from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re the second amendment  ( ideas ) 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 21 

 ( foxvog douglas ) writes 

you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of 
mass destruction i find it hard to believe that you would support a 
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and 
gas on his her property .  . 

that really depends upon where you draw the line while defining 
these weapons , and also on if you intend the law to be of 
modern practice five months or five centuries down the road. i 'll give 
you a little hint see that pile in the 's field down the 
road in the usa , that is a weapon of mass destruction , biological in 
nature , because if it gets washed into an open well it will 
the that supply thousands of cities with drinking water .  . so , 
where do you draw the line in the usa , the has ruled that 
a pile of iron is illegal .  . care to draw a line this time 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 

from 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
distribution world 
organization state university 
lines 49 

in article , writes 
is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all 
the buildings of the branch near , tx .  . the 
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and  non lethal  tear 
gas in . a few after this started the whole thing went up. 
all buildings are  . no one has escaped .  . i think it obvious that 
the atf used flame to in 
, then let the wood inside it. 

well , actually , the  ( koreshians ) started the fire themselves , 
the last i heard ( around 15 00  . eight people out into the 
surrounding the compound .  . all were captured and two admitted to setting the 
fire .  . i do n't buy your theory at all  ( although it would have made a 
great for my  .  . why the hell would they have a wood 
burning on such a warm day flame use liquid , 
is more of a  . now to further dispute your theory , the cs gas 
was inserted around 06 00 if i understood correctly. the place did n't start 
burning until around 10 00 or 11 00 .  . 

this is murder ! atf murderers ! ! ! 
this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children ! 
i have predicted this from the start , but god , it me to see 
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was 
still some of the america i grew up with , and loved , left 
alive .  . i was wrong. the nazis have won .  . 

calm down kid .  .  ( koresh 's real name) said himself that he would not leave 
that compound alive .  . the thereof had accepted the fact that they 
may very well have to kill themselves before it was all over. 

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors ! 

there are at least eight survivors .  . a on rush today suggested 
that the rest may even be hiding in  . that 's not such a wild 
idea considering their and resolve .  . 

god help us all. 
please t let them get away with the slaughter of the 
children ! 
w. k. an american in  . 

! get over it. i have n't heard  ( read ) such since the 
burned .  . this should have ended 50 days ago. i'm glad my tax dollars have 
finally stopped working to pay a bunch of guys to stand around and give press 
 . now they can get back to more important things , like catching 
 . 


sticks to kids .  . 

from  ( fuller m ) 
subject re riddle me this .  .  .  . 
organization university of new 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

in article  ( frank crary ) writes 
in article  ( fuller m ) writes 
that the gas was not harmful , as the sensitive , janet described 
it 

is it as far as i know , tear gas , especially in large , 
is very dangerous  ( even toxic ) for small children. this makes the 
fbi 's for the safety of the children seem rather 
 . 


not to mention that the g men believed the children did n't have gas  . 

but that was not , with respect to the children , the point of the gassing .  . 
the feds knew that the children 's health would be in danger and proceeded 
under the assumption that the instinct of the women 
would remove them from harm 's way. i a gut on that one. 

someone else on the net observed that the 's appeal to a 
woman 's instinct would never with feminists and 
if a republican were in the white house. i say that such an justification 
could only come from a  . 

btw i 'd read in the paper yesterday that the type of gas used was  . 
the paper did n't provide any about it. 

guess i'm still writing .  .  .  . 
fuller , engineering , university of new 
or 


from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re ban all ! 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 38 

as quoted from by 
tend to fall into this low dollar area. 
it would not be economic to them in. 

that depends only on the profit of doing so. the differences 
in cost of will determine local vs  . 

would have to be local .  . there are not all that many people 
who have both the and motivation to worthwhile 

those of us who have actually made semi  ( full are easier ) 
are getting quite a out of this. i 'd estimate that 5 of 
the people at my high school could n't do it. (i was one of the 
few who failed ) . people who have actually seen me do 
work would probably say that 1 is more like it. 

starting with even 90 of the population , you can be sure that 
enough people will be motivated .  . 

from  . high crime could 
obtain and such , but the average person , and 
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would 
pay through the nose for it. 

how much is through the nose after all , we know quite a bit 
about how much a gun is worth to a criminal , so if that is 
by the price demanded by the bad part of that 90 .... 

the relevant economic analysis has been made. the profit of 
gun crime is high enough that the price required to push criminals 
out of the market is high enough that everyone will be motivated .  . 
that analysis ignored some in the criminal gun 
market that could make them even  .  ( they 're not 
used now , but a set up would drive the value still higher 
without affecting criminal use . ) . 

andy 


from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 35 

in article jason writes 
i have been at a shooting range where 
members were practicing shooting .  . 

in article stanford . edu .  ( andy freeman ) says 
how do we know that they were members and not undercover cops 
or even law menacing minorities .  . btw why the quotes 

we know because the area that the gun shooting range is in is right on 
the border of the west side of chicago .  . that is a area. 

so was there does that mean that he 's a member 

even in the most areas , most of the residents are not 
members .  . 

that only minorities have not so. as far as the quotes are concerned 
it was totally obvious that they were n't just practicing for  . 

how was it obvious were they not trying to hit the target or , does 
confuse with trying to simulate a post if so , 
that self defense shooting , but the rest of us understand 
that that exclusion would be an error.  ( it a lot of 
gun games as well . ) . 

do n't know about you but i have never seen anyone else practice by 
taking their gun out of their coat as fast as possible and start shooting .  . 

sounds like practical or maybe  . it also sounds like how a 
self defense might well practice. the only things that action 
are and like a post shooting .  . should get out 
more often. 

andy 


from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 44 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article 
 ( the lawnmowerman ) writes 
also 
someone should have told david and his followers that if they ca n't the 

then they should stay out of the kitchen ! !  ( pun intended ) 

this the cold hearted bastard list ! ! had this countries 
morals this low , that the death of innocent people is so viewed 

flame off 

fight , fight me ! ! 



matthew r. a . k . a . 

cs physics major  ( the lawnmowerman ) 

kent state university 







look here for future advice . quotes . sayings . 










i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( steven b syck ) 
subject re do n't knock the  ( was re my gun is like my am ex card ) 
organization university of wisconsin , milwaukee 
lines 61 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 129 . 89 . 9 . 13 . 

in article jason writes 

all very true. i'm going on what i have read and heard from friends. 
basically the is great but i have heard read that it is a lot harder to 
learn proper handling because of the type of safety that it has .  . i was 
looking at a  . w and the s w a couple of weeks ago and the 
on the guns were very different. the on the seemed a lot 
more safe  ( for lack of a better word ) than the one on the  . of course 
this could also be a bad thing if you were to pull the gun on somebody .  . you 
would spend more time around turning the safety off. personally i 
like the because they are very light and i think they look really cool 
 ( guess that 's why they use them in so many movies ) but i would n't get one as 
my first semi because of the safety .  . i would prefer more training with 
a traditional semi  ( ala colt  . but of course that 's just my opinion. 

jason 

at the risk of starting the  my gun is better than yours  flame 
war , i must disagree. 

there is no secret in handling a  . in fact , it is often 
chosen  ( besides its other merits ) because it like a does 
basically .  . it can limit the training time  ( read ) due to the 
fact there are no  external  other than the , hence less 
training time required. 

smith  ( among other types ) are chosen due to the fact taht 
they do have the external  ( hammer drop , as well as drop ) which 
if properly used have saved many lives when  . bad  the gun 
from the and tried to shoot said the gun was on safe and 
would not fire .  . this point had been made in many articles in various 
gun  . if fact , one author  ( ca n't remember who ) a little 
test where he had a and a s w on safe on a table and asked 
people with little experience to on his signal , the gun and 
shoot a target. he the people using each gun. the times 
were pretty close , but some of the times with the s w were in , or 
the person just gave up because they could not figure out the  . 

you do n't often see colt 45 issued due to the light 
which can be accidentally fired in a situation , the 
city , , etc .  .  . to , bad press , etc .  .  . 

of course any problem can be overcome with enough training , but 
such training is not always available to  . i 
know if i were a cop i would want something like a s w just for the off 
chance of the gun getting taken away. the safety does n't that 
 . bad  wo n't figure it out and shoot me , but it could buy enough time 
to draw a second gun and shoot  . bad  before it 's too late. 

do n't think i am too here just because i have had 3 
in my at one time , because i have had a  . 45 . as well. in fact , 
it was my first  . remember , the ultimate  safety  is you the 
operator , and no safety is going to stop an  ( note i 
do n't say accidental ) if you break the rules of gun handling .  . 

as per the part of being light weight and looking cool , i agree 
100 . i would n't rule it out as a first  . 

just my  . 02 . tax 
steve 


from  ( fred ) 
subject re ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 


actually , now we have established that i do n't believe what you believe , as 
well as why i do n't believe it. and if it 's , then i the last 
word to you , if you want it. you may say anything you like with 
i am dropping the subject. 

john l. scott 



how very kind of you ! 




from 
subject re gun control proud to be a 
reply to 
organization 
lines 28 

in article com . ,  ( dave duff ) writes 
does anyone really believe the have had no war within their borders 
because every adult male owns a rifle i'm a great of the , but 
years of peace on their has to do with gun ownership .  . can you 
picture hitler , with and on the border , 
sleep over a few thousand expert 

not just because of the  . they also have many hard in 
the mountains that would be nearly impossible to  . as for 
, they would be rather useless in such  . 

hitler stayed out of because the run the money in this 
world. 

gee , that 's a new one. he thought it was a different ethnic group. 
since hitler was determined to control , at the least , all of europe , 
do you think he gave a damn about international concerns 
also , there 's a lot of gold in  . do n't you think he new 
that if he could have , he would have taken  . however , 
crazy as he was , he was n't totally stupid. it would have cost him a 
hell of a lot to take , with no that an invasion 
would be successful .  . he probably  ( or his did , when 
he was listening to them) that it was n't worth the cost .  . 

al 
standard disclaimer 



from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re riddle me this .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution usa 
lines 12 

in article  ( fuller m ) writes 
that the gas was not harmful , as the sensitive , janet described 
it 

is it as far as i know , tear gas , especially in large , 
is very dangerous  ( even toxic ) for small children. this makes the 
fbi 's for the safety of the children seem rather 
 . 

frank 
boulder 


from  ( vincent fox ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization deep , institute 
lines 90 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 

in jason writes 
deleted 
and as far as fully automatic weapons , you can be a lot better 
armed if you want to hit what you aim at. 

what seems to be happening here is the situation getting totally blown out of 
 . in my post i was referring to your regular in a car 
around the city vs. members .  . of course the police have access 
to the things that you mentioned but do they use and such all of the 
time of course they do n't and that 's the point i was trying to make. every 
day when i go out to lunch i always see cops coming in. the majority that i 
see are still carrying  . not that there is anything wrong with a 
but if you 're a cop that is up against some member with a couple 
of in his coat (i mean semi handguns ) you 're going to be at a 
even with training .  . i have been at a shooting range where 
members were practicing shooting .  . they were actually practicing 
taking out their guns as quick as possible and shooting at the target 
and they were n't doing too either. the university cops here  ( who are 
are state cops ) are armed better than the chicago police .  . it seems most 
state cops are. 

define armed better . go shoot a and a semi like the 
colt  . 45 .  . does one than the other nope .  . aside from which 
rate of fire is usually not desirable .  . sure it makes the other 
guys for cover , but just you trying hitting anything with a 
in mode .  . this is why the military is limiting it 's m 16 now to 
3 round fire .  . simple semi would be better , but the troops 
like to be able to and roll even if it is of  ( something 
often in short supply when the enemy is  . 

a is equally capable as a semi in the same  . 

a also has the advantage that if it you just pull 
the again. 
a double action  ( almost all of them) can be hand first , 
but will fire merely by the  . 
a in a merely means you must pull the again 
to to the next round. 
a can be carried with the chamber empty and under the 
hammer for safety , but still can be drawn and fired with an 
easy motion , even one handed .  . 
for a allow almost as fast as 
on semi  . can be depending on users. 

a in a semi will require you to clear a shell 
first , time spent which can be fatal .  . and a vital second or so is often 
lost as you realize hey , it 's ! before starting to do anything 
about clearing it. 
most semi must have the slide worked to chamber the first round 
and the hammer .  . some police carry their semi with the 
chamber loaded and hammer , but a safety engaged .  . i do not consider 
this safe however. you must trade off safety to get the same speed 
of employment as a  . 
there are some double action semi out there , but the complexity of 
operation of many of them requires more training .  . 

some police switched to , and then started 
switching many officers back to the old  . too many were having 
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received .  . not that 
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex 
as the on a  . 

anyone who goes anyone saying that the criminals obviously 
the police do n't know nothing about  . turn off cops and 
and pay attention .  . i do not seek here to say semi are junk 
merely that assuming they are better for all jobs is stupid. a cop 
with a on his hip and a in the is more than 
for anything short of a  . 

gun control is hitting what you aim at. if you whip out a 
wonder and fire real fast you may find you do n't hit anything. 
good controlled fire from a is more likely to get you a hit .  . 
i own a myself but consider it inferior as a carry weapon 
to something like the security  . if i have n't hit 
what i'm at in the first 5 shots , something is quite seriously 
wrong  . while i might like having the capacity of those 
extra shots in certain cases , the of shots fired in 
criminal is less than 5. 

what do use in crime why the same nice simple 
 . 38 . that the police often use. well actually some police 
prefer the much  . 357 . , but anyway .  .  .  .  .  . 

do n't flame me , i prefer semi for most things. but they 
introduce to something as 
as an with a lone criminal .  . 


if everything had gone as , everything would have been perfect. 
on 3 2 93 , regarding failed attempt in tx .  . 

from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re them next time 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
distribution usa 
lines 

 ( daniel oldham ) writes 

what happened in is not the fault of the  . if they would of 
had the proper equipment and personal then they could of captured the 
compound on the initial assault and none of this would of happened. 

team should have it delta force the 
had more than enough equipment and men. they did not have 
good , but they did have poor planning .  . they up. even 
in just the most basic military sense , they up. excuses do 
not justify body  . 

the needs more people , better weapons and more 
 . when they meet hostile fire they should be able to use 
more force instead of to a stand off. if you are going to 
do a job then do it right. the is there to protect us and they 
must have the proper equipment and people to do the job. 

and your excuses fall upon ears when the same 
has shown leadership despite more people , better weapons , 
and exclusive use of against their targets .  . is nothing 
more than a private army of the government. do the swear an 
oath , as i did , to uphold the constitution you know , that document 
that stipulates the highest law of the land if they do , they should 
be up for charges in a court of law. remember , the law that 's 
the whole reason for any of this. 

with the and the increased crime in the streets the is needed 
more now then ever. if they away a few good then that is 
the price we all have to pay for law and order in this country. look 
at all the good people that died in wars to protect this great country 
of ours. 

yeah , i 've been related to many of them. this is flame , 
right i'm not paying your price .  . mind if i sight in my guns on 
your body think of it as the price you have to pay that we may all 
live without fear of my making a shot .  . it 's fine and to 
revel in the other guy being the target and your supposed safety .  . in 
the military , we called this shit. leadership from the  . 
the war on drugs , despite being a term for nothing more than 
a of policy since before this century , seems to have 
gotten you convinced that my rights are n't worth your good  . 
mind if i cut your net access , as well as access to any and all forms 
of see , you make me nervous , what with you being able 
to influence so many. i'm sure you can see how this is the price we 
have to pay for freedom and liberty in this country , as well as 
a fair and unbiased  . 

with the build up in they needed to hit that compound with 
fire power. they could of gone in there blasting and killed a few 
women and kids but it would of been better then letting them all burn 
to death 51 days later. 

mind if we include you in the body count i'm sure we could 
all file it under improvement and your life would n't have 
been sacrificed in  . if you like , you can will your to 
, too. now , when you learn how the law , or 
does n't protect , everybody equally and how our collective may 
one day be on your collective throat , perhaps at that time you will 
enough to realize just what you 're talking about and how 
serious this is. 

next time , include a  . while i to think that 
you could have meant this seriously , it deserved a small flame anyway. 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 

from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
lines 131 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


in article , thomas writes 
gun 
if you are a member you can borrow weapons .  .  .  . ) 
you are supposed to train with a  . 22 . for the 6 months , then 
you can start with anything bigger .  . 

drivers 
forgot that usa is the land of cars .  .  .  .  .  . 
getting one in  ( and northern europe ) is not easy .  . 
average time is about 20 hours of training , and the cost is rather .  .  .  .  .  .  . 
but we think this is acceptable because a car is not a , and 
bad drivers tend to hurt others. 
 ( if you are really bad , you won t get a ! ) 

abuse by the 
this seems to be one of the main problems any harder gun control 
would just be by the ( . ! ) 
either some of you are a little  ( no  .  . ) . or you should 
get a new  .  ( you do have elections ) 

unfortunately , elections can , and are , bought .  . promise the voters money , and 
they will vote for you. 


guns  n criminals 
most weapons used by criminals today are stolen .  . 
known criminals can not buy weapons , that 's one of the points of gun control. 

same here. convicted may not legally  . 

and because gun control are strict in whole  ( and most of europe ) , 
we dont have any problem with guns .  . 

that you know of. 

while i lived in the , a robbed a us army and 
got several hundred m , ammunition , and some  . when i 
left two years later , there were no clues .  . 


mixing weapons and things that can be use as one 
what i meant was that cars can kill , but they are not guns ! 
someone said that if we  ban  guns we 'd have to ban cars to , because they  kill  to .  .  .  . 
i do n't think we should argue on this one .  .  .  .  .  . ) 

the issue (i hope .  . ) . 
i think we all agree that the criminals are the main problem. 
guns are not a problem , but the way they are used is .  .  .  .  .  ( and what are they for ) 

who uses them is the problem. crime , in the u.s. , is no big deal if you are 
the criminal .  . how about 5 years for murder .  . credit for time served  ( in jail , 
waiting for trial ) and you are out in 12 months , worst case. if we would put 
criminals , especially violent ones , in the for true sentences , crime would 
drop .  . instead , we reward them for being good and let them out early , very 
early .  . 


i think this is interesting when you think of  ( ex)jugoslavia ) 
they should all have weapons , it 's their to have them , and if they use them 
to kill other  ( innocent ) people the problem is humans , not guns .  . 

serbs , and muslims have been killing each other almost since before the 
invention of guns .  . old women are throwing stones at un  . this is a 
hatred that goes beyond reason. 

if 50 of all murders was done with axes , would you impose some on them 
or just say that they are to be used at trees , and that the axe is not a problem , 
it 's the   
 ( an example , do n't flame me just because not exactly 50 are killed by guns .  .  . ) . 

yes , the problem is the user .  . question back  ( since you are one of the rational 
ones ) if all gun crime were to stop , would you support dropping all gun 



think about the situation in los where people are buying guns to protect 
themselves. is this a good situation is it the way to deal with the problem 

they did not believe , from experience , that the police  ( including national 
guard ) could would protect them. unless you want to argue that a human being 
does not have a right to protect him herself , they did the right thing. what 
would you suggest as a defense against a throwing and , and 
also likely armed with stolen 


if everybody buys guns to protect themselves from criminals  ( and their neighbor who have 
guns ) what do you think will happen (i mean if everybody had a gun in usa) 

criminals would move to ) the average criminal would look for 
a less job , and the rest would likely be buried at expense .  . 


do n't flame the because of northern , they have gun control that works 
 ( in england ) and from usa are one of the reasons why ira can bomb innocents .  .  .  . 
 ( something about throwing stones in glass houses .  .  . ) . 

personally , i criticize the fools who send money to the ira to make ireland 
free . of course , this is the last thing the ira wants , because they lose 
power if england out. but that 's for another group. 

do n't flame them because of what to  ( three ) children did either. 

the u.s. has roughly 20 times the major events as the u . k .  .  . how many 
riots did we have at events last year  ( off the playing field ) 
is a word never used when to sports here. i guess 
that 's where the different cultures thing comes in. 

 ( can an have an on guns or even peace )  ( yes ! ) 

yes. the question is , is the problem one of too many guns  ( mostly from the 
army ) or not enough  ( nonserbians can not defend themselves. 


 ( my numbers about crime after restrictions on shot guns are from the police 
and the sentralbyraa )  ( understood that one ) 

last word 
responsible gun owners are not a problem , but they will be affected if you want to protect 
your  . 

but responsible gun owners is not the solution .  . yet , that is exactly 
what is proposing .  . 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



from  ( david veal ) 
subject re my gun is like my .  .  .  .  . 
lines 88 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article writes 

what all you pro and automatic weapons fanatics do n't seem to 
realize is that the rest of us laugh at you. you do n't make me angry , you 
just make me chuckle 

that 's nice. we for value. ) 

i being in , washington and seeing a 
pick up in front of the car that my friend and i were in. it had a bumper 
proclaiming gun control is a firm grip on a  . 45 .  . now i'm sure that 
that thought he was pretty cool. 
what he did n't realize was that we took a photo of the back of his , and 
showed it to our friends when we got back to vancouver , canada  ( where i'm from 
 . people were at the basic stupidity of such a 
, and the even greater stupidity of the person who put it there in the 
first place ! ) 

in the first place , you have to realize the feeling goes both 
ways. laugh at the u.s. , and americans simply and 
why the hell we let them be a state in the first place. ) 

i knew somebody else who went to one of your gun places , just 
so he could experience the sight of people putting guns and into shopping 
! i did n't believe it myself until i by one in last year ! ! ! 

interesting strategy , posting here with about 
people elsewhere. 

now that i live in britain , i can see how the rest of the civilized world 
you gun  . 

courtesy is apparently a dead in the rest of the 
civilized world. gun , indeed. 

the recently referred to the american 
for , automatic weapons , etc. very it was 
called a national  . 

we 've got guns , they 've got a and an economy on the 
of collapse .  . finger pointing across the a waste or time. 

the only problem is that canada , i hear , is suffering from your national 
, in that easy to weapons are being cross the 
border .  . 

canada has been blaming the u.s. for their problems for years. 
the simple fact of the matter is this ten years ago they about 
how great their system was because they 'd gotten rid of the guns and 
the u.s. would be so much better if they 'd just get into the divine light 
shining from the north .  . we pointed out that it was cultural differences , 
and pointed to their pre control crime rates. we also pointed out that 
the history of the entire world contained , and that whenever 
something was wanted , it was in. 
if the problem were based on u.s. guns , it would have 
years before. 

now more canadian criminals want guns .  . and they are being provided .  . 
canada has its own version of the drug problem. yet drugs are 
in the u.s. 

hell , here in britain , the cops do n't even carry guns .  .  ( that 's another funny 
thing you see a us border guard , and he 's got his  . 45 . or  . 38 . on his belt , 
with tons o  spare never know , maybe some canadian might get out 
of hand. hell , as i recall , in people 's court , even carried a gun ! never 
know , some might go nuts .  . ) ) 

saw a news report out of britain that armed crime is on the rise , 
and several police are considering have permanent 
officers to deal with it. 

according to u.s. news world report , british deaths have 
risen over 250 over the past twelve years. the u.s. number has dropped 
5 . 

maybe they 're them across the u.s. u.k. border .  . yeah , 
that 's the  . 

! 

have a nice day , steve .  . learn a little common courtesy and 
 . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
lines 128 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article thomas writes 

abuse by the 
this seems to be one of the main problems any harder gun control 
would just be by the ( . ! ) 
either some of you are a little  ( no  .  . ) . 

mr. , i have to take exception at this. there are 
verifiable , previous examples of levels of u.s. governments 
gun control restrictions .  . i do n't think it is 
to worry that what has been in the recent past might be 
in future. after so many times of getting burned any sane person 
will stop putting his hand on the  . 

or you should 
get a new  .  ( you do have elections ) 

i 'd love to. but as long as the politicians power to sell 
back to their , there 's not a lot i can do. 

it 's silly to suggest that if there 's anything we ca n't trust 
the government to do , and therefore the government should be allowed 
to do it , then we should change governments .  . down that road lies 
total government power. i 've never been a fan of  . 

guns  n criminals 
most weapons used by criminals today are stolen .  . 

this is very likely. 

known criminals can not buy weapons , that 's one of the points of gun control. 
and because gun control are strict in whole  ( and most of europe ) , 
we dont have any problem with guns .  . 

the north american continent is not europe , no matter how many 
people would like it to be. drugs are very illegal and they 're 
here. for years canada has about its gun control. if it is 
necessary to control guns over the whole continent , then canada should 
have always had comparable to the u.s. , yet they still do n't .  . 
unless you can tell me why the canadian border is so much more 
than the border  ( which is and far more 
patrolled ) then i really ca n't accept that argument. 

mixing weapons and things that can be use as one 
what i meant was that cars can kill , but they are not guns ! 

no , there are approximately 31 , 000 deaths due to guns in the u.s. , 
two of which are  .  ( unfortunately i do n't have suicide 
for norway . ) . however , this makes the per gun death rate about 
half the per car death rate .  . 

the issue (i hope .  . ) . 
i think we all agree that the criminals are the main problem. 
guns are not a problem , but the way they are used is .  .  .  .  .  ( and what are they for ) 

i think this is interesting when you think of  ( ex)jugoslavia ) 
they should all have weapons , it 's their to have them , and if they use them 
to kill other  ( innocent ) people the problem is humans , not guns .  . 

the problem 's been humans since before we had axes .  . the 
of the matter is simply this if nobody ever anybody , 
whether there is a weapon of any sort around would be totally 
irrelevent .  . 

yet weapons are built . i 'd suggest , then , that the 
in humanity pre dates weapons .  . 

anyway , the et al. have been making an excellent attempt 
to kill each other for half a thousand years. taking away their guns , even 
if we could , would neither the killing nor reduce the  . 

if 50 of all murders was done with axes , would you impose some on them 
or just say that they are to be used at trees , and that the axe is not a problem , 
it 's the   
 ( an example , do n't flame me just because not exactly 50 are killed by guns .  .  . ) . 


in the u.s. , approximately 60 of murders are commited with  . 
 ( 50 with , 10 with non ) . the reason i say that guns , per 
, are not the problem , is that our non gun rate most of europe 's 
countries entire violent crime rate .  . i do n't really think we 've got 
more or  . 

in any case , i think examples of gun control applied to the u.s. 
have been failures , just like drug and other forms 
of  . until you deal with why people are doing what they 
are doing , you wo n't solve your problem. and if the problem is 
violent crime , you should n't concentrate on the tools instead. the 
vast majority of guns is never , ever misused .  .  ( on the order of 
5 . over the entire lifetime of the  . this says to me that 
you ca n't make the argument that the gun itself causes the misuse .  . 

think about the situation in los where people are buying guns to protect 
themselves. is this a good situation 

the situation is not good in that people fear for their lives. 
but recall the of the owners during the last riots , 
protecting their with guns .  . would it have been better they , 
too , lost their 

is it the way to deal with the problem 

the problem of poverty and rage in los , no it is n't .  . 
however , if that problem becomes a violent action , then yes , it can 
be appropriate. whether or not some person has been hurt by their condition 
wo n't make me less dead if they burn down my house with me in it. 

you have to examine which problem you 're referring to. if 
you 're discussing someone violently you , then it is 
a perfectly legitimate response to make them stop .  .  ( hopefully 
simply letting them know you 're prepared to shoot them would be enough , 
as it was with the above mentioned owners . ) . 

if everybody buys guns to protect themselves from criminals  ( and their neighbor who have 
guns ) what do you think will happen (i mean if everybody had a gun in usa) 

45 of have some form of , usually a long gun. 
that accounts for a level of access for at least 100 million americans .  . 
ownership is most likely among , well off , the 
group least likely to be involved in violent crime .  . 

you may take that for what it 's worth .  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from 
subject re atf update 
distribution usa 
organization govt. systems ,  .  . 
lines 12 

in article , writes 
ah yes , i see a few liberal have come out of the 
to defend the burning of the children. probably all over themselves 
while watching the tv  . 

probably had a few like that in nazi germany , as well. 

oh yeah , atf fbi now claims , according the the media , that there are 
a few survivors .  . the number seems to vary minute by minute. 




from  ( miller , jimmy a . ) . 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization university of houston administrative computing 
lines 44 
distribution world 
nntp posting host admin . uh . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 1993 02 42 37 gmt 

in writes 

(c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
 ( michael rhein ) writes 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm day 
in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

thank you for pointing out the obvious to people who so clearly missed it. 
i ca n't stand it when people 's first reaction is to defend the  . 

minor quibble the  ( and it was one) began near dawn .  . the fire did 
not break out for several hours. i find it highly unlikely that the would 
be lunch while holes in their house and are 
in tear gas .  . the story makes more sense , except the fire 
seemed to spread too quickly , even given the nature of the buildings and the 
very high  . and it was daylight , but i guess in the it 
could be dark probably closed as well. 

which puts us back to the fbi did it , or the did it , or some other 
up occured , which is quite possible. 

the problem with the fbi as a monolithic entity doing it is that it requires 
everybody involved to keep their mouths shut .  . while they tended to behave 
like total idiots , that does not make them , either. and if 
it was one , then it serves no purpose to blame the whole agency .  . 

i can believe that a real case like a koresh would start such a fire , 
but i'm far from convinced he actually did so. 

then again , i rarely go off making blanket and 
within 2 hours of a very confusing incident over away .  .  .  . 

fi , 

jim miller 
texas a m university  89 and  91 

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help. 
become one with the student system. be the student system. 
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man. 
, , mike 

from  ( steve manes ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
organization and , 
distribution na 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 38 

wrote 
in article ,  ( steve manes ) writes 

rate per rate .  . the uk is more dangerous. 
though you may be less likely to be killed by a , the average 
individual citizen in the uk is twice as likely to be killed 
by whatever means as the average  . would you feel any better 
about being killed by means other than a i would n't .  . 

what an absurd argument. is one the size of the 
uk with one as many people therefore at any given point on 
you are more likely to be crow  . more importantly , 
you are as likely to be killed by the next stranger 
you on a street than in the uk .  . 

you are your lack of understanding about rate versus total 
number .  . are expressed , often , as 100 , 000 population .  . 
therefore , if a place had 10 deaths and a population of 100 , 000 , the 
rate would be 10 100 , 000 .  . a place that had 50 deaths and a population 
of 1 , 000 , 000 would hav a rate of 5 100 , 000 .  . the former has a higher 
rate , the latter a higher total .  . you are less likely to die in the 
latter .  . simple 

for , take out your and work out the numbers. 
here .  .  .  . i 've them for you to make it easier 

population 

24 6 , , 000 
uk 8 55 , , 000 

... and then tell me again how is safer with a more 
liberal law than the uk is without .  .  . by . rate or total number .  . 
your choice. 

stephen 
and new york , ny , usa o o 


from  ( david veal ) 
subject re support bill 
lines 27 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article  ( daryl biberdorf ) writes 

the following was sent to me by a friend of mine (a  . it 
originally appeared in a medical discussion list. 

gun control the expressed support for s. and h . r .  .  ( the 
violence act ) .  . its strong support for the 
bill in past , the as particularly violence 
associated with , and from , the widespread and easy and 
use of  . the proceeded to comment while we recognize that a 
waiting period of 5 business days before a will not address 
all of the difficult problems that have made violence so in our 
society , we believe that it is a beginning and will save lives. 
are first hand witnesses to the cost in human life being 
by violence .  . a reasonable waiting period before the of a 
is a protection that the american people  .  ( letters to 
m. and representative charles e. march 11 , 
1993 . ) . 

i wonder if the has an exact listing of lives saved in 
, california , and other waiting period states. 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( james warren ) 
subject re reasonable  ( for criminals ) limits 
organization corporation 
lines 27 

in article writes 
a poster claims he  always asks anti what they think would 
be reasonable personal  . ok then ... 

not greater than 32 
not greater than with any of bullet 
action single shot and single action 
bearing no more than and 
an  anti fanning  mechanism to discourage roy  . 
any non explosive variety , just fine. 

now these leave the 32 h r as about the most powerful 
allowable for or rifle use. it would be 
reasonably effective against home , , 
and other such , even with the type  . at the 
same time , this power limit would reduce the ultimate 
of  . 

i suspect that you think that this is less lethal than the typical 
assault weapon . you are wrong. compared to what most criminals use , a 
with military  ( fmjs ) , or a military rifle  ( use is extremely 
rare ) ,  . or 7 . with military  ( fmjs ) , the  . 32 . h r with 
is more lethal .  . most of the which criminals  ( and 
the military ) use are among the least lethal in existance .  . 

what if we just punish the criminal and leave the law citizen 
alone it has n't been tried in times , but it might work. 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 24 

in article  ( steve manes ) writes 
last year the us suffered almost 10 , 000 wrongful or accidental 
deaths by alone  ( fbi  . in the same year , the uk 
suffered 35 such deaths  ( scotland  . the population 
of the uk is about 1 5 that of the us  ( 10 , 000  ( 35  . 
for population , the us has as many related deaths as the 
uk .  . and , no , the do n't make up for this by murdering as 
many people with baseball  . 

if you examine the , they do. is favourite , closely 
followed by , , kicking .  . many more people are to 
death in britain as are shot to death. take at look and you 'll see for 
yourself. 

it means that very few people are shot to death in great britain .  . 

and i'm sure that is a great comfort to the and children of 
those , and burned to death. the real question is , 
did the crime rate in england go down , after they 
gun control laws if you look at the before and after their 
first such law in , you will see no effect. 

frank 
boulder 

from  ( aaron ray clements ) 
subject re  ( was re  .  .  . ) . 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 22 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

 ( jim de arras ) writes 

in article paul 
writes 

as an old post of mine came up in a collection of posts about 
the 's position on gun control , i would like to note that my 
own position has been evolving .  . but , i'm still not sure how to 
answer the question , does the 2nd allow me to have my own nuclear 
device 

the second amendment does not it , but it can probably be argued that 
there is no way you can operate one without severely on the safety 
and rights of others , and so might not be on that basis. 

the existence of the weapon in and of itself  ( and this is also 
true for and chemical weapons , but for slightly different 
reasons ) poses a threat to living  . can you say 
and other radiation due to , and girls 

aaron 


from  ( tom  ( not , not , !  ) 
subject re free membership offer 
organization the reality liberation front  ( pixels to the people ! ) 
lines 28 

 ( andy freeman ) writes 

the supports anyone who 's pro gun and has a chance of 
election , regardless of their other positions .  . is it their fault that 
some drug are anti gun is it their fault that the 
drug who are pro gun ca n't get elected 

it 's not the 's fault but it is something to consider if you are 
considering contributing to the  . if candidate b is a complete 
whose only saving is that he unnecessary restrictions on 
, i would n't want my membership funding efforts to get him 
re elected .  . 

i have other problems with the  ( as an organization the individual 
members i 've met have been loyal , trustworthy , honest , , etc. , 
especially my boss who probably reads this newsgroup b ) they are 
definitely pro , and i recall seeing a pro desert storm bumper 
 . sometimes they come on too strong in the political , which 
to their reputation as bad guys many people. 


tom born to die keep your laws off my brain ! 
what 's so funny  peace , love and understanding 
this  . sig . contains no animal products and was not tested on animals .  . 
i would feel more about a bright future for man if he spent 
less time proving that he can nature and more time her 
and respecting her  . e . b .  . white 


from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re the cold war who really won 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 28 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article 
 ( graham k. glover ) writes 
if one reasons that the united states of america at one time represented 
and protected freedom individual liberty and personal responsibility 
 ( and i do , in fact , think that this is true ) and that 
absolute government control and tyranny represents freedom 's opposite 
 ( which it does ) , did the usa really win the cold war 

of course not. the usa 's only hope is for  ( how ever you it) to 
fail the , and have the hard take over again. 


standard disclaimers always apply ! 


graham k. 







i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re clinton , 
reply to 
organization sun 
lines 22 
nntp posting host central . sun . com . 


i agree. now that the warrant has been 
, it is clear that clinton and supported an 
illegal  . did they not know this 



no authority for a  no knock 
no authority to use  . 
no authority to search for a drug lab 

and , apparently , not even any authority to search for automatic 
weapons . 

51 days of government lies .  . 

sorry , i missed all this ! can you please give an update on 
the warrant i had n't heard that it was  . there 
was no authority for a no knock this is news. how about 
an ok for a 

please summarize ! 

from  ( catherine anne foulston ) 
subject re clinton press conference , part 1 
organization rice university 
lines 6 

could y all please stop posting this stuff to tx . general .  . tx . politics . 
is sufficient and is where this stuff belongs .  . thanks. 



rice university network systems support 

from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 42 

in article  ( stephen graham ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
consider a similar structure 
a well , being necessary for the security of a 
free state , the right of the people to keep and read books , shall not 
be  . 

now , does this mean only the can keep and read books does 
it mean only voters can keep and read books does it mean 
only those who have voted can keep and read books does it imply any 
restrictions at all on the right to keep and read books 

but it would imply that the state had the right to and enforce 
education. 

that 's nice , but it does n't answer the question. there is a difference 
between the feds can and the feds ca n't interfere 
with book . 

as far as john q .  . public with a gun , the supreme court has already 
ruled in cases such as us v. miller  ( 307 u.s.  ( 1939 ) , and us v. 
 ( 110 s. ct .  .  ( 1990 ) that that is exactly what 
the amendment  . this interpretation can be found as far back 
as the scott case , in  . 

it 's worth that us vs. miller miller 's conviction 
of of an illegal , that a off 
was not a proper weapon .  . therefore , us vs. miller supports 
limited government of  . 

actually , the miller court did nothing of the kind. it 
the case back to the trial court because the miller court did n't 
know if the weapon in question was a weapon .  .  ( does n't it 
bother anyone that a major constitutional issue was taken up in 
a case where there was no defense miller had been released by 
the appeals court and disappeared only the govt was represented . ) . 

we do n't know what would have happened with the reasonable all guns 
are weapons argument. 

andy 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
lines 18 

in article , says 

ah i love posts like this. many people have already replied to this one as i 
knew they would. i'm not going to say much as this just seems like to 
me. someone decided to post to see how many people would get mad and reply. i 
am just going to ignore it but i do have one thing to say. see below. 

surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 
them. resistance is useless. they will you one at a time. 


listen buddy , if you 're going to quote star get the quote right. it was 
resistance is futile . get it right the next time ) 

jason 




from  ( william w. hughes ) 
subject re fbi revenge 
keywords fbi child abuse guns murder control 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of texas at san 
lines 20 

in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 
i am sick , , discouraged .  . and of our  . 

anybody for 

i have already called , and the demanding 
that the warrants be , and that all involved in this 
 ( including the president , general and governor ) be 
pending an investigation .  . 

i seriously doubt , however , that anything will ever be done. 


welcome to ! 



remember ! 
who will the government decide to murder next maybe you 
opinions are mine i do n't care if you blame the university or the state. 

from  ( david l. pope ) 
subject riddle me something else. 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 11 

on the other hand , i wonder if , 
with a face full of massive of cs , i would be able to escape 
a burning box like that house assuming my best efforts .  . 

what ever happened to the  fortress  i kept hearing about i 
thought this was a  cult  ! if the knew it was a 
, why did n't they just have all the talking heads line up 
and start  and 

random 


from  ( dillon pyron ) 
subject re founding father questions 
lines 35 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization vax support 


in article ,  ( steve podleski ) writes 
 ( aaron ray clements ) writes 
was n't she the one making the comment in '88 about george being born with 
a silver foot in his mouth sounds like another damn to me. 

ai n't like the old days in texas anymore. the politicians may have been 
corrupt then , but at least they 'd take a stand.  ( my apologies to a few 
exceptions i can think of . ) . 

news now is that the house may already have a two majority , so 
her opposition out of her concern for image  ( she 's even said this 
publicly ) may not matter. 

do people expect the to act as the n . j .  . did 

there is a  ( likely ) proof majority in the house. the senate , 
unfortunately , is a different story. the gov .  . has that the bill will 
not be voted on , and he has the power to do it. in addition , the senate is a 
much smaller , and more readily body. 

on other hand , the semi automatic ban will likely not live , as at least 
fifty per of the house currently it , and it is very far down in 
the bill order in the senate (i believe it will be addressed after the 
 . 

and i thought my tx political science class was a waste of time ! 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) god gave us so we would n't complain 
about other things. 



from  ( ron miller ) 
subject re , they did it. ( ) 
organization , , co , usa 
lines 8 

re flaming 

i wrote my strongly letters demanding they the 
 . 

perhaps and grief can help spur a letter writing campaign 

ron miller 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re what to do if you shoot somebody 
lines 29 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article jason writes 

i have heard many opinions on this subject and would like to hear more from 
the people on the net. 

say you 're in a situation where you have to pull a gun on somebody .  . you 
give them a chance to get away but they decided to continue in their 
action anyway and you end up shooting and killing them. my question is 
what do you do should you stay and wait for the cops or should you 
your  ( if you 're using a semi auto ) and get out of there 
 ( provided of course you do n't think that you have been seen ) 

as a data point from , a friend of mine and a police 
essentially that if you can , away. even if 
you were perfectly justified you 're likely in for a great deal of 
 . (a side note , carrying a gun is a ) . 

what kind 
of laws are on the books regarding this type of situation what would 
be the most likely thing to happen to you if you stayed and waited and 
it was a first offense what would happen if you took off but someone 
saw you and you were caught 

it 's one of those by state things , pretty much. 

david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
reply to 
organization 
lines 

in article , writes 
in article , writes 

the second amendment is about , not  . 

perfectly correct , but it wo n't make any difference. 

hmm .  . i beg to differ .  . it will probably make a big difference at some 
point. 


self defense is a valid reason for  . 

the vast majority get through life without ever having to 
own , use or display a  . besides , there are other 
means of self protection which can be just as effective 
as  . 

, it is true that the majority go through life without 
having to use a  . , there are situations where 
are the most effective means of self protection. what other means do 
you propose as equally effective 



freedoms and rights are not dependent on public opinion , necessity , or 
scientific scrutiny .  . 

new to this planet everything is dependent on either public 
or political opinion , usually political .  . to imagine that 
inalienable  rights  are somehow wired into the vast cold 
is and a dangerous  . 

new to this country new to political theory 
, i was speaking of principle .  . without principle , all attempts at 
republican forms of gov t are futile .  . there are times when public and 
political opinion are contrary to principle , which is why we have a 
constitution which gov t powers and certain 
rights. a major reason for this was to prevent a tyranny of the 
majority .  . 


no arguments against can scientific scrutiny .  . 

they do n't have to. like so many other things , the issue 
is one of perception rather than statistics .  . 
every time some young innocent is down in a drive 
by , every time some kid is murdered for a , every 
time a is executed for three dollars in change , 
every time some kills his wife because she took the 
last beer from the , every time someone hears a  bang  
in the night .... the dies .  . the are not all that 
clearly behind the protection factor does not 
strongly the factor .  . given society 
as we now experience it it seems safer to get rid of 
as many guns as possible. that may be an error , but enough 
active voters believe in that course. 

this is exactly why law should be based on reasoned thought , not 
immediate perception .  . of course , it does n't always work that way. 
fortunately , while there are no , logic sometimes does 
 . and , if not , there are still means for correction .  . 
as far as enough active voters are concerned , that is still 
an open question until the vote is made. 


how do you intend to  silence  

talk all you want. talk about the good old days when 
you used to own  . after a while , such talk will 
take on the character of war stories ... and no one will 
be very interested anymore. 

you a possible scenario for the future. but , how will you 
silence right now as long as public debate is 
allowed , such debate will continue. if we allow public debate to be 
restricted or denied , then we will get a gov t we  . 

al 
standard disclaimer 


from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 90 

in article  ( jim de arras ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
in article 
 ( andrew betz ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their 
hands up while national tv watch .  . 

watch from where two away far enough away that whatever 
really must be explained through the filter of 
a agency that said  ( quote ! ) enough is enough. 

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people 
come out with their hands up several weeks ago. 

it did n't happen. 

and who is responsible for it not happening 
certainly not the children. koresh was calling the shots .  . he was 
talking with his lawyer and the fbi .  . since others were released safely , 
there is no sane reason for keeping the children inside the compound .  . 

scenario that is simplest and most plausible .  . i do not generally 
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely 
 . 

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating 
that was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly 
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government. 

more than someone who would not release children from the compound .  . 

obviously. you are an authority  . 

not at all. are you a koresh 

i.e. , more than david koresh jesus christ . 
i saw lengthy excerpts from an australian documentary made in 
1992 that clearly showed that this was a cult .  . 

give me a camera , and time with you , and i can present excerpts that show you 
to be a cult leader.  . 

thanks for my laugh of the day ! definitely a very silly  . 

you should at least view the whole 
documentary before you claim it as a source. 

i would if i could. the news show that showed the lengthy excerpts also 
had with the who made the documentary who basically 
confirmed what was shown in the excerpts from the time he spent at the 
compound in 1992 .  . 

i am not pleased with the handling of the affair .  . i think they 
bungled it from the start. but i do n't think they are 
responsible for the fire , which started in two different places. 

two places , eh you saw this or did the wonderful fbi tell you this 
i saw one place. 

i believe that this was reported by local radio reporters on site. 
a fire started in a three story at the same time as the two 
story shown on the tv  . 

the is by no means of fault in the handling of this affair .  . 
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is 
ludicrous .  . 

i suspect that there were plenty of willing to 
risk small fire to get some good footage .  . these people 
were told to get the hell out of camera range .  . why 

could n't answer this one , eh this is the most important question of all , it 
is the root cause of all the other suspicion .  . 

i thought about mentioning how reagan and the military treated the press 
in grenada and how that set the precedent , but decided it was n't worthy 
of discussion. if the news reporter got shot , you can bet his family 
would the government for letting him into the danger area. 

the root cause of suspicion in my mind is why 100 people would n't flee 
a building that had numerous during the 30 time it took 
to burn down. or why did n't they flee hours earlier when the tear gas was 
first introduced i can find no rational explanation for their behavior. 





from  ( morris the cat ) 
subject re ban all ! 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 38 


tend to fall into this low dollar area. 
it would not be economic to them in. all 
would have to be local .  . there are not all that many people 
who have both the and motivation to worthwhile 
from  . high crime could 
obtain and such , but the average person , and 
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would 
pay through the nose for it. 

this is not borne out of reality the old soviet union had a very 
serious domestic and trade , guns that were 
of grade because they were produced in honest to goodness 
 . why would all have to be local do n't we 
have a road system that is the of the world 

i seem to recall incidents in the past where chinese 
attempted to  ( semi autos ) into this country to 
get around import number  ( may have been where 
i read that years ago .  .  . ) . 

any person with high school and school 
training could produce a  . you talk about 
the average person not being able get even a zip gun well now , think 
of all that private controlled machinery that is not being used for 
3 shifts a day do you think that if guns were being sold on the 
black market for say , 150 , an engineer 
could be using that machinery to produce workable 
for sale after all , had an article and pictures on how 
was looking for the of quite efficient that 
were of quality and finish .  . 

look at it this way , 25 of the u.s. have a  . say 
at least half of those keep one for self defense .  . you are talking a 
potential market of of tens of millions of people who would seek 
for the purpose of self preservation .  . only a fool would 
believe that market would not be filled , regardless of government 
 . 

from  ( kevin l. mcbride ) 
subject the revisited 
organization central southern nh usenet access , , nh 
lines 17 

the u.s. government 's campaign of persecution and genocide against the 
branch was a success. 

heil clinton ! heil ! the gestapo is alive and well and living in 
washington , d . c .  . 


kevin , who agrees that david koresh was probably a first rate 
but who firmly believes that the bill of rights guaranteed his 
his right to be a religious and that the government is 
guilty of violating his civil rights and of 1st degree murder .  . 

ok , which small , under represented in congress religious group 
are we going to next and are we going to their 
church with a rolled up copy of the constitution 

i think i'm going to be sick now. . . 

from  ( dave bernard ) 
subject re riddle me this .  .  .  . 
organization sun 
lines 24 
distribution world 
reply to 
nntp posting host central . sun . com . 

in article ,  ( chuck harris wa3uqv ) writes 
in article  ( fuller m ) writes 
does a not harmful gassing mean that you can , with a little , 
stay inside indefinitely without suffering any serious health problems 

if so , why was cs often employed against in vietnam 

what is the difference , anyway 

cs tear gas was used in vietnam because it makes you so hard that 
your stomach comes out thru your throat. well , not quite that bad , but 
you ca n't really do much to defend yourself while you are blowing cookies. 

harris 




interesting .  .  .  . after several hours worth of exposure , do you still 
the presence of mind to be able to determine how to escape from an 
surrounding you in other words , is it possible that the gassing 
the enough that possibility of escape was 
questionable 


from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re ( a gun law i can live with ! ) 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 15 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article com . ,  ( bill meyers ) writes 

a bill 

to establish the right to obtain for security , and 
to use in defense of self , family , or home , and 
to provide for the enforcement of such right. 

maybe i'm too religious , but when i see a bill to establish a right , 
i  . keep in mind , what the law , the law can away. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( larry cipriani ) 
subject ohio house bill  ( otto 's military weapons ban ) 
organization ideology , inc. 
distribution usa 
keywords , military weapons , , sales ban 
lines 

note , ohio legislation unlike federal legislation , shows the entire 
law as it would be changed by the legislation .  . these parts are in 
all capitals , the rest (i . e .  . , current law is in regular type ) . 

as introduced 

general 

regular h. b. no. 

1993 



a bill 

to amend 11 . , 17 . , and 20 . and 
to section of the revised code 
to expand the of dangerous to 
include military weapons that do not use 
action , to increase the penalty for a violation 
of the against of 
dangerous , to any person from 
a military weapon on or after the act 's 
effective date , to require the of 
military weapons acquired for purpose 
prior to the act 's effective , to a 
person from , manufacturing , or selling 
a military weapon , and to declare an emergency .  . 

be it by the general assembly of the state of ohio 

section 1. that sections 11 . , 17 . and 20 . be 

and section of the revised code be to 

read as follows 

 . 11 .  . as used in section 11 . to 24 . of 
the revised code 
 ( a ) weapon means any instrument , device , or thing 
capable of inflicting death , and designed or adapted 
for use as a weapon , or , carried , or used as a weapon .  . 
 ( b)(1 ) means any weapon capable of 
or one or more by the action of 
an explosive or  . includes an 
, and any which is but which 
can readily be  . 
(2) when determining whether a is capable of 
or one or more by the action of 
an explosive or , the of fact may 
rely upon circumstancial evidence , including , but not limited to , 
the representations and actions of the individual exercising 
control over the  . 
 ( c ) means any designed to be fired while 
held in one hand. 
 ( d ) semi automatic means any designed or 
adapted to fire a single and automatically 
chamber a ready to fire , with a single 
function of the  . 
 ( e ) automatic means any designed or 
adapted to fire a of with a 
single function of the  . automatic also means 
any semi automatic designed or adapted to fire 
more than thirty one without , other than a 
only  . 22 . short , long , or long rifle 
 . 
 ( f ) off means a with a less 
than long , or a rifle with a less than 
long , or a or rifle less than twenty 
long overall .  . 
 ( g ) zip gun means any of the following 
(1) any of crude and manufacture 
(2) any device , including without a 's 
, not designed as a , but which is adapted 
for use as a 
 ( 3 ) any industrial tool , device , or safety 
device , not designed as a , but which as designed is 
capable of use as such a , when , carried , or 
used as a  . 
 ( h ) explosive device means any device designed or 
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property 
by means of an , and consisting of an explosive 
substance or agency and a means to it. explosive 
device includes without any bomb , any explosive 
device , any blasting cap or containing an 
explosive charge , and any pressure which has been 
knowingly with or so as to explode .  . 
 ( i ) device means any , and any device 
designed or adapted to cause physical harm to persons 
or property by means of fire , and consisting of an 
substance or agency and a means to it. 
 ( j ) knife means a knife with a 
that is by a spring operated mechanism .  . 
 ( k ) dangerous means any of the following , 
except as provided in division  ( l ) of this section 
(1) any automatic or off  . zip gun , or 
knife 
(2) any explosive device or device 
 ( 3 ) , , , , 
, , acid , and other high , 
, , , , , and other high 
explosive plastic , blasting 
, , , liquid 
oxygen blasting , blasting , and other blasting 
and any other explosive substance having sufficient 
or power to be particularly suitable for use as a 
military explosive , or for use in , , , 
or 
 ( 4 ) any , rocket , , piece 
, mine , bomb , , or similar weapon , designed and 
for military purposes , and the ammunition for that 
weapon 
 ( 5 ) any or 
 ( 6 ) any military weapon 
 ( 7 ) any magazine , magazine , , belt , feed 
strip , or similar device that has a capacity of , or that readily 
can be or converted to accept , more than 
of ammunition 
 ( 8 ) any combination of parts that is intended by the owner 
for use in converting any or other device into a 
dangerous  . 
 ( l ) dangerous does not include any of the 
following 
(1) any , including a military weapon and the 
ammunition for that weapon , and regardless of its actual 
age , which employs a cap or other 
system or which is designed and safe for use only with black 
, and 
(2) any , rifle , or , designed or suitable 
for purposes , unless the is either of the 
following 
 ( a ) a military weapon as issued or as modified , and the 
ammunition for that weapon 
 ( b ) an automatic or off  . 
 ( 3 ) any or other piece which , 
regardless of its actual age , is of a type in accepted use prior 
to , has no , , , or other system 
for and returning the into without 
the , and is designed and safe for use only 
with black 
 ( 4 ) black , , and caps 
and used to fire a of a type defined in 
division  ( l )  ( 3 ) of this section during , , 
organized or , and target practice , and 
and black , , and caps and 
used as a or device in small or 
small ammunition 
 ( 5 ) dangerous which is or and 
cannot readily be or , and which is 
kept as a , , , or piece .  . 
 ( 6 ) any device which is from the 
definition of a destructive device to the gun control 
act of , stat .  . , 18 u . s . c .  .  ( 921(a)(4 ) , as , and 
issued under that act. 
 ( m ) military weapon  means any of the following 
(1) any that originally was for 
military use , or a copy of any such , if the is 
not a action 
(2) any model of any of the following that is a 
semi automatic and is a rifle or any model of any copy of 
any of the following that is a semi automatic 
and is a rifle 
 ( a ) ar 
 ( b ) models and m 1 
 ( c ) 
 ( d ) tech 
 ( e ) china sports 47 
 ( f ) 47 and m 76 
 ( g ) light fifty model 
 ( h ) ar 70 
 ( i ) rifle 
 ( j ) and m 100 
 ( k ) colt ar 15 
 ( l ) , mark , mark 45 , and mark 9 
 ( m ) universal , 
 ( n ) american 1 and 39 
 ( o ) 1 and 2 
 ( p ) ,  . and 
 ( q ) mas 
 ( r ) at 9 
 ( s ) federal and 
 ( t ) ar and 
 ( u ) high tech 
 ( v ) and 91 , 93 , 94 , and 1 
 ( w ) 1 
 ( x ) 14 sf stock model 
 ( y ) sig 57 and series 
 ( z ) 48 , g 3 , 59 , and 


 ( aa ) mk 6 and mark 7 
 ( bb ) 
 ( cc ) and 
 ( dd ) m , m 76 , m 78 , and 
 ( ee ) 
 ( ff ) military and military  . 30 . 
 ( gg ) assault 
 ( hh ) 5 with magazine 
 ( ii ) universe 
 ( jj ) m 11 with or without 
 ( kk ) 
 ( ll ) 
 ( mm ) ap 74 and ap 74 
 ( nn ) of america israeli 
 ( oo ) 
 ( pp ) 
 ( qq ) ap 74 
 ( rr ) johnson p 
 ( ss ) 
 ( tt ) avenger 
 ( uu ) sp and sp 
 ( vv ) m 16 
 ( ww )  . 

 ( 3 ) any model of any of the following that is a 
semi automatic and is a or any model of any copy 
of any of the following that is a semi automatic 
and is a 

 ( a ) 
 ( b ) 100 p 
 ( c ) nj , 9 , and 45 
 ( d ) at 
 ( e ) high tech  
 ( f ) and 22 
 ( g ) 9 and  . 22 . 
 ( h ) johnson 
 ( i ) mac 10 and mac 11 
 ( j ) 
 ( k ) 
 ( l ) mk 7 
 ( m ) 
 ( n ) universal 
 ( o )  . 

 ( 4 ) any model of any of the following that is a 
semi automatic and is a or any model of any copy 
of any of the following that is a semi automatic 
and is a 

 ( a ) 12 and law 12 
 ( b ) 12 and street 
 ( c ) super 90 
 ( d ) 
 ( e ) 12  . 

 . 17 .  .  ( a)(1 ) no person shall knowingly acquire , 
have , or carry any dangerous  . 

(2) no person shall knowingly use any dangerous  . 
 ( b ) this section does not apply to any of the following 
(1) officers , , or employees of this or any other 
state or the united states , members of the armed forces of the 
united states or the organized of this or any other 
state , and law enforcement officers , to the extent that any such 
person is to acquire , have , carry , or use dangerous 
and is acting within the of his duties 
(2) , , , and users of 
, having a license or user issued and in effect 
to the organized crime control act of , stat .  . 
, 18 u . s . c .  . , and any or additions to or 
of that act , with respect to and 
explosive devices acquired , , carried , or used 
under the laws of this state and applicable federal law 
 ( 3 ) , , and having a license 
to deal in destructive devices or their ammunition , issued and in 
effect to the gun control act of , stat .  .  . 
18 u . s . c .  . and any or additions to or 
of that act , with respect to dangerous 
acquired , , carried , or used under the 
laws of this state and applicable federal law 
 ( 4 ) persons to whom has been sold , 
, or given by the of the army to 
stat .  . 62 and , 10 u . s . c .  . , , , and any 
or additions to or of that act , with 
respect to dangerous when and used 
for the purpose in that section 
 ( 5 ) owners of dangerous in the 
national and record to 
the act of october 22 , , stat . , 26 u . s . c .  . , and 
any or additions to or of , and 
issued under the act. 
 ( 6 ) , , and others engaged in the 
business of or for , with respect 
to dangerous or in the usual 
course of their business and in with the laws of this 
state and applicable federal law 
 ( 7 ) the of a license or temporary issued 
and in effect to section 18 . of the revised code , 
with respect to dangerous acquired , , 
carried , or used for the purposes and in the manner in 
the license or  . 
 ( c ) division  ( a)(1 ) of this section does not apply to the 
, having , or carrying of dangerous that is a 
military weapon if both of the following apply 
(1) the person who , has , or carries the dangerous 
in question acquired it before the effective date of 
this amendment as a s item or for a legitimate 
research , scientific , , industrial , or other proper 
purpose 
(2) no later than the close of business on the seventh day 
after the effective date of this amendment , the person who 
acquired the dangerous in question in accordance with 
division  ( c)(1 ) of this section an application 
to section of the revised code for a license to have and 
carry it and the application has not been denied or a valid 
license has been issued to the person. 
 ( d ) divisions  ( a)(1 ) and (2) of this section do not apply 
to the , having , carrying , or using of any dangerous 
described in division  ( k)(7 ) of section 11 . of the 
revised code that was acquired prior to the effective date of 
this amendment .  . 
 ( e ) whoever violates this section is of 
of dangerous , a an aggravated of the 
first degree. 
 .  .  ( a ) any person who acquired a military 
weapon before the effective date of this section shall file a 
written application for a license to have and carry the military 
weapon with the of the or safety director or 
police chief of the corporation where the 
or has his principal place of business. the application 
shall be filed no later than the close of business on the seventh 
day after the effective date of this section and shall be 
accompanied by a filing fee of fifty dollars .  . the person shall 
file a separate application and pay a separate filing fee for 
each military weapon that he has or intends to carry .  . the 
application shall contain all of the following information 
(1) the name , age , address , occupation , and business 
address of the , if the is a natural person , 
or the name , address , and principal place of business of the 
, if the is a corporation 
(2) a description of the military weapon for which a 
license is requested , including the serial number and all 
marks 
 ( 3 ) a statement of the purpose for which the military 
weapon was acquired and for which it is to be , carried , 
or used 
 ( 4 ) any other information that the authority may 
require in giving effect to this section 
 ( 5 ) the oath of the that the information on the 
application is true. 
 ( b)(1 ) no later than the close of business on the 
day after an application for a license to have and 
carry a military weapon has been filed under division  ( a ) of this 
section , the authority shall either approve the 
application and issue a license to the or deny the 
application and send a letter of denial by ordinary mail to the 
 . after conducting any necessary investigation , the 
authority shall issue a license to an whom it 
determines the following 
 ( a ) the is twenty one years of age or older , if 
the is a natural person 
 ( b ) it appears that the will and carry 
the military weapon as a s item or for a legitimate , 
scientific , , industrial , or other proper purpose 
 ( c ) it appears that the has sufficient 
to have and carry the military weapon and that proper 
will be taken to ensure the security of the military 
weapon and the safety of persons and property 
 ( d ) the is not by law from 
having or carrying dangerous  . 
(2) a license issued to division  ( b)(1 ) of this 
section shall be valid for one year after the date of its 
issuance .  . the license shall be to division 
 ( c ) of this section .  . 
 ( c)(1 ) except as provided in division  ( c)(3 ) of this 
section , any person who is issued a license under division  ( b)(1 ) 
of this section shall the license by filing an application 
for by regular mail with the of the or the 
safety director or police chief of the corporation who 
was the authority of the license .  . an application for 
shall be filed no later than one year after the 
date on which the license was issued or last  . 
(2) each and each safety director and peace 
of a corporation shall make available applications for 
the of a license issued under division  ( b)(1 ) of this 
section .  . in the application the , under oath , shall 
update the information in the previous application for 
a license or the of a license .  . 
the application for the of a license shall be 
accompanied by a fee of five dollars .  . the shall file a 
application for and pay a fee 
for each military weapon that he intends to continue to have and 
carry .  . 
 ( 3 ) a person who has changed his or principal 
place of business to a outside of the jurisdiction of 
the authority subsequent to the issuance or of a 
license under this section shall his license by filing an 
application in the manner prescribed by division  ( a ) of this 
section with the of the or the safety director or 
police chief of the corporation where he then 
or has his principal place of business. when making an 
application to a license after a change in or 
place of business , the shall give notice of the change 
of address by regular mail to the original authority for 
the license and the state fire marshall on forms 
prescribed by the , safety director , or police chief from 
whom he seeks  . 
 ( d ) a license to have and carry a military weapon shall 
identify the person to whom it is issued , identify the military 
weapon for which it is issued , state the purpose identified in 
division  ( b)(1)(b ) of this section for which the military weapon 
will be and carried , state its date , and 
list all restrictions on the having or carrying of the military 
weapon as prescribed by the laws of this state and applicable 
federal law. 
 ( e ) any person who is issued a license to have and carry a 
military weapon under this section and who changes his address 
shall the authority of the change of his address 
no later than days after the change has occurred .  . 
 ( f ) the authority shall forward to the state fire 
marshall a copy of each license issued or under this 
section .  . the state fire marshall shall keep a permanent file of 
all issued or under this section .  . 
 ( g ) the authority shall cause each application fee 
of fifty dollars , filed under division  ( a ) of this section , to be 
in the general of the or 
corporation served by the authority .  . the 
authority shall cause two dollars and fifty of each 
fee , filed under division  ( c ) of this section , to be in 
the general of the or corporation served by 
the authority and shall send two dollars and fifty 
of each fee to the of state for deposit in the 
state treasury to the credit of the general  . 
 ( h ) whoever violates division  ( a ) of this section is 
guilty of failing to apply for the of a military 
weapon , a of the fourth degree. whoever violates division 
 ( c ) of this section is guilty of failing to apply for of 
a license for a military weapon , a of the first 
degree. 
 ( i ) a military weapon that is not as required by 
this section is , as defined in section 01 . of the 
revised code and is subject to under section 43 . 
of the revised code. 
 . 20 .  .  ( a ) no person shall do any of the 
following 
(1) import , manufacture , for sale , sell , or 
to any person any military weapon 
(2) sell , lend , give , or any to 
any person by section 13 . or 15 . of the 
revised code from or using any , or 
sell , lend , give , or any dangerous to any person 
by section 13 . , 15 . , or 17 . of the revised 
code from or using any dangerous 
 ( 3 ) any or dangerous with 
purpose to of it in violation of division  ( a ) of this 
section 
 ( 4 ) manufacture , for sale , sell , or to 
any person other than a law enforcement agency for use 
in police work , any , , , , 
, knife , knife , gravity knife , or 
similar weapon 
 ( 5 ) when any dangerous to 
another , fail to require the to exhibit 
any , license , or showing him to be 
to acquire dangerous to section 
17 . of the revised code , or fail to take a 
complete record of the and forward a copy 
of the record to the of the or safety 
director or police chief of the where the 
takes place 
 ( 6 ) knowingly fail to report to law enforcement 
authorities the loss or theft of any or 
dangerous in such person 's or under his 
control. 
 ( b ) whoever violates this section is of 
in weapons .  . violation of division  ( a)(1 ) of this 
section is an aggravated of the first degree. violation 
of division  ( a)(2 ) or  ( 3 ) this section is a of the 
third degree. violation of division  ( a )  ( 4 ) or  ( 5 ) of this 
section is a of the second degree. violation of 
division  ( 6 ) of this section is a of the fourth 
degree. 
section 2. that existing section 11 . , 17 . and 
20 . of the revised code are hereby  . 
section 3. this act is hereby declared to be an emergency 
measure necessary for the immediate preservation of the public 
peace , health , and safety .  . the reason for this necessity is that 
with immediate action , this act will the continued 
, , and use of military weapons and as a result 
will a substantial threat of death and injury to the 
public caused by the misuse of improper use of these weapons .  . 
therefore , this act shall go into immediate effect. 

larry 

from  ( michael a. shaffer ) 
subject re fbi revenge 
organization national 
lines 29 

hmmm .  .  .  . i had n't heard about  . atf must be their 
 .  .  . anyway 
if they had rocket and such  ( as the press and gov claims ) why 
should n't they have done something 

why should they have done something the had not attacked 
or even threatened anyone. 

what possible use would a religious cult have for a rocket 

it is not yours nor the governments right to tell others what they have 
a legitimate right to own. 

also , is child abuse covered by the bill of rights 

is child abuse now within the jurisdiction of the department of the 
treasury attacking citizens without due process on the strength of 
about a violation of a law which does not 
fall under your jurisdiction is a pretty serious of rights. 

shit , if people dont get what they want right away there is an instant problem. 
clinton has only been in office for a few months. give him a chance to get 
something done. the guy had a lot of shit thrown in his in the beginning. 
give him a chance to work on things a little. as they say rome was n't built 
in a day. 

if he gets any more done we will really be in trouble ! 

mike 

from  ( michael phelps ) 
subject re is it really apples to apples  ( lawful vs. use of guns ) 
originator 
reply to  ( michael j. phelps ) 
organization ibm ny 
lines 51 


in article , 
 ( john kim ) writes 
i have been convinced of the right of americans to an effective 
self defense , but something strikes me as odd among the 
pro arguments presented here. 

the numbers comparing hundreds of thousands  ( indeed , even a 
million ) of instances of law citizens 
criminal activity , seem valid to me. likewise the number 
of gun caused each year  ( about 11 , 000 year ) .  . however , 
it is surprising that the evil empire  ( darth 
sound effect here ) never tries to compare 
all legitimate gun vs. all gun crimes .  . instead , 
it 's always all legitimate gun , which includes 
cases in which the criminals are shot but not killed , and 
cases in which the criminal is not here , vs. just 
criminal gun , which only includes case sin which 
the victim died. 

why is this of course , it would n't be unreasonable to say 
that in each crime already measured  ( involving guns ) , the 
are already known and it is safe to assume that 
a gun based bank last week will not suddenly turn 
into a gun  . whereas in the legitimate 
gun , one may assume that all those criminals who 
were would have committed more crime or more 
serious crimes had they not been  . 

i think its an attempt to show lives saved v lives lost all other 
gun related crimes do n't result in lives lost. on the other hand , 
its impossible to know how many of the successful self 
prevented lives from being lost. in other words , the lives lost 
is pretty clear its the and non 
number , while the lives saved is some percentage of the successful 
self  . clearly that percentage does n't have to be real 
high to show that lives saved lives lost. 

as a semi related point , check out 's point . i believe 
it goes into some related areas it also is well written and  . 


case kim 





michael ,  ( external )  .  .  . 
 ( internal )  .  .  . at 
 ( and last but not least a disclaimer ) these opinions are mine .  .  . 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re the atf 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( don baldwin ) writes 

it 's hard to know what who to believe. however , the letter i received from 
the , in response to one i sent to , said that there was a search 
warrant and an arrest warrant .  . 

check again. you may find that the arrest warrant was issued after the 
first  . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject statement to everyone on t . p . g . 
lines 24 

ok , here goes. yes folks , i realize i have stuck my foot in my mouth 
quite a few times already so please let me make some  . my 
information in my posts was due to lack of knowledge. thanks 
to you kind  ( and some not so kind ) people i am learning. some people 
have given me several good points to ponder and i see how i was wrong. 
in no way was this information supposed to be trying to 
further the anti gun cause. i have said several times before  ( but 
nobody seemed to be listening ) that i am pro gun and anti gun control. 

as far as the race can of worms that i have opened up i have only one 
thing to say i am in no way prejudiced .  . some of the things i have 
stated were said to demonstrate that i am not prejudiced and or a racist 
but i have been accused of being too aware of race and prejudiced .  . i will not 
say anymore about that subject because no matter what i say it will be the 
wrong thing. 

boy , what a start to being on a new group. oh well , things have been 
worse in my life. 

i hope this things up but i guess that will remain to be seen. 

by for now , 

jason 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re riddle me this .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution usa 
lines 16 

in article  ( chuck harris wa3uqv ) writes 
if so , why was cs often employed against in vietnam 

cs tear gas was used in vietnam because it makes you so hard that 
your stomach comes out thru your throat. well , not quite that bad , but 
you ca n't really do much to defend yourself while you are blowing cookies. 

i think the is gas , not cs or  . gas exposure results in 
, loss of essentially all control , inability to concentrate 
or think rationally and fatal reactions in a significant of 
the population .  . for that reason its use is limited to military 
applications .  . 

frank 
boulder 


from  ( young yoon ) 
subject re boston gun buy back 
nntp posting host aix . edu . 
lines 27 

 ( myron p030 ) writes 

ron miller wrote 
when you ask the question of the authorities or of 
programs whether they will check for stolen weapons and they answer 
no , it 's total amnesty . 
 ( good point about being used only for harassment deleted ) 

i would also like to point out that this is receiving stolen property and is 
no different than a owner doing the same thing. 



, 
y all 

the opinions included in this post are my sole responsibility .  . 
and are protected by the first amendment and by the 
second amendment .  . 

an interesting idea consider 
at any where a buy back program is being instituted , get a list 
of guns they received and compare serial numbers with a list of stolen guns 
and the people responsible for the program if those guns were  . 
criminal charges can also be made . ( . receiving stolen property , destruction of 
private property etc . ) . 


from  ( kennedy james scot ) 
subject re 2nd amendment dead good ! 
organization state university 
lines 49 

from article , by 
yea , there are millions of cases where say that 
 deter  criminals .  . , this is not  . i think that that 
there are actually few cases where this is so. 

it certainly is  . around a million americans every year defend 
themselves with  . in many of these cases the does n't even 
have to fire a shot ! the mere presence of a gun is all the 
deterrent that is needed .  . 

i do n't like violence anymore than anyone else does. but , taking away the 
right of americans to keep and bear is not the solution to the violent 
crime problem in this country. if honest , law citizens are unable 
to get then they will be on even more by criminals who will 
be able to acquire guns through illegal  . expect to start seeing 
the crime who drugs into this country start 
guns .  . believe me this will happen. there is plenty of economic 
incentive for to import guns into this country if guns 
should be by the  . 

the of are used against unworthy and 
opponents ... those who a cool you want , those who 
would argue with you about a space , those who would 
take your woman. in short , trivial and worthless causes .  . 

statistics , favor 

too much of this has you cause. there is no  . 
in the near future , federal will come for your  . 
no one will help you. you are more dangerous , to their thinking , 
than the  . this is your own fault. 

see my previous post. that ought to set you straight .  . 

the 2nd amendment is dead. accept this. find another way. 

people have the right to keep and bear no matter what the 
constitution says .  . that means that even if the 2nd amendment is 
the people  ( that 's all american citizens fyi ) will still 
have the right to keep and bear  . 


scott , and 

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets 
the bible through the of a gun .  .  .  . atf spokesman 
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets 
the constitution through the of a gun .  .  .  . me 


from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re another  ( 4 4 93 ) 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( aaron ray clements ) writes 

thanks to the n . r . a .  . , the a . t . f .  . is from researching the 
of using in , are a cheap 
and that would help 
at crime like the world trade center bombing 
trace the involved. 

i want this man to tell me how in the hell you can take the 
used in the wtc bombing , considering that the 
consensus seems to be that the explosive was a based 
one. 

proper counter to this claim analysis of the wtc bomb by 
means of would have been as impossible as analysis 
of by means of the difficulty in both cases 
being to have persuaded the bull to the before 
of either item. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( earl wallace ) 
subject re with friends like these l. neil smith 
organization apple computer inc. cross software 
lines 17 
nntp posting host apple . com . 


look , if you can figure out a reliable means of keeping guns away from 
bad people , while not interfering with good people , i think we 'd all be 
for it. the problem is , the methods we 're using now do n't do the trick. 

do n't manufacture them. do n't sell them. do n't import them. 

some guns will get through , but far , and far less people will 
die because of them. weapons could be allowed , of course , as 
long as they are big , and , and require after a few 
shots  ( how many times can you shoot at the same animal , anyways one 
assumes they are moving ! ) 

a better solution 

if the  bad  people ca n't be trusted with guns , then lock them or knock 
them off. stop punishing good people. 

from  ( david feustel ) 
subject re we knew it would happen 
organization 2 software support 
lines 8 

god forgive me for being an american who taxes to a government 
that atrocities like the massacre of 1993 .  . 

dave 

i'm beginning to look forward to the 100 of taxes 
to pay for the interest on the national debt .  . at that point the 
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds .  . 

from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 45 

in article  ( andrew betz ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 
watch from where two away far enough away that whatever 
really must be explained through the filter of 
a agency that said  ( quote ! ) enough is enough. 

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people 
come out with their hands up several weeks ago. 

no answer. 

you did n't answer the question. the fbi took people out of 
camera range .  . it is thus possible that they were engaging in 
questionable activities. 

i do not feel like the were out of range .  . watched the first 
confrontation .  . watched the  . watched the final 
confrontation with  . watched the fire .  . when were n't 
able to watch when would be unable to watch people coming out with 
their hands up 

as to your question , please tell me what you think would have happened 
had the atf squad knocked and asked several weeks 
ago  ( as opposed to playing with a t.v. in  . 

well , that is what should have done. either , koresh would have gone 
as he has done in the past , or perhaps it was already too close 
to the in his own mind. it is hard to the actions of 
a leader who would not release the children when most rational people would. 

now will you answer my question up top 





brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 






from  ( david veal ) 
subject re  ( incredibly long) 
lines 47 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article  ( john lawrence rutledge ) writes 

in article , (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 

again , my response is , so what is mr. arguing that since 
the local and federal governments have abandoned their charter to support 
such activity , and passed laws prohibiting private organizations from 
doing so , that they have eliminated the basis for the on the 
contrary , to anyone who the game , they have it. 

no , i originally argued that the second amendment was a little bit 
and an  . these prohibiting laws are examples why the are 
an  . after all , laws in made by representatives of the 
people. these representatives of the people have already decided 
that the second amendment does not apply or is too broad in some 
cases. since these representatives feel an 
interpretation is not wanted , then it is probable that they majority 
of the people feel the same way. if this is so , it is an example 
of the people using their power of government. if this is not 
how the people feel , the people should stand up and state their wishes .  . 

i 'll point out that the whole point of the difficult amendment 
process was to require a super majority to change the supreme law , 
making it impossible for a majority of the people to simply change 
the law on a  . simply changing the meaning based on the 
representatives of the people effectively destroys the amendment 
process. the state 's , you know , are also entitled to a say under 
that process. 

, mr.  . you are the only one here claiming that the 
is dependent on the existence of a top , well 
 . why this is a false assumption has already been posted a 
number of times. 

no , i simple stated that the people have a right to join a well 
organized  . 

i 'll note that that right could be considered protected under 
the first amendment 's protection of peaceful assembly .  . unless 
you would consider a inherently non peaceful , then they 've 
stated the same thing twice .  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 89 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
in article  ( jim de 
arras ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
i agree that they deserved a trial .  . they had more than 40 days to come 
out and get their trial .  . they chose to keep the children with them and 
to stay inside. they chose to stay inside even after they were tear 
gassed .  . 
i do not find these actions rational .  . even was smart enough to 
give up and go for the trial he deserved .  . 


mr. , you are a government sucking bastard. 

unworthy of comment. 

but apparently true. my opinion , only , of course. 


humans died 
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the 
actions 
they did. that is the undeniable truth. i cried for them. 

nor would they have died if they had come out with their hands empty .  . 
that is undeniable truth. 

no , it is not. it is possible the fbi for this to happen , and the 
heard was the fbi keeping the folks inside. i'm not proposing this as 
the way it went down , but just to point out that it 's not undeniable that if 
they walked out yesterday , they would be alive today. 

my heart just as much as yours for 
the children who were never released given 51 days of ample opportunities 
to do so. my heart also for people so by religious devotion 
to not have the common sense to leave the compound when came up 
and started dropping in tear gas early in the morning. 


my heart for no one. you are the heart . and i'm sure 
beyond any possible doubt that you do not feel for those people as i do. you 
can not say the things you have said if you did. 

you seem to say 
they got what they deserved .  . 

i do not think this. however , if they did set the fire  ( which started in 
more than one place and spread very quickly ) , then they got what they 
wanted and put into motion themselves. 

they got what they wanted . what kind of creature are you that you can 
believe this 

i see the is going to be investigated by the justice dept. and likely 
by and congress .  . this is good. they have bungled the affair 
from the start. 


we agree on this. now lets have your god , the fbi , investigated , too. 

jim 





i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 

that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 

in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 





jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( rick bressler ) 
subject re armed citizen april  93 
organization group 
lines 22 

talk . politics . guns .  ( colin 6842 ) 9 23 am apr 13 , 1993 

in article writes 

the armed citizen 

mere presence of a , without a shot being fired , prevents 
crime in many instances , as shown by news reports sent to the 
armed citizen .  . 

perhaps so , but note that of the accounts cited , there was only 
one in which no shot was fired .  . of the other twelve , five 
described cases in which the was by a shot , 
and described cases in which the was killed by a 
shot .  . 

follow more than one months posting. as more than one reader has noted , 
there is some reporting bias here. i have seen months where these 
numbers were reversed .  . i do n't keep a constant tally , but it seems 
this particular issue had more shots fired than any other i can remember. 

 . 

from  ( at dreamer ) 
subject re insane gun unite ! ! ! 
organization univ .  . of north @ 
distribution na 
lines 10 

anyone who about his own gun should not have one. if you carry 
any with a empty chamber and safety the chances of it going off 
are about zero .  . unless you sit it on top of a for a couple 
of or put it in a fire .  . ) 



what does n't kill us makes us stronger spoken by many a . t .  . 
delta four papa uniform 


from  ( donald r. newcomb ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host whale . edu . 
organization university of southern 
lines 145 

first , i would like to say how much i appreciate having so literate and 
an individual as mr. with whom to discuss this topic. 
frankly , most anti posters refuse even to approach the topic of 
the original understanding of the bill of rights as detailed in the 
writings of the era. this is most  . 

second , i must apologize for leaving the discussion for several days. 
my 's quarterly was this and i needed to 
to several matters to the state  . 

some people seem to feel that the concept of the is an 
that is out of place in the 20th century. i'm not sure the 
would agree and i think perhaps a discussion of how the , both 
organized and unorganized , fits into the defense plans of my state , 
 . please do not assume that this describes something peculiar 
to one southern state. for instance , the commonwealth of 
has a well organized which , members report , stocks 
of both guns and machine guns .  . the laws of other states will vary 
but are probably similar. 

title 35 of code defines our as all able 
citizens of the state between the ages of  ( 17 ) and 
two  ( 62 ) years .  .  .  . . the is divided into 3 classes the national 
guard , the state guard and the unorganized  . the 
national guard is a strange sort of fish from a constitutional perspective. 
it tries to be both state and federal reserve .  . the discussion 
of this constitutional arrangement is quite interesting in itself 
but somewhat beyond the of this discussion. suffice it that , at this 
date , the national guard has ceased to have any constitutional standing 
as anything but a federal reserve force. 

, and most other states , a purely state organized 
 . in this is called the state guard .  . in other 
states it may be called something else. the state guard exists as 
a or training corps made up of mostly experienced officers and 
who serve as without  . we 
on a monthly basis at the company and level , once 
a and have an of the whole organization .  . our 
state strength is  . this is a of an 
organization without any flesh .  . the and when needed will 
come from the unorganized  . 

in time of invasion , or the can order 
the of the state guard .  . when this takes place a call will 
first be made for to fill the organization out to either 
its strength of or full strength of  . in the 
event that a sufficient number of people fail to , the law 
provides detailed instructions for the conducting of a draft of the 
unorganized  . the size of the state guard is not by 
law , but rather by order. at one time , the organized 
of of  . to say , the state 
does not have with weapons with which to such 
a force. the historical precedent for such a force is by use 
of mostly the private of the  . 

it is my hope that demonstrates that state are far from being 
the long dead that some may wish to claim .  . 

no , i simple stated that the people have a right to join a well 
organized  . and i have also stated that a that 
once or twice a year is clearly well organized .  . and this 
state of that i have claimed the people have a right 
to , is the same state of expected of the as stated 
by  . 

regarding if you take 's opinion as being the sole 
representative of the opinions of the founding fathers , you will have 
chosen a highly skewed set .  . was on the extreme 
end of the political spectrum .  . others , such as and henry , can 
be chosen to represent the other end. many contemporaries felt that 
the idea of having a standing army of any sort or even a select 
or train were contrary to the egalitarian nature of the 
they were to perfect. the compromise reached was to 
provide for a small army , which had to be every two years , 
and iron protection for the , which was to remain ever , 
terrible and . 

these included state control , not federal 
of federal of the (i . e .  . execute laws , suppress 
and invasions ) , and the right to keep and bear 
to prevent what the british had tried to do at  . 
these eventually proved so to the federal 
that they were by the creation of the national guard .  . 

the national guard was created for one very simple reason the 
constitutional was had proved too unreliable for fighting 
wars of imperial  . (e . g .  . spanish american  . the 
constitution provided that the could only be employed by 
the federal government in very limited purposes. as far back as the 
war of , units had refused to leave united states 
territory to attack the enemy .  . further , there was no constitutional 
for any of anyone into the federal 
military and were particularly protected .  . in all wars until 
i every american who left the country under was a  . 
when the national guard acts of required that each new 
member also as a in the army , existing soldiers were 
. at least one of these individuals 
refused to go to france in and his refusal was upheld by the 
federal courts .  . 

mr. has stated that the second amendment applies only to 
members of a well organized  . however , the pre constitutional 
history of the american shows relatively few periods when 
the came close to meeting either  . or 's 
definition of well organized . in the period of peace between the 
french war and the revolution many simply stopped 
and had to be just prior to the revolution .  . 
perhaps mr. would care to argue that those of my ancestors 
who answered the had their rights because 
their units did n't for a few years in the  . i would not 
be so bold .  . 

again , i wish to repeat .  . the national guard , for all its merits , is 
not the described by the constitution nor by mr. 
nor by mr. henry nor by mr.  . the fact that the federal government 
and many states are in their to and organizing 
of their constitutional neither their 
nor the rights of the as detailed in the 
constitution .  . 

misunderstanding of the nature and purpose of the is but one 
error that has into modern readings of the constitution .  . the 
constitution prohibits states from keeping troops or of war 
in time of peace . i have heard some insist this prevents states from 
maintaining a , but this comes about because people today do not 
understand the meanings of the words in their century usage .  . 
today we call any large a but in the century the word 
described a particular kind of  . a is a large with 
three or more each carrying square  . a has two 
 . in the contemporary usage the states were only from keeping 
the largest of the day , those capable of  . today 's 
equivalent might be a on the states  keeping nuclear missiles .  . 
troops at this time meant a full time military organization .  . 
any study of writings will bear this out. 

in at least one respect , i am in agreement with mr. being 
personally involved in the and of the 
as a viable means of defense for a modern society , i am frequently 
both and when friends and poetic on 
their place in the unorganized and become strangely silent or 
when invited to a of their state 's  . 

r. university of southern 
this is the way we tax and spend , tax 
and spend .  . we 're in office. 

from  ( phil ngai ) 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
organization systems incorporated 
lines 11 

in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
i know a number of ex members who have recently become members .  . 
i 've never heard of a single one who has gone the other way. 

i 've been a member of the for several years and recently joined 
 . i wanted to see what they were up to and paid the minimum ( 15 ) 
to get a membership .  . i also sent the another 120 .  . 


would the founding fathers have approved of so 
strong that the government could not break it 

subject re nazi 
from  ( christopher c may ) 
organization university of arizona tucson , arizona 
lines 34 

in  ( michael p. brininstool ) writes 

were also common in american walls etc. is 
it the that is bad 

just want to back this up with a personal anecdote .  . my 
have a made in the 's , which they received in trade 
from the while living in , arizona .  . the 
consists of 4 large black , one in each corner .  . what 's more , the 
color scheme is black , white , and red. to the casual it would 
appear to be a nazi of some kind. yet they owned it 
ten years before hitler and the national came to power. 

as i recall , they took it down in the 30 's , and did n't feel quite right 
about putting it back up until the 60 's .  . it still comments from 
those who do n't know what it is. 




c. may u. of  . coll. of medicine  93 

do your part for liberty teach your children to hate big government. 

do you care about freedom dreams may have inspired it , and wishes 
it , but only war and weapons have made it yours. robert 
in  . 
the wise man 's understanding him his right hand , but a 
fool 's heart him to the left. 10 2 

c. may u. of  . coll. of medicine  93 

do your part for liberty teach your children to hate big government. 


from  ( ron phillips ) 
subject re armed citizen april  93 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization , view , ca 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( colin 6842 ) writes 
in article writes 

the armed citizen 

mere presence of a , without a shot being fired , prevents 
crime in many instances , as shown by news reports sent to the 
armed citizen .  . 

perhaps so , but note that of the accounts cited , there was only 
one in which no shot was fired .  . of the other twelve , five 
described cases in which the was by a shot , 
and described cases in which the was killed by a 
shot .  . 

and , had not these citizens accepted the moral responsibility to 
protect their own lives , there could well have been at least 
13 innocent victims lying dead and several criminals still out 
walking the streets their crimes on others. 





ron 
customer engineer 

east evelyn avenue voice  ( 415 ) 
view , ca fax  ( 415 ) 


from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re newspapers gun 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 48 

newspaper ad censorship 

the newspapers have now decided to gun which is why you no longer 
see the that traders , san , has run for many years. 

if you are tired of newspapers who run sex and , yet refuse to 
run legitimate gun , please send a letter to the indicating your 
over their censorship doctrine .  . 

following is a list of bay area newspapers who gun  . perhaps you 'd 
like to send them your thoughts on this issue ! 

times san times san francisco 
mission st. 
, ca san , ca san francisco , ca 

san  . independent san  . examiner san jose news 
evans 110 st. 750 park dr. 
san  . , ca san  . , ca san jose , ca 

i have the april 15 , 1993 issue of the sf in my  . page 
 ( in the green section ) has a 's  .  ( the 
copy is a bit up it says that the offered 
4 14 93 , but the ad is there . ) . 

the sf examiner and run the same set of  ( because 
they have a printing agreement and differ only in 
 . 

i 've seen gun recently in the , which is anti gun , 
not from traders , but from its  . 

i do n't know about the other papers .  . 

does traders claim that things are changing when 

why tv journalists lie 

because it 's easier than telling the truth and no one much cares 
either way. 

let me know if you write to any of these  . 

before you do , make sure that the are actually doing what 
you 're accusing them of. 

andy 


from  ( ted schuerzinger ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
x posted from 
organization , , nh 
lines 49 

in article 
writes 

i will be surprised if this post makes it past the , 
but here goes 

monday , 19 april , 1993 13 30 edt 

murder most foul ! ! 

is reporting as i write this that the atf has ignited all 
the buildings of the branch near , tx .  . the 
lies from atf say holes were made in the walls and  non lethal  tear 
gas in . a few after this started the whole thing went up. 
all buildings are  . no one has escaped .  . i think it obvious that 
the atf used flame to in 
, then let the wood inside it. 

this is murder ! 

atf murderers ! ! ! 

this is genocidal mass slaughter of innocent people , including children ! 

i have predicted this from the start , but god , it me to see 
it happen. i had hoped i was wrong. i had hoped that there was 
still some of the america i grew up with , and loved , left 
alive .  . i was wrong. the nazis have won .  . 

i repeat , as of this time there are no survivors ! 

god help us all. 


please t let them get away with the slaughter of the children ! 


w. k. an american in  . 

the latest news i saw was that two of the eight known survivors  ( not no 
survivors ! ! ! as you so put in all caps ) said they started the 
fire .  . 

i wo n't go on with the things the of did. 




this is not the secret message. 

from  ( paul eric stoufflet ) 
subject clipper chip 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( paul eric stoufflet ) 
organization university 
distribution usa 
lines 12 

i thought that the clipper chip that was posted to t . p . g .  ( sorry , i lost 
the original post ) was a joke. i really did. i did n't believe it for 
a second .  . but on the way to work this morning , i heard about it on  . 

this me almost as much as the doublespeak from the 
fbi and in  . 


paul eric 
medical center 
internet 
all opinions are my own 

from  ( christopher morton ) 
subject re what if the were black 
article i.d. 
reply to  ( christopher morton ) 
organization north coast public access , cleveland , oh 
lines 35 

as quoted from by  ( kenneth d. whitehead ) 

m . writes 

questions for the media and the politically correct 

try asking people who do n't understand why anyone would worry about 
the used against the child , drug dealing , gun running , 
cop killing religious in (1) these questions 

if the people in the compound were black and the guys in suits 
charging in with assault weapons and were 
what would you think 


the charges are essentially the same they used against operation move 
in philadelphia a few years back , where the cops dropped an 
bomb on the roof of a and burned down a whole block. 

move was a black group. 

there were some significant differences .  . whereas the branch are 
reported to have gotten along rather well with their , the move 
people are generally to have gone far out of the way to 
their black , using to all hours of the night , keeping 
large of garbage , promoting rat and , and allegedly 
threatening to their  children. 

still the same sort of questions regarding use of force remain in that case. 



you 're like a bunch of over , new york jewish lawyers 
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in 


from  ( tim smith ) 
subject re fbi director 's statement on 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington school of law , class of  
lines 9 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

 ( david feustel ) writes 
we have no evidence that fbi would not have started shooting 
when and if people had started coming out of the burning building .  . 

oh how about the press if the fbi were going to shoot people 
leaving a burning building , do n't you think they would get rid of the 
press first 

tim smith 

from  ( brandon d. ray ) 
subject re statement of regarding texas state carrying legislation 
article i.d. usenet . 
reply to  ( brandon d. ray ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio  ( usa ) 
lines 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , ( allen ) says 


here is a press release from control inc. 

statement of regarding texas state carrying 
legislation 
to state 
contact of control inc. , 

washington , march 25 following is a statement of 
regarding texas state carrying legislation 

a of lawmakers in austin today have told the public that 
their safety is of less importance than the interests of the national 
rifle association .  . this action comes as local , state and federal law 
enforcement continue their stand off with a religious cult 
that has highlighted the need for gun laws , not weaker ones 
like the carry bill. 

a of anti gun are telling the public that their 
right to self defense is of less importance than the interests of 
control , inc. this action comes as local , state and federal law 
enforcement continue their assault on the branch 
compound an assault which has already resulted in the death of one 
two year old child at the hands of federal  . this has highlighted 
the need for citizens to be able to defend themselves and their children 
against the of their own government. 

any suggestion by that this bill will help to reduce 
crime is a of the facts , at best. this so called 
crime fighting law has resulted in a 16 percent increase in violent 
crime in the state of florida , and i have never heard law enforcement 
that more guns on the streets is the way to reduce 
crime .  . 

any suggestion by opponents that this bill will increase crime is a 
of the facts , at best. the aggressive by 
in central florida to train and women has led to a drop in 
the level of assault and rape in that area. of course , this program is 
a rare gem , as many law enforcement apparently believe that an 
unarmed will be easier to control , and thus favor 
restrictions .  . 

the vote today is an insult to the law enforcement who 
are putting their lives on the line every day to end the in 
 . the entire country now knows just how easy it is for an 
individual on destruction to an of weapons .  . texas 
lawmakers who voted for this bill have shown total 
disregard for those law on the front lines , and the 
families of those who have fallen .  . 

the vote today is a to the good sense of the public at large 
who are putting their lives on the line every day as they go about their 
lawful affairs .  . the entire country knows how vulnerable the average 
citizen is , both to attacks from criminals and from armed assault by our 
own police .  . texas lawmakers who voted for this bill have 
shown total understanding for those innocent , law citizens on the 
front lines , and the families of those who have fallen .  . 

i urge the house of representatives to listen to the 70 percent 
of that oppose this measure , and reject this ill conceived 
legislation .  . 

i urge the house of representatives to pay attention to the needs 
of their , and not be by ill conceived arguments 
from ideological fanatics .  . 

30 

allen , , ontario 

canada remote systems , ontario 


ai n't propaganda fun 



the opinions expressed by the author are insightful , intelligent and very 
carefully thought out. it is therefore unlikely that they are shared by the 
university of iowa or case western reserve university .  . 

from  ( john lawrence rutledge ) 
subject re  ( incredibly long) 
organization interactive media group university of at 
lines 54 

in article , (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( john lawrence rutledge ) writes 
but , do you knew how much organization is required to training a large 
group of twice a year .  . just to try to get the same people 
every year , provide a basic training to new people so they can 
be integrated into the force , and find a suitable , it 
requires a continually standing of  . 

again , my response is , so what is mr. arguing that since 
the local and federal governments have abandoned their charter to support 
such activity , and passed laws prohibiting private organizations from 
doing so , that they have eliminated the basis for the on the 
contrary , to anyone who the game , they have it. 

no , i originally argued that the second amendment was a little bit 
and an  . these prohibiting laws are examples why the are 
an  . after all , laws in made by representatives of the 
people. these representatives of the people have already decided 
that the second amendment does not apply or is too broad in some 
cases. since these representatives feel an 
interpretation is not wanted , then it is probable that they majority 
of the people feel the same way. if this is so , it is an example 
of the people using their power of government. if this is not 
how the people feel , the people should stand up and state their wishes .  . 

, mr.  . you are the only one here claiming that the 
is dependent on the existence of a top , well 
 . why this is a false assumption has already been posted a 
number of times. 

no , i simple stated that the people have a right to join a well 
organized  . and i have also stated that a that 
once or twice a year is clearly well organized .  . and this 
state of that i have claimed the people have a right 
to , is the same state of expected of the as stated 
by  . 




if only it were a modern document , with a 
john lawrence smart index and links all 
research assistant through the world data net. it was terribly 
frustrating to flip back and forth between 
interactive media group the pages and crude flat that 
computer science department never even moved .  . nor were there 
or  . it completely a 
1 university  . for sound. 
, ma most of all was the problem of new 
words .  .  .  . in normal text you 'd only have to 
 ( 508 ) touch an word and the definition 
would pop up just below. 
from david 's earth 


from  ( david feustel ) 
subject the real reason politicians want guns 
organization 2 software support 
lines 12 

politicians want to eliminate private ownership of guns before the 
general public starts violently the tax increases needed 
to the federal government as an ever higher percentage of tax 
goes to pay interest on the national debt  ( currently 57 
out of every tax dollar and  . 


dave 

i'm beginning to look forward to the 100 of taxes 
to pay for the interest on the national debt .  . at that point the 
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds .  . 

from  ( david feustel ) 
subject re die koresh die ! 
organization 2 software support 
lines 9 

the explanations of federal law enforcement about what 
happened in is just another example of the survivors writing the 
history books to put themselves in the best of a bad light. 

dave 

i'm beginning to look forward to the 100 of taxes 
to pay for the interest on the national debt .  . at that point the 
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds .  . 

from  ( foxvog douglas ) 
subject re the second amendment  ( ideas ) 
organization 
lines 

in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( foxvog douglas ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( john lawrence rutledge ) writes 

the massive destructive power of many modern weapons , makes the 
cost of an accidental or usage of these weapons to great .  . 
the weapons of mass destruction need to be in the control of 
the government only .  . individual access would result in the 
deaths of millions .  . this makes the right of the people 
to keep and bear many modern weapons non existant .  . 

thanks for stating where you 're coming from. to say , i 
disagree on every count. 

you believe that individuals should have the right to own weapons of 
mass destruction i find it hard to believe that you would support a 
neighbor 's right to keep nuclear weapons , biological weapons , and 
gas on his her property .  . 

if we cannot even agree on keeping weapons of mass destruction out of 
the hands of individuals , can there be any hope for us 

i do n't sign any  . 

of course. the term must be defined in any bill. 

when doug says weapons of mass destruction , he means and 
 . when says weapons of mass destruction she means 
street and semi automatic  . 

i doubt she uses this term for that. you are using a quote allegedly 
from her , can you back it up 

when john 
lawrence says weapons of mass destruction , and then immediately 
follows it with 

the us has thousands of people killed each year by , 
this number can easily be reduced by putting reasonable restrictions 
on them. 

 .  .  . what . does mean by the term 

i read the article as presenting first an argument about weapons of mass 
destruction  ( as commonly understood ) and then switching to other topics. 
the first point evidently was to show that not all weapons should be 
allowed , and then the later analysis was , given this understanding , to 
consider another class .  . 

if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 




doug 


from  ( john l. scott ) 
subject ! 
organization j. random site 
x posted from 1 . edu . 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 

wrote 
that was the entire point to you . what exactly did i claim 

i 've heard eye witness descriptions of using their main guns 
to respond to fire .  . quite effectively .  . 


i was n't wrong . . . i 've heard those descriptions .  . if you 're 
paying attention , i 've mentioned that i saw the with my own 
eyes , but the main gun firing was an account i heard. that helps 
people judge whether or not to kick in the , to use your words , 
bullshit . stating that i claimed this is a falsehood .  . 

later in the same post 
another part of my was that while most building 
were , some were in  . based on what i remember , i was and 
am inclined to believe an old or two .  . 

fine , now you are stating that you believe their claims  ( or that you are 
inclined to. see below for a stronger statement of your  . those 
claims are still ludicrous , however. 

previously had written 
you can also read of the troops using  . 

me to write 
to fire i doubt that as well. to fire 
perhaps. to fire tear gas certainly .  . but you would be 
perfectly willing to let us believe they fired , would n't you , since 
it makes your other claim seem more plausible .  . 

to which replied 
john , again , strawman techniques .  . do you feel you 're it so you 
have to stretch what i said and knock that down what i read said 
nothing about what they fired .  . and so i put nothing in there. if you 
need some help , let me know and i l take your side of this for a 
while. you 're not here , you 're here. 

but why did you mention at all because it supports the 
notion that the buildings .  . and it supports that notion 
because it images of troops  . but 
that too is ludicrous .  . 

i wrote 
if had fired their main guns in , people would have been 
screaming about it for the past two and half decades .  . i would know about 
it. 

relied 
glad to know you 're such an expert .  . nice to hear some an 
authority .  . i especially appreciate your basis of knowledge if it 
had happened , you would have know it. since you are such an 
authority , you probably know that people did about an alleged 
massive cover up in the number of people killed in the  . 
some claimed 100 dead , others said  . the number is 43 but 
the concise encyclopedia says it was several . i 've also 
heard some things about that but i wo n't dare repeat them. you 'd 
assert that i claimed they were truth. 

yes , if it happened i would have heard about it. everybody would have. 
army do n't fire their in american cities in the 's 
without it becoming common knowledge , without minority leaders on 
it and condemning it over and over again , without civil saying 
this has gone far enough. so , yes , my never hearing of it was the basis 
for my disbelieving the claim .  . now i have more reasons to disbelieve it. 
not one poster has written to say , yes , i lived in at that time and 
everybody knew that the had fired  . this is the usenet .  . if it 
had happened , somebody here would remember it. furthermore , your own 
research failed to come up with any support for the claim .  . the claim is 
extraordinary and it has no supporting evidence , extraordinary or not. 
unless you count the of a couple of shooting the shit. i 
do not. 

i wrote 
unless you also claim that the national guard managed to cover it up. 

wrote 
taking the after the riots , it was pretty easy to tell the 
difference between army and guard troops .  . or so i recall from 26 
years ago. and i seem to recall it was the army running the  . 
so it would have been an army cover up. 

quibble .  . fine , it was an army cover up. years in the has 
taught me the difference also. but do you think that in two and half 
decades not one guilt ridden participant has come forward and said yes , i 
americans , or i gave the orders to fire the , or i 
helped cover it up 

i wrote 
if your mind is open enough to believe that , well , good for you. i 
prefer 
to live in reality. and here in reality , i find it hard to believe that 
those even had any , much less fired them. 

replied 
given the level in destruction in , i'm quite willing to believe 
that they did fire their guns .  . 

good. then we can drop the junk about you not claiming that they did. 
your belief fails a basic reality check why is n't it known 

concludes 
now then , we 've bored the shit out of anyone whose bothered to read 
this far and all you 've managed to say is that you do n't believe the 
account i cited .  . 

actually , now we have established that i do n't believe what you believe , as 
well as why i do n't believe it. and if it 's , then i the last 
word to you , if you want it. you may say anything you like with 
i am dropping the subject. 

john l. scott 

from  ( david feustel ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization 2 software support 
lines 10 

it 's truly unfortunate that we do n't have the japanese tradition of 
for public to some of honor after 
they commit offenses against humanity like were in , 
texas today. 

dave 

i'm beginning to look forward to the 100 of taxes 
to pay for the interest on the national debt .  . at that point the 
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds .  . 

from node . org .  ( nigel allen ) 
subject clinton press conference , part 2 
organization r node public access unix 1 
lines 

here is a press release from the white house. 

president clinton 's remarks on with q a 
to national 
contact white house office of the press , 

washington , april 20 u.s. newswire following are 
remarks by president clinton in a question and answer 
with the press  ( part 2 of 2 ) 

go ahead ,  . 

q there are two questions i want to ask you. the 
first is , i think that they knew very well that the children did not 
have gas while the adults did , so the children had no chance 
because this gas was very she said it was not lethal , but it was 
very dangerous to the children and they could not have survived 
without gas  . and on february let 's go back did n't 
those people have a right to practice their religion 

the president they were not just practicing their 
religion , they were the treasury department believed that they had 
violated federal laws , any number of them. 

q what federal laws 

the president let me go back and answer i ca n't 
answer the question about the gas , except to tell you that the 
whole purpose of using the tear gas was that it had been tested they 
were convinced that it would n't kill either a child or an adult but 
it would force anybody that it to run outside .  . and one of 
the things that i 've heard i do n't want to get into the details of 
this because i do n't know but one of the things that they were 
speculating about today was that the wind was blowing so fast that 
the might have been opened and some of the gas might have 
escaped and that may be why it did n't have the desired effect. 

they also knew , , that there was an 
compound a buried where the children could be 
sent .  . and they were i think they were very much that if 
the children were not released immediately outside that the 
thing would be done and that the children would be sent 
where they could be protected .  . 

in terms of the gas themselves , i learned 
yesterday i did not ask this fact question before that the gas 
was supposed to stay active in the compound longer than the gas 
themselves were to work. so that it was thought that even if they 
all had gas , that eventually the gas would force them out in a 
,  . 

 . last question. 

q mr. president , why are you still saying that 

q could you tell us whether or not you ever asked 
janet about the possibility of a mass suicide and when you 
learned about the actual fire and what went through your 
mind during those 

the president what i asked janet is if they had 
considered all the worse things that could happen. and she said 
and , of course , the whole issue of suicide had been raised in the 
public he had that had been anyway. and she said that 
the people who were most knowledgeable about these kinds of issues 
concluded that there was no greater risk of that now than there would 
be tomorrow or the next day or the day after that or at anytime in 
the future. that was the judgment they made. whether they were 
right or wrong , of course , we will never know. 

what happened when i saw the fire , when i saw the 
building burning i was sick .  . i felt terrible .  . and my immediate 
concern was whether the children had gotten out and whether they were 
or whether they were inside , trying to burn themselves up. 
that 's the first thing i wanted to know. 

thank you. 

q mr. president , why are you still saying it was a 
janet decision is n't it , in the end , your decision 

the president well , what i'm saying is that i did n't 
have a four or five hour , detailed from the fbi .  . i did n't 
go over every strategic part of it. it is a decision for which i 
take responsibility .  . i'm the president of the united states and i 
signed off on the general decision and giving her the authority to 
make the last call .  . when i talked to her on sunday , some time had 
 . she might have made a decision to change her mind. i said , 
if you decide to go forward with this tomorrow , i will support you. 
and i do support her. 

she is not ultimately responsible to the american 
people i am .  . but i think she has conducted her duties in an 
appropriate fashion and she has dealt with this situation i think as 
well as she could have. 

thank you. ) . 

30 

from  ( steve gardner ) 
subject re ban all ! 
nntp posting host imagine . com . 
organization engineering , computer corp .  . , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 20 

in article writes 
tend to fall into this low dollar area. 
why either the or the denominator could  . 
the dollar value of a gun would  ( of course) 
go up if supply were restricted .  . the weight of a gun might 
go down as technology improved .  . i do n't 
think you have a basis to assert this. 

it would not be economic to them in. all 
would have to be local .  . there are not all that many people 
who have both the and motivation to worthwhile 
from  . 
the is easily taught to anyone with a of 
and the only needed is 
money. if guns were then this would kick 
in big time. now , of course , it is not a 
proposition for every machine to make guns on the 
side when it ai n't  . ban guns and 
watch what happens. you 'll have to a year in advance 
to get your  . ) 

from  ( cathy smith ) 
subject questions to ponder 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university , , co 
lines 62 

the libertarian second amendment in , , 
this as a to the city council 
in the election .  . as expected , very few of the 
(3 of 13 ) responded , but they know we 're watching .  . 

feel free to use any and all of these questions that strike your 
fancy or use them as inspiration for your own. 



1. would you be willing to state , in writing , that if you are 
publicly demonstrated to have violated your oath of office 
you would and never run for office again 

2. under what circumstances do the rights of the group come 
before the rights of the individual 

3. would you support a city charter amendment prohibiting the 
city government , its , , and employees from 
force against any human being for any reason 

4. please put the following list in order of precedence  ( from 
lowest to highest ) a ) city , b ) city resolution , 
c ) state law , d ) federal , e) u.s. constitution , 
f ) state constitution .  . 

5. do you believe that it 's appropriate for any city official or 
to be paid more than his or her average private 


6. do you believe that contributions are a legitimate 
means of funding council programs 

7. would you support a program recognizing the right of 
to their taxes  ( either as must be used 
or must not be used ) for specific programs 

8. in the event that the candidate none of the above were to 
win a city election , which option do you believe most 
appropriate a ) the candidate with the next highest vote total 
fills the office. b ) a special election is held to fill the 
office , with none of the previous to run 
again. c ) let the office remain and until 
the next election .  . d ) the office. 

please return your to address of your choice 

a signature and date line were added here. 

thank you for taking the time to fill out this  . 



the were sent with self addressed ,  . 

p.s. one person did get a perfect score on the , and , 
no , he did n't help write it. 

smith 

my opinions are , of course , my own. 


from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 85 

in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( scott w roby ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( scott w roby ) writes 

the original question was about who started the fire and whether the 
madmen were inside or outside the compound .  . to which i replied on 
the possible level of those inside and outside .  . 

was that your argument. well , you did n't make it very well. you started 
from the questionable premise that the fire was necessarily an act of 
insanity , rather than an act of or an accident. recall , one 
claims that the fire started when a knocked over a 
 . kind of makes arguments regarding relative somewhat , no 

and another claims he heard someone shouting the fire 's started ! . 
odd terminology .  . that 's what one says when you know a fire is , not 
when one occurs by accident. we will have to wait and see what the evidence 
shows , assuming one is willing to believe any evidence offered by the 
ones . 

according to an australian documentary made in the year before the stand off 
began , koresh and his followers all believed he was christ .  . koresh 
had sex with children and women married to other men in the compound .  . 
these were the perfect children resulting from the great seed of 
his . ex members describe him in ways not 
to the way jim jones has been described .  . 

point noted .  . have you your faith and sex life for 
better i believe the was april 15 .  . 

i paid my taxes .  . there was no reference to sex or religion on the form. 
the comments above and below were meant to address who might be 
enough to keep children in a building with tear gas or start a fire .  . 

nice , mr. , but they 're still on our tail .  . 

let me ask it more plainly .  . which of the above about david 
koresh 's religious or sexual justified an armed by the 
bureau of , , and 

neither .  . again i was merely addressing the level of the  . 
i agree that the the affair from day one. btw , i heard 
on the news today that the behind the no knock warrant was 
today. was the only thing on the list that i found 
unusual .  . 

two of the who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set 
by cult members .  . 

so , when they talk to the news reporters directly , and relate the same details , 
will you believe them 

believe them i wo n't even recognize them. and neither will anyone else 
who does n't know them personally. 

do you believe they would put before the national tv 

it 's not entirely far fetched .  . nobody outside the compound would know 
everybody inside the compound .  . do n't forget , the admits having 
inside the compound , in any case. 

news reporters could use the documentary by an australian 
in 1992 on the compound grounds to help identify survivors .  . i , for one , 
will check their stories for consistency with what i learned in a long 
news story about that documentary .  . 

at this point , we are getting reports from the survivors .  . 
best wait more light is shed upon them. of course , this is no 
good if you believe in eternal  . 

i'm simply being the devil 's advocate .  . there 's reasonable doubt by the 
standing in the way of anybody totally the official 
government story on  . 

certainly there is some room for doubt. i certainly reserve the right 
to change my opinions when new evidence warrants such a change .  . if i 
were minded , however , i would never be able to change 
my mind , because any evidence i would have to be a lie 
by the ones . 






from  ( strider ) 
subject re for sale 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 40 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( jim wray ) 
says 

bill 

i read in the paper that turner wants to trim down 
his media and is putting up for sale .  . the 1 potential 
time of course. sigh . . . . . just what we need. ( 

maybe now 's the time for us , the , , , , et al to 
together and buy as our voice .  . would n't that be  .  .  . 
the truth for a change and be able to air a pro gun item or two .  .  .  . 

i would like to see this happen. i do n't think it will. i do n't 
think the average gun owner will take any notice of what is happening 
until they break down his door .  . 

but i will go on record publicly to the effect that i will contribute a 
minimum of 1 , 000 . 00 . to the buy out if it can be organized and made 
viable .  . anybody else want to put their money where their mouth is ) 
there ar 50 million gun owners out there. if and it 's a big and 
not very if we got hold of , the anti gun bullshit would 
stop right there. why wo n't it happen because nobody will get off their 
ass and make it happen. nuts .  . 

i will join the ranks here. if someone has the ability to actually put this 
thing together and get enough support , i 'll also contribute 1000 to the 
effort .  . and , people , i'm a student , with no job yet , and i will 
put up my own hard earned savings if it means we have a shot at getting 
the truth told on the  . count me in. 

mike 

this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

from  ( dave duff ) 
subject re atf update 
organization division 
lines 3 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

case ! ! ! ! he s made a complete fool of himself in front of 
thousands of netters ! ! ! ! backs away from earlier statements ! ! ! ! god have 
mercy on him ! ! ! ! 

from  ( seth adam eliot ) 
subject reference needed .  .  .  .  . 
organization student , materials science and engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 22 


does anybody have any solid data on how many legally owned versus 
owned are used in crime .  . i know the number of 
legally owned guns used in crime is small , but i would like a number , 
and a reference if possible. 

data should be e to me. 
open discussion should be directed to talk . politics . guns . 

seth 


unlike cats dogs never you when you them. they just 
become very sad and try to figure out what they did wrong. dave 

seth dept of material science and engineering 
carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
arpa 
or 
bitnet 



from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
in article 
 ( andrew betz ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their 
hands up while national tv watch .  . 

watch from where two away far enough away that whatever 
really must be explained through the filter of 
a agency that said  ( quote ! ) enough is enough. 

please tell me what you think would have happened had the people 
come out with their hands up several weeks ago. 

it did n't happen. 

scenario that is simplest and most plausible .  . i do not generally 
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely 
 . 

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating 
that was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly 
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government. 

more than someone who would not release children from the compound .  . 

obviously. you are an authority  . 

i.e. , more than david koresh jesus christ . 
i saw lengthy excerpts from an australian documentary made in 
1992 that clearly showed that this was a cult .  . 


give me a camera , and time with you , and i can present excerpts that show you 
to be a cult leader.  . you should at least view the whole 
documentary before you claim it as a source. 


i am not pleased with the handling of the affair .  . i think they 
bungled it from the start. but i do n't think they are 
responsible for the fire , which started in two different places. 


two places , eh you saw this or did the wonderful fbi tell you this 
i saw one place. 

the is by no means of fault in the handling of this affair .  . 
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is 
ludicrous .  . 

i suspect that there were plenty of willing to 
risk small fire to get some good footage .  . these people 
were told to get the hell out of camera range .  . why 


could n't answer this one , eh this is the most important question of all , it 
is the root cause of all the other suspicion .  . 




brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 





jim 




i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( bill vojak ) 
subject question on senate 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 
organization technology corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 49 

i'm letters to my and was wondering if 
there is any  ( reason(s ) why i should not support the following 
, other than the previous comments about s . 458 .  . just checking 
before i mail the letter to make sure i do n't support something 
that i really should n't .  . 


i strongly support the following laws currently being considered in congress 
as they would either have a positive effect towards reducing crime , or re 
enforce our constitutional right under the 2nd amendment .  . 

s.  ( campbell ) to amend title 18 , united states code , to provide a 
mandatory minimum sentence for the 
of a by a convicted felon , a from 
justice , a person who is to , or an 
user of , a controlled substance , or a or 
receiver of a stolen , to increase the general 
penalty for violation of federal laws , 
and to increase the enhanced penalties provided for the 
of a in connection with a crime of 
violence or drug crime , and for other 
purposes. 

s . 458 .  ( smith ) to the second amendment rights of all americans .  . 

s .  ( specter ) to provide federal penalties for drive by  . 

s .  ( kohl ) to amend section of title 18 , united states code to 
make it a federal crime to steal a or 
in or foreign commerce .  . 


bill 

, , 


here 's a story , a man named , who took a  . 22 . bullet 
in his head. even though he can act perfectly normal , he 
prefers to pretend he 's brain dead. 

here 's a story , a woman named , who had nothing to 
do but sit around all day. then her husband became a media 
, now she wants to take all your guns away. 

the bunch , the bunch , this is how we got stuck 
with the bunch .  . . . . . 



from  ( glenn r. stone ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
reply to 
distribution 
organization the group w 
lines 36 

in  ( brent irvine ) writes 

and quotes a lot of stuff unnecessarily 
in article writes 

worth posting again 
hey , , it 's not about , or about dark , 
it 's about black , and troops 
houses and violating civil rights under color of law. 

are you ready to defend your constitution 

its also about crazy types blasting the 
out of people who accidentally onto his land in the 
name of  self defense . ' . 

do n't get too self righteous , mr. gun  . 

ai n't got a pair of  .  .  . and i do n't people , 
i ask them what they 're doing there .  .  .  . i only people who display 
obvious violent intent .  .  .  . like black men with weapons climbing thru 
second story , or people who break down the door instead of knocking .  . 
or people who knock my house down with and set it  . sound 
familiar yet 

riddle me this why the hell are the convicted criminals in ohio getting 
the kid treatment , and the 's are burned alive without a trial 
put aside who started the , i still think any decent can 
make a case for cruel and unusual punishment , playing the sounds of 
tortured over the  ( where 's the in all this ) .  .  .  . 

oh , and that 's gun sir to you ,  . just because you choose 
to your rights , leave mine the hell alone ,  . 

glenn r. 
clinton , the case is prima facie .  . 

from  ( jeffrey c. strait ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization the university of illinois 
lines 25 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article ,  ( brent irvine ) writes 

, then let the wood inside it. 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm day 
in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 


do n't work very well with no mr engineer .  . 


personal opinions why , 
yes. what did you think 
they were  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


jeff 
university of illinois phone  ( 217 ) 
if you leave this island , if you survive basic recruit 
training , you will be a weapon , a of death praying for war 

from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 31 

in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 
and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their 
hands up while national tv watch .  . 

watch from where two away far enough away that whatever 
really must be explained through the filter of 
a agency that said  ( quote ! ) enough is enough. 

scenario that is simplest and most plausible .  . i do not generally 
believe in conspiracy theories that involve complicated and unlikely 
 . 

the fbi sent letters to martin luther king 's wife insinuating 
that was having an affair ! again , please tell us exactly 
how much you trust our supposedly benevolent government. 

the is by no means of fault in the handling of this affair .  . 
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is 
ludicrous .  . 

i suspect that there were plenty of willing to 
risk small fire to get some good footage .  . these people 
were told to get the hell out of camera range .  . why 




brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re the  pill  for deer no 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article , writes 

you might have missed the u.s. news world report 
i posted. it is fairly with other such , finding 
that approximately 40 50 of have at least one  . 

ok ... a near majority actually own , but i will still 
claim that the vast majority never needs to use them or even 
threaten anyone with them. 

, 000 to 1 , 000 , 000 self defense incidents a year does n't count with you 

what do they do right ... or are 
they just lucky 

maybe they 're just  . if a rapist a woman into an 
in boston , chances are almost certain that she wo n't be counted 
as one of those self because our local did n't 
consider it important that she be allowed to herself .  . even though 
the she owns at home makes her show up in the gun owner  . 

in either case , this means the  average 
threat level  in this country is rather low. 

ironic words for somebody who lives in florida .  . the average threat 
level in florida has been reduced by a liberal policy. it 's well 
known that your local like to target precisely because 
they are less likely to be carrying than your  . come on up to 
boston , or , or washington , and see how much the 
average threat level in the country means to a resident there. 

i think you have weapons on the brain .  . i never said that these 
alternative means of self protection involved any hardware .  . 
why are  good   good  it is n't because every 
person is armed to the  . it is because of (1) attitude 
and (2)  . in the  good  , the residents 
make themselves aware of their and notice when 
strangers are lurking around.  good  form groups 
like  crime watch  to increase this effect , and the relative 
of the police .  . when are , the 
good step up and say that s the one ! he 
was mr. jones  house . 

sometimes this works. sometimes it just lands your good 
on the dance card for the next wave of drive  . someone here once 
told a story about la moving into phoenix .  . i 've misplaced the 
original text , but the story started with one resident calling the 
cops on a member. sure enough , a few nights later , there was a 
drive by performed at the resident 's house. except that this time , 
unlike in la , the entire street came out and returned fire , putting 
an end to the car 's  . the up and left. 

of course , in la , or in a place like florida after the , 
your first problem is to find an to step up to and tell 
anything. 

in short , the alternative to is ... or at 
least a manifestation of that social cooperative .  . 
replace lead with flesh ... the flesh makes a better 
too and you can it over for a 
block party. 

look , nobody is arguing this. i have a fire at home. 
that does n't mean i can be careless about my 
on the  . i live carefully , the , get my 
cleaned twice a year , and test my  . but if 
despite all this a fire does start , it 's too late for any of 
these things except the  . 

but and legitimacy also matter. if a government 's charter 
makes a rule , which the government then violates , it is violated the 
basis for its existance .  . enforcement of its will becomes a matter 
solely of force of  . 

north .  . the man is in many 
all american  conservative   . he and big ron 
set up a secret government and did all sorts of severely 
illegal deeds the kind of stuff you and i would be doing 
twenty to life for , yet he walks free. this bs happens all 
the time. in fact , it happens so much that no one really 
cares anymore.  legitimacy  is a non issue. is 
a non issue. so long as we get t bones and our , who 
gives a rats ass 

you seem to be with your opponent .  . you ca n't trust your 
government to protect you from and white , 
blue , , or  . ultimately , no one has the 
power to enforce your rights but you. unless you 've given up that 
power. 

no. i claimed that no one is interested in the statistical 
aspects of the argument. pure , like the abortion issue. 

too many people fit that category , that is true. some of us like to 
believe that they are in the facts behind the case for gun 
ownership because they 've been conditioned to believe that there t 
any. you seem content to the i'm willing to 
try to raise their consciousness .  . 

argue away ... you ca n't win .  . 

i think we can. 

was founded in what , in the mid 80 's , they a one 
million strong ! campaign for two years before this goal. 
my understanding is that they reached it by the of including 
wide classes of people other than paying members .  . (i ca n't speak 
on this maybe somebody else has details . ) . then they 
started running a two million strong ! campaign for a while but they 
let it slip into when it became clear that they 
simply were never going to reach that level of membership .  . 

in , just after the of the the starting 
point of the modern gun control movement , the had a mere , 000 members .  . 
by , barely after the first of future , it had 
about a million .  . today , it has over three million members , making it the 
third largest membership organization in the country  ( next to and  . 
and its membership is growing than at any previous time.  ( historical 
from 's gun control , pp. 61 and ) . 

as you say , many of the people in the middle of this debate are 
by their t bones and  . that leaves hard core gun owners against 
hard core gun  . 

i know a number of ex members who have recently become members .  . 
i 've never heard of a single one who has gone the other way. 

yes , i think we can and will win this one. 

related will be related to the 
of  . if they become and 
and expensive , a different psychology will take hold .  . 
i think they would be used far less to trivial 
 . 

i think they would be used far less to hammer nails , as well , but , 
like you , i ca n't give any citation showing that this is 
currently significant at more than an level. if you can , 
i'm waiting. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( gress joseph john ) 
subject re with friends like these l. neil smith 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 33 

in article  ( paul prescod ) writes 
in article  ( allan j. heim ) writes 
look , if you can figure out a reliable means of keeping guns away from 
bad people , while not interfering with good people , i think we 'd all be 
for it. the problem is , the methods we 're using now do n't do the trick. 

do n't manufacture them. do n't sell them. do n't import them. 

some guns will get through , but far , and far less people will 
die because of them. weapons could be allowed , of course , as 
long as they are big , and , and require after a few 
shots  ( how many times can you shoot at the same animal , anyways one 
assumes they are moving ! ) 


first of all let 's assume that you are right that guns would make it 
in to the country , that sounds great  ( to those that see guns as inherently 
evil ) except then every one of those guns would be in the hands of someone 
who obviously could n't care less about following the law , after all they 
got the gun , so is more likely to commit a crime with that gun. 
great then everyone with a gun is likely to use it in a crime , nice system. 

now as to reducing the number of guns coming into society by making it 
illegal to manufacture , sell , or import them in this , let me use 
a parallel for evidence. the amount of cocaine in this country is 
far less since its manufacture , sale , and was out  . if 
that last statement is true then perhaps we should consider your plan .  . this 
could also apply to drugs in general. 

plain old joe 




from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re them next time 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
distribution usa 
lines 9 

in article  ( daniel oldham ) writes 

flame , pure and simple 







from  ( andrew betz ) 
subject trial update 
nntp posting host 
organization fan club 
lines 13 

i 've been running a daily summary of the kevin 
harris trial from here in  . these are sent 
primarily to mailing lists .  . however , i was wondering if 
people would be interested in seeing them here. post or 
email. 




brought into your terminal from the free state of 
when you outlaw rights , only outlaws will have rights 
spook , , clinton , , , , 
, , terrorist , , , , , 

from  ( christopher morton ) 
subject re ban all ! 
reply to  ( christopher morton ) 
organization north coast public access , cleveland , oh 
distribution usa 
lines 30 

as quoted from by  ( morris the cat ) 


tend to fall into this low dollar area. 
it would not be economic to them in. all 
would have to be local .  . there are not all that many people 
who have both the and motivation to worthwhile 
from  . high crime could 
obtain and such , but the average person , and 
average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun and would 
pay through the nose for it. 

this is not borne out of reality the old soviet union had a very 
serious domestic and trade , guns that were 
of grade because they were produced in honest to goodness 
 . why would all have to be local do n't we 
have a road system that is the of the world 

if anybody wanted proof of the nonsense of the you ca n't build guns claim , 
they need look no than the  . amateur there 
regularly produce everything from  . 45 . to full  . now 
if this guy wants to claim that the is either 
superior to the us or that their transportation is better than ours , all i 
can say is that he 's living in a fantasy world. 



you 're like a bunch of over , new york jewish lawyers 
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in 


from  ( mark slagle ) 
subject re up 
reply to 
in reply to 's message of mon , 5 apr 1993 04 24 50 gmt 
organization you would n't ask this if you 'd seen my desk. 


lines 27 

in article , b . writes 

in article writes 

in article ,  ( john de armond ) writes 

no , actually i'm a lot more familiar with the than i 
care to be. i'm a bit to continue this thread because 
it brings back horrible of my first with the 
in the branch .  . i made the mistake of buying a 

any connection between and the libertarian party 
is a pure product of your own imagination. 

, perhaps he reads time magazine .  . 

it 's a fair stretch of anyone 's imagination to expect them to 
any credibility to anything written in time magazine in 
the past twenty years , i 'd imagine. the at least gets 
the names attached to the right body parts. 

mark 


mark e. po box 
, ca 
408 usa 

from  ( entropic destroyer ) 
subject re need info on 43 1 and suicide for refutation 
organization new mexico state university 
lines 26 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

entropic wrote 

i have seen these numbers quoted before , and i have seen very specific 
refutation of them quoted as well. if someone will be so kind as to 
email the relevant information , i will write a letter to the editor of 
the co .  . daily  ( which might get published ) and send a copy to as 
well. 

thanks to all who responded .  . the letter has been written  ( making liberal 
use of info provided by various net . and handed to the paper. i 'll 
post if it gets into the paper ! 

dan 


liberty or death 
send me something even you ca n't read .  .  .  . 
begin pgp public key block 
version 2 . 1 . 



v 


end pgp public key block 

from  ( bill anderson ) 
subject restrictions 
organization the bbs and public access unix , 1 
lines 7 

i would like to know what restrictions there are on 
 ( ie waiting periods , background check etc .  . ) . in the states of and 
 . thanks. 
bill 


bill 

from  ( gary strand ) 
subject re the slaughter 
organization and division , boulder , co 
lines 16 

followups to talk . politics . guns . 

russell lawrence 
kr karl 

kr i support the right of any citizen with out a criminal history to own and 
use , regardless of race , , and religion. 

thanks for admitting that you , yourself , to an illogical dogma .  . 

well , folks in t . p . guns . , want to show how russell 's illogical dogma is 
wrong 


opinions stated are mine alone and are 
not representative of , , or the 

from  ( bill vojak ) 
subject letter to david 
distribution usa 
organization technology corp .  . 
lines 
originator 
nntp posting host com . 

here is a letter i sent to david ,  ( dem ,  . before anybody says 
something , yes the letter is a bit in tone. i have been 
reasonable and polite letters to him for years , and all i get in return 
in the party line. since he already is f rated , i do n't think that 
upsetting him will harm the cause. sorry if you disagree , but recent events 
in texas really have me  . 


april 20 , 1993 
representative , 

recently i wrote to you regarding my over the used by the 
bureau of and ,  ( batf ) , in texas .  . in your response 
you stated that events in texas the need for stricter gun control 
legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the branch  . 
my question to you is , what grounds would you use to deny them access to 
best i can tell this statement your apparent total 
ignorance of the subject , and your personal bias against  . 
i say this because there are only two possible of gun control which you 
could have been referencing .  . 

either 
1 ) you were talking about their access to semi  . in this 
case i should point out that semi automatic are legal in most areas of 
this country , including texas and  . in addition the members of the 
cult have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability 
to these weapons .  . so under what grounds would you deny them these 
guns their religion the fact they they live in a large group alone by 
themselves because you consider them to be a cult maybe i consider your 
church to be a cult ! 

this line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of thought crimes .  . you 
and robertson should really get along. 

2 ) you were referring to the alleged fully automatic weapons by the 
cult .  . under current us law , fully automatic weapons have been covered by 
some of the gun control laws in this nation .  . so if david koresh 
them , he would have had to some of the 
laws we have. how will more laws help by the way , it has been reported that 
david koresh a federal license which would have 
him to fully automatic weapons .  . if true , the 85 people who 
monday in the fire , died so that the federal government could a couple 
hundred dollars in taxes on guns david koresh did n't declare .  . 

i have heard claims that they were weapons .  . yet considering the 
number of people in the complex , even 200 weapons would not have been out of 
line with gun ownership statistics for all of texas .  . what 's next a of 
worth for alleged 

face it david , you have voted for virtually every gun control law that 
has passed through congress , yet you claim that you are only for reasonable 
restrictions .  . bull ! control inc. is to maintain 
250 , 000 paid members , while the has just 3 , 000 , 000 members .  . they 
are still growing at a rate of 2 , 000 new members per day. driving around your 
district i see stickers every day. in eight plus years of living here i 
have only seen one bumper  . when you vote for your reasonable 
gun control laws , are you really your district , or are you 
 


thank you , 




william j. 





april 20 , 1993 
representative , 

recently i wrote to you regarding my over the used by the 
bureau of and ,  ( batf ) , in texas .  . in your response 
you stated that events in texas the need for stricter gun control 
legislation to keep guns out of the hand of groups such as the branch  . 
my question to you is , what grounds would you use to deny them access to 
best i can tell this statement your apparent total 
ignorance of the subject , and your personal bias against  . 
i say this because there are only two possible of gun control which you 
could have been referencing .  . 

either 
1 ) you were talking about their access to semi  . in this 
case i should point out that semi automatic are legal in most areas of 
this country , including texas and  . in addition the members of the 
cult have never been convicted of any crimes which would deny them the ability 
to these weapons .  . so under what grounds would you deny them these 
guns their religion the fact they they live in a large group alone by 
themselves because you consider them to be a cult maybe i consider your 
church to be a cult ! 

this line of reasoning by you borders on the concept of thought crimes .  . you 
and robertson should really get along. 

2 ) you were referring to the alleged fully automatic weapons by the 
cult .  . under current us law , fully automatic weapons have been covered by 
some of the gun control laws in this nation .  . so if david koresh 
them , he would have had to some of the 
laws we have. how will more laws help by the way , it has been reported that 
david koresh a federal license which would have 
him to fully automatic weapons .  . if true , the 85 people who 
monday in the fire , died so that the federal government could a couple 
hundred dollars in taxes on guns david koresh did n't declare .  . 

i have heard claims that they were weapons .  . yet considering the 
number of people in the complex , even 200 weapons would not have been out of 
line with gun ownership statistics for all of texas .  . what 's next a of 
worth for alleged 

face it david , you have voted for virtually every gun control law that 
has passed through congress , yet you claim that you are only for reasonable 
restrictions .  . bull ! control inc. is to maintain 
250 , 000 paid members , while the has just 3 , 000 , 000 members .  . they 
are still growing at a rate of 2 , 000 new members per day. driving around your 
district i see stickers every day. in eight plus years of living here i 
have only seen one bumper  . when you vote for your reasonable 
gun control laws , are you really your district , or are you 
 


thank you , 
william j. 



bill 

, , 


the cbs propaganda with dan rather .  .  ( rather not ! ) 
the cbs propaganda with dan rather .  .  ( rather biased ! ) 


from  ( ernest smith ) 
subject re restrictions 
originator 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . 
organization research , inc. 
distribution usa 

to 
subject re restrictions 
newsgroups talk . politics . guns . 
in reply to 
organization research , inc. 
cc 


in article you write 
i would like to know what restrictions there are on 
 ( ie waiting periods , background check etc .  . ) . in the states of and 
 . thanks. 
bill 


bill 


in your must get a background check  ( ie , full slap ) , 15 
day waiting period. that is unless you have a then all 
have been meet .  . 

ernie smith 


from  ( young yoon ) 
subject re gun talk update for states 
keywords gun talk , 
nntp posting host aix . edu . 
distribution usa 
lines 27 

 ( dan sorenson ) writes 

 ( larry cipriani ) writes 

iowa all related are dead. senate file 
dealing with off duty police officers carrying remains 
viable .  . 

the power of the word processor and a stamp at work. 
the fact that around here the state generally lives no more than 
from any does n't hurt , either. 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 


does anyone know the particulars on the senate file 
does this bill allow or deny off duty police from carrying 

from what information that i have , iowa has a policy 
on  . if s allows  ( police(off duty ) to carry then i would 
be inclined to oppose it. i do n't believe off duty police officers should 
have any more rights than civilians .  . if law or policy prevents law 
citizens from being armed for self defense then why should off duty police 
be treated any differently. 

from  ( jeff mortensen ) 
subject re we knew it would happen 
organization , , co , usa 
lines 19 

in talk . politics . guns . ,  ( josh a grossman ) writes 

well i agree with you to some respect .  .  . less . your 
errors. the gov always must win ! even if they kill every 
man women and child .  .  .  . by . god they must win at all costs .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

this happens over and over and over in this country. lets make 
excuses , get the worthless press to cover up everything , let the 
take the for top stupidity etc .  .  . etc .  .  .  . 

i am sick with for the entire well being of this nation and the 
constitution in claims to protect .  . 

later , 



later 


from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 22 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host com . 

in article jason 
... 

it is kind of funny though how you were the only one who picked up 
the part about my sister being a social and keeping me up to date on 
the 
thing. everyone else seemed to just by that part. 

jason 


i guess that just means everyone else was mistaken 

jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from lang jpl . nasa . gov . 
subject re gov t break  ( re 60 minutes ) 
organization 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 128 . 109 . 37 . 
x v1 . 1 . 
x mon , 5 apr 93 16 17 37 gmt 

in article com . , 
com . writes 
in , was tried and convicted of murder because his 
troops , in a war setting , deliberately killed innocent people. it is 
time 
that the domestic law enforcement in this country to 
standards at least as moral as the military 's .  . 

no , was later  . his troops killed 400 
people , including kids , and women .  .  .  . i sure do n't want 
to see the domestic law enforcement in this country 
to those military standards ... if they did , we 're 
all in big trouble .  .  . my massacre was covered up 
by high and all who were involved were 
 . 




lang , software engineer 
systems group section 
note my employer has nothing to do with what i said here .  .  .  . 


from  ( william december starr ) 
subject cost benefit analysis  ( was fbi director 's statement .  .  . ) . 
organization law , class of  93 
lines 23 
nntp posting host 1 . mit . edu . 
in reply to  ( brett costley ) 


in article , 
 ( brett costley ) said 

sigh i just t understand why they could n't have waited koresh co 
out. 

uh , maybe because it was costing hundreds of thousands of dollars a 
day to just sit and wait. 

yeah. we do n't want to spend too much money lives , after 
all. when they 're all just a bunch of crazy 
anyway , instead of normal people. 

the above is supposed to be with sarcasm , but i'm too burned 
out right now  ( get it burned out ha ha ! ) to tell if it 's working .  . 
look , folks , what david koresh and his followers were was broken . it 
takes a certain amount of flexibility and insanity to survive in this 
world and they did n't have enough of it and that was n't their fault. so 
please stop dancing on their , okay 

william december 


from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re some more about gun control .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 18 

in article  ( pat myrto ) writes 
what i find so hard to understand is how come some people , 
not connected with government or otherwise , will 
go to great lengths , redefinitions , re interpretations , in a full bore 
attempt to away the protection of their own rights under the 
constitution ! ! ! 
almost makes me think of running into the sea during a 
year .  .  .  . 
i really wonder that jefferson and madison would say to these folks 

they 'd probably quote (sp ) who was once asked if russia 
was likely to become a democracy any time soon no , because 
russia is a nation of slaves and the people get what they  . 
since he said that , russia has changed a great deal. but so , 
unfortunately have other nations .  . 

frank 
boulder 

from () 
subject re on radio station 
reply to 
organization x . , data general corp .  . 
lines 31 

actually , the real reason that stern was getting a bigger share was that 
he was new in d . c .  . , not because of the quality  ( if you can call it that ) of 
his show. after the fine was issued he started to get better because 
of the curious individuals who wanted to see how bad he actually was. since 
he came to d . c .  . he has had a greater turn over of than the 
has .  . in other words , more people get sick of him sooner than they do of the 
. after all , saying or penis on the air is hilarious at first , 
the second time it is still a little funny , but when you do it all the time , 
and at the same time , think you are the greatest man on the planet  ( and tell 
everyone so ) than you are going to get old really quick .  . 
give it up mark you are wrong. 

excuse me , but if you really new what the show was about , you 'd know that he 
does n't just say and penis and that is how he get 's his  . he 
also real issues as well as being outrageous .  . i do n't hear any of these 
other idiots doing a funny show and getting into some serious at the 
same time , he get 's people to think and them at the same time , 
so try listening to his show a little closer before you tell them that they are 
wrong , and by the way , if he is such a in the , why do his 
so well hmm 






greg w. 

j e t s 



from  ( allan j. heim ) 
subject re ban all ! 
organization the santa operation , inc. 
lines 34 




tend to fall into this low dollar area. it would not 
be economic to them in. all would have to be 
local .  . there are not all that many people who have both the 
and motivation to worthwhile from  . 
high crime could obtain and such , but 
the average person , and average thug , would be lucky to get a zip gun 
and would pay through the nose for it. 

good point you make. however , a zip gun , by definition , is a crude , 
gun certainly not something capable of , accurate 
fire , but it would be useful as a means of getting a normal gun. recall 
the tiny , single shot made by the allies during world war ii for 
use by  . they were essentially well made , incapable of 
effective fire beyond a few feet. but they were useful as a means of 
killing german soldiers for their guns .  . 

also note that the  favorite , the gun , was 
specifically designed to require as little machine work as possible. 
the point 's been made here that one could make a with 
, hand tools and a  . 

i still think that while the point is good , i think there 's a difference 
between marijuana and , in that quality marijuana can be grown 
there 's no need to import the stuff. if guns are , i 
think the demand for real guns will be sufficient to make 
economically , thus a ban  . in any case , the 
result would be the same people who are n't criminals wo n't have 
, and bad guys will continue to have access to them , one way 
or another. and i do n't see that as a necessary situation. 

allan j. ... ! uunet ! ! 1 408 

from  ( steve manes ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
organization and , 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 

jim de wrote 
last year the us suffered almost 10 , 000 wrongful or accidental 
deaths by alone  ( fbi  . in the same year , the uk 
suffered 35 such deaths  ( scotland  . the population 
of the uk is about 1 5 that of the us  ( 10 , 000  ( 35  . 
for population , the us has as many related deaths as the 
uk .  . and , no , the do n't make up for this by murdering as 
many people with baseball  . 

you just ca n't compare this way ! all must be shown , per , not 
just  . the of them in the usa makes them the preferred 
murder weapon , but ban them , and some other weapon will step in as the 
favorite .  . 

as a favorite , sure. as lethal , not likely. a study of violence in 
chicago produced this table 

percentage of reported gun and knife attacks 
resulting in death 

weapon deaths as percentage of attacks 

 ( 16 , total attacks ) 2 . 4 . 
guns  ( 6 , total attacks ) 12 . 2 . 

source and violence in american life 

it might be that if gun murderers were deprived of guns 
that they would find a way to kill as often with  . if this were 
so , knife attacks in cities where guns were widely used in 
would be expected to show a low rate , and knife attacks in 
cities where guns were not so widely used  ( like vancouver ) would show 
a higher rate .  . but the l on the causes and 
of violence task force the data and found this 
not to be the case. it appeared to them that as the number of knife 
attacks increased in relation to the number of attacks 
 ( which presumably happened where guns were less available to assailants ) , 
the of fatal knife attacks did not increase relative to the 
of gun attacks .  . in fact , the reverse was true. 

what was found was that most did not show a determination on 
the part of the to kill .  . caused by knife tended 
to show a single on the part of the to do grave 
physical injury multiple , about the 
head and , etc. most gun did not show this 
pattern. rather , more fatal attacks were committed during a moment of 
rage and not the intent to kill the victim .  . 

source report on and violence 

then , since england ! usa  ( my ancestors left because of the oppression ) you 
must compare england before strict gun laws to england after strict gun laws to 
be able to draw any meaning at all. england has essentially drugs , 
so there are no drug for , etc. , there. if you drop out the 
drug related killings here , the usa would look a whole lot more peaceful .  . 

there are a lot of factors which make a difference. actually , i'm not 
of making any kind of social between and 
americans .  . there are more cultural , and economic 
differences between us than similarities .  . i just sort of found 
myself backed into that corner over the last couple of weeks. i 
do n't think we could ever the low levels of european violent 
crime here in the us , whether we guns or required every 
law citizen to carry a loaded  . 

on the other hand , we can draw lessons from who are more 
similar , namely the  . in fact , an exhaustive , 
seven year study has already been done of the respective crime 
of vancouver , british and seattle , washington .  .  .  . cities 
with roughly the same population , economy , 
and crime but with different approaches to gun control. 

in seattle , may be purchased legally for self defense .  . after 
a 30 day waiting period , a can be obtained to carry a 
weapon .  . the use of is restricted .  . 

in vancouver , self defense is not considered a valid or legal reason 
to a  . weapons are not  . 
uses of  ( target shooting , collecting ) are 
by the  . of a requires a 
restricted weapons  . a to carry may be obtained in 
order to transport the weapon to shooting  . 
by must be in the in a locked box .  . 
in short , gun control but not so. 

both cities enforce their gun laws .  . convictions for 
gun related offenses carry similar penalties .  . the 
studied all cases of , assault  ( simple and aggravated ) , 
and in seattle and vancouver from 
1 1 80 to 12 31 86 .  . in defining the cases , they used the same 
standard the fbi 's crime report. 

results during the seven year study the rate of in 
seattle was found to be only slightly higher than that in vancouver 
09 . 1 .  . occurred at nearly identical ( .  . 
18 , assaults were recorded in seattle versus 12 , in 
vancouver .  . the risk of being a victim of a simple assault in 
seattle was found to be only slightly higher than vancouver 18 . 
1 . and the risk of aggravated assault was also slightly higher 
16 . 1 .  . however , when aggravated assaults were by 
weapon and the mechanism of assault , a clear pattern  . 
although both cities reported nearly identical of aggravated 
assault involving and other dangerous weapons , were 
far more likely to be used in seattle .  . in fact , 7 . 7 . times as often. 

over the seven year study , occurred in seattle 
3 . per 100 , 000 ) vs. in vancouver 9 . per 100 ,  . 
after for differences in age and sex among the , 
the relative risk of being a victim of in seattle , as 
compared to vancouver , was found to be 1 . 63 .  . 

when were by the mechanism of death , the rate 
of by and other weapons  ( excluding firearms ) in 
seattle was found to be almost identical to that in vancouver .  . 
virtually all of the increased risk of death in seattle was due to 
a more than higher rate of by  . 
accounted for roughly 85 of involving  . 
were 4.8 times more likely to be used in in seattle than 
in vancouver .  . 

the authors of the report also investigated legally 
 ( self  . only 32 such occurred during 
the seven year study , 11 of which were committed by police .  . only 
21 cases of civilians acting in self defense 17 in 
seattle and 4 in vancouver .  . only 13 involved  . after 
excluding these cases , there was virtually no impact on these 
earlier findings .  . 



this is , i feel , a very fair report. one might even make the 
argument that it is biased against canada as a whole because 
vancouver reports of two to three times 
that of ottawa , and while seattle reports 
only half to two that of , 
chicago , los and houston .  . 

of control always argue that limited legal access 
to will have little effect on the of because 
persons intent on killing others will only try harder to acquire a 
gun or will kill by other means. this report shows differently. 
if the rate of in a community were more by 
the strength of intent than by the of weapons , we 
could expect the rate of by weapons other than guns to 
be higher in vancouver than in seattle .  . however , during the study 
, vancouver 's rate of by weapons other than guns 
was not higher than that in seattle , suggesting that 
few would be switched to by other methods .  . 

as well , ready access to for self defense by law 
citizens was not in this report. although seattle did 
experience a higher rate of death for self defense , these 
cases accounted for less than 4 of the in both cities 
during the course of the study period. and , as was reported , 
seattle apparently did n't enjoy relief from any crime category 
over vancouver because citizens may legally themselves for 
self defense .  . 

quoted source , crime , 
assaults , and a tale of two cities .  . 

john h. , l. , t. , 
james a. , thomas , p. , 
charles rice , laurel gray and james 

stephen 
and new york , ny , usa o o 


from  ( andy freeman ) 
subject re 
organization computer science department , stanford university .  . 
lines 26 

in article  ( brad whitehurst ) writes 
the rest of us fall in the middle .  . there is too much violent 
crime in the u.s. , but turning the whole country into an old time 
dodge city  . to american old west ) is not the way. 

that 's an interesting statement. there 's quite a difference between 
hollywood 's old west and the real one. yes , there were , 
, camps , and  . however , as showed , the 
almost exclusively on one another. claims that 
this was due to the fact that no one much cared if someone who 
insisted on getting into a fight got his way , even if he lost , while 
they really did care when on others. 

citizens should be able to own weapons , but we see no sense in some 
types .  . 

we have n't out that those distinctions do n't actually work. 
machine guns have been strictly since  . said 
is both perfect  ( legally owned machine guns are n't ever used 
criminally ) and a complete waste of time  ( the criminal use of machine 
guns has n't change at  . the result we 're now arguing about 
guns that look like machine guns , but are no different than other 
guns .  . 

andy 


from  ( cochrane , james shapleigh ) 
subject re change of name 
organization institute of technology 
lines 35 

in article  ( thomas parsli ) writes 


1. make a new newsgroup called talk . politics . guns . or 
talk . politics . guns . here . to . take . me . away . 

2. move all postings about and burn to  ( guess  .  . 

3. stop posting on this newsgroup 

we are all so glad you 're trying to save us from the evil 
, but would you mail this in regular mail to 
let 's say 1000 people 


thomas 
and everybody who talked about the evil arising in europe was labeled 
reactionary in the late 's .  .  .  . after all , we could negotiate with hitler and 
trust him to keep his end of the bargain .  .  .  . at least that 's what stalin and 
thought .  .  .  . i guess they forgot to teach you about your country being 
by the germans in wwii ,  eh thomas and i'm sorry you consider 
at government to be ... the conduct a mass 
operation against a terrorist group that is actively killing their citizens and 
soldiers , the world gets , but it 's ok for the us to assault it 's own 
citizens who were a religous minority and accused of sexual deviation and 
weapons .  .  .  . i find it real ironic this happened the same day al 
arrived in poland to recognize the sacrifices made in the where 
the same  justifications  were raised for an armed assault by black troops 
with support .  .  .  . 



james s. when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space 
circles , and  . for 


from (i am an  . ) . 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin , texas 
lines 29 
nntp posting host happy . cc . utexas . edu . 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( brent irvine ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael rhein ) writes 

, then let the wood inside it. 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm day 
in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 

ever hear about cutting off the that was done. 
how effective is an electric then 

did n't the branch have an emergency oh well , i do n't think 
thought of that anyway. 




patrick  ( aka claypigeon ) 
the earth is our , but one cannot stay in the forever .  .  .  . 
people 's organizations rarely stay that way .  .  .  . or even begin as such. 
i only speak for myself. if i did speak for , would anyone listen 


from  ( jim wray ) 
subject for sale 
organization bbs houston , tx 
lines 18 
reply to  ( jim wray ) 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


bill 

i read in the paper that turner wants to trim down 
his media and is putting up for sale .  . the 1 potential 
time of course. sigh . . . . . just what we need. ( 

maybe now 's the time for us , the , , , , et al to 
together and buy as our voice .  . would n't that be  .  .  . 
the truth for a change and be able to air a pro gun item or two .  .  .  .  . 

. 2.2 . there is no way they can get over here ! a. 



bbs 
houston , texas com . home of alt . 


from 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
reply to 
organization 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( brent irvine ) writes 
in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( michael rhein ) writes 

, then let the wood inside it. 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm day 
in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 

ever hear about cutting off the that was done. 
how effective is an electric then 

al 
standard disclaimer 


from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re funded gun propaganda campaign to 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( steve manes ) writes 
the cat wrote 

well , as of the points out , the full 
force of the anti gun ruling class , their millions , their 
organizations , their schools , their news media , their 
media 

the media .  .  .  . a force of the anti gun ruling class 
is this the same media that 's made billions producing films and 
television that glorify guns and gun users or is that another 
anti gun media 

you 've got to be kidding. 

by this , do you mean that you consider it absolutely impossible for the 
media to be guilty of hypocrisy 

note that the film industry in california their political support 
for an assault weapon ban in the state for an amendment to the bill 
the industry from that very ban .  . 

note that the very issue of the batman book ( of the gun ) 
that was produced as a tool for gun control organizations carries a back 
page ad for a ii video game extolling the numerous and 
sophisticated weapons available to the  . 

note that , of the ny times one of the 
oldest and most gun control himself carries a 
 . 

still , you find it completely incredible that these folks live by the 
, do as i say , and not as i do. 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( pat myrto ) 
subject re  ( incredibly long) 
organization totally unorganized 
lines 75 

in article  ( john lawrence rutledge ) writes 
in article , (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
in article ,  ( john lawrence rutledge ) writes 
but , do you knew how much organization is required to training a large 
group of twice a year .  . just to try to get the same people 
every year , provide a basic training to new people so they can 
be integrated into the force , and find a suitable , it 
requires a continually standing of  . 

again , my response is , so what is mr. arguing that since 
the local and federal governments have abandoned their charter to support 
such activity , and passed laws prohibiting private organizations from 
doing so , that they have eliminated the basis for the on the 
contrary , to anyone who the game , they have it. 

no , i originally argued that the second amendment was a little bit 
and an  . these prohibiting laws are examples why the are 
an  . after all , laws in made by representatives of the 
people. these representatives of the people have already decided 
that the second amendment does not apply or is too broad in some 
cases. since these representatives feel an 
interpretation is not wanted , then it is probable that they majority 
of the people feel the same way. if this is so , it is an example 
of the people using their power of government. if this is not 
how the people feel , the people should stand up and state their wishes .  . 

wrong. that the government and media have the 
people almost on this issue , constitutional are 
there to prevent a  of the  . for example , a majority 
could vote that given have no rights , are not people , etc. 
and it would using the logic above. 

when government the constitution is not right for the times , 
there is a procedure called an amendment to the constitution .  . this 
is deliberately difficult , and , to prevent abuse of those 
who decide to ignore the people , or impose unjust policies of a 
majority on a minority .  . a is a majority , remember , 
the  . 

what the government is doing are , end runs around the 
on the government , probably because they know that the 
people would be very hard to convince that a good intention is behind 
with the bill of rights. government on guns has 
been very strong and , but not that strong .  . and it just 
shows how gullible the people have become to i am from the government 
and am here to help you sort of line . we have been lied to , fed 
half truths , , while the government knows their control 
laws have no effect on crime .  . they want a government monopoly on 
force , pure and simple. do you really want the government to be able 
to constitutional by a simple vote of a bunch 
of  ( congresscritters ) i sure do n't .  . the founding fathers 
sure as hell did n't , either. 

, mr.  . you are the only one here claiming that the 
is dependent on the existence of a top , well 
 . why this is a false assumption has already been posted a 
number of times. 

no , i simple stated that the people have a right to join a well 
organized  . and i have also stated that a that 
once or twice a year is clearly well organized .  . and this 
state of that i have claimed the people have a right 
to , is the same state of expected of the as stated 
by  . 

you better read the senate on the constitution regarding the 
second amendment , and a linguist 's of the second itself. 
in the , show us some stuff to back up your assertions .  . 
and yes , i have the above mentioned documents  ( and more )  . 


without prejudice 1  ( pat myrto ) seattle , 
if all else fails , try ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
wisdom only two things are infinite the universe and human stupidity , 
and i am not sure about the former .  . albert 

from  ( ron phillips ) 
subject trial day 2 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization , view , ca 
distribution usa 
lines 89 

this was posted to the politics mailing list. 

hi folks 

day 2 , the beginning of the trial .  . 
statements were given by both the prosecution and the defense , 
each side presenting its version of what last august .  . 

the prosecution argued that and his family moved to 
in a battle with the evil federal 
government. the prosecution alleges that sold federal 
off and later failed to appear for 
trial despite repeated good faith efforts to get 
to surrender , refused .  . the 
when discovered on a surveillance mission and 
began firing .  . according to the prosecution , three people 
were taking an offensive action against an fbi 
when an fbi killed  . 

the defense argued that and his family moved to northern 
in to practice their religion in peace. they wanted 
simply to be left alone. was by federal to 
sell the short  ( and did not , as the prosecution 
alleged , want to become a regular ) .  . the defense also 
argued that the federal government sought to arrest when 
he would n't become an it is not explicitly , 
but i assume that this is a reference to the white 
angle of the story. we 'll know more as things develop . the 
failure to appear in court because was given 
an incorrect court date and then before that date. 
the occurred when federal killed 
's dog that was in to 's son ,  . 
then fired in self defense .  . in the battle , federal 
william was killed  ( when his gun was later found , 
there were 7  . cases nearby and the gun was on semi automatic 
however , were near the body for an extended period of 
time and could have played with the select fire this will 
have to be more fully  . finally , the defense claims 
that was only going to look at the body not 
of her son when she was cut down by an fbi  . 

prosecution quote wanted that confrontation , and he made 
that confrontation .  .  . u.s. kim 

defense quote the evidence in this case is going to show that 
this is a case where and kevin harris are charged 
with crimes they did n't commit in order to cover crimes that 
the government did commit .  . nice ! 

notes the claims that 
a call from not to repeat yesterday 's 
outside the  . however , the local nbc 
again had footage on the 10 00 news with 5 including 
tim again. tim claimed he was a , who were ordinary , 
working class people. he also claimed he was for white pride , 
not white power. 

outside the the television had an 
with , who charged that the nazi are exactly 
what the government wants to smear  . 

in an article carried in the , about 
a dozen lawyers were among the 70 or so people into the 
 . these lawyers were present to watch 
in action , and to perhaps learn something from him. some 
told the jurors that he and his son kent 
were their time to represent because they 
believed in him. , during his 90 minute statement , 
repeatedly walked behind and placed his hands on the 
 ( weaver broke down and cried during the 
of his wife 's death ) , and compared the 
off to driving 56 when the limit was 55  ( another 
good one ! ) .  . 

today  ( thursday , april 15th ) the prosecution was scheduled to 
begin presenting evidence. 







ron 
customer engineer 

east evelyn avenue voice  ( 415 ) 
view , ca fax  ( 415 ) 


from  ( kennedy james scot ) 
subject re guns gone. good ! 
organization state university 
lines 63 

from article , by 
you are  . 

there is no question about it. 

of those who vote , your cause is considered an  . no matter 
how hard you try , public opinion is set against the  . 

only irrational fools such as yourself are set against  . there are 
plenty of people who support it. 

this is the end. by the finish of the clinton , your 
will be null and  . tough  . 

the government will be long before that happens. a huge 
of all available men and women who care about their 
country will defeat the forces of the evil  . the people 
will ! 

oh , so you think armed citizens alone ca n't the government 
consider this do you think all law enforcement and members 
of the armed forces will turn against the people that they are 
to serve not hardly .  . you can count on a lot of people in the army , 
, air force , navy , national guard , police officers , and so on 
in the cause to defend the liberties and freedoms of american 
citizens .  . count on it ! the government will not be able to 
everyone without starting a civil war ! 

you had better discover ways to make do without  . the number of 
cases of abuses has your cause. there is nothing you 
can do about it. those who live by the sword shall die by it. 

the press is against you , the public  ( the voting public ) is against 
you , the of history is against you ... this is it ! 

surrender your  . soon enough , officers will be around to 

wrong again. people will just hide their guns so these officers 
 ( more like jack stormtroopers ) will not be able to find them. 

them. resistance is useless. they will you one at a time. 
your will not help you. they will consider you more if an 
immediate threat than the abstract  . 

they will unless they are idiots .  . they will realize that if they do n't 
then they will be next including you. believe me if what you describe 
happens they will be coming for more than guns .  . citizens 
would require that everyone 's cherished freedoms and liberties be 
temporarily .  . more likely , they 'd never be unless the 
people do something about it. 

too fucking bad. you have gone the way of the  . violent solutions 
are  . avoid situations which encourage criminals .  . then you will 
be as safe as possible. such as it is ... 


scott , and 

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets 
the bible through the of a gun .  .  .  . atf spokesman 
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets 
the constitution through the of a gun .  .  .  . me 


from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re reply on 
organization netcom communications services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 43 

in article  ( dennis willson ) 
writes 
on march 8 , i sent strongly letters the in 
their handling of the and branch cases to 
several politicians  . bob and mark , 
representative and treasury lloyd  . 
while i have never been a supporter of bob , i must admit 
that he seems to be the only one who has done anything but round file 
my letter. 

well , i did n't bother writing to , or , the terrible 
who represent me. instead , i wrote to  . my letter 
was not exactly strongly i simply stated that the approach 
was immoral  ( military style assault , firing into a house where they knew 
there were  . 

, my letter to the and they responded to 
me directly .  . it follows the text of your reply pretty closely .  . however , 
i intend to send another letter directly to them , in return. 

prior to the service of the federal search warrant , numerous efforts 
were made to and effect the arrest of david koresh away from the 
compound .  . these efforts were  . even if david koresh had 
been while away from the compound , action would have been 
required against his followers  ( who are just as violent as he ) during 
the subsequent search of the premises .  . 

this section is not in the letter that i received .  . the parts about atf 
logo and badges or their loss of the element of surprise 
were not included , either. 

sincerely yours , 

daniel m. h l ca n't make out signature 
director 

the same guy with the bad apparently signed my letter , for 
richard l. chief , special division . 






from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 48 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( miller , jimmy a . ) . 
writes 
in writes 

in article  ( ted 
schuerzinger ) writes 
well , it 's now tuesday morning. where are those two , now i said 
yesterday they would , and there has been no further mention of them , 
just the desired impression is left. 

according to radio in houston , all survivors are either in 
or in  . the two who allegedly helped start the  . 

in the fbi , no mention was made of having the fire starters in 
 . 

why could no one else even talk to them why could koresh 's 
not 
talk to him or even send him a taped message why the total isolation 

well , it was n't total , 100 isolation .  . after the lawyer in the first 
time , they  ( the fbi , etc ) let him go back inside several times , including , i 
think , the day before the final  . 


why not his mother why not the media 

fi , 

jim miller 
texas a m university  89 and  91 



i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help. 
become one with the student system. be the student 
system. 
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man. 
, , mike 




i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( daryl biberdorf ) 
subject re do they really believe 
organization texas a m university , college station 
lines 38 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 

in article (a . j .  . teel ) writes 

q do you think that et al really believe that the laws 
that they are trying to get passed are for the good or are they just 
lying through their and trying to the 

i think that people honestly believe that passing more gun control 
laws will be in the best interests of public safety .  . why do i think 
this because i used to buy the line. during my freshman year  ( 1987 ) , 
their line made so much sense only people who need guns should be 
able to get them , and the people who need them are the police and 
other  . unfortunately for us , this position is highly emotional 
and not well thought out. they never stop to think that 's position 
basically says that the non are  ( that 's you and me , 
folks ! ) and that the second amendment has absolutely nothing to do with 
or other legitimate uses  ( which tyrannical 
governments and defending yourself when the police have proven they 
ca n't protect you) .  . 

we all know that the end result , regardless of the intention , 
will be to have a much easier to population for the un  . 
this is definitely a motivation of many in power , but i wonder to 
what degree this is vs just  . 

every pro control person i 've talked to is always left when i 
simply argue the facts of gun control  ( that it has yet to be proven to 
lower crime rates ) and weapons terminology  ( and i'm no expert but 
explaining exactly how an evil weapon really works 
does  . 

i personally found well reasoned arguments to be most effective 
against the emotional pro control people. the trick is to get them to 
realize that the second amendment exists not for but for the 
oppressed and the  . 


d 


from  ( david feustel ) 
subject government for 
organization 2 software support 
lines 8 

when you have no principles , you ca n't admit that someone else might , 
and everyone who acts differently from what you expect can only be a  . 

dave 

i'm beginning to look forward to the 100 of taxes 
to pay for the interest on the national debt .  . at that point the 
federal government will be will go out of business for lack of funds .  . 

from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 

in article  ( jim de arras ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
in article  ( jim de 
arras ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) 
writes 
i agree that they deserved a trial .  . they had more than 40 days to come 
out and get their trial .  . they chose to keep the children with them and 
to stay inside. they chose to stay inside even after they were tear 
gassed .  . 
i do not find these actions rational .  . even was smart enough to 
give up and go for the trial he deserved .  . 


mr. , you are a government sucking bastard. 

unworthy of comment. 

but apparently true. my opinion , only , of course. 

so , your opinion is truth. i see .  .  .  . ) 

humans died 
yesterday , humans who would not have died if the fbi had not taken the 
actions 
they did. that is the undeniable truth. i cried for them. 

nor would they have died if they had come out with their hands empty .  . 
that is undeniable truth. 

no , it is not. it is possible the fbi for this to happen , and the 
heard was the fbi keeping the folks inside. i'm not proposing this as 
the way it went down , but just to point out that it 's not undeniable that if 
they walked out yesterday , they would be alive today. 

you can believe that if you wish. it is undeniable , however , that people 
have left the compound and alive in the  . 

and since their leader was preaching that they would have an , you 
can not say that there would n't have been a mass suicide if the 
fbi had simply stayed outside and waited another 51 days. 

my heart just as much as yours for 
the children who were never released given 51 days of ample opportunities 
to do so. my heart also for people so by religious devotion 
to not have the common sense to leave the compound when came up 
and started dropping in tear gas early in the morning. 

my heart for no one. you are the heart . and i'm sure 
beyond any possible doubt that you do not feel for those people as i do. you 
can not say the things you have said if you did. 

i am the heart you are not making sense. 
you seem to have no concern that someone would keep children inside this 
compound when they had 51 days to let them out. that sounds pretty 
to me. 

i just heard on the news that some of the survivors regret they had n't 
stayed in the to prove their loyalty to koresh .  . this makes me 
sad and sick .  . 

you seem to say 
they got what they deserved .  . 

i do not think this. however , if they did set the fire  ( which started in 
more than one place and spread very quickly ) , then they got what they 
wanted and put into motion themselves. 

they got what they wanted . what kind of creature are you that you can 
believe this 

have you ever heard of 
the sad thing is the people inside the compound were the authority 
and their only authority was koresh  . if these 
people were able to think for themselves , there would likely be a lot 
more survivors today. koresh preached a as early as 
last year .  . 

i see the is going to be investigated by the justice dept. and likely 
by and congress .  . this is good. they have bungled the affair 
from the start. 

we agree on this. now lets have your god , the fbi , investigated , too. 

by all means , the fbi should be investigated , too. 
btw , i thought the second was god. ) 

jim 









from  ( dan sorenson ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 44 

in  ( scott w roby ) writes 

and i suppose the fbi also prevented them from coming out with their 
hands up while national tv watch .  . 

would you have come out if you knew the only national tv 
were well over a away , and yet the with the guns 
were only a few away they had contact with a lawyer , so i 
am inclined to believe they had an idea of what their situation 
actually was. this also leads to the conspiracy theory that the 
lawyer had the on rights if the 's 
acted as witnesses , hence the  . i doubt that one too , but 
it is still quite clear that leaving a safe place to surrender is 
a rather stupid thing to do until that place is no longer safe .  . 

do you disbelieve everything the fbi says 

as a matter of course , given how they 've allowed no other 
views to be heard. i 'll reserve judgement until the trial , but so 
far as the fbi is concerned their statements carry the same amount 
of weight as at rest. 

the is by no means of fault in the handling of this affair .  . 
but to suggest that they may have intentionally started the fire is 
ludicrous .  . 

ludicrous , yes. possible , yes. plausible get the jury .  . 

if the fire were set by accident or by people outside the compound , i would 
have expected far more cult members to flee the compound .  . or at least come 
out shooting .  . 

that 's what gets me too. it is likely the cult members were 
up in an enforced place inside the building .  . with a decent 
attempt i suspect many of them could have been  . in addition , 
the introduction of cs gas for several hours would have many 
of them if not when their quit .  . all the 
are there , but proving what was played is difficult. the only 
certainty is that the fbi and have few witnesses against them. 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 

from  ( john nagle ) 
subject re reply on 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 8 

the san francisco examiner reports that clinton has issued instructions 
to federal law enforcement that they may not kill or anyone to 
resolve the situation. so they 've built a around the compound , 
and are now seriously considering building up the to prison camp 
levels , out most of the , and waiting however many months 
it takes .  . 

john 

from  ( steve podleski ) 
subject re , they did it. ( ) 
organization nasa lewis research center 
lines 23 
nntp posting host lerc . nasa . gov . 

 ( frank crary ) writes 
 ( mike  full  newsome ) writes 
i'm sick to my stomach as i write this. the compound 
is on fire , and will burn to the ground in minutes. 
i used exactly this one word reply , to suggest a likely ending to 
the several weeks ago. but like , this was n't entirely 
a government action the held out as long as they could , 
and then killed themselves , their families and their children 
rather than surrender .  . israel calls the action of the 
, and trains their army to follow this example. now that 
someone has repeated this action in modern times , what do we call it 

and of clinton say that costs made the action 
necessary. 




steve phone 216 
nasa lewis research center 
cleveland , ohio 44135 email 



from  ( daryl biberdorf ) 
subject latest on texas 1776  ( ccw ) 
organization texas a m university , college station 
lines 9 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 


i called the texas bill people  ( 800 9693 ) again today 
regarding 1776 carry .  . well , it was supposed to come 
up for a vote this past , but the bill got sent back to 
the public safety  . the gave it a 
again , and the bill must now be scheduled for debate by 
the again. 
d 


from  ( john young ) 
subject questions 
organization cadence design systems , inc. 
lines 8 

i have a few questions i 'd like to ask 
first , how would  ( someone(me)be ) able to get a license 
and second , besides dear old departed 's , where would i 
find a good place to learn  . 
all replies ! 
john 



from  ( olsondl ) 
subject re ban all ! 
lines 16 

in article ,  ( francis chiu ) writes 
a note on the side , i 've noticed most gun  ( some of my 
friends included ) are the one who make comments that indicate they are 
more likely to resort to violent .  . so are they really banning guns so they 
would n't end up shooting someone else 

could be. 

it is also likely that since they feel they are more likely to resort to 
violence , they have a hard time believing that anyone else would react 
otherwise. 

david 
well , i did say we 'll put it out and we 'll put it out when we can. 
but i do n't know what we can put out or when we can put it out. 
george  . 

organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center 
from jason 
subject re do n't knock the  ( was re my gun is like my am ex card ) 
distribution usa 

lines 46 

in article , 
 ( dillon pyron ) says 
some police switched to , and then started 
switching many officers back to the old  . too many were having 
accidents , partly due to the poor training they received .  . not that 
require rocket scientists , but some cops are baffled by something as complex 
as the on a  . 

hell , a is the last thing that should be switched to. the only thing 
that i know about a is the lack of a real safety on it. sure there is 
that little thing in the but that is n't too great of a safety .  . 

ahem ! ! ! ! ! ! ! you have the wrath of owners .  . we will 

you with our  . , do n't have any ) 

seriously. there is no difference in the and any 
 . intellectually , think of the as a very high cap  . 
ignoring , and all the other that 
give you , that is. 

every gun has its safe moment and its dangerous moment .  . if you just learn how 
to handle it , it becomes a lot less dangerous  ( to you) .  . 

the opinions expressed are those of the 
vax support sender unless otherwise stated .  . 
 ( 214)462 )  ( when i'm here ) 
 ( 214)492 )  ( when i'm home ) vote no on  . we need 
solutions , not  . 



all very true. i'm going on what i have read and heard from friends. 
basically the is great but i have heard read that it is a lot harder to 
learn proper handling because of the type of safety that it has .  . i was 
looking at a  . w and the s w a couple of weeks ago and the 
on the guns were very different. the on the seemed a lot 
more safe  ( for lack of a better word ) than the one on the  . of course 
this could also be a bad thing if you were to pull the gun on somebody .  . you 
would spend more time around turning the safety off. personally i 
like the because they are very light and i think they look really cool 
 ( guess that 's why they use them in so many movies ) but i would n't get one as 
my first semi because of the safety .  . i would prefer more training with 
a traditional semi  ( ala colt  . but of course that 's just my opinion. 

jason 

from  ( tim starr ) 
subject re ban all ! 
organization school of life health sciences 
lines 29 

in article  ( david veal ) writes 
in article 
 ( paul prescod ) writes 

in article  ( cochrane , james shpleigh ) writes 

2 . if . guns were , and a bunch showed up in south florida , it 
would be easier to trace and notice then a small in the 
huge wave of the american gun  . 


do they teach in rude in canada 

they do n't have too. canadian culture is handed down largely from the united 
empire who from the american revolution .  . tend 
to have a , or government loving attitude towards authority .  . 

paul is right in line with this bigotry and prejudice that 
all my canadian friends hate in their fellow citizens .  . his sort of 
have an irrational of american democratic armed mobs .  . 

tim now ! 

assistant editor freedom network news , the newsletter of , 
the international society for individual liberty , 
market st. , san francisco , ca 
 ( 415 ) fax  ( 415 ) 

think universally , act 

from  ( strider ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx 
lines 24 
distribution world 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 

(c .  . d. tavares ) writes 
 ( michael rhein ) writes 

as someone else has pointed out , why would the be in use on a warm day 
in texas .  . 

do you eat all your food cold 

thank you for pointing out the obvious to people who so clearly missed it. 
i ca n't stand it when people 's first reaction is to defend the  . 

mr. tavares , you have a unique and way of getting to the heart 
of the matter , and i thank you for putting it to good use. 

mike 



this above all , to own s t r i d e r 
self be true. 
those who would sacrifice essential 
liberties for a little temporary 
safety neither liberty 
nor safety .  . b. franklin 

from  ( chuck harris wa3uqv ) 
subject re for sale 
organization university of maryland , department of electrical engineering 
lines 11 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host eng . umd . edu . 

in article  ( keith emmen ) writes 
if anyone is keeping a list of the potential contributors , 
you can put me down for 1000 . 00 . under the conditions above 

seems to me folks , that if you are so interested in , just 
buy your 1000 worth of stock today. it 's being everyday .  . after you 
own your piece , we can work on the votes later. it 's probably even a 
good investment .  . 

harris 


from  ( cochrane , james shapleigh ) 
subject re guns in no thanks 
organization institute of technology 
lines 48 

in article  ( dania m. egedi ) writes 
in article stanford . edu . ,  ( andy freeman ) writes 
in article  ( kevin geraghty ) writes 
wrong about the whole guns for protection , it the 

why if you 're not a threat , you 're not affected at all. 


aha .  . that 's the part that makes me nervous too. who gets to decide if 
i am a threat based on appearance would someone feel more threatened 

actions determine whether someone presents a threat .  .  .  . and i do n't carry a gun 
so much for people , cause i tend to if there are any about , but due to 
several with domestic dogs .  .  .  . these ai n't scared 
of folks , and can get aggressive .  . 

on staying at and saw someone sitting there cleaning his gun. softly i backed 
away , and another 5 to get out of there . i 'll freely admit it here 
i'm not afraid of guns i'm afraid of people that bring them into the  . 

i 'd count that as a fear of guns .  .  .  . somebody having the sense to keep their 
weapons is n't as likely to present a threat .  . the army taught me to 
clean any weapons daily , since they usually need it , regardless of whether 
they 've been used .  .  .  . you 'd be amazed how a can get , or how much 
trail will get in it. and i guess you 'd be scared of me and my former 
post .  .  .  . seems the advisors were national guard special forces , 
and considered it heresy to be out in the woods without a weapon .  .  .  . course , 
usually you would n't notice 'em .  .  .  . ) they tended to avoid public scrutiny .  .  .  . 

of course , that may be the way to solve the problem. just carry a gun 
and display it , and one probably wo n't see most of the other 
out there , who will be hiding in the woods .  . 1 2 ) 


my goes in a hip , in with magazine  ( hold stuff 
in them) , , , , and such .  .  .  . not so easy to notice , in 
the off chance i decide to be  .  .  . i prefer not to be , since walking 
away from active areas increases the number of non human type 
i see .  .  .  . 

james 




james s. when in danger , or in doubt , run in this space 
circles , and  . for 


from  ( jim wray ) 
subject sign of the times .  .  .  . 
organization bbs houston , tx 
lines 31 
reply to  ( jim wray ) 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 


article in this morning 's houston post .  .  .  .  . send food to 
as  .  .  . speaking . about the ohio prison 
where they have killed at least one of the guards .  . 

i know it 's not the same group but the appears to be common to 
those what rule here lately .  .  .  . they . wo n't give to the 's in 
but they treat criminals as of . 

this is but another that the criminal caste seems to enjoy more 
in today 's society than their victims or other law 
citizens .  . what is it that makes the criminal so precious to the leaders of 
the system 

could it be that the criminal is one of the tools the authorities are 
using to excuse some of the rights negation they are trying to upon 
the law citizen in the name of crime control .  .  .  . do . n't solve the crime 
problem because then the citizen could n't be held to our help . 

if the crime problem were solved in favor of the citizen victim at the 
expense of the criminal none of the crap such as and gun banning could 
be used as excuses to work the of those who would control our every 
move and thought. 

. 2.2 . if i have to explain , you would n't understand. 



bbs 
houston , texas com . home of alt . 


from  ( tom gift ) 
subject re atf ! no survivors ! ! ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 28 

 ( jason  think ! ' steiner ) writes 


ever hear of electric or very popular .  . 
electric outside areas especially .  . 

oh , i see. is a natural right our wonderful government 
would never cut off the power to the people they were  . 
are you really this , or just acting like it for the sake of 
argument 

jason 

no , they did n't have electrical power , but no , i do n't find the idea of 
lunch with gas on as the fbi the 
buildings down very credible , either. 

it 's not like this whole discussion is relevant .  . it started when some 
one made the wholly that the wood 
the fbi shot into the buildings .  . 

i'm not a for the feds , far from it. but wild ac 
like this are ridiculous and legitimate criticism of 
their conduct in this whole affair .  . 

tom gift 



from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 63 

in article  ( steve manes ) writes 
on the other hand , we can draw lessons from who are more 
similar , namely the  .  .  . 

i do n't think such a canada is any more similar to 
the united states than england .  . in terms of laws regarding individual 
rights , restrictions on police searches , etc .  .  .  .  ( all closely 
related to crime ) canadian laws parallel england 's and differ 
greatly from those of the united states. 

 .  .  . in . fact , an exhaustive , 
seven year study has already been done of the respective crime 
of vancouver , british and seattle , washington .  .  .  . cities 
with roughly the same population , economy , 
and crime but with different approaches to gun control. 

actually , they do not have roughly the same .  .  .  . economy , 
and extremely different ethnic composition .  . 

over the seven year study , occurred in seattle 
3 . per 100 , 000 ) vs. in vancouver 9 . per 100 ,  . 
after for differences in age and sex among the , 
the relative risk of being a victim of in seattle , as 
compared to vancouver , was found to be 1 . 63 .  . 

however , if you account for economic and ethnic differences , 
the difference completely seattle 's minorities are 
poor , while vancouver 's are middle or class .  . 
the for in both cities were found to be , 
while the rate for poor , seattle minorities was almost three 
times as great as for the well to do minorities of vancouver .  . 
the pattern seems to be one of poverty and race relations , not 
one of gun control. 

the authors of the report also investigated legally 
 ( self  . only 32 such occurred during 
the seven year study , 11 of which were committed by police .  . only 
21 cases of civilians acting in self defense  .  .  . 

that is a gross self defense does not mean killing 
the  . there were 21 cases of civilians killing their 
in self defence .  . but such cases represent less that 
0 . 5 . of the crimes prevented by armed self defence for every 
case you cite , there were over 200 other cases of self defence 
where the crime was prevented but the was not killed. 
5 . , by the way , is the most conservative possible figure , 
based on the national crime survey 's estimate of 80 , 000 
crimes prevented by armed self defence each year .  . most other 
studies on the subject put the figure at , 000 to 600 , 000 .  . 
those would imply less than 0.08 of self defences 
involve killing the ) . 

so , more correctly , there over  ( possibly as many as 25 , 000 ) 
cases of civilians acting in self defence , only 21 of which resulted 
in the death of the  . this is a significant factor , in 
comparison to the  . if memory serves , 
make up approximately 1 of the violent crimes the study 
considered , so the fair comparison would be 40 250 
prevented and  . clearly , the study can not be 
close to accurate , since it ignored these cases of self defence .  . 

frank 
boulder 

from  ( stephen white ) 
subject re liberty lobby libertarian ... 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host ca . 
organization university 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( robert rubinoff ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 
note that was on the party with david 
duke  ( for veep ) in 1988 until he found out that duke was 
he , when he his  . so gave up his 
chance to be vice president of the us just to supporting 
duke .  . 

i 'd hardly call that giving up his chance to be vice president of the us 
the chance of the party is essentially nil .  . still , 
it does imply that he does n't want to be associated with duke .  . 

robert 

exactly , after all he was in the same party , probably just did n't want the 
bad press that being directly associated with duke would bring .  . conversely , 
is his for david duke supposed to make us him i mean 
a stand against nazism ... ! now that 's progressive ! come on. 

i certainly know that i would refuse and openly denounce my vice 
if it meant putting him in control. 

stephen white 

live simply that others may simply live k. 

from  ( frank crary ) 
subject re gun control  ( was re we 're mad as hell at the tv news ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
distribution na 
lines 31 

in article  ( steve manes ) writes 
you are your lack of understanding about rate versus total 
number .  . are expressed , often , as 100 , 000 population .  . 
therefore , if a place had 10 deaths and a population of 100 , 000 , the 
rate would be 10 100 , 000 .  . a place that had 50 deaths and a population 
of 1 , 000 , 000 would hav a rate of 5 100 , 000 .  . the former has a higher 
rate , the latter a higher total .  . you are less likely to die in the 
latter .  . simple 

for , take out your and work out the numbers. 
here .  .  .  . i 've them for you to make it easier 

population 

24 6 , , 000 
uk 8 55 , , 000 

... and then tell me again how is safer with a more 
liberal law than the uk is without .  .  . by . rate or total number .  . 
your choice. 

because there are about 40 total (i . e .  . using guns , , 
, baseball , bare hands , etc .  .  . ) . in 
each year and , total , in england .  . that 's three 
times worse per in england than in  . since 
dead is dead , it really does n't matter that 60 of the 
murders involved a gun or that only 0 . 9 . of the english murderers 
do. 

frank 
boulder 

from  ( tom  ( not , not , !  ) 
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal 
organization the reality liberation front  ( pixels to the people ! ) 
lines 17 

writes 

i just want to point out that while i am fully in support of , 
it will be possible soon to have a completely secure id card , in bank 
, medical , etc etc. 

there is no such thing as completely secure , especially when dealing 
with high technology. it 's all a question of cost what cost are you 
willing to bear to protect your information vs. what rewards the bad guys 
are going to get if they break it. the rewards of breaking such a single id 
system would be high indeed. 


tom born to die keep your laws off my brain ! 
what 's so funny  peace , love and understanding 
this  . sig . contains no animal products and was not tested on animals .  . 
time is just nature 's way of keeping everything from happening at once. 

from  ( christopher morton ) 
subject re ban all ! 
reply to  ( christopher morton ) 
organization north coast public access , cleveland , oh 
distribution usa 
lines 24 

as quoted from by  ( anthony francisco ) 


if anybody wanted proof of the nonsense of the you ca n't build guns claim , 
they need look no than the  . amateur there 
regularly produce everything from  . 45 . to full  . now 
if this guy wants to claim that the is either 
superior to the us or that their transportation is better than ours , all i 
can say is that he 's living in a fantasy world. 

unfortunately a few of those  . blow up in your hands. 

that 's life. first you marry , then you die ! ) 

on the other hand , my built an excellent copy of a that 
i using when i lived in the  . hmmmm .  . 

and that 's the hard stuff to copy ! 



you 're like a bunch of over , new york jewish lawyers 
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in 


from  ( miller , jimmy a . ) . 
subject re my gun is like my american express card 
organization university of houston administrative computing 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host admin . uh . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1.24 
in reply to 's message of 21 apr 1993 12 25 23 gmt 

in writes 

thomas writes 
i also believe texas has some of the most liberal  gun laws  in usa .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

in texas , you cannot carry a  . period. either or open. 

currently , there is a bill before the texas that would make it 
legal for some ordinary folks to carry weapons .  . i do n't have the 
details , sorry. 

fi , 

jim miller 
texas a m university  89 and  91 

i do n't speak for uh , which is too bad , because they could use the help. 
become one with the student system. be the student system. 
power finds its way to those who take a stand. stand up , ordinary man. 
, , mike 

from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re fbi murders almost everyone in today ! 4 19 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 33 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( kevin vanhorn ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 

two of the who escaped the compound said the fire was deliberately set 
by cult members .  . 

correction the fbi says that two of the who escaped said the fire 
was deliberately set by cult members .  . since the press was kept away , 
we have absolutely no independent of any of the government 's 
claims in this matter. 

moreover , the has admitted having in the compound , and as 
far as i have been able to , those were still in the 
compound when the first shots were fired .  . for all we know , these two 
people may be the , who would certainly be unlikely to stay around 
and with the faithful .  .  .  . 

assuming the two people in question were even in the compound at all. 

maybe i sound , but i watched janet last night on 
how much david koresh was a big , bad child , and i kept wondering 
why she much less wanted us to infer that she had any 
jurisdiction over such accusations in the first place. 

i'm positive that the warrant is not for child abuse .  . what was 
it for weapons  . janet did n't say word one 
last night about weapons  . why because she knows that such 
a case is no longer 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from f 
subject re the truth starts to come out 
distribution usa 
organization stephen f. austin state university 
lines 28 

in article it . com . , writes 


i have just one thing to say about this write your ! 
the fbi and storm must not be allowed to get away with 
this. demand a full investigation of the 's story of 
the being knocked over by the  . we ca n't bring anybody 
back from the dead , but we may be able to send a few of them to 
political hell. 

i heard over yesterday morning that , from 
, has already called for a congressional investigation .  . 
the problem is that was one of the key government several 
years ago who did what he could to facts in the 
of jfk and others. that is to say , the chief fox wants to check out 
the house. writing your representatives is a great idea. when 
you do ask that they keep and his far away from 
any investigation .  . 

would someone please post the generic addresses for congress and 
senate so that we can all write letters 


joe in the super state , it really does not 
f matter at all what actually happened. 
red and proud of it. truth is what the government chooses to 
tell you. justice is what it wants to happen. 
jim , new , la .  . 

from  ( david barton ) 
subject re proper gun control what is proper gun control  ( was re my gun is like my american express card ) 
in reply to 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 17 16 21 gmt 
nntp posting host 
organization inc. , washington division , usa 
lines 15 

talk . politics . guns .  ( kirk hays ) 
3 31 apr 13 , 1993 

some of the pro gun posters in this group own no guns .  . the dread 
, aka the , owned no for several 
years while posting in this group , as an example. there are 
others. 

for what it is worth , i own no of any sort .  . as long time 
readers of this group know , i am dedicated to the  . 

this is not about  . it is about freedom .  . 

dave 


from  ( cathy smith ) 
subject science by l. neil smith 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university , , co 
lines 

posted by smith for l. neil smith 

science 

everyone knows how to tell when a is lying his 
move. what may not be equally obvious is that there are 
politicians and then there are politicians and that the phrase 
political science is subject to more than one interpretation .  . 

years ago , we heard how scientists were worried that a new ice 
age might be coming , and later on that nuclear 
and thrown into the atmosphere by full scale international 
was a possibility .  . something like that may even 
have killed the  . 

what we did n't hear was that no actual data supported any of this , 
that real world events  ( the burning of kuwaiti oil fields ) tended 
to discredit it , that mostly it was propaganda meant to 
values that made america the most successful culture in history , 
and that the probably died of something like the plague 
when together , them to new germs .  . 

we miss a lot like this , unless we listen closely .  . prince william 
sound , site of the famous oil , and mount st. helen 's were n't 
supposed to from their respective for at least 
100 years. that turned out not to be true , although you 'd never 
know it from watching network news or  . it does n't fit 
their to us that the earth is vast and , and 
that nature is on herself than we could ever be. 

but for once , the media are n't entirely to blame .  . as ignorant of 
science as they are of everything , they trust scientists to 
the  . the trouble is that today 's scientists 
have of their own. 

nobody in government , that of scientific , is 
going to offer grants to an who states that 
there is no respectable evidence for . the money 
and power for and politicians lie in mass transit , and 
they hate the automobile blamed as a major cause of the mythical 
crisis as a source of and freedom they find  . 

the same appears true of acid rain , a deliberate hoax up 
by the environmental protection agency  ( which hates private 
industrial capitalism almost as much as it does your car ) and 
on real scientists through which has on 
in different fields not talking to each other much. 

the list goes on , always with a common , thread. 
, for which evidence is even more suspect and 
contradictory than for acid rain or , is no more than 
a last , attempt to private capitalism in an era 
when state central planning and the command economy have failed and 
can only find this final , to on. 

decades of anti nuclear , on foundations of myth 
and panic , have failed to the fact that nuclear 
power is the , , most efficient source of energy 
known to mankind and more to the point , that the greater amount 
of energy there is available to any individual in society , the 
that individual and his society become .  . 

honest studies on the effects of individual gun ownership and 
self defense on crime conducted by who began as 
ideological opponents to those concepts , but which show massive 
in the latter to be the result of the former have 
been suppressed , most recently by the california state government. 

and what the media did n't say about recent on the 
effect of is that , although some harm to non 
may have been detected , it was less  ( by an order or two of 
magnitude ) than that associated with a couple times a 
week or keeping a pet  . it 's enough to make you wonder whether 
there was ever anything to the claim that causes  . 

that , of course , is the real threat represented by politically 
correct science. the world is a dangerous place. it would be nice 
to know the  . i 've never believed to be a healthy 
practice , but , given a lack of credibility on the part of today 's 
science , how am i to decide what to do about it is 
highly , to that much i can from experience. yet 
the of may be than to continue. there 
is n't any way to tell , thanks to the influence of 
government money on the scientific  . 

two centuries ago , the founding fathers us certain 
to which every other nation in the world has been subject at one 
time or another , by creating a legal between politics and 
religion. each time some short individual or group has 
tried to lower the  ( most recently over the issue of 
abortion ) , blood real human blood , hot and in the street 
has wound up being shed .  . 

real human blood is being shed over scientific issues , as people 's 
lives are through the loss , to like the , of 
, or property it may have taken a lifetime to accumulate , 
to diseases caused by associated with burning fossil 
for electrical power , or thanks to on things like , 
when they die from the effects of obesity .  . 

what we need now , if we hope to survive as a civilization for two 
more centuries , is another , a constitutional separation of 
state and science including medicine .  . knowledge is valuable 
real science wo n't for lack of funding .  . the money will 
simply come from contributors unwilling to pay for lies , and 
everyone will benefit .  . 

l. neil smith 
author the probability , the empire , henry , 
and  ( forthcoming ) 
action bbs  ( 303 ) , 1 31 . 4 . 
libertarian second amendment 
life member 

my opinions are , of course , my own. 


from 
subject re i believe in gun control. 
reply to 
organization 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( peter nelson ) writes 
 ( john w. redelfs ) writes 
i believe in gun control. how about you 

i believe in gun control , too . . . assuming by gun control 
you mean always being able to hit your target. 


peter 

or , how about the line in pink 
i believe in gun control. if there 's a gun around , i be 
the one controlling it. 

al 
standard disclaimer 


from  ( robert rubinoff ) 
subject re liberty lobby libertarian ... 
nntp posting host cs . cmu . edu . 
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon 
lines 15 

in article writes 
note that was on the party with david 
duke  ( for veep ) in 1988 until he found out that duke was 
he , when he his  . so gave up his 
chance to be vice president of the us just to supporting 
duke .  . 

i 'd hardly call that giving up his chance to be vice president of the us 
the chance of the party is essentially nil .  . still , 
it does imply that he does n't want to be associated with duke .  . 

robert 




from  ( michael phelps ) 
subject re need senate bill numbers and house resolution numbers 
originator 
reply to  ( michael j. phelps ) 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host ibm . com . 
organization ibm ny 
lines 


try the archive .  . larry 's instructions follow. by 
the way , thanks for the archive larry .  .  . 

this year is the congress directory .  . 


from 
watson ! watson . ibm . com . ! watson . ibm . com . ! news . ans . net . ! howland . r . 
reston . ans . net . ! bogus . net . ! darwin . net . ! navy . ! !  . 
 . com . ! thu apr 8 19 41 01 1993 
article of talk . politics . guns . 
path 
watson ! watson . ibm . com . ! watson . ibm . com . ! news . ans . net . ! howland . r . 
reston . ans . net . ! bogus . net . ! darwin . net . ! navy . ! !  . 
 . com . ! 
from 
newsgroups talk . politics . guns . 
subject information about the anonymous ftp archive 
message id 
date 8 apr 93 22 50 09 gmt 
sender 
organization ideology , inc. 
lines 

this is the index file for the anonymous ftp archive .  . 
the archive site has been moved and is now at 

cs . cmu . edu . 

in the directory 

anon pub politics 

this archive is accessible only via anonymous ftp instructions for 
anonymous ftp are at the end of this file. 

an email server is available at another site , and as a result is 
not completely in with this archive .  . to get the index for 
the email server send 

get index 

as the body of a message to 

for help send 

help 

if you have any additions or suggestions for improvement to the 
archive please let me know. 

larry , ! ! or 


file 

report of the on the constitution of the on 
the , united states senate , seventh congress , second 
, february , 

file congress 

house resolution 11 by mr. , 3 , 1991 

expressing the sense of the congress with respect to the right of all 
americans to keep and bear in defense of life or liberty and in 
pursuit of all other legitimate endeavors .  . 

file congress 

house resolution by mr. major , march 11 , 1992 

proposing an amendment to the constitution of the united states 
the second amendment to the constitution includes comments 
by entered into the congressional record .  . 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , february 27 , 1991 

to amend title 18 , united states code , to of to , 
or of a by , a person convicted of a drug crime , and to 
provide enhanced penalties for of a during a drug crime .  . 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , march 7 , 1991 

to end the use of on animals in the united states. 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , march 13 , 1991 

to amend title 18 , united states code , to provide for the 
of a national which a federal may contact to 
learn if of a by a is , 
and to require such a to contact the before the 
of a to a  . 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , march 21 , 1991 

to the of assault weapons , large 
capacity ammunition feeding devices , and certain  . 

file congress 

house bill 1770 by mr. smith of florida , april 15 , 1991 

to amend title 18 , united states code , to certain 
which are for lawful purposes. 

file congress 

house bill 19 by mr. 3 , 1991 

to the , , and certain of restricted 
weapons , the manufacture of capable of accepting a or 
without , and the and of large 
capacity ammunition feeding devices , and for other purposes. 

file congress 

house bill by mrs .  . , 3 , 1991 

to provide for the mandatory of  . 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , 17 , 1991 

to amend the public health service act to establish an of 
states 
and certain political of states to receive grants for the 
of health associated with lead based , and to amend 
the internal code of 1986 to impose an tax and establish a 
trust to the federal arising from such 
 . 

this bill would impose a 0 . 75 . tax on all new lead , and 
0 . 37 . tax on lead .  . 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , 3 , 1991 

to amend the animal welfare act to dog and dog training 
involving the use of live animals as and to make such act 
applicable to facilities that are used for dog or dog race training .  . 

file congress 

house bill 

the violent crime act of 1991 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , 3 , 1991 

to protect persons engaged in a lawful hunt within a national 
establishing an administrative civil against individuals or groups 
intentionally , , or interfering with the conduct of a 
lawful hunt and for other purposes. 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , february 22 , 1990 

to provide and certain punishment for criminals in order 
to deter violent crime and rid america of illegal drug use. 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , 3 , 1991 

to the manufacture , , or of  . 25 . 
and  . 32 . ammunition .  . 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , 7 , 1991 

to certain of fully automatic or 
assault weapons .  . 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , april 9 , 1992 

to amend title i of the crime control and safe streets act of 
to deny grant funds to states unless law enforcement officers are 
to carry  . 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , 21 , 1992 

to amend title 18 , united states code , to expand the of the multiple 
sales reporting requirement , and to require that persons comply 
with state and local laws before receiving a federal 
license to deal in  . 

file congress 

house bill by mr. , august 10 , 1992 

to impose criminal penalties upon the failure of a federal 
to report to appropriate authorities the loss or theft of a 
from the or collection of the  . 

file congress 

house bill 7 by mr. 

to require a waiting period before the of a 
also known as the bill 

file congress 

house bill 750 by mr. , 30 , 1991 

to amend the internal code of to provide that the tax 
on will be transferred to a trust to be used for purposes of 
providing to victims of crime , and for other purposes. 

file congress 

senate bill by mr. , 15 , 1991 

to provide for calling federal constitutional 
conventions under article v for the purpose of proposing 
to the united states constitution .  . 

file congress 

senate bill by mr. , march 3 , 1992 

to amend title 18 , united states code , to the 
of by persons who have been convicted of a violent 
, and for other purposes. 

file congress 

senate bill 

to require a waiting period before the of a  . 

file congress 

senate bill by mr. , june 4 , 1992 

to establish in the government printing office an electronic 
gateway to provide public access to a wide range of federal 
containing public information  . 

file congress 

senate bill by mr. , june 30 1992 

to the manufacture , , , sale , 
, , , , or transportation of 
and ammunition , with certain exceptions .  . 

file congress 

senate bill by mr. , september 28 1992 

to amend title 18 , united states code , to require a waiting period 
before the of a  . 

file congress 

senate bill by mr. , february 8 , 1989 

to control the sale and use of assault weapons .  . 

file congress 

senate bill 51 by mr. , 14 , 1991 

to the manufacture , , or of  . 25 . 
and  . 32 . and 9 ammunition .  . 

file congress 

senate bill by mr. , march 13 , 1991 

to amend chapter 44 , title 18 , united states code , to provide clarification 
of on of , and to the use of federal 
funds to political which implement certain gun control 
 . 

file congress 

senate bill by mr. , 

to amend chapter 44 of title 18 , united states code , regarding 
assault weapons .  . 

file congress 

senate bill , by mr. , april 9 , 1991 

to the of assault weapons , large 
capacity ammunition feeding devices , and certain  . 

file congress 

senate bill , by mr. , april 23 , 1991 

to amend title 15 , united states code , to the consumer product 
safety to the risk of injury associated with  . 

file congress 

senate bill , by mr. , april 24 , 1991 

the amend the internal code of 1986 to exempt small , 
, and from the tax .  . 

file congress 

house resolution 3 , by mr. , 5 , 1993 
expressing the sense of the congress with respect to the right of all 
americans to keep and bear in defense of life or liberty and in the 
pursuit of all other legitimate endeavors .  . 

file congress 

house resolution , by mr. , 27 , 1993 
proposing an amendment to the constitution of the united states 
the second amendment to the constitution .  . 

file congress 

house bill , by mr. , 5 , 1993 

to amend title 18 , united states code , to require a waiting period 
before the of a  . 

file congress 

house bill , by mr. , 21 , 1993 

to amend title 18 , united states code , to the of 2 or 
more to an individual in any 30 day period. 

file congress 

house bill , by mrs .  . , 27 , 1993 

to provide for the , , or of a or an 
assault weapon to be held strictly liable for that result from the 
use of the or assault weapon .  . 

file congress 

house bill , by mr. , february 2 , 1993 

to provide for the or of a or an assault 
weapon to be held strictly liable for that result from the use 
of the or assault weapon , and to amend the internal 
code of 1986 to increase the tax on and use a portion 
of the from such tax to assist hospitals in areas to 
provide medical care to victims who are not covered under any 
health 
plan .  . 

file congress 

house bill , by mr. , february 22 , 1993 

to provide for a waiting period before the of a , 
and for the of a national instant criminal 
background check system to be by 
before the of any  . 

file congress 

senate bill , by mr. , 21 , 1993 

to the of assault weapons , large 
capacity ammunition feeding devices , and certain  . 

file congress 

senate bill 109 , by mr. , 21 , 1993 

to amend section of title 18 , united states code , to require the 
keeping 
of records with respect to of ammunition , and to require a 
study 
of the use and possible of sales of ammunition .  . 

file congress 

senate bill , by mr. , 21 , 1993 

to amend chapter 44 of title 18 , united states code , to the 
manufacture , , or of  . 25 . and  . 32 . 
and 9 ammunition .  . 

file congress 

senate bill 179 , by mr. , 21 , 1993 

to tax 9 ,  . 25 . , and  . 32 .  . 

file congress 

senate bill , by mr. , february 16 , 1993 

to the of 2 or more to an individual in any 
30 day period. 

file congress 

senate bill , by mr. , february 24 , 1993 

to amend title 18 , united states code , to require a waiting period 
before the of a  . 

file gun free 

text of the gun free school act of 1990 from public law 
nov. 29 , 1990 

file 

a collection of articles on the 's position on gun control. 
included is policy statement 47 which gives the interpretation 
of the second amendment .  . 

file info 

a collection of articles explaining the civilian program .  . 
in other words , why does the united states department of defense sell 
battle to civilians 

file 

and die ! by aaron and of jews for the 
preservation of ownership  ( jpfo ) 

file info 

the fully informed jury amendment , and what it means to gun owners 
and the right to keep and bear  . 

file 

white man 's law by william r. , from the december 1985 
reason magazine 

file jefferson 

the first address of thomas jefferson , 2nd president of the 
united states. 

file 

jewish history gun control , by 
from the february 1988 american . 

file law 

the law gun owner as domestic and acquaintance murderer 
from guns , murders , and the constitution a of 
gun control , by b. , february , 1990 , 45 . 49 .  . 

file second ideology 

the second amendment and the ideology of self protection by 
b. , jr. from constitutional commentary , 
vol. 9. no. 1. 1992 ,  ( c ) 1992 by constitutional commentary , 

puts the second amendment and of self protection 
into a historical perspective 

file new 

a new understanding of the second amendment , by david t. 

file to bear 

to bear for self defense our second amendment by 
stephen p.  . 

file no treason 

no treason , the constitution of no authority by 

file resistance 

excerpts from the study crime control through the use of armed force , 
by associate professor dr. , florida state university school 
of , published in the february 1988 issue of social problems. 

file 

waiting period questions and answers by control , inc.  ( hci ) 
and citizens for safe government  ( csg ) 

file 

the 10 against tyranny , 
by dr. david i from february , 1988 american  . 

file 

supreme court interpretations of the second amendment .  . 

file ftp 

how to supreme court decisions via anonymous ftp .  . 

file alternative policy 

alternative policy by franklin e. 
from the of the american of political and social science. 
volume , may published by the american of political 
and social science  . 

file 2nd . amendment . 

the second amendment by , yale law journal 
volume ,  ( 1989 ) 

file 

phone numbers for the , many are free numbers 

file 

a collection of articles on the 's position on the war on drugs .  . 

file 

florida a . w .  . summary part 1 , 

file 

florida a . w .  . summary part 2 , 
the facts by martin l. , md 

file 

information about the international wound association , 
martin , president 

file 

gun judges by , from the may 1991 issue of reason magazine 

file 

in the of the moment , by james d. 

file racist 

article gun control from racist  . by roy , 
from the street journal 11 21 91 

file core policy 

bearing for self defense a human and civil right by 
roy , national chairman , congress of racial equality  ( core ) 

file 

the right to bear by from the 
daily news , beach ,  .  ( 1991 ) 

file island 

united states of america v. island , us district court for 
the central district of il the court ruled that making a post  86 
machine gun is not illegal believe it or not. 

file 

united states of america v. john william , us court of appeals , 
tenth , 91 the court ruled that or 
a post  86 machine gun is not punishable under the believe it 
or not. 

file 

why gun waiting periods threaten public safety by david b. , 
march 25 , 1991 

file 

assault weapon questions answers 
by control , inc. and citizens for safe government  ( csg ) 

file survey 

a state by state survey of carrying weapons laws .  . 

file us vs miller 

united states vs. miller et al. , appeal from the district court of the 
united states for the western district of  . 

argued march 30 , 1939 decided may 15 , 1939 

file 

the history of v illinois is a fascinating exercise of how 
politically based decisions on our constitutional rights have come back 
to us. 

file 

a by presenting evidence that former 
o .  . played a major role in founding and  . 

file 

a list of voice and fax phone number for representatives and  . 

file 

the first 10 articles of amendment to the united states constitution .  . 

file constitution 

the constitution of the united states of america 

file of 

the declaration of independence 

file dont wait 

criminals do n't wait why should you from the  . exposes the 
arguments made for waiting periods .  . 

file external 

positive of gun ownership , by john , from 
the freeman ideas on liberty , october 1991 

file english 

legislation in great britain , by jan a. 

file 

control criminals , not guns by edward found in the 
march , 25 1991 or  street journal 

file 

the second amendment , by j. neil 

an with roy , professor of at 
usc and author of american usage and style the consensus . 
his opinion on the meaning of the second amendment .  . 

file 

a letter from j. , director fbi uniform crime reporting 
program to paul h. , research of the stating 
that only one police , of , was shot and killed with 
a semi automatic model a  . 

file 

how to make their day by b. jr. and patricia harris 
in the national review , october 21 , 1991 

and harris several myths about , criminals , and 
violence .  . 

file two myths 

two myths of gun control from point guns and violence in 
america by  . 

file not problem 

assault weapons are n't the problem , by , published in 
the new york times tuesday , september 1 , 1992 

file study 

1990 study of sales and 

file children 

fighting for children 's hearts and minds by robert , american 
april 1992 

discusses how and it 's center to prevent violence 
have set out to use public schools as for their anti gun 
propaganda .  . 

file 

guns and by james d. , from 1989 issue of reason. 
exposes the flaws in the new england journal of medicine study 
comparing the of seattle and vancouver .  . 

file info 

a collection of articles and information on the new england journal of 
medicine vancouver seattle crime comparison study .  . 

see also the file , authored by james  . 

file 1 . 

the new england journal of medicine .  . 1991 dec 5.  . 
 . 
and the killing  . 
p. 

file 2 . 

the new england journal of medicine .  . 1991 dec 5.  . 
 . 
special article effects of restrictive of 
on and suicide in the district of  . 
colin .  . david .  . brian .  . j. 

file 

the new england journal of medicine .  . 1988 10.  . 
 . 
a call for science. 
mercy james a. n .  . 

file letters 

the new england journal of medicine .  . 1989 may 4. 320  . 
 . 
correspondence , crime , assaults , and 
a tale of two cities .  . 
paul h. tim .  . david c. 
david c.  . john w. 
john d. john h. l  . 
fred p. thomas .  . t. 
james p. rice charles .  . james a. gray laurel 
a. mercy james a. n .  . 

file suicide . 1 . 

the new england journal of medicine .  . 1990 feb 8.  . 
 . 
special article and of suicide 
a comparison of two areas .  . 
john henry .  . p. t. 
james a j. l. 

file suicide . 2 . 

the new england journal of medicine .  . 1990 12. (2) .  . 
p  . 
correspondence and of suicide .  . 
paul h. john henry .  . p. 
 . 

file 

the new england journal of medicine .  . 1988 10.  . 
 . 
special article , crime , assaults , and 
a tale of two cities .  . 
john henry .  . l. t. 
james a. thomas .  . p. 
rice charles .  . gray laurel .  . james .  . 

file 

an open letter from paul h. , of to the director , office 
of scientific review , u.s. public health service , detailing 
why they should the and of research 
conducted by and for the for disease control  . 

file 000 . 

what the files are all about. 

the series are set of small  ( 60 100 lines typically ) postings 
that address common questions and myths about all aspects of  . 

file 

accidental deaths by and by other means. 

file 

trend of accidental deaths by 

file 

per in the us 

file 

children and 

file 

manufacture in the united states 

file 

declaration of independence 

file 

trend in weapons use for  ( 1974 86 ) 

file 

reasons for and non 

file 

are a cause of death of children 

file 

is the united states the most violent nation 

file 

complete list of all sources used for the series .  . 

file study 

analysis of the journal constitution , 21 may 1989 article 
on assault weapons , by james j. baker of , before the select 
on abuse and control , u.s. house of representatives .  . 

file txt . 

the papers , as by project 1.1 

file great quotes 

thomas jefferson quotes and more ... 

file civilian 

civilian of military , by richard a. i. , 
from the february 1988 issue of the uk  . 

file good go bad 

when good , law citizens go bad , from uk no. 46 
jan feb 1989. discusses how the rate of of gun control 
laws is always very low , even among otherwise law citizens .  . 


file national socialism 


national socialism , by richard a . i .  . , uk , 
86 .  . discusses the gun control of of 
the right. 

file the big lie 

gun vs. assault the big lie by , 

semi military assault are not now nor have they 
ever been a threat to society. these facts have been determined by 
the government but never released to the public ! 

file 47 

the founding fathers and the 47 , by 
discuss the question if the founding fathers would have approved of 
the 47 for civilian ownership .  . 

file 

control , inc. , the by david , from the 91 
issue of gun world magazine .  . discusses the in the hate 
campaigns of the ku klux klan and control , inc. 

file 

a list of organizations devoted to the preservation of the second 
amendment .  . 

file 

the gun law handbook for the state of , australia  ( oct  . 

file purposes 

a summary of the 's purposes and objectives , and positions on some 
gun control issues. 

file 

a collection of articles to teflon , piercing 
 . 

file 

the supreme court decision in the case 

united states of america v. center co .  . 

file 

weapons can prevent like 's by 
dr. in the morning news , sunday april 
, 1992 

file lies 

on how military style semi 's are not a threat 
to public safety , how they are not fundamentally different 
than ordinary weapons , and how the gun are 
the bad image this class of weapons has to 
further gun control. 

file 

the a militant campaign taking aim at criminal justice 
system by m. reporter of the street journal .  . 

file media 

gun in the medical literature telling the truth by 
edgar a. , md discusses anti gun bias in medical  . 

file guns 

court says guns are good for children from gun week , 
1989. 

david , court for the arlington , va , 
claims of violence including guns are , in fact , good 
for children. 

file appeal 

text of the court of appeals in the rifle and 
club challenge to california 's assault weapon control act 
of 1989. 

file 

the right to keep and bear of the 1992 national of 
the libertarian party. 

and a reproduction of the libertarian party 
responsible gun ownership equal rights for america 's gun owners 

the entire 1992 national of the is available via anonymous 
ftp on think . com . in the file pub libertarian 1992 

file let 

an article from the august 1991 issue of law enforcement technology 
with a survey of police officers on their views of gun control. 

file 

a study conducted by the national association of the of 
police  ( nacp ) through its american law enforcement survey for 1989 , 
in which 16 , of police , and law enforcement command 
were with a list of 30 questions , it was determined 
the overwhelming majority of officers support the right of private 
ownership , and agreed that gun had little effect on crime .  . 

file 

a example of the propaganda used by in contributions .  . 

file 

a transcription of the video america needs a national 
control policy 

file 

michael , president of nbc news , calls for a ban on 
in this usa today thursday 16th 1992  . 

file 

a resolution passed by the voting membership of the at its national 
in , ca stating the will support third party 
 . 

file 

thomas m. , d .  . , general principles of constitutional law in 
the united states of america ,  ( 3rd ed .  . 1898 ) , a 
constitutional discussed the rights protected by the second 
amendment 

file 

gun law might murder rate by james , st. 
post tuesday june 23 , 1992 .  . expresses support for 
a national law as proposed by c. , that is , a 
requirement that gun owners pass a test , among other things. 

file fair 

a summary of the 10 page article on jim and which appeared 
in the  91 issue of fair magazine .  . 

question was it true you wanted to get a gun to protect 
yourself against 

answer jim i had a gun 

file 

gun control is constitutional , by robert a. from the 
street journal page , , december 12 , 1991 

file 

two articles on a murder averted in , by a man 
with a  . the importance of this event is that it closely 
followed the murders by in texas , but the media did not 
cover  . 

file 

a survey of public support for the instant background 
check and the waiting period. the basic finding is that 
once the public the of the instant background 
check vs. the problems with the waiting period support for 
the waiting period greatly .  . 

file vote 

how congress voted on the instant background check and 
the waiting period. 

file vs vote 

how congress voted on the amendment to 
strike the new gun control sections from the 
crime bill. 

file vote 

how the u.s. senate voted on s. , the of the district 
of 's anti gun strict law. 

file 

gun control trying the facts , the values a based 
on crime , , guns , by k. , d .  . , 
director center for the of applied ethics , carnegie mellon 
university .  . 

addresses the of gun ethical aspects , issues , 
and other values at stake in the of risks , 
force and its  . 

file of bias 

of bias on the second amendment the media by 
k. , director center for the of applied 
ethics excerpts from a longer 

file cleveland 

a critique of 

accidental in a  ( 1958 1973 ) 
, , , and 
american journal of 100 , , pp.  . 


this is the study that lies at the heart of the gun control 
claim that a for self defense is too dangerous. 
the claims that a gun is x ( 6 in this study ) 
times more likely to be used against an innocent person than 
in lawful self defense originated with this report in  . 

by robert i. 

file lessons 

lessons from square by from 
guns , september 1989 

why the second amendment is so important , even in more 
progressive era. included is a description of the 
march in washington , in which gen .  . douglas 
opposed veterans lobbying for the government to 
immediately pay their promised 's  . 

file forward trace 

california forward trace by in 
the new gun week , march 1 , 1991. 

details how the into giving copies 
of 's in violation of federal law. 

file justice 

crime victims , by michael r. , bureau of justice statistics 
, u.s. department of justice. 

this bureau of justice statistics special report describes the key findings 
from an analysis of crimes reported in the national crime survey 
for 87 .  . it describes the victims of hand gun sic crime , how the 
was used during the crime , and the nature and extent of 
crime injury .  . it also provides information on offenders , the 
of crimes , and whether the crime was reported to the 
police .  . 

file 

included are 

1 ) of press conference with john , and former 
supreme court justice warren on s. , 's , ban .  . 
also speaking was , former member of the jimmy 
white house kelly michael of national 
to stop gun violence michael  ( executive director , 
council of the great city schools ) dr. 
the american of 

2 ) an article by in which he describes how kicked 
out president charles because of a disagreement on 's 
ban .  . 

3) an article on 's support for s.  . 


file view 

gun an   view by jon 
from the december 1985 guns  . how an moderate became a 
radical .  . 

file papers 

a list of articles by  . martin l. , m . d .  . , f . a . c . s .  . 
wound lab , and where to write for copies of them. 

file gun war 

the great american gun war by bruce , 
the public interest no. 45 , fall , 37 62 

file george will 

second amendment and save lives , by george will 

file 

steps to end the war at home by richard , no date 
nor publication available placed in archive 9 2 

studies prove gun control works by richard , from the 
kansas city star , 9 28  . 

file canada ban list 

a reproduction of a from the canadian department of justice 
listing and restricted  ( as of june 1992) .  . 

also included is the point system used to determine if a 
should be for possible banning .  . 

file 

to the song cop killer by ice t on the body count. 

file 1 . 

a letter from the california voters alliance , asking for support in 
their effort to defeat anti gun california , 
co author of california 's waiting period law for and  . 

file astrology 

s astrology the approach to public health research 
on and violence by paul h. , d .  . , institute for 
action , national rifle association , 1990 

a paper presented at the meetings of the american society of 
, baltimore , maryland , 7 10 

file panic 

the assault weapon panic political correctness takes aim , 
at the constitution , by eric and david 

published by the independence institute , october 10 , 1991 

file state 

a collection of from state constitutions .  . 

file too late 

chapter 13 but then it was too late of they thought they were 
free the germans , 1933 , by , university of 
chicago press 

file code 

the legal definition of the of the united states of america 
taken from 

united stated code  ( usc ) , title 10 , section and section  . 

file legal crime 

report no. 32 of the of silver spring , md .  . 11 29 89 
by  . reports that a legally machine gun was 
used in a drug hit .  . subsequent reports said charges were dropped for 
lack of evidence. 

file cash 

records to us and  . 

file 

information about the paul net , a network of 2nd amendment 


the paul network  ( prn ) is a coast to coast network of 
committed grass roots gun rights who rely upon computer 
board systems for their primary mode of  . 
 ( nra director and 27 year san jose police veteran ) 
is founder and director of the  . based in san jose , ca , 
's bbs  ( 1 223 ) currently all network message 
traffic .  . 

file gun talk 

information about the board gun talk 

file 

a of based their votes on 1 ) the bill 
 ( hr7 ) , 2 )  ( hr1412 ) and 3) the amendment 
to strike the anti gun from the house crime bill  . 

file 

feds trash law gun owner s home , official journal march 
1992 , by richard e.  . details how the the home of 
in search of a non existent m 16  . 

file point 

the concluding chapter to point by  . 

file 

patrick 's criminal record .  . 

file 

statement of purpose and contact information for doctors for 
in research public policy 

file 

a summary of the effects of the highly training 
program in which over 6000 women were trained in basic 
and the law of self defense .  . 

file 

a letter from wayne miller , chief national act branch of 
stating that local law enforcement on the atf form 4 , 
application for and of i.e. , 
machine gun , is completely  . 

file txt . 

new control by robert  . 

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at 
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was 
sponsored by the  association of australia .  . 

file txt . 

issues regarding gun control in america by bruce l. 

a paper was presented at a conference on gun control held at 
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was 
sponsored by the  association of australia .  . 

file fine . txt . 

to the purposeful reform of  ( australian ) laws by j. d. 
fine 

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at 
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was 
sponsored by the  association of australia .  . 

file txt . 

paper by colin 

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at 
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was 
sponsored by the  association of australia .  . 

file txt . 

gun control recent research on the american experience by b. , 
jr. 

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at 
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was 
sponsored by the  association of australia .  . 

file txt . 

gun control a banker 's perspective , by 

a paper presented at a conference on gun control held at 
university union theatre 27 28 august 1988. the conference was 
sponsored by the  association of australia .  . 

note , this paper is almost impossible to read currently as the original 
would not well. a more copy will be later. 

file 

back door gun control by peter from the 1993 
issue of american survival guide magazine .  . 

discusses four examples of innocent people whose 
are , and or charged with a crime when none was committed , 
as examples of how gun control is implemented in the real world. 

file armed citizen 

the armed citizen feature from the american and the 
american these stories show how are indeed useful 
for self defense .  . 

file 

the case against gun control by david 

file bias 

fighting anti gun bias in an article from the 
bbs gun talk 

file story of gun 

the story of a gun by , from the atlantic , 1993 .  . 

file 

reports to the , by  . 

all these files are named then two numbers , e.g. , for 
report no. 51 to the 

file whose . txt . 

whose side are they on 

freedom from war the united states program for general and complete 
in a peaceful world. an official publication of the united 
states of america government. 

file 

contact information for the national for 
awareness 

file canada 

some facts about canadian gun control laws , gun ownership and violent 
crime .  . 

file time letter 

time magazine 's form letter response to criticism of their 
death by gun issue. 

file gun in school 

health objectives for the nation weapon carrying among high school 
students united states , 1990 edited by david , d . m . d .  . 

ways to reduce carrying of by high school students .  . 

file congress cover 

congress covers itself but not public by paul craig , printed 
in the cleveland plain october 2nd , 1992 .  . 

file 

restrictions law folks , not criminals .  . by 
david b. , printed in the oh , 16th .  . 

points out how waiting periods can cause a great deal of harm .  . 

file 

a washington post letter to the editor by charles e. 
discussing his bill , h . r .  . , which requires law enforcement sign off 
on applications .  . 

file 

a upi article on a lawsuit against of which forced 
them out of business. 

this article is by upi , and with permission please 
respect the re distribution  . 

file 

a summary of statistics for the state of florida , e.g. , 
the number of issued , number revoked , number denied , etc. 
this proves that people obtaining are law 
citizens and are not with their  . 

file on 

replies to comment from counsel 's from 
the new gun week , december 1 , 1989. 

discusses how , inc. are willing to sacrifice the 
for the benefit of their business. 

file american blacks 

gun control and american blacks by raymond g. (pp .  . 478 ) 

in the united states , the experience of blacks from slavery 
through the 's was one of the and best documented 
examples of the political functions of gun control. 

file 

the little known newsletter names will have the 
month and year at the end , e.g. ,  . 

file 

america 's by david b. , appeared in gun world magazine 
december 1992 .  . 

file 

the action for a national gun policy by  . 

file newsletter 

the control semi progress report for december 1992 .  . 

file 

a written by the host family of japanese exchange student 
, who was killed when he went to the wrong home for 
a party 

to the easy of in the united states 

which will be presented to president clinton .  . 

file election 

what the election means for our gun control movement by  . 

file 

university of washington dr. writing 
in the april 1989 american journal of says that television 
exposure is related to half of the in the united states. 

file va 

an in virginia by  . describes how used a 
virginia gun to general strawman sales and then later 
those guns back to va so they could claim 40 of guns they 
came from va .  . when the stopped they were convicted 
of conducting strawman sales , one of the owners committed suicide .  . 

file 

the 1993 fact card published by the 

file 

a letter to the editor of the street journal by 
on the you are 43 times more likely to kill someone you know 
with a gun than a criminal .  . 

file 

an ed piece by dan which appeared in the march 8 1993 issue 
of the cleveland plain it discusses the issue of police abuses 
and citizen self defense against such abuses .  . 

file 

an gun makers must pay the price by mel  ( d il ) , 
member us house of representatives , which appeared in the 02 15 93 
issue of the chicago  . 

file 

gun control with  ( yes , the commie ) and 
from a feb .  . 25 1993 on  . 

file 

institute policy analysis no. 109 , 11 , 1988 
trust the people the case against gun control , by david b. 

file 

the british a bitter price , by keith g. n .  . 
from the american , march 1993 .  . 

file batman 

cartoon campaign for gun control from the march 1993 issue 
of new american 

file 

memory of  43 from the street 
journal , monday , march 15 , 1993 

file 

contact information for for the second amendment 

file propaganda 

anti gun ownership propaganda , by in the march ,  issue 
of survival guide .  . 

file media fairness 

media fairness action plan is continuing , by james h. , ass t 
general counsel , from american , march 1993 , page 54 .  . 

this describes the 's personal attack rule and how the may 
take advantage of this rule against who attack the  . 

file 

articles of , proposed by congress 15 , , 
ratified and effective march 1 , 

file pending 

a list of the currently pending gun control in the us and 
house of representatives .  . 

file 

self for self defense police protection is n't enough ! 
by peter 

file 

the second amendment a right left out , by doctor miller 
in the american , february 1993 , p. 33 .  . 

file 

what cops should know about the gun issue ! by , 
from the may 1992 issue of guns  . 

file crossfire 

a of the , march 3 1993 edition of the 
show crossfire .  . the participants are michael , john , 
 . charles  ( d ny ) criminal justice  . , 
and j . f .  .  . jack fields  ( r tx ) 

file 

the war on gun ownership still goes on ! gun control s nazi connection ! 
by craig from the may 1993 issue of guns  . 

file 

the armed criminal in america , by james , 1986 .  . a research in 
brief published by the national institute of justice. 

file bigotry 

bigotry , and ideology in the battle over gun control by 
, from the 1992 public interest law review 

file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 
file ps . 

laws and murder in several states , by clayton  . these 
are all files and require the use of to 
print .  . 

file hammer 

hammer on the failure of gun control , from gun talk .  . 

file 

the views of police  ( la ) , brown  ( nyc ) , martin 
 ( chicago ) on gun control and other civil rights. 


archive general information and anonymous ftp instructions .  . 

the of the politics mailing list , karl , 
has agreed to set up an anonymous ftp archive directory for 
related information. this directory can be used for things like 
articles by , , , , supreme court decisions , 
the vs us decision , copies of legislation , and so on. it 's not 
meant to be for the discussions that normally appear here. 

so , in the future if you 're looking for something check there first 
and then ask here. 

instructions 

short version for 

the site is cs . cmu . edu .  . place contributions into the 
directory anon pub politics  . the ftp commands 
get , put , , or should work. give the command type 
to be sure files are transferred correctly. your files will be moved 
to the directory .  . to get a file use the commands get or  . 

i will maintain an index which you should get first to check if 
the file you want to read or write already is  . 

long version for non 

in order for you to use this archive your computer must be on 
the internet .  . to connect to the archive site run the command 

ftp cs . cmu . edu . 

if that does n't work you cannot use this archive .  . if the ftp 
command is successful you 'll get this asking you for a 

name cs . cmu . edu . lvc ) 

instead of your will appear .  . answer this with 

ftp 

next you 'll get this asking your for your e mail address 

ok , send e mail address as 

i would enter 



you 'll enter your own e mail address. you 'll get these lines 
or similar as output 

remote system is unix .  . 
using mode to files. 

next , the command is printed 

ftp 

if you do not get the line using mode to files. 
run the command 

type 

now you 're in to the archive machine .  . there are many 
on this machine but the two you are concerned with are 

anon pub politics 
and 
anon pub politics 

there are to the directory , those are discussed below. 

when you to the system your directory is anon .  . to 
files change your current directory to the directory with the command 

anon pub politics 
or 
pub politics 

to submit files change your directory to the directory with 
the command 

anon pub politics 
or 
pub politics 

once you do this you 'll get another ftp asking you to enter 
another command. 

to find the names of the existing files in the directory you are 
in run the command 

ls l 

this will produce something like 

total 
r r r 1 karl 16 1992 
r r r 1 karl apr 5 19 20 index 
r r r 1 karl 16 1992 lies 
r r r 1 karl apr 30 1992 
r r r 1 karl 16 1992 
r r r 1 karl jan 13 18 33 bias 
r r r 1 karl 22 22 38 
r r r 1 karl 4 1992 
... and so on ... 

each line corresponds to one file. reading right to left , the fields 
are the file name , the last date of the file , the size of 
the file in , and some permission fields which you do not need 
to be concerned with. 

to get a file run the command get followed by the name of the file 
you want , for example 

get index 
or 
get 

after the file is to your machine a message like this 

complete. 
received in 5 seconds  ( 4 s) 

you can repeat the get command for every file you want to  . 
you can use the command to multiple files. if the 
file you want is in a , for example , congress 
you should change your directory to the appropriate first 
and then it 

congress 
get 

once you 're finished you can log off with the command 

quit 

if you have a file you want to contribute the procedure is a little 
different. first of all you should find out if the file already 
exists , so get a copy of the index file with the procedure above 
and look it over to make sure you would n't repeat an entry .  . the 
index will have a description of each of the files in the 
directory .  . for example 


file 

white man 's law by william r. , from the december 1985 
reason magazine 


once you 've determined you wo n't be an entry , 
and change to the directory command  ( see above) .  . once 
you are in the directory use the command 

put file name 

in this case 

put 

again there 'll be a complete , so many 
in so many seconds message. now your file is on the archive 
machine .  . 

another thing to watch out for is file names . be sure 
there is n't a file in the directory that is called the same 
as the file you want to write .  . if you use the same name you 'll 
the previous file or you 'll get an error message . 

your file may have to be if there is a conflict with a 
file by the same name in the directory .  . 

once your file is in the directory send me an entry for 
the index file and i will add it to the file. 

if you cannot use anonymous ftp and would still like to contribute 
a file email the file to me and i 'll take care of the rest. 

if you submit a file and do not me it may be removed , so 
be sure to let me know first. 

if you have any questions feel free to ask me. 


larry 






michael ,  ( external )  .  .  . 
 ( internal )  .  .  . at 
 ( and last but not least a disclaimer ) these opinions are mine .  .  . 

from  ( keith de solla ) 
subject gun laws 
organization canadian corporation 
lines 37 

nice summary , keith , thanks. 

i talked to the federal dept. of justice  ( doj , ottawa ) to try and 
clarify a bunch of things regarding changes to canadian gun laws .  . 
i am posting here for purposes questions to email , 
followup to t . p . g .  . 

1. it is still technically  ( but almost impossible ) to get 
a carry in canada .  . this is contrary to what i 
was told by a police  . 
2. it is still legal to use lethal force  ( such as a firearm ) to 
protect life , also contrary to what the told me. guns 
must be locked up and , however. 
3. regarding hi capacity , it is still not clear who will 
be exempt or how this will be managed .  . this is up to each  . 
the general idea is that exempt persons will receive a letter form 
them to the high capacity  . 
apparently , the is to how many of these 
 weapons  you will be allowed to  . will 
be allowed to order high capacity for those allowed to 
them , but will not be allowed to stock them. 
4. high capacity converted to comply with the new limits will 
not be considered weapons .  . to the 
some possible methods to alter the  . some 
 ( beretta ) will be reduced capacity  . 
 ( god knows how much they 'll charge for these ) 

this covers most of what we discussed .  . i have typed this from memory , 
do not take it as gospel .  . i am not a lawyer and i refuse to play one on tv. 




keith p. de , p . eng . ontario , , , , 
rifle and club 



from  ( david slack ) 
subject re clinton wants national id card , aka ussr style internal 
organization , 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
lines 24 


the idea of the card is bull in and of its self , but i'm curious to know , do 
they plan on making it a requirement to always have it on you , or is it 
only going to be required to be presented when trying to medical aid 

btw , anybody planning on hillary 's head to look for 8 ) 

later dave , 
days 


logic or just the 




david h. slack 
surface mount center 
email 
4019 
phone  ( 208 ) 4019 

,  . , , m s 


from  ( lance w. bledsoe ) 
subject re threatening gun owners 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 47 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( gary s. wachs ) writes 

, 

i'm writing a story on the future of gun control. there are a 
few points i would welcome your opinion on. it 's wonderful having a 
resource like this newsgroup to take advantage of and i thank you in advance 
for your ! 

1. what do you believe are the most serious threats to gun owners in the 
future 
the government 

, fbi , , etc.  ( see 1 ) 

2. are you concerned that the 2nd could be to 
apply to the armed forces only , civilians from of 
any kind 
well .  .  .  . 
contributions taxes 
abortion elimination of tissue 
clinton president 
spouse 
it could happen .  .  .  . 

3. if you did have control over what types of people would be allowed 
to buy , which types would you feel compelled to restrict to military 
uses only  . , , , atomic bomb , etc . ) . 
bomb , perhaps. 

4. would you describe and all other gun control as being 
determined to make it illegal for a civilian to own or use a 
yep .  . 

5. have you personally read the bill in its 
yep .  . 

thank again , 






w. (512) 
shall know the truth , and the truth shall make you free. 

