from  ( john w. redelfs ) 
subject re protestant finds christ 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 22 
reply to  ( john w. redelfs ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( tom albrecht ) says 

in article  ( john w. redelfs ) writes 

i learned that god loves his children who have never heard of him and has a 
plan for them too , even those who have died without a knowledge 
of christ .  . i learned that a man cannot justice by on 
his death because is more than a feeling of  . it 
requires faith in christ proven by following him , by keeping his 
commandments .  . such cannot be accomplished on ones  . 

so jesus must have lied to the on the cross .  . 

paradise and salvation are not the same thing. salvation is better. refer 
to john 14 2. 

tom 


john w. , 
all my opinions are pending further data .  . 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization sgi 
lines 40 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 

do you mean it 's moral to use force on someone who advocates 
the use of force 

with a few , yes. minimum force , for a start. and , it 
depends on what is being forced  ( on either  . 

or do you mean that sometimes we have to use force on such 
people out of necessity or self defence , while recognizing 
that our own actions in doing so are not moral 

my opinion is that our actions would be moral , and it would be 
immoral not to act if action would be both necessary and effective. 
again , there many and  . 

note , my usage of my opinion is an admission that i do n't have a lock 
on morals , not that there is no truth about morality to have a lock on. 

you 're admitting a lot more than that. you are admitting that 
your morals are  . you are admitting that the actions 
of other people and the situation you are in help to determine 
how you judge the moral significance of one of your own actions .  . 

if you x degree of force , that 's not moral , but if you 
x degree of force , but previously someone else has employed y degree 
of force , and the situation is thus and so , that is moral .  . 

this is quite different from saying force on other people 
is immoral , period. unfortunately , from time to time we are 
to do this immoral thing for reasons of self preservation , and so 
we have to bear the moral consequences of that. 

for what it 's worth and yes , i know you claim to be an agnostic 
it 's this ability to re label things from immoral to moral 
that i find one of the least attractive qualities of the religious 
mind. 

jon .  . 

from  ( paul jr ) 
subject re clarification of personal position 
organization university of , 
lines 26 

in article  ( darius lecointe ) writes 

if it were a sin to violate sunday no one could 
ever be forgiven for that for jesus never kept sunday holy .  . he only 
recognized one day of the seven as holy .  . 

jesus also recognized other holy days , like the  . acts 15 says 
that no more should be on the gentiles than that which is necessary. 
the sabbath is not in the list , nor do any of the epistles people 
to keep the 7th day , while christians were living among people who did not 
keep the 7th day. it looks like that would have been a problem. 

instead , we have scriptures telling us that all days can be alike 
 ( romans 14 5 ) and that no man should judge us in regard to what kind of 
food we eat , jewish holy days we keep , or in regard to the sabbath .  .  . 2 . ) . 

the 
question is on what authority do we proclaim that the requirements of the 
fourth commandment are no longer relevant to modern christians 

i do n't think that the sabbath , or any other command of the law is totally 
irrelevant to modern christians , but what about 2 , where it says 
that we are not to be judged in regard to the keeping of the sabbath 

link  . 


from  ( michael siemon ) 
subject re christian meta ethics 
organization public access unix , 
lines 

in  ( russell turpin ) 
writes 

in article  ( michael siemon ) writes 

the issue , then , is this 

christian a says , behavior such and such is sinful .  . what is 
christian b supposed to do with such a statement 

one possibility always exists a may be able to persuade b that the 
behavior in question does exhibit a failure in loving god or neighbor .  . 

michael , modern liberal that he is , reads a fairly benign meaning 
into this word. he then constructs his religious beliefs around 
this understanding , reading other scripture in the context of 
these commandments , with love understood .  . 

i regard love as no more or less benign than any other christian does. 
you are merely expressing approval of the consequences i find  . 
which says more about our politics and cultural than about my 
 ( or any) religion. love is a highly ambiguous word , of which christians 
can write both the gentle words paul uses of it in 1 in 
a passage that even the will quote at you ) and the 
words of t. s. in his , love is the name 
that the of flame ... 

this is in any case rather to the side of what i was attempting to raise 
in my note , as will become more evident below. 

as a non believer , i find michael 's christianity kinder and  . 

 . i think you are me , rather seriously. though , 
given my principle that one cannot force one 's own notion of sin on 
another , and my , 
and others  ( believers and unbelievers alike ) are under no threat of my 
my own understanding of christian love. 

if i take him at 
his word , he cannot condemn the , because they were 
also following these commandments as they understood them. if 

you misread .  . i can do  ( and have repeatedly done ) a complete bill of 
accusation against the inquisition by exhibiting in as a form 
as anyone might want a of the harm it has done to human 
beings  ( in the first place ) and to respect for  ( let alone love of ) god 
in near  . please go back to my quoted words above 

the possibility that always exists is that i  ( or , to to proper 
time sequence , my over the last several centuries ) could 
persuade christian b of my case that the inquisition does indeed 
constitute an violation of the law of love. i must also note 
that the majority of christians have been so persuaded .  . by christian 
argumentation , as well as by secular both christian and non christian 
 . 

what mr. to is a point 

a. i demonstrate the human pain and violation of love involved 
in the inquisition .  . 

b. the responds that mother church must , however 
painful this seems , discipline her children for their 
own good in this case the salvation of their souls  ( or 
if the tortured heretic will not , than by bad example 
others from the same loss of soul . ) . 

a. i point out that this justification of a failure in love 
depends on a highly of texts and of 
philosophical assertions that are quite  . 

b. me at the stake .  . 

my rhetoric has failed , but the point i am making is  . what is 
going on here has a lot to do with cultural baggage .  . in this case , 
the baggage includes a  ( nearly universal , and absolutely secular ) belief 
that an accused person must prove innocence and that testimony is most 
if taken under torture. the elimination of 
practice  ( in those places where it has been eliminated , or at least 
greatly reduced ) has very little , if anything , to do with the discussion 
of sin in the exchange between a and b. 

mr. is pointing out that , if i am a versus the grand 's b , 
then my is not very likely to work. i know this and in what 
ever personal , i the issue to god and my defense 
 . so , one possibility fails in this case as it will fail in 
may others. at the other extreme , the will succeed when it 
properly should not , if it entails mistaken assumptions i share with the 
 . and that is an even more case , in that 
many of the victims of inquisition will have accepted that they were in 
fact sinful  ( in such random cases as they may actually have been guilty 
of charges brought against them . ) . 

the point is that the breaks down when the parties do not 
share enough to agree on all the cultural baggage and given the main 
thrust of the inquisition , against heresy , it is bound to break down 
in precisely the worst cases. the conservative (i do n't think that 
is the right word , btw) will take refuge in what i attribute to b above , 
that he is justified in causing harm because he thinks that works to 
a greater good. but this is a violent and refusal to follow 
the gospel , as if one 's theories about sin entitled one to cast aside 
jesus  words on dealing with sinners  . matthew 5  . 

i am a radical christian only in that i take the gospel seriously. 

 ( or , for that matter , what does it mean to love one 's fellow 
man ) and what is the right thing and how does one go about 
loving god 

well , the whole point of making these the base commandments is that 
they are n't reducible to rules. a set of rules is a moral code or a 
law code or an for acting .  . such things can be very helpful 
to individuals or societies but not if they are used instead of a 
personal involvement in and responsibility for one 's actions .  . the great 
commandment is , more than anything else , a call to act as if you were 
god and accepting ultimate responsibility in your every action. a 
demand that i , like most , would rather not hear , but it keeps 
up nonetheless  ( along with the that it is more important 
that i be open to trying this , than at it) .  . 
may twist this act as if you were god to mean down rules for other 
people and be as nasty to them as possible if they do n't keep your rules. 
they are so  ( and obvious) about this that they have convinced a 
lot of people  ( who reject the whole concept ! ) that such 
is how god acts .  . that , after all , is the standard accusation against 
god by the atheists here and elsewhere. that the have 
confused their , jumping notions of other 
people with the nature of god is almost the entire content of standard 
american atheism and i quite agree with it on this point. 

ethical systems are not by the nice sounding 
up front , much of which sounds pretty much the same , but by the 
specific acts , , and arguments that they recommend .  . 

and different bodies of christians have , from the beginning , 
different ethical systems  ( or in some cases ,  . as a result , 
it is bizarre to identify any one of these systems , however popular 
 ( or infamous ) with christianity .  . christianity does not have a torah .  . 
it does not have a  . specifically christian scripture has very 
little , if anything , in the way of commandments so little that 
the christians who want commandments go for 
them with almost no support  ( and thus almost no obvious  ) 
for their efforts .  . the one , single , thing in the gospels which jesus 
specifically gives as a commandment to us is love one another. 

i will be expanding on this point in a reply to paul 
that i hope to get to in a day or so it is quite true that 
some christians infer lots of commandments from the nt i 'll 
point out what has to be going on in these , and why 
there is a huge amount of cultural baggage involved. 

you are quite right that this is if one is looking for an ethical 
system. 

but why should anyone be looking for an ethical system , since our 
society is eager to hand us one or more no matter what we do it 
may be that we need a principle for the critique of ethical systems 
in which case i will the once again. 

i am glad that a few christians , 
such as michael , find a benign meaning for the , and then 
interpret the usually in a more constructive 
fashion .  . on the other hand , i do think that this tells us more 
about michael and christians like him that it tells us about 
christianity .  . 

i think you are begging the question. why do n't i and the  ( myriads 
of ) other christians like me tell you something about christianity 
nor is this very new in christianity you might want to look up 
the origins and fundamental doctrines of the , from the 17th 
century , and they are not at all the first to understand the 
gospel in a manner that is congenial to my case. 

michael l. i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 6 7 

from  ( anthony g rose ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
reply to  ( anthony g rose ) 
organization corporation , ca 
lines 18 

in article  ( malcolm lee ) writes 

in article ,  ( joseph h allen ) writes 
in article  ( jim de arras ) writes 

it was interesting to watch the 700 club today. robertson said that the 
branch had met the end for worshipping their false god. he 
also said that this was a terrible and that the fbi really blew it. 

i do n't necessarily agree with robertson .  . every one will be placed before 
the judgement eventually and judged on what we have done or failed to do 
on this earth. god allows people to choose who and what they want to worship .  . 

i'm sorry , but he does not ! ever read the first commandment 

worship of money is one of the greatest religions in this country. 

you mean , false religion ! 

from  ( mark dotson ) 
subject 
organization association , ohio 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 49 


the primary problem in human nature is a of being. 
humans are in a state of , a of  . good and 
evil are the most thought provoking polarities that come to mind. 

the bible provides us with many examples of the of 
being. the within us are a product of man 's 
against god , which is described so in the pages of 
the scriptures .  . 

man was created with the order to become a god. those were the words 
of st. in the fourth century. what he was trying to say was 
that god created man to be a of the divine nature. in the 
eastern orthodox church , this is called , or  . 

one can also say that man was created to be whole , i.e. spirit , soul , 
and body operating in  . the story of adam and eve is a picture 
of the humans before obtaining moral consciousness .  . theirs 
was a relationship with each other , the world , and the 
creator .  . that innocent harmony was when they god , 
their natural falling apart into two seemingly 
 . immediately , guilt and fear was in 
their lives. they become bound to , , and suffering .  . this 
is symbolized in their exile from the state. 

the in the jungle does not moral consciousness .  . if it 
were to receive this self awareness , the knowledge of good and evil , 
its state would also be  . 

was it the intention of the creator to leave man in this state of 
innocence all the days of his existence on earth or was the 
of self awareness carefully by god , who did not desire that his 
masterpiece , mankind , be a idiot 

god must have known that , for mankind to achieve any kind of moral 
value , he must pass through a confrontation with the  . there 
is no other way to achieve union with god. 

jesus christ is the answer to the problem of the polarities .  . 
he was the perfectly integrated individual , the , 
and making it possible for us to be integrated , i.e. to become god , 
not in his essence , but in his  . 

the is the christian problem. the paul describes it 
with the utmost precision in romans 7 15 24 .  . and he follows with the 
answer to his dilemma in vs 25 .  . 

mark 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re protestant finds christ 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( jim burrill ) 
wrote 
if jesus never taught the concept of the trinity , how do you deal with the 
following 

28 18 then jesus came to them and said , all authority in heaven 
and on earth has been given to me. 

28 19 therefore go and make disciples of all nations , 
them in the name of the father and of the son and of the holy spirit , 

28 20 and teaching them to obey everything i have commanded you. 
and surely i am with you always , to the very end of the age. 

jim , please , that 's a explanation of the trinity that jesus provides 
above. people in the name of three things ! trinity .  . if 
this is the case , then i'm wrong , i assumed that trinity implies that 
god is three entities , and yet the same. 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( james g. jr . ) . 
subject re spreading christianity  ( re christian kills doctor ) 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization t . s . a . k . c .  . 
lines 15 

 ( peter nyikos ) writes 

i addressed most of the key issues in this very long  ( 284 lines ) post 
by dean kaflowitz in two posts yesterday. the first was made into the 
title post of a new thread , is dean kaflowitz terminally irony 
and the second , more serious one appeared along the thread 
a post , and a challenge , and revised 

if you 're so about people reading your posts 
that you feel the need to write new posts 
what you wrote in old , posts , why bother accept it 
, you 're a  . 




from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 


in article ,  ( rob lanphier ) writes 
wrote 

do you consider nazis and white to be christian i 'd hardly 
them as christian .  . do they follow the teachings of christ love 
one another. love your as yourself. love your enemies .  . is jesus 
christ their lord and saviour by the persecution of jews , they are violating 
all the of what christ died for. they are in direct violation of 
the teachings of christ .  . even jesus who was crucified by the jewish leaders 
of that time , loved his enemies by asking the father for forgiveness of their 
sins .  . i am a christian and i bear no towards jews or any one else. 
the enemy is satan , not our fellow man. 

in mark 16 16 , jesus is quoted as saying whoever believes and is 
will be saved , but whoever does not believe will be condemned .  . i 
consider most nazis and white to be christians because 
a ) they say they are 
b ) they feel it necessary to justify their actions with the bible 


where does it say in the bible that christians are supposed to 
jews is n't it love your enemies instead they may say they are christian 
but do their actions speak differently do you believe what everyone tells 
you i do n't .  . i came to believe in god by my own investigation and conclusions .  . 
and ultimately by my own choice. salvation , however , was granted only through 
the of god. 

the bible provides us with no clear definition of what a christian is. it 
tells us what a christian should do , but then it goes on to say that as 
long as you believe , your sins will be forgiven .  . 

to be a christian is to model oneself after jesus christ as implied by the 
very name christian .  . if you say you believe in your head but do not feel in 
your heart , what does that say of your belief 

white and 
nazis may not be your brand of christian , but by believing in christ , 
they are christian .  . 


white and nazis are not any brand of christian .  . 

if you hate your whom you can see then how can you love god whom you cannot 
see 

what does this belief believing in christ and having your sins 
forgiven in his name does not give a christian a free to sin .  . to 
of a sin is to ask forgiveness of that sin and try not to do it 
again. i am a christian , but if you me in with and accuse me 
of being such , then are you not pre judging me btw , i am of chinese racial 
background and i know what it is to be part of a minority in this 
country. i do n't think that i would be looked upon by these 
white christians as you call them. 

anyone can say what they believe , but if they do n't practice what they preach , 
then their belief is false .  . do you concur 

now , for your original statement 
what bothers me most is why people who have no religious 
continue to jews why this hatred of jews the majority of 
people who jews are not christians (i ca n't speak for all 
christians and there are bound to be a few who are on the anti semitism 
) . 

you imply here that it is predominately atheists and agnostics who 
jews .  . i am hard pressed to think of even an example of jewish 
persecution in the hands of atheists agnostics .  . 

nazis and in general are the ones that come to my immediate attention .  . 
what i believe is that such people may be using the bible to their racial 
intolerance and bigotry .  . they can do as they do and hide behind christianity 
but i tell you that jesus would have nothing to do with them. 

about the only one that 
comes to mind would be in the former soviet union , where many religious 
people suffered some sort of persecution  ( not to mention many 
atheist agnostics who suffered persecution for believing the government 
 . 


no arguement there. 


rob 



the only point i'm trying to make is that those who call themselves christian 
may not be christian .  . i ask that you draw your own conclusions by what they 
do and what they say. if they are not after the example of jesus 
christ then they are not christian .  . if they have not of their sins 
and accepted jesus christ as their personal lord and saviour then they are 
not christian .  . these are the only to being a christian .  . 

may god be with you , 

) 


from  ( peter nyikos ) 
subject re spreading christianity  ( re christian kills doctor ) 
organization usc department of computer science 
lines 24 

i addressed most of the key issues in this very long  ( 284 lines ) post 
by dean kaflowitz in two posts yesterday. the first was made into the 
title post of a new thread , is dean kaflowitz terminally irony 
and the second , more serious one appeared along the thread 

a post , and a challenge , and revised 

both only in talk . abortion . , but i am posting its contents into 
talk . religion . misc . as soon as i here. 

this should be enough for us to out for the next week or so. the 
second post really with the main bones of contention between us. 
the first is more and tells about such things as 
tm , which he continues to up on both 
talk . abortion . and talk . religion . misc . , while setting follow to 
talk . abortion . alone. his excuse for the latter policy is that 
he gets a as to where to set follow , and does not follow 
talk . religion . misc . much this suggests that he is being in not 
also setting his newsgroups line to talk . abortion . alone. 

peter 




from  ( micheal cranford ) 
subject re the list of biblical contradictions 
distribution usa 
organization tektronix , inc. , beaverton , or. 
lines 37 

jim brown wrote 

deleted 
i feel that those who use the kjv as a basis for arguing biblical 
contradictions are either being intellectually dishonest  ( purposefully 
wanting to show the bible in the worst light possible ) , or they are 
being mentally lazy and are taking the easy way out. either way , they 
leave the theist the option of with , well , that 's just the 
kjv , that 's not what my version says .  . 
deleted 

unfortunately , it 's not that simple. the kjv is preferred by the majority 
of fundamentalists  ( at least  . the second part of your argument fails 
as well , since that statement can be used against any version  ( not just the 
 . 

deleted 
i 've based my argument on one of the best modern translations 
available which is based on the work of the biblical scholars .  . 
deleted 

i would not find this statement to be very useful since it is an appeal 
to authority and the opposition will just claim that their authorities are 
better . a second that local creationists have used is to reply but 
those scholars are atheists and cannot be believed  ( they will also use this 
phrase to describe any theologians that they do n't agree  . 

deleted 
gen 30 39 and the conceived before the , and brought forth 
, , and  . 
deleted 

the verse being discussed clearly claims that magic works (i . e .  . 
sticks in the breeding grounds causes and 
to be born ) and should be attacked on that basis  ( no biologist 
has ever observed this claimed  . 


subject re alt . sex . stories . under critical 
from  ( john nunnally ) 
distribution world 
organization harding university , , ar 
nntp posting host harding . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1 . reply to 's message of sun , 18 apr 1993 00 06 17 28 
lines 28 

in sandvik kent . apple . com . writes 

in article ,  ( dennis 
kriz ) wrote 
i'm going to try to do something here , that perhaps many would 
not have thought even possible. i want to begin the process of 
a critical study of the pornography posted on 
alt . sex . stories . , to identify the major and present 
in the stories posted there up then the possibility of 
an objective moral evaluation of the material present there. 

, i'm  . i did n't know you were interested to even 
study such as alt . sex . stories . provide .  .  .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

finally , , whatever is true , whatever is honorable , whatever is 
right , whatever is pure , whatever is , whatever is of good , 
if there is any and if anything worthy of praise , let your 
mind on these things.  . 4 8. 

more cheers , 
john 



from  ( jim burrill ) 
subject question about islamic view 
organization river country , the , , , , , priest .  . 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 8 . 
lines 8 

a question regarding the islamic view towards homosexuality came up in a 
discussion group that i participate in , and i 'd like to ask the question here , 

what is the islamic view towards homosexuality 

jim 



subject re imaginary friends 
from  ( sheilagh m . b . e .  . o'hare ) 
organization the university of texas at austin , austin , texas 
nntp posting host cc . utexas . edu . 
lines 17 

he sounds really , ! kinds like 's , maybe smaller , 
maybe a different species .  .  . 'd  ( shakespear ed ) 

i 've always hat a of to turn to for fun sort of that kind of 
in  ( walt  . i grew up sort of as an only child , 
part time .  .  . my were 10 8 6 years older than me , so i was pretty 
commonly a different sort of in their games  ( read non speaking 
hot , stand in  ( still silent ) bad guy good guy etc ) , so my 
were , more than advisors .  . 

could , or whomever has a good list of books please post such list , 
in all sorts of fields , like , etc , 
multiple disorders , or good fiction that has well worked 
imaginary friends 

thanks , 
, wanting a bunch of library to search thru 

from sun . eng . sun . com .  ( eric marsh ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization sun 
lines 
nntp posting host sun 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article sun . eng . sun . com .  ( eric marsh ) writes 
in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
science ( the real world ) has its basis in values , not the other way round , 
as you would wish it. if there is no such thing as objective value , then 
science can not objectively be said to be more useful than a kick in the head. 
simple theories with accurate predictions could not objectively be said 
to be more useful than a set of tarot cards. you like those conclusions 
i do n't .  . 

i think that you are changing the meaning of values here. perhaps 
it is time to and take a look at the word. 

value n .  . 1. a fair equivalent or return for something , such as 
or service .  . 2. or material worth .  . 3. worth as measured in 
usefulness or importance merit .  . 4. a principle , standard , or quality 
considered inherently worthwhile or desirable .  . 5. precise meaning , as 
of a word. 6. an or calculated quantity .  . 7.  . 
the relative of a tone or rest. 8. the relative or 
of a color .  . 9. the quality of a speech or speech 
sound. 

in context of a moral system , definition four seems to fit best. in terms 
of scientific usage , definitions or eight might apply. note that 
these definitions do not mean the same thing. 

no , i'm using definition  ( 3 ) , or perhaps  ( 4 ) in both cases. if there 
is no objective worth , usefulness , or importance then science has no 
objective worth , usefulness , or importance .  . if nothing is inherently 
worthwhile or desirable , then simple theories with accurate predictions 
are not inherently worthwhile or desirable .  . do you see any flaws in this 

the problem is , your use of the word objective along with values .  . 
both definitions three and four are inherently subjective , that is 
they are particular to a given individual , or personal .  . you see , 
what one person may see as worthwhile , another may see as worthless .  . 

if on the other hand , some things have objective worth , usefulness , 
or importance , it would be interesting to know what they are. 

again , your form of measurement in this sentence , that being of worth 
is subjective .  . 

if you can provide an objective foundation for morality then that will 
be a good beginning. 

i'm not willing to attempt this until someone provides an objective 
basis for the notion that science is useful , worthy , or important in 
dealing with observed facts .  . , you could try to 
demonstrate to me that science is not necessarily useful , worthy 
or important in any situation. in other words , i need to know 
how you use the term objective . 

when i find that my usage of a word is different than the usage of 
that word given by another person , i try to find a standard against 
which to judge that usage .  . in most cases , the dictionary is the standard 
i use. here is a of objective 

objective  . 1. of or having to do with a material object as 
from a mental concept .  . 2. having actual existance .  . 
3 . a .  . by or personal prejudice .  . b. based on 
observable phenomenon .  . 

by this definition , science does not have an objective worth , since the 
phrase objective worth is an oxymoron .  . however you asked something a 
little differently this time , you asked for an objective basis for a 
notion .  . the fact that the use of science as an intellectual tool is 
responsible for changes in our world  ( the changes are material , and 
thus objective ) would provide an objective basis for an argument. 
however , the conclusion arrived at from that argument  ( that science is 
good ) is subjective .  . 

i think that the problem here is one of word usage .  . take a little time 
and read the definitions of these words objective , subjective , worth , 
value , morality , good , evil. i believe that if you think about the 
meaning of them for a while , you will have to conclude that there is no 
such thing as an objective morality .  . 

frank o'dwyer  i m not hatching that  
from hens , by evelyn conlon 

eric 

organization city university of new york 
from 
subject catholic right robertson 
lines 49 

the roman catholic are coming out in the open to line 
up with robertson and his right christian  . 
former of education william , a roman catholic , stood 
beside the christian 's spokesman ralph reed at a march 3 
conference in washington .  . the purpose of the conference was to 
publish results of a christian which was designed 
to prove that the republican party would lose major support if it 
backed away from the family values of the   . 

conservative catholics have behind robertson 's organization 
with political expertise , legal assistance and high tech communications 
support .  . 

the catholic campaign for american , designed as a catholic version 
of the moral majority , was founded by and tom  . 
 . has been with robertson since the days of his freedom 
council in 1985 and worked for him in his presidential in 1988. 

 . was by 's pizza , tom , in 1989 
to , a , catholic 's group. 
membership is limited to catholics who head with a least 4 
million in  . relying on a network of contacts 
at , and had little trouble forming and funding the 
catholic campaign. 

the campaign 's list of national members includes u.s.  . 
robert k. , of the eagle forum , the 
and rev. richard j.  . also on the national 
is keith , a catholic who heads robertson 's 
american center for law and justice. another catholic , thomas 
patrick , counsel of robertson 's , is also an 
active supporter of the catholic campaign. 

the board of includes frank , broadcasting 
and former u.s. to the pope , street frank 
, former reagan official richard v. allen , 
of and mary ellen , wife of supreme 
court nominee robert  . 

in the 1992 issue of campaign update the organization 's 
quarterly newsletter , l. , a philadelphia business 
wrote separation of church and state is a false premise 
that must finally be cast aside and replaced by the true meaning of 
our constitution .  . 

oh yes , the organization 's national is 
catholic john j. o'connor of new york .  . 

jack 

from  ( david matthew deane ) 
subject re flaming nazis 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 

okay , i 'll  . i should probably leave this alone , but what the heck .  .  .  . 

in article de . , 
de .  ( gene w. smith ) writes 
in article 
 ( pope charles ) writes 

was the name of the guy responsible for much of the uniforms , 
and used by the early nazis in their rallies and such. 

the name is , not  . and hitler does claim that he came up 
with the business. 

but did n't he credit the actual flag design to a party member some or 
other i believe he gives such credit in mein kampf .  . 

he was killed in an early nazi purge .  . he and many of his 
were flaming homosexuals well know also for their  . 

i have been trying to find if there is any actual evidence for this 
common assertion recently. postings to such groups as soc . history . and 
soc . culture . german . has not any net . who could provide 
any. 

well , i'm no expert , but all of the histories of nazi germany assert this. they 
make reference to several that occurred long before the night of the 
long . the impression that i got was that homosexuality in portions of 
the sa was common knowledge. also , a book  ( by a homosexual author whose name 
escapes me at the moment ) called homosexuals in history asserts that 
and were homosexuals , as well as others in 's sa circle .  . 

all the books say that and his associate , edmund , 
were homosexual .  . i have been able to find nothing beyond that , and 
suspect this to be a sort of historical legend .  . 

well , you 're the one who is in germany .  . if you do n't believe the history books , 
look up the primary sources yourself. those of us outside of germany do not 
have access to these. you do. it seems to me that there were plenty of 
documented instances several , the fact that on the knight of the 
long several sa members  ( including heines ) were found sleeping 
together , etc. also i believe some people were complaining about the sa 's 
homosexual activities  ( seducing young ,  . the histories that i 've 
read make a very convincing case. none of this sounds like legend to me. 

 ( irving , a 
notoriously unreliable historian , says that , the nazi 
, was homosexual .  . he gives no sources . ) . 

i know next to nothing about and nothing about  . what precisely do 
you know , that would contradict all of the other history books that i have 
read concerning the existence of homosexual nazis are you trying to say that 
all are taking part in an anti homosexual smear what about 
homosexual writers who agree with the official history do n't you think they 
would have found out the truth by now if and were not homosexuals 
i would think they would want to disassociate homosexuality from nazism .  . no one 
should use any connection between the two to homosexuals in any case. 

i challenge anyone to document this claim .  . 

if you are going to challenge all on this point  ( not just irving ) , 
then the burden of proof is on you. track down the references .  . find out where 
the stories originate from. again , you are the one in germany , close to 
material most people on the net are not. 

i have found a great 
deal of evidence that there were many flaming among the 
nazis .  . this seems to include all of the worst ones hitler , , 
, , , , and many more. 

eh what is your here to prove that the nazis were , so 
that you can does it bother you that some of the nazis 
might have been homosexuals does this make all homosexuals bad if this is 
true of course not. and what about are they half nazis 

i do n't know why it would be so difficult to believe that some nazis were 
homosexuals .  . the german corps before , for instance , was notorious 
for its homosexuality .  . there were numerous which the german 
govt. during the late and early 20th century. many of the kaiser 's friends 
were the kaiser was no homosexual , but the germany army had a long 
tradition of homosexuality , going far back into history 
back to the great at least , who was himself a homosexual .  . was a 
product of this tradition , and the old german army  ( like the 
english public school system ) , being a well known center of homosexuality , 
would have been quite willing to overlook 's homosexuality .  . 

in addition , some nazis of homosexuality in the hitler youth .  . the 
hitler youth up all pre nazi youth groups , and some of the various 
pre war , bund , and youth groups were known to promote 
ideals and friendship , and in many cases , homosexuality itself. so 
it seems to me not unlikely that there were plenty of homosexual nazis , 
regardless of the official nazi dogmas concerning the evils of homosexuality .  . 
why should this anyone homosexuality has always existed , in all 
societies it would be most unusual if the nazis were an exception. 

no , i do n't have any sources for you , as i think the only kind of proof you 
will accept would be from material , and i do not have access 
to these. nor do i intend to reread every book on the nazis and on modern 
homosexuality that i have ever read i do n't have the time. nothing is 
stopping you , however , from down those sources. until you prove 
otherwise , though , i will stick with the established histories .  . 


david matthew 
 .  .  . be . in me as the eternal of the wind .  .  . let . the gods speak softly 
of us in days  .  .  .  ( ezra pound ) 


from  ( mark pundurs ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
nntp posting host elvis . com . 
organization research , inc. 
lines 22 

in  ( jim halat ) writes 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
firstly , science has its basis in values , not the other way round. 
so you better explain what objective atoms are , and how we get them 
from subjective values , before we go any further. 


atoms are not objective .  . they are n't even real. what scientists call 
an atom is nothing more than a mathematical model that describes 
certain physical , observable properties of our surroundings .  . all 
of which is subjective .  . 

, it 's an ! sorry , jim , but the idea that a theory 
explaining a of different observations is merely a 
model is more than sensible people can accept your phobia about 
objective reality  . 

mark 

any resemblance between my opinions and those 
of research , inc. is purely coincidental 

from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject re and the southern baptist 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 20 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( john w. luther ) says 

john 

it not good to quote a complete article ) nothing 
personal , please ! ) 

i also appreciate your being 
by such determined ignorance .  . without taking anything away 
from your , i want to say that these views me. 

this views me too ! do n't think that i do n't care ! sorry 
if it seemed different. it is serious stuff but i have a  sick  sense of 
humor though  ( some say .  .  .  . ) 

tolerance ! 

tony 


from  ( peter nyikos ) 
subject re spreading christianity  ( re christian kills doctor ) 
organization usc department of computer science 
lines 

most of the key issues in the line post to which i am following up are 
dealt with in the following post i made on talk . abortion . yesterday , 
modified to correct the next to last paragraph .  . 

message id 

references 

in (dean . kaflowitz) . writes 

in article ,  ( peter nyikos ) writes 
in  ( john bates ) writes 

in article  ( peter nyikos ) writes 
perhaps out 
of to your convictions .  . i never , never , thought that you 
would be intellectually dishonest , though. 

i am not. can you show me anything that would lead you to think 
otherwise 

see the spreading christianity thread , in which he says i 
ignore certain statements that i specifically acknowledged and 

dean did not. he called them the great but this is not 
descriptive of jesus 's words in matt .  . 10 15 .  . 

matt .  . 10 14 , jerusalem bible translation 

and if anyone does not welcome you or listen to what you have 
to say , as you walk out of the house or town the 
from your feet. 

matt .  . 10 15 

i tell you solemnly , on the day of judgment it will not 
go as hard with the land of sodom and as with 
that town .  . 

in the post to which dean is referring above , i said 

the above is a good description of kaflowitz , who keeps on 
the off the feet but ignoring what christ said next .  . 


the highlighted words refer to matt 10 14 and 10 15 respectively .  . 

and dean countered 

actually , this comment of your 's is a perfect example of what an 
intellectually dishonest little you are , since i 
specifically acknowledged the great and the 
to spread the word. in fact , it is the combination of the two 
statements i was addressing , and not just the one , and for you to 
characterize that as ignoring the to spread the 
word is a good example of what a dishonest little fellow you are. 

of course , matt 10 15 quoted above makes no mention of 
to spread the word. 

all these quotes btw are from 

message id 

in which , at the end , he claims i did not answer a question 
which i answered , and which he deleted  ( to get the chronology 
right , he deleted the answer and then said i did n't  . 

and i claim it correctly , because my question went 

do you , too , measure 
the goodness of a post by its value , and care not 
a whit for such mundane things as truth and falsehood 

and the dean came to an answer was 

peter , peter , peter .  . you 're just so stupid , , dull , 
and generally unworthy of the value you place on yourself that 
the is all there is. 

of course , this does not answer my question , which has to do with posts 
in general and not my posts in particular .  . surely even dean knows this , 
yet he asserts otherwise , his claim with an insult 

so i now the answer to your question 
that you deleted. if you 're still unable to figure it out , ask 
a nice kid at the local high to help you. it really 
does n't take much to understand. 

on top of which , i doubt that the answer is at all representative 
of dean 's true frame of mind. the insults you have seen quoted thus 
far are but a small of the that out of dean 's 
mind throughout the line post from which these quotes were taken .  . 
one wonders whether dean 's mind is so as to find in all 
this. 

he even up a falsified account of 
events that earlier on another thread 

you made an ass of yourself by claiming that it 

was in the tradition of to make public of 

the sins of other individuals .  . 


false .  . i said it was the tradition to recall and for one 's sins .  . 
that i made public of the sins of others 
sins , btw , that were a matter of public record , documented in 
the posts of others is a different matter. 

many of the individuals involved are so nearly amoral that 
they do not see as sins what morally people see as sins , so 
i pointed some of them out. and i set up a whole thread , 
your turn , to let people point out my sins to me. 

dean again 

you made an ass of yourself 
by saying that my statement of the tradition of was 
somehow an attempt to jews as , thereby 
revealing your inability to understand the discussion as well 
as showing your dislike for people saying positive things 
about jews , and now you show your intellectual dishonesty by 
repeatedly ignoring the simple argument being made , and then 
claiming i am ignoring the very argument i acknowledge .  . 

actually , what happened was that dean made it seem like any jew 
who gave alms or did other acts of charity in public was a 
according to jewish  . in doing so , he was 
jewish as being almost demanding , as well as 
implicitly slandering all jews who make public their acts of charity .  . 

i went very easily on dean for this , giving him the benefit of 
the doubt in a post following my initial crack about , 
suggesting that he had been merely careless in his wording .  . 

in an act of , dean now serves up an incredibly 
picture of what took place between us , and using it as 
the basis of one insult after another. 

peter 





from  ( anthony landreneau ) 
subject re abortion 
distribution world 
organization , inc. , the hole bbs 
reply to  ( anthony landreneau ) 
lines 21 

to  ( larry margolis ) 
from 

the rape has passed , there is nothing that will ever take that away. 

true. but forcing her to remain pregnant continues the violation of 
her body for another 9 months. i see this as being cruel .  . 

life is not a violation . as for cruel , killing a living being solely 
because it  . that my friend is down right cold .  . 

anthony 


2 . 1 . what 's the difference between an orange 


the hole bbs a private board service  ( 504)891 ) 
3 full service 16 . 10 100 , 000 files 
new ! network mail usenet newsgroups 
please route all questions or to 

from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject re christians above the law was clarification of personal position 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 

lines 41 

in article 
 . j. traff ) writes 
in article 
 ( darius lecointe ) writes 
question is on what authority do we proclaim that the requirements of the 

fourth commandment are no longer relevant to modern christians please 

i do n't believe most christians believe they are above the law. however , 
we are not saved by adherence to the law. the law exists to tell us what 
is sinful .  . we all sin .  . 

hence we are all above the law where all in this case refers to 
christians .  . 

jews believe that their sins are for with 
blood sacrifice of animals as described in the old testament .  . 

when was the last time you heard about a jewish animal sacrifice 

christians 
believe that their sins are for by the blood sacrifice of jesus .  . 

the blood sacrifice of an innocent man 

this does not make the law  . 

then why do n't christians follow it , why do n't they even follow their 
own ten commandments 

breaking the law is sinful , 
and we are to avoid sinful ways , but , by itself , does not 
salvation .  . 

so , in short hitler is in heaven and is in hell 

note that i'm not a theologian .  . but this is the of several 
i 've heard lately and some bible studies i 've been through. 

did you ever wonder if someone , perhaps a great , was 
your 

from  ( jeffery parks ) 
subject re info about new age ! 
organization university of virginia 
lines 1 

suggestion try the new age by douglas  . 

from  ( thyagi nagasiva ) 
subject re , the ancient order of oriental 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 


lines 



do what thou shall be the whole of the law. honestly .  . 
the word of sin is  . would i kid you 


does one man 's words encompass the majestic vision of thousands 
of individuals quoting a man is not the same as quoting the 
order. taken out of context , words can be interpreted much 
differently than had one applied them within the confines of 
their original  . 

i think this is the case regarding , superior 
of the order to which i belong .  . when he included that bit 
from x  he did us all a service .  . he showed us the 
to which order members have been known to go in their  . 
i have little knowledge regarding  background , but surely 
he was an unusual man , and he was an important force in the order 
for many years. 

yet as people change so do orders change , and while we look back 
so carefully at the of o . t . o .  . remember that this is 
only the surface and that many perspectives are now encompassed 
which extend beyond any one individual .  . i hope to show that there 
was and is much room for a difference of opinion within the order 
itself , perhaps by the limits myself. 


let us examine this issue a bit more closely .  .  .  .  . 

in , karl  ( 1850 1905 ) , a 
and paper , as well as a high grade , founded the 
 . had widely in the east , where he 
met three who instructed him specific practices .  . 
's efforts to develop the order were later assisted by 
, and theodore , who had worked together 
prior to the o . t . o .  . the order was first in 
in 's publication ,  . on 's death , 
succeeded him as outer head o . h . o .  . . the   edition of 
the   , published in , that the order taught 
secret of sexual magic .  . 

theodore was an interesting character. born june 28 , in 
, he entered in 1876 .  . he was a , and 
possibly a for the political police , the 
league founded by karl 's daughter and her husband .  . was 
later associated with william , a leader of the golden 
dawn , who later introduced him to john  . to 
found the of and in germany .  . after several 
attempts to various , on the 
development of the o . t . o .  . 

the order experienced reasonably growth under  leadership .  . 
for example , he in france , in berlin 
and h. lewis in the usa .  . in , the meeting between 
and crowley occurred .  . crowley wrote that came to him and 
accused him of revealing order  . when crowley looked at it , 
the initiated interpretation of sexual itself to him for 
the first time. crowley as supreme and holy king of all 
the english speaking world , and it was this that he invoked 
when publishing the material of the  . 

as outer head of the order in after suffering a 
and named crowley his  . all was well until when 
the book of the law was translated into german .  . there was a break 
in the of the order. members split with the new o . h . o .  . 
over the book , which crowley was actively through the order. 
he had earlier order rituals at 's request , deeply 
the doctrines of the new revelation .  . 

an introduction to the history of the o . t . o .  . , by ad  

within iii 10 , edited by 
, superior , , 
of the united states of america , 
published by , 1990. 



there are many possible reasons that our superior included this 
material in iii 10 . and this is the real point , is it not 
why did he wish to publish such things about the history of his own 
organization does he represent a dogmatic threat to the principle 
of or is he exercising his true will and putting forth very 
complex pictures with no easy answers a picture which leaves room 
for very many interpretations .  . 

it is quite easy for me to see , for example , that all of o . t . o .  . derived 
out of the of , purchased by clever 
with an of courage and some writing ability to aid them. and i 
can take that all the way down to our present , whose feeble 
support of the  law of  is laughable at best. 

would i be thrown out of the order for speaking in this way 
will i 
i think not. 
why because my will see it as a perspective , an 
i am using as an example. my shows that we may express things 
in the context of a larger work and the true significance of this may be 
quite difficult to at first. 

so it may be with and  . please look o . t . o .  . more carefully .  . 
i do not support 's words myself , as i am not qualified to assess 
them , and i am critical of their  . if i who am a member of 
the order take such a stand and am allowed to continue doing so , then 
what can this say about the health of the order does it mean that 
the order has  gone soft  and abandoned its moral principles or 
does it mean that it is strong in its ability to let the will of 
universal arise on its own , not by some dogmatic 
requirement how shall we resolve these two possibilities 


i find a high of individual associated with  . 
they are often quite intelligent and sometimes very well versed in 
or usual information. they are quite often and  . 
having met some 20 longstanding members in the sf bay area  ( many who are or 
were very involved with the order ) , i can for the 
of the organization as it stands .  . 

i have sometimes questioned the policy of  . in these 
i followed my intuition , and i 've found little to stop me from requesting 
a second from a different o . t . o .  . body. i'm happily 
in social groups  ( feasts or initiations ) and have come to know the gnostic 
mass well enough for my  . 


this does n't make me an authority on order politics and explanations , however. 
i can only and relay to you what i understand based on my 
limited contact with other members .  . 

i urge you not to take the words of x too far. there are many 
ways to interpret words , and many people who have become involved with 
the order feel very strongly about the of personal freedom 
and the preservation of individual vision .  . 

i welcome other comment on this issue and will be writing more in response 
to other posts in this thread. 


invoke me under my stars .  . love is the law , love under will. 

i am i ! 

 ( i )  ( dclxvi ) 

from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject re 5 apr 93 god 's promise in psalm 85 8 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
lines 21 

in article 
 ( robert weiss ) writes 
i will hear what god the lord will speak 
for he will speak peace 
unto his people , and to his 
but let them not turn again to folly .  . 

 ( psalm85(jps ) for the leader. of the  . a psalm .  . o lord , you 
will favor your land , 's you will forgive your 
people 's , pardon all their sins you will all your 
, turn away from your rage .  . turn again , o god , our , 
your with us. will you be angry with us forever , 
your wrath for all generations surely you will us again , so that 
your people may in you. show us , o lord , your 
grant us your  . let me hear what god , the lord , will speak 
he will promise well being to his people , his faithful ones may they 
not turn to folly .  . his help is very near those who fear him , to make his 
glory in our land. and truth meet justice and 
well being  . truth up from the earth justice looks down 
from heaven. the lord also his bounty our land its 
produce .  . justice goes before him as he sets out on his way. 

from (i do n't know who discovered water , but it was n't no fish marshall mccluhan ) 
subject 
lines 15 


burning yourself alive seems a rough way to go , given the bunch 
had other choices. 

but it reminded me of the old believers who , thinking the 
was coming in , grew when peter the great 
started russia and the church a few 
years later. they locked themselves in their churches and burned 
themselves alive by the thousands .  . 

are there other cases of christians resorting 
to self is there a history of 

andrew .  . 


from a .  . davis howe ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 13 


on the subject of how many competing rc orders there are , let me point out the 
golden dawn is only the outer order of that tradition .  . the inner order is 
the et  . that 's rose and gold cross , in rough 
translation. the g . ' . d . ' .  . is a order , as are all 
groups. of course , real never admit to being  . 

enjoy the journey ! 

, peculiar , and ! ) 


closed minds do n't want to know. 

subject is robert the only orthodox christian 
from 
organization young university 
lines 12 


robert , you keep making references to orthodox belief , and saying things 
like it is held that .  .  .  .  .  . on what exact body of 
theology are you drawing for what you call orthodox who is that holds 
that luke meant what you said he meant whenever your personal interpretation 
of biblical passages is challenged , your only response seems 
to be that one needs merely to look at the bible in order to see the truth , 
but what of those who see biblical things differently from you are we to 
simply assume that you are the only one who really it 
just curious , 



from  ( david joslin ) 
subject re language and agreement 
organization intelligent systems program 
lines 59 

i responded to jim 's other articles today , but i see that i 
to respond to this one. i would n't want him to think me a 
for not responding to every stupid article on t . r . m .  . 

 ( james meritt ) writes 
from my dictionary 
dictionary definitions of not disagree and agree deleted 
please between not disagree and agree . 

oh , but i'm weary of trying to wade through jim 's of 
red and  . 

let 's see what we get when we run all four articles posted by jim today 
through the   filter (a program that steve 
was kind enough to send me ) 

taking action a white be held 
as an to be held as 
a decision upon the door 
a black and white goose past 
the eyes of the door .  . 
it with the for 
that individual is held responsible 
for that , that individual 
may be held as a 
car may be held 
as an large number 
of the of something 
and agree. 

a black goose 
past the person imprisoned 

white goose past the 
for the population 
of be , 
fine. 
and white goose 
past the door .  . 

does running jim 's articles through   make them more 
less 

or has   turned jim 's articles into an ridden 
about making choices in a world filled with uncertainty , yet being 
held responsible for the choices we make do the 
an inner with , a desire that everything be 
black and white , with no shades of gray does the car 
tell us that to try to renounce the nature of our 
being is not to get away from responsibility for our actions , 
but rather to take the role of the passive , the 
of the car , as it were does the 
of man and machine , car and , reveal a an internal 
conflict between determinism and moral responsibility 

or am i reading too much into a between jim and 
a random number 



from a .  . davis howe ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 39 

 ( tony alicea ) writes 


in a previous article , a .  . davis howe ) says 


on the subject of how many competing rc orders there are , let me point out the 
golden dawn is only the outer order of that tradition .  . the inner order is 
the et  . 


just wondering , do you mean the 
warning there is no point in arguing who 's and who 's not. which 
golden dawn are you talking about 

no , i do n't mean the , whatever that is. as for which , i'm using the 
complete golden dawn system of magic as my source , so  ( unless is 
lying ) i'm the name out the the original order 's rituals .  . the 
multiple modern groups are part of why i through in the comment about all 
the spin . 

just for the sake of argument ,  ( reflecting no affiliation ) 
i am going to say that the true order is the 
in , penn .  . , 

as a member of the religious society of friends  ( my membership is in the 
urbana champaign  ( il ) friends meeting ) i find that ironic .  . ) 

any ) 

not me i do n't want to belong to anything which runs around claiming to 
be the true whatever. i find that disgusting .  . ( 

enjoy the journey ! 

, peculiar , and ! ) 


closed minds do n't want to know. 

subject re 's reply 
from 
organization young university 
lines 

in article ,  ( robert 
weiss ) says 
just , on something that you mentioned in passing .  . you refer to 
interpretations of create , and say that many christians may 
not agree. so what that is really irrelevant .  . we do not base our faith 
on how many people think one way or another , do we the bottom line is 
truth , regardless of popularity of opinions. 

i'm sorry , i thought we were discussing heresy .  . i assumed that heresy 
meant a from , in which case generally accepted belief is 
indeed an important issue. in this case , the definition of the word create 
is of great importance , since creation is the issue being discussed .  . 


also , i find it rather strange that in trying to persuade that created 
and existent are equivalent , you say granted the mormon 
belief .  .  .  . you ca n't grant your conclusion and then expect the point to 
have been addressed .  . in order to reply to the issue , you have to address 
and answer the point that was raised , and not just jump to the 
conclusion that you grant .  . 

i should have said given the mormon belief .  . if you disagree with the 
mormon belief that creation is more a function of organization of 
existent substance than one of ex creation , then that is the important 
point. 

the bible states that lucifer was created. the bible states that jesus 
is the creator of all. the contradiction that we have is that the 
belief is that jesus and lucifer were the same. 

correction you interpret the bible to mean something very specific by 
such terms. 

the mormon belief is that all are children of god. literally .  . there is 
nothing about it. this however , contradicts what the bible 
says .  . the bible teaches that not everyone is a child of god 

it always me up when anti mormons presume to tell mormons what they 
believe. mormons do , in fact , believe that all people , including christ and 
lucifer , are children of god in the sense that we were all created  ( or 
organized or whatever ) by him. we also believe that being offspring of 
god has a sense when applied to being born again of 
him. thus the same word can be used to convey different meanings .  . this is 
how language works , robert , and it 's why making someone an offender for a 
word is dangerous. 


this is really a red herring .  . it does n't address any issue raised , but 
rather , it seeks to  . the fact that some groups try to read 
something into the bible , does n't change what the bible teaches .  . for 
... 
we first look to the bible to see what it teaches .  . to discount , or not 
even address , what the bible teaches because there are some groups that 
have views is self  . to see what the bible teaches , 
you have to look at the bible .  . 

on the contrary , robert , it is not a red herring at all to show that those 
who rely wholly on the bible cannot seem to agree on what it says .  . you say 
that one must simply look at the bible to see what it teaches , but centuries 
of people doing just that have that no one is really sure what it says .  . 
are we to believe that you are the only one who really the 
scriptures 

i find this rather curious. when i mentioned that the mormon belief is 
that jesus needed to be saved , i put forward some quotes from the late 
, bruce  . the curious part is that no one addressed the 
issue of to be saved . ' . comes the with his i 
have my own conclusions to addressing the point. 

let me clarify this one more time. you did not refer to the mormon belief 
that jesus needed to be saved , but rather to 's belief in same. we 
keep trying to point out to you that bruce is not the source of 
mormon doctrine , and you keep ignoring it.  ( see below) 


most of the other replies have instead hop to the issue of 
bruce and whether his views were  official doctrine . ' . i do n't 
think that it matters if 's views were  . that is not the 
issue. were 's writings of mormon belief on this 
subject is the real issue. the indication from is that they may 
certainly be. 

on the contrary , robert , if you are quoting 's words as mormon 
then the question of whether they are or not is of great 
importance .  . the fact is that they are not. whether or not they indicate 
general mormon belief would only be by a large 
number of mormons .  . 



robert 





from  ( roy crabtree ) 
subject re that kill by sword , must be killed by sword 
organization red data center 
lines 191 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
in article ,  ( roy crabtree ) 
wrote 
in article  ( stephen ) writes 
in article sandvik kent . apple . com . , 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes .  .  .  . 
... 
so are you happy now when 70 people , including innocent kids , 
died today 

it 's amazing how everyone automatically one side or the other. 
one thing for sure koresh will have no chance to defend himself 
against the statements  ( lacking in fact or court sponsored verification ) 
made by who participated in the situation that killed him. 

frankly speaking i do n't care who started this whole show. i just 
feel sad about the children that were , and had to die 
for a case that did n't have any reason whatsoever. all mr. 
koresh could have done would have been to release these 19 
children. 

could he and the first three that died , when guns in came 
the and fbi 

i imagine i would have some trouble giving up my children to 
someone who had just shot what two of them 

it takes two sets of guns in a situation like this. 


yes , i put the blame on koresh and similar religious 
leaders that think more about their cause than about keeping 

those not tolerate another 's way of life 
religious based on emotional , internal , or otherwise 
lacking in commonly defined scientific basis , 
including legal ones , such as this old saw 

innocent guilty 

not 
innocent until guilty 

who is the note who is dead this usually 
a fair bit for the idea that the other side also had lethal 
weapons , used  . 

they are dead the children. 
at best koresh was an and the government 
in its of the case. 

at worst , koresh and his followers were 
innocent 
not 
guilty of illegal 
 ( as yet unproven ) 
and 
along with 25 children 
they cannot speak for themselves 
members of the  ( surviving , alive , and not burned 
to death ) fbi can , and are 

to the public eye 
outside the bounds of their legal authorities 
read the charter 
the constitution that 
the courts convict , while the 
enforcement , 
and that the evidence involved 
not be in a 
way to harm or a party 
involved prior to that action 
its called slander or libel 
 ( even where factually true 
or with intent 
to harm 
for the purpose of covering their 

because the bottom line is 
they said they wanted the kids to get out 
alive 
and , the ,  . , the , 
and everybody else in this 

sick 

group of animals 
that used to be a freedom loving 
peaceful country called 

america look up the name , 
it might surprise you 
has turned the point the finger of blame 
on the other guy. 

and let those kids die. 

note well they lived 51 days they only 
died when attacked by outside force. 

's world , 

the spear in the heart of another 
is the spear in your own .... 

all of us are responsible .  . 

you are. the question is not whether , but how 

guess what you get to make up your own mind 
on that. 

children out from the war  . i'm not of this statement. 

who created the war you should be of that. 
it 's the same damned  ( literally ) comment made by the folks in 
the former yugoslavia to justify ethnic 

gee , they had the guns , all they had to do was surrender . 


to justify other means does not eliminate the fact that children 
died for a cause that they should not have been part of. 

whose cause did they die for the one where they lived , 
, to all known purposes  ( until proven in court , 
folks ! ) , or the of righteous government 
the freedom of the children 

who are now dead. 


say 

i do not know who did what 
i was not there. 
the fbi leaders show moral sickness trying to 
convict in the press ahead of 
and you should look over your shoulder , 

becuase if there is anything my that 
actually sets onto real fact of what happened 

and i do not know that i am defending 
people who been burned to death cannot 
speak for themselves 

you may , in 22 5 years , find that the concept in our 
court system has gone from 

due 

to 

due profit 

and the come to their fair share of the tax 
on the value of your house if you it for 

which is going down now , folks .  . 
read 
its accurate in 
and it the greedy 
and 
who have 
taken profit from the corruption 
of our  . 

look to where the money went , folks .  . 

you got 10 for that paid a doctor for 
00 . 50 . worth of medicine .  . 

this is the 
to for  . 

who own the land of the cult now note well it was , 
religious , and  . large of land .... hmmm .  . 

use your brains , folks it happened germany , and it can happen 
here. 
4 . 3 .  ( admitted ) and counting .  .  .  .  . 

kent 

 . 


alink private activities on the net. 



from sun . eng . sun . com .  ( eric marsh ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization sun 
lines 14 
nntp posting host sun 

in article  ( lis450 student ) writes 
my definition of objective would be absolute , or fixed , rather than 

subjective , or and changing .  . 


lets see what the dictionary has to say 

objective  . 1. as having to do with a material object as 
from a mental concept .  . 2. having actual existance .  . 3 . a .  . 
by or personal prejudice .  . b. based on observable phenomenon .  . 

eric 


from  ( john w. luther ) 
subject re and the southern baptist 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of missouri , , 
lines 80 

in article  ( tony alicea ) writes 


with the southern baptist this june to consider 
the charges that is incompatible with christianity , i thought 
the following quotes by mr. james , the anti flag , 
would you all .  .  .  . 


the following passages are exact quotes from the southern 
baptist and by james l. , m . d .  . , president 
of mission and ministry to men , inc. , n st. , , tx 
 . 

the inside cover of the book states mission ministry to men , 
inc. hereby grants permission for the reproduction of part or all of 
this with two one , the material is not changed and 
two , the source is identified .  . i have followed these  . 

is one of the allies of the devil page  . 

the issue here is not moderate or conservative , the issue is god 
and the devil page  . 

it is worthwhile to remember that the of public 
school education in america were page 29 .  . 

jesus christ never commanded as a motive for his 
disciples , and is the of the christian message. 
page 30 .  . 

the central of the drive for world unity 
through , liberty and equality is  . this is seen 
in the writings of the  great  writers of . page 31. 

he jesus christ established the most of all possible 
faiths .  . page 37 .  . 

for and , there is no equal to the lord 
jesus christ . page 40 .  . 

what seems so right in the interest of and its 
liberty , equality and is actually one of the 
lies of the  father of lies . ' . page 40 .  . 

the southern baptist has many churches which were 
founded in the and which have corner stones dedicated by the 
 . each of these churches should hold public ceremonies of 
and of praying the blood and the name of the lord jesus 
christ over the church and renouncing the oaths taken at the 
of the church and or building .  . page 53 54 .  . 


i hope you all had a good laugh ! i know i did ! g , 


tony 

i appreciate the narrow of the view expressed in 
the text you quoted .  . i also appreciate your being 
by such determined ignorance .  . without taking anything away 
from your , i want to say that these views me. 
i can only hope that that sort of narrow will 
die with the generations that have it. teach 
your children well. 

wet blanket mode off 

 . 

john 





john w. luther anybody who mistakes my 
best for email opinions for 's just 
! does n't know  . 


from  ( bob sarver ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 57 


 ( hudson ) 
these people hurt their own bodies .  . why ca n't they hurt other peoples bodies 
too 

 ( me ) 
because other people might not want to be hurt ,  . and 
them against their will is a violation of choice. 

 ( hudson ) 
so. why is someone elses will such a big deal if morality is all relative .  . 


i do n't believe i ever said that morality was all relative .  . 

what i said was that i can make my mind up on my own , thank you , and that 
you do n't have the right to tell others what to think. 

i think that you will find that in most moral systems , there is 
a respect for human life and the of the person. it is all the 
stuff besides these points that forms the core of the disagreement between 
primitive moral like yourself and the rest of us. 



 ( hudson ) 
maybe  ( the insane lover of pain might reason ) if other people experienced 
enough pain , they might learn to enjoy it , too. 

fine. there is still the definition of crazy. and this also 
involves a violation of free will , because the insane lover of your 
little example would be inflicting pain on a non willing subject. 

try again. 




 ( hudson ) 
you have to have other premises to derive this. 

 ( me ) 
no , you do n't .  . that is a patently false statement. 

 ( hudson ) 
you have to have some sort of premise about choice or self awareness .  . 


no , you do not. i demonstrated to you the example of the 
team which does n't require premises about freedom of choice or 
self awareness .  . 

as i said , you are wrong , and you do n't seem to know much about moral 
systems. if i were you , i would take david bold 's suggestion and do some 
reading on the subject before you try preaching about it. 



from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
distribution usa 
lines 21 


in article ,  ( richard j. loether ) writes 

yes , of course , as in matthew 10 34 35 do not suppose that i have come to 
bring peace to the earth it is not peace i have come to bring but a sword .  .  .  . 


remember the of god the sword that christians is the 
word of god , the bible .  . 

god be with you , 

) 




rich mail university of pittsburgh the ideas 
email computing and info services mine , 
voice  ( 412 ) 600 drive all 
fax  ( 412 ) pittsburgh , pa mine. 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re is it good that jesus died 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 17 

in article , 
 ( brian 9615 ) wrote 
the truth is , is that it is not some sort of magic  . the truth 
is is that you do not understand it , and enjoy not understanding it. 

i'm curious about this statement , is it a known understanding amongst 
christian believers that people who do n't understand the christian 
doctrines are this state i come from a background with 
a heavy christian teaching  ( lutheran church ) , and consider myself 
knowledgeable with the basic of christianity .  . at the 
same time i'm not proud of things i do n't understand or know of at 
this point of time. ignorance is not ! 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( paul jr ) 
subject re religion and homosexuality 
keywords being liberal 
organization university of , 
distribution usa 
lines 18 

in article writes 
first of all as far as i know , only male homosexuality is explicitly 
mentioned in the bibles , so you 're off the there , 

actually , there is one condemnation of acts in the bible , romans 
1 26 .  . 

i think. in 
any event , there are plenty of people in many who 
do not consider a person 's sexual of gay bisexual 
as an immoral lifestyle choice 

there are plenty who do n't read the bible .  . 
or pray for that matter. 

link  . 



from  ( brian kendig ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization san francisco 
lines 19 

 ( brian 9615 ) writes 

consider your mother  . you know your mother. what would you think 
of me if i asserted that your mother is 9 feet , murdered your father , 
and you when you were a kid 

i would just go my parents , and show them to you , and thereby 
prove quite that my mother is not named , she is 
not feet , and my father is quite alive .  . 

then i would assert quite simply that your deity does not exist , and 
wait for a similar from you. 


brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 

from  ( joshua geller ) 
subject re , mithras and 
organization institute for the study of ancient science 
lines 14 
distribution world 

4 . edu . 
nntp posting host washington . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 15 apr 1993 20 26 04 gmt 


in article 4 . edu . 
 ( laurieewbrandt ) writes 

lets add to those 13 15 for the brought to 
the group by paul who was a high  . on the development 
of mysteries , see  . to the study of greek 
religion. cambridge u press  . and you can draw your own 
conclusions .  . 

perhaps you can quote just a bit of her argument 




from  ( david joslin ) 
subject re silence is 
distribution usa 
organization intelligent systems program 
lines 80 

for those missing the context of this discussion between 
jim and i , jim wrote the following to me in e mail after i pointed out 
that he  ( jim ) had taken a quote out of context 
in t . r . m .  . robert writes a promise from psalm 9 10 
gee , since you would n't be at all , you must be really 
busy arguing against these out of context extracted translations ! 

he directed a similar accusation of hypocrisy , again based on a lack of 
response to an article by robert , stephen .  . 

i pointed out that i did , in fact , agree that both robert and 
jim took quotes out of context. hence , i find it difficult to 
understand why jim thinks i am a  . to say , i do n't 
have time to reply to every article on t . r . m .  . that takes a quote 
out of context. 

i asked jim the following 
so , according to you , jim , the only way to criticize one person for 
taking a quote out of context , without being a , is to post a 
response to every person on t . r . m . who takes a quote out of context 

jim replied by saying 
did i either ask or assert that 

but today we find four articles from jim , one of which has the subject 
silence is 

 ( james meritt ) writes 
is it not the case that , in the eyes of the law , when someone is aware of 
something and has the capability of taking action and does not , that individual 
may be held responsible for that action 

which is , of course , a complete red herring .  . taking quotes out of 
context is n't a crime .  . i do n't have time to read every article on 
t . r . m .  . , and i'm certainly under no to reply to them all. 

does silence is imply that jim thinks that because i 
did n't respond to  articles i must  taking quotes 
out of context jim does n't want to give a direct answer to this 
question read what he has written and decide for yourself. 


but back to the context of my conversation with jim .  . jim 's next 
was to claim that he was using inductive logic when he 
concluded that i was being a  . i challenged him to provide 
the details of that logic that led him to an incorrect conclusion .  . 
today we find another obscure article  ( posting it twice did n't help 
make it more clear , jim ) , titled inductive logic 

scenario 
a white goose past the door 
a white goose past the door 
a white goose past the door 
 .  .  . ( . repeat an large number of  .  .  . 
a black goose past the door .  . an individual it with an axe .  . 

1. given that the population of is large , and the size of the 
for the decision is , under what conditions 
could a decision upon the behavior of the individual towards white 
be made 

2. if only black are observed to be , is it not a valid question 
to be concerned with the different behavior between black and white 

more red  . could jim mean that he has read an large 
number of my articles could jim mean that because i his articles , 
but not  articles , he wants to conclude inductively ... 
well , i ca n't see where he is going with this. 

but i can help him with his induction .  . i 've written roughly 80 
articles since  . the vast majority of them are discussions with 
frank and other , where i take the position that 
they are making bad arguments .  . some are discussions with jim 
where i take the position that he is making bad arguments (a straw man 
argument earlier , and taking quotes out of context more recently . ) . 

think hard about this jim .  . see the pattern think harder .  . run it 
through your induction engine and see what pops out. 



from  ( don mcgee ) 
subject federal hearing 
originator 
organization school of and earth science and technology 
distribution usa 
lines 10 


fact or  .  .  .  . o'hare an atheist who eliminated the 
use of the bible reading and prayer in public schools 15 years ago is now 
going to appear before the with a to stop the reading of the 
gospel on the of america .  . and she is also campaigning to remove 
christmas programs , , etc from the public schools .  . if it is true 
then mail to federal communications h street washington 
expressing your opposition to her request. reference number 

 . 

from (a . 
subject re , the ancient order of oriental 
organization com systems bbs , , ca  ( 510 ) 
lines 18 

 ( thyagi nagasiva ) writes 

this organization is known at the present time as the ancient 
order of oriental  .  . otherwise 
the of light. 

does this organization have an official e mail address these 
days  ( an address for any of the sf bay area , e.g. 
would do . ) . 
93 .  .  .  . 
a . 


a . internet addresses 
 ( preferred ) 
com . ! boo ! !  ( bang path for above) 
 ( backup ) 
2 . public key available on request 

from  ( david bold ) 
subject no news is bad news 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization  ( ericsson ) , , england 
lines 20 
nntp posting host 

i'm having trouble receiving news at the moment due to an 
news server .  . i think that i can post out reasonably quickly , though. 

i'm in a couple of threads at the moment which may be pending replies .  . 
if anyone wants a reply from me over something i 've posted then i 
suggest sending an e mail copy of the point to me so that i can reply by 
news. 

this is one way to shut me up ! ! 

cheers , 

david .  . 


on religion 

oh , where is the sea , the cried , 
as they its through. 


from  ( pete yadlowsky ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization university of virginia 
lines 14 

john , d .  . writes 

i do n't know who 's next , but i hope it 's people who pick their 
while driving. 

umm , please do n't us all together. it 's those blatant , 
fundamentalist that give the rest of us a bad name. some of 
us try very hard to be and stay alert .  . 


peter m. wake ! the sky is light ! 
academic computing center let us to the net again .  .  .  . 
university of virginia companion keyboard .  . 
after 

from (dean . kaflowitz) . 
subject re spreading christianity  ( re christian kills doctor ) 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 40 

in article , david r. sacco writes 
not to be too snide about it , but i think this christianity must 
be a very convenient religion , very and suitable for 
any since it seems one can take it any way one wants 
to go with it and follow bits one and 
reinterpret the bits that do n't match with one 's desires .  . it 
is , in fact , so convenient that , were i capable of believing 
in a god , i might consider going for some brand of christianity .  . 
the only difficulty left then , of course , is picking which 
to join .  . there are just so many. 

yes , christianity is convenient .  . following the teachings of jesus 
christ and the ten commandments is convenient .  . trying to love in a 
world is convenient .  . turning the other is convenient .  . so 
convenient that it is at times. 

your last remark is a contradiction , but i 'll let that pass .  . 

i was addressing the notion of the great , which 
you deleted in order to provide us with dull little  . 
thank you ,  . now you go right on back to sleep 
and and daddy will you in later. 

oh , and how convenient his bible must have been to michael 
, how convenient his christianity .  . well , i 'll just 
the bit about not murdering people and loving the 
and hating the sin and all that other stuff for now and 
concentrate on the part where it says that if someone is doing 
something wrong , you should shoot him in the back several times 
as he tries to away on his  . 

i 'll leave the convert or die program of the and 
their military in the for to explain as 
she knows much more about it than i. 

must be awfully convenient , by the way , to offer 
as you have done , david , rather than addressing the arguments .  . 

dean kaflowitz 


from  ( ed mccreary ) 
subject re federal hearing 
in reply to 's message of fri , 16 apr 1993 04 21 09 gmt 
organization compaq computer corp 
distribution usa 
lines 19 

on fri , 16 apr 1993 04 21 09 gmt ,  ( don mcgee ) said 
fact or  .  .  .  . o'hare an atheist who eliminated the 
use of the bible reading and prayer in public schools 15 years ago is now 
going to appear before the with a to stop the reading of the 
gospel on the of america .  . and she is also campaigning to remove 
christmas programs , , etc from the public schools .  . if it is true 
then mail to federal communications h street washington 
expressing your opposition to her request. reference number 

 . 

false .  . this story has been going around for years. there 's not a drop of 
truth. note that i do n't care for o'hare  ( o'hair ) myself , but this 
is one thing she 's not guilty of. 


ed mccreary , o 
, 
if it were not for laughter , there would be no tao .  . ( )  ( ' ) 

from 
subject the divine masters 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 208 



the divine masters 

most christians would agree , and correctly so , that 
jesus christ was a divine master , and a of god 
into the physical world , god  . 

but there are some very important related facts that 
christians are completely ignorant of , as are followers of 
most other world religions .  . 

first , jesus christ was not unique , john 3 16 
standing .  . there is always at least one such divine master 
 ( god incarnate ) physically alive in this world at all times , 
a continuous throughout history , both before and 
after the life of jesus .  . 

the followers of some of these masters founded the 
world 's major religions , usually perverting the teachings of 
their master in the process. christians , for example , added 
threats of eternal damnation in hell , and deleted the 
teaching of  . 

secondly , and more importantly , after a particular 
master physically dies and leaves this world , there is 
nothing that he can do for anybody except for the relatively 
few people that he initiated while he was still physically 
alive .  .  ( that is simply the way god set things up in the 
universes . ) . 

therefore , all those christians who worship jesus , and 
pray to jesus , and expect jesus to return and save them from 
their sins , are only kidding themselves , and have allowed 
themselves to be by a religion that was mostly 
by the romans .  . 

and emotional feelings are a totally 
for religious validity .  . 

these things are similarly true for followers of most 
other major world religions , including islam .  . 

, the primary function of each master is to tune 
his initiates into the life or sound 
current ,  ( referred to as the word in john 1 1 5 , and as 
the river of life in revelation 22 1 ) , and to personally 
guide each of them thru the levels of heaven while they 
are still connected to their living physical bodies by a 
silver . 

true salvation , which a soul 's of 
in the physical and psychic , is achieved 
only by at least the soul plane , which is five 
levels or universes above the physical universe , and this 
cannot be done without the help of a physically living divine 
master .  . 

one such divine master alive today is an american , 
, the living master or for the 
organization , now in , 
o .  . box zip  . 

another divine master is , now 
living in , india , and is associated with the 
organization .  . 

one of the classic books on this subject is the path of 
the masters  ( radha books , p.o. box , , ca 
90247 ) , written in 1939 by dr. johnson , a theologian 
and surgeon who spent the last years of his life in india 
studying under and closely observing the master of 
that time ,  . 

several of the books , including some authored 
by paul or , can be found in 
most public and university and some book stores , or 
obtained thru inter library loan .  . the book the 
key to secret worlds , by paul , is another 
classic .  . 

many christians are likely to confuse the masters with 
the anti christ , which is or was to be a temporary world 
dictator during the so called last days . but the masters 
do n't ever rule , even when asked or expected to do so as 
jesus was. 

people who continue following christianity , islam , or 
other orthodox religions with a physically dead master , will 
continue on their of , between the 
psychic and this miserable physical world , until they 
finally accept from a physically living divine 
master .  . 



re 

the book here and , by ruth , 
describes several kinds of evidence supporting 
as a fact of life , including to past 
lives about 50 accurate the mind sometimes 
makes things up , especially with a bad , 
spontaneous recall  ( especially by young children , some of 
whom can identify their most recent previous relatives , 
homes , possessions , etc . ) . , dream recall of past life 
,  ( familiarity with a far off land while travel 
there for the first time on vacation ) , the psychic read 
of the late edgar , and even supporting statements 
from the christian bible including matthew 17 11 13  ( john the 
baptist was the of ) . and john 9 1 2  ( how 
can a person possibly sin before he is born , unless he lived 
before ! ) .  . always use the king james version . later 
versions are per versions ! 

strong interests , , strong , etc. , 
typically originate from a person 's past lives. for example , 
a strong fear of swimming in or over water usually 
results from having at the end of a previous life. 
and sometimes a person will take an immediate dislike to 
another person being met for the first time in this life , 
because of a bad with him during a previous 
 . 

the teaching of also includes the law of 
 ( galatians 6 7 , revelation 13 10 , etc . ) .  . people would 
behave much better each other if they knew that their 
actions in the present will surely be by them in the 
future , or in a future ! 



2nd 

if a divine master physically dies ( translates ) 
before a particular of his does , then when that 
physically dies ( translates ) , the master will meet 
him on the level and take him directly to the soul 
plane .  . this is the one and only correct meaning of a 2nd 
coming .  . it is an individual experience , not something that 
happens for everyone all at once. people who are still 
waiting for jesus  2nd coming are waiting in  . 



of existence 

the physical universe is the lowest of at least a dozen 
major levels of existence .  . above the physical plane is the 
plane , the plane , the mental plane , the 
plane  ( often counted as the part of the mental plane ) , 
the soul plane , and several higher spiritual  . the 
soul plane is the first true heaven ,  ( counting upward from 
the  . the between  ( but not including ) the 
physical and soul are called the psychic  . 

it is likely that esp , telepathy , 
influences , effects , biological see 
the book with that title .  . , and other phenomena without 
an apparent physical origin , result from interactions between 
the psychic and the physical plane .  . 

the major are also sub divided .  . for example , a 
sub plane of the plane is called , and the 
christian hell a small part of it , created there 
less than 2000 years ago by the early catholic church by some 
kind of black magic or by simply teaching its existence in a 
threatening manner. the christian heaven is 
elsewhere on the plane .  . good christians will go there 
for a short while and then back to earth. 



sound current vs. blind faith 

the christian religion demands of its followers an 
extraordinary amount of blind faith backed up by little more 
than good feeling  ( which is totally  . 

if a person is not hearing some form of the sound 
current ( the word , the , the life ) , 
then his of in this miserable world will 
continue. 

the sound current manifests differently for different 
initiates , and can sound like a wind , on 
the sea , bees , higher sound , a 
, various heavenly music , or other sounds .  . in , 
members start hearing it near the end of their first year as 
a member. this and other experiences  ( such as soul travel ) 
replace blind faith. 



for more information , answers to your questions , etc. , 
please consult my cited sources (3 books , 2  . 



un altered reproduction and of this 
important information is encouraged .  . 


robert e. 
2nd in , 
 ( but not an thereof ) 



from  ( irfan alan ) 
subject a on the miracles of muhammad saw , part 1 
organization univ .  . of wisconsin madison electrical computer engineering 
distribution usa 
lines 

1 , no 11 , part 1 

a d r o p l e t 
from the vast of the miraculous qur'an 

translations from the arabic and turkish writings of 
said , the i 

1 , no 11 , part 1 



letter 

i 
(a on the miracles of muhammad saw ) 
 ( saw peace and be upon him ) 

in his name  ( allah ) , be he  ( allah ) ! 
there is nothing but his  ( allah 's ) praise .  . 

in the name of allah , the compassionate , the 

he is who has sent his messenger with 
and the religion of truth to make it 
supreme over all religion and sufficient is allah 
as a witness .  . muhammad is the messenger of 
allah , and those who are with him are firm 
against the unbelievers and among 
each other. you will see them and 
themselves , seeking allah 's 
and his pleasure. their mark is on their face 
the of this is their in 
the torah and  . the our an 48 28 29 

since the and first words 
concerning the mission of muhammad  ( saw ) prove his 
with decisive , we assign the 
of that subject to those words. 
as a to them , we will merely show here 
in signs , some of the of that great 
truth. 

first sign the owner and master of this universe 
does everything with knowledge , every affair 
with wisdom , everything all , treats 
everything all knowingly , and in everything with 
his will and wisdom such causes , purposes and uses that 
are apparent to us. since the one who creates knows , 
surely the one who knows will speak , since he will 
speak , surely he will speak to those who have 
consciousness , thought , and speech. since he will speak 
to those who have thought , surely he will speak to 
humankind , whose make up and awareness are more 
comprehensive of all conscious beings .  . since he will 
speak to humankind , surely he will speak to the most 
perfect of mankind and those most worthy of address and 
highest in morality , and who are qualified to guide 
humanity then he will certainly speak to muhammad  ( saw ) , 
who , as friend and alike testify , is of the highest 
character and morality , and who is by one 
of humanity , to whose spiritual rule half of the has 
, with the radiance of whose light has been 
the future of mankind for centuries , to 
whom the believers , the segment of humanity , 
their oath of allegiance five times a day , for 
whose happiness and peace they pray , for whom they call 
down allah 's and bear admiration and love in 
their hearts .  . 

certainly , he will speak to muhammad  ( saw ) , 
and indeed he has done so he will make him the 
messenger , and indeed he has done so he will make 
him the guide for the rest of humanity , and indeed he 
has done so. 


to be continued in a allah .  . 
your  . in islam .  . 



from  ( brian kendig ) 
subject re the list of biblical contradictions 
organization san francisco 
lines 24 

 ( paul jr ) writes 
 ( brian kendig ) writes 

specifically when i bring up the fact that genesis contains two 
contradictory creation stories , i usually get or flat 
denials .  . i 've never had a fundamentalist acknowledge that there are 
indeed two different accounts of creation. 

that is because two creation stories is one of the worst examples of 
a difficulty with the bible .  . were formed can also be translated had been 
formed in chapter two without any problems. so the text does not demand 
that there are two creation stories. 

really i do n't get it .  .  .  . genesis first says that god created the 
earth , then the animals , then humans then it turns around and says 
that humans were created before animals ! how can you escape this 
contradiction 


brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 

from  ( david joslin ) 
subject re kind , loving , and forgiving god ! 
organization intelligent systems program 
lines 43 

 ( james meritt ) writes 
 ( david joslin ) writes 
 ( james meritt ) writes 
 ( a ) out of context 
must have missed when you said this about these other promises of god that we keep 
getting to. could you please explain why i am wrong and they are ok 
or an acknowledgement of public hypocrisy .  . both or neither .  . 

so , according to you , jim , the only way to criticize one person for 
taking a quote out of context , without being a , is to post a 
response to every person on t . r . m . who takes a quote out of context 

did i either ask or assert that or is this your telepathy at work again 

(1) stephen said you took a quote out of context 
(2) you noted that stephen had not replied to some other t . r . m . article 
 ( call it a ) that took a quote out of context 
 ( 3 ) but the lack of evidence for x does not constitute evidence for the 
lack of x (a common creationist error ) 
 ( 4 ) so the fact that stephen did not reply to a does not justify the 
conclusion that stephen taking quotes out of context in a 
 ( 5 ) you asked stephen to explain why you were wrong and they were ok , 
or to acknowledge that he was being a  . 
 ( 6 ) both of the choices you give stephen assume that he 
taking quotes out of context in a. 
 ( 7 ) i assumed you were being logical , and that the sentence that begins 
could you please explain ... was not a , but was intended 
to follow from the sentence that it. 
 ( 8 ) therefore , i concluded that you believed that (2) implied that stephen 
taking quotes out of context in a 
 ( 9 ) but we 've already seen that (2) does not imply this 
 ( 10 ) therefore , you were incorrect to believe that (2) implied that stephen 
thought it was okay to take quotes out of context in a , and were 
making an error of a kind that is frequently made by creationists .  . 

is that better jim it 's called an argument. if you disagree with it , 
explain why the argument is not sound. (i admit that my assumption in  ( 7 ) 
may have been a bit hasty . ) . if you agree with it , just say yup .  . 


yup .  . jim 's e response when i pointed out , in a posted article , 
that one of his arguments was a straw man argument , of a 
frequent creationist ploy .  . (3 22 93 ) 

from  ( irfan alan ) 
subject a on the miracles of muhammad , part 3 
organization univ .  . of wisconsin madison electrical computer engineering 
distribution usa 
lines 87 

1 , no 11 , part 3 

d r o p l e t 
from the vast of the miraculous qur'an 

translations from the arabic and turkish writings of 
said , the i 

1 , no 11 , part 3 

letter 

i 
a on the miracles of muhammed saw , part 3 

 ( continued from 1 , no 11 , part 2 ) 

third sign the miracles of muhammad  ( saw ) 
are extremely  . because his is 
universal , he has been by miracles that 
relate to almost all species of creation. 
just as the supreme of a ruler , arriving 
with many in a city where various people live , will be 
by a representative of each people who 
him and him welcome in his own language 
so , too , when the supreme messenger of the of 
pre and post eternity  ( ezel and sultani ) the 
universe by coming as an to the of the 
earth , and brought with him the light of truth and spiritual 
sent by the creator of the universe and derived from 
the realities of the whole universe , each species of 
creation from water , , trees , animals and human 
beings to the moon , sun and stars him and 
his , each in its own language , and 
each bearing one of his miracles .  . 
now it would require a work to mention all 
his miracles .  . as the scholars have written 
many volumes concerning the of his , 
here we will point out only the general category 
into which fall miracles that are definite and accepted 
as accurate reports .  . 
the of the of muhammad 
 ( saw ) fall into two main categories 

the first is called and includes the 
events that happened at the time of his birth , or before his 
declaration of  . 

the second group pertains to all the remaining 
of the , and contains two 

1 ) those wonders that were after 
his from this world in order to his 
, and 
2 ) those that he during the era 
of his  . the latter has also two parts 
2 . the of his that became 
in his own , his inner and outer being , his moral 
conduct and , and 
2 . the miracles that related to substantial matters. 
the last part again has two branches 
2 . 2 . those concerning the qur'an and spirituality , and 
2 . 2 . those to matter and creation. this last 
branch is again divided into two categories 
2 . 2 . 2 . the first involves the 
that occured during his mission either to break the 
of the unbelievers , or to the 
faith of the  . this category has twenty different 
sorts , such as the of the moon , the of 
water from the fingers , the satisfying of large numbers with 
a little food , and the speaking of trees , and animals 
each of these sons has also many instances , and thus 
has , in meaning , the strength of by 
consensus .  . 
2 . 2 . 2 . as for the second category , this 
includes events lying in the future that occured as he had 
predicted upon allah  ( swt ) 's instructions .  . now starting 
from the last category , we will summarize a list of them . (1) . 

(1) , i could not write as i had intended 
without choice , i wrote as my head , and i could 
not completely conform to the order of this  . 


to be continued allah willing .  . 
, a servant of islam .  . 


from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 


really you do n't know what objective value is if i offered the people 
of the u.s. , collectively , 1 for all of the land in america , would that 
sound like a good deal 

that happens to be a subjective example that the people of the 
us would happen to agree on. continue to move the price up 
at some point a few people would accept then more then more until 
probably all would accept at a high enough number .  . 

of a subjective scale are not the given homes of 
objective viewpoints .  . 

jim halat 


from  ( jemaleddin cole ) 
subject re catholic of a . s . s .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization the society for the preservation of to  . 
lines 37 

in writes 

i am surprised and  . i would expect this kind of behavior 
from the evangelical born again gospel in your face we 're 
the only true christian protestants , but i have always thought 
that catholics behaved better than this. 
please do not to the 
level of the e b a g t i y f w t o t c protestants , who think 
that the best way to witness is to be , , loud , 
insulting and self righteous .  . 

 ( pleading mode on ) 

please ! i'm begging you ! quit confusing religious groups , and stop 
making ! i'm a protestant ! i'm an evangelical ! i do n't 
believe that my way is the only way ! i'm not a creation scientist ! i 
do n't think that homosexuals should be by their ! 

if you want to discuss bible thumpers , you would be better off 
out  ( and making about ) fundamentalists .  . if you 
compared the actions of or with those of southern 
, you would think that they were different religions ! 

please , prejudice is about thinking that all people of a group are the 
same , so please do n't write off all protestants or all ! 

 ( pleading mode off . ) . 

god .  .  .  .  .  .  . i . wish i could get of all the thomas stories .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

f n , lbh 
n tha .  . gb , gb lbh er 
n  . 


david chief of research 


from  ( mark mccullough ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization university of wisconsin , madison computer sciences dept. 
lines 19 

in article  ( jim halat ) writes 
atoms are not objective .  . they are n't even real. what scientists call 
an atom is nothing more than a mathematical model that describes 
certain physical , observable properties of our surroundings .  . all 
of which is subjective .  . 

jim halat 

this deserves  . it really does. atoms are n't even real. 

tell me then , those atoms we have seen with are 
atoms now , so what are they of our the 
evidence that atoms are real is overwhelming , but i wo n't bother with 
most evidence at the moment .  . 


never program and drink beer at the same 
m 2 time. it does n't work. 


from  ( kalki dasa ) 
subject 2 . 44 . 
organization 's bbs , aiken , , usa 
lines 42 

text 44 




na 

to material enjoyment and for 
those who are attached by such things 
in mind fixed in 
determination service to the lord in 
the controlled mind na never does take place. 

translation 

in the minds of those who are too attached to sense enjoyment and 
material , and who are by such things , the 
determination for service to the supreme lord does not take 
place. 



means mind . '' . the dictionary , the , 
says ,  the mind is 
fixed for understanding the self , it is said to be in '' . 
is never possible for persons interested in material sense 
enjoyment , nor for those who are by such temporary things. 
they are more or less condemned by the process of material energy .  . 

as it is 
books of a . c .  . 



do n't forget to 

krishna krishna , krishna krishna 
, 

's bbs aiken , south , usa 



from 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
lines 14 
organization university of 

in article ,  ( stephen l favor ) writes 
seems to me koresh is yet another messenger that got killed 
for the message he carried .  .  ( which says nothing about the 
character of the messenger . ) . i reckon we 'll have to find out 
the rest the hard way. 


koresh was killed because he wanted lots of illegal guns .  . 

i suppose these illegal guns have been found i suppose he was going to kill a 
bunch of people with them 
ray 

there 's no government like no government. 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re food for thought on tyre 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 34 

in article news . com . ,  ( john e. 
king ) wrote 
not exactly. the prophesy clearly implies that people would 
still be living in the area , but by the same it would 
never be . obviously , if people are still there they 
would live in houses , correct their implies a 
 . this is exactly what it has become a far cry from 
its original position of stature . 

let 's see , if tyre , and people move back , and 
they construct houses , and after a while people live there 
and still call it tyre , it is not considered to be  . instead 
it 's considered to be  just some people that got together for 
and they needed houses  place. 

so far i 've seen stated from 15 , 000 to 22 , 000 .  . 
let 's assume the latter one is correct. by modern standards 
we are talking about a one horse town .  . 

sigh , i was never born in a city then  ( my home town has 10 . 000 . 
 . i have to consult my city and them that it 's from 
now a  . when this city  ( kristinestad ) was founded 
in the 17 century about 1000 people lived there , so the norms 
were even more bizarre for queens who founded cities 
along the coast of finland .  . 

i would like to know why paul thought is was worth mentioning the 
small place of tyre in acts .  . again , maybe he was a 
and wanted to visit the of tyre ) 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

subject re albert sabin 
from  ( rich fox , univ of south dakota ) 
reply to 
organization the university of south dakota computer science dept. 
nntp posting host charlie 
lines 91 

in article ,  ( system account ) writes 

in article ,  ( rich fox , univ of south dakota ) writes 

in article ,  ( bill rawlins ) writes 

earlier dialogue deleted 

perhaps you should read it and stop the bible as evidence 
to questions of science. 

it did jesus exist by g. a. 

there is a great fallacy in your statement. the question of origins is 
based on more than science alone. 

nope , no fallacy .  . yep , science is best in determining how religions handle 
why and who .  . 


rich , i am curious as to why you and others award of the baby to 
theists and religion 

i hope i did n't award , rich. i used handle in order to 
avoid doing so i.e. , that happens to be what religions do  ( of course there are 
like scientific  . i used best in part to indicate 
that science currently has a time of it with why and who , so these domains are 
mostly ignored .  . i also attempted to be brief , which no doubt confused the 
matter. as an aside , for science i should have written how and when . nobody 
seems to argue over what. 

are they theists , theologians any better to investigate the who and 
why than , , not being , athiests or 
agnostics .  . 

seems to me that the answer would vary from individual to individual .  . i'm not 
trying to be on this , but from a societal perspective , religion works. 
on the other hand , sometimes it is and misused , and many suffer , which 
you know. but the net result seems positive , this from the 
perspective on human affairs .  . you might call me a as i 
think the masses ca n't get along without religion. not that generally they are 
incapable they just do n't , and for reasons , but the main one seems to 
be the promise of immortality .  . very , that immortality .  . therefore 
it seems that theologians are better than the others you mention for 
answers to who and why . i suggest that this holds regardless of 
the truth in their answers to who and why simply because people believe. 
in the end , spiritual beliefs are just as real as scientific facts and 
explanation  ( caution to some do not take this out of  . 

do you suggest that the who and why will forever be closed to scientific 
investigation 

no. in fact , i do n't think it is closed now , at least for some individuals .  . 
is n't there a group of who argue that matter was 
created from nothing in a big bang this approach might 
an absence of who and why , except that it seems it could be argued 
that something had to be responsible for nothing maybe that something does n't 
have to be supernatural , maybe just  . but that 's a tough one for 
people today to grasp .  . in any case , theory without empirical data is not 
explanation , but then your question does not require data .  . in other words , 
i agree that theorizing  ( within scientific parameters ) is just as scientific 
as explaining .  . so the answer is , who and why are not closed to scientists , but 
i sense that science in these is currently very  . data will 
be necessary for improvement , and that seems a long way off , if ever. pretty 
here i hope i 've made sense. 

it seems to me that 200 or so years ago , the question of the origin of life on 
earth was not considered open to scientific enquiry .  . 

i agree generally .  . but i prefer to put it this way the questions of how , 
when , who and why were not open to inquiry .  . during the enlightenment , 
reason was for questioning the theological answers to how and when , 
and not , for the most part , who and why. science was thus born out of the 
 curiosity , eventually away the how and when while largely 
leaving behind the who and why. the ignorant , the selfish , the , and 
the arrogant , of course , still claim authority in all four domains .  . 

rich fox , , 

did like your discussion around , and i did figure out what was from 
your original post ) 

much  . funny how facts tend to things , is n't it well , i am 
sure there are plenty of scientific creationist out there 
somewhere , even if they have to be created from nothing. 

just for the record , again , modern humans 

best regards ) , 

rich fox , , 

from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization engineering and manufacturing , 
lines 

in  ( timothy j brent ) writes 

probably not. but then , i do n't pack heavy with intent to use it. 

please cite your evidence that he was to use it. 

you do n't really think he should have been allowed to keep that stuff do 
you 

why not 

if so , tell me where you live so i can be sure to well clear. 

check the sig .  . 

the public also has rights , and they should be placed above those of the 
individual .  . 

society does not have rights only individuals have rights. 

go ahead , call me a , 

ok , your a  . 

but you 'd be singing a different 
tune if i my right to rape your daughter .  . 

you think you have a right to rape anyone no wonder you do n't care about 
the of others. 

he broke the law , 

please indicate which law you feel koresh broke , and when was he convicted of 
said crime .  . 

he was a threat to society , 

so you feel that guns makes him a threat to society. when are y 
going to start going after and baseball as well. 
or do you feel that someone who unpopular ideas is by definition a 
threat to society. 

they did there job simple. 

it is simple if you think that there job is to civilians .  . 

support your first , second , fourth , , sixth , and 
amendment rights , lest they be taken away from you just as the fbi did 
to the  . think about it. 

i 'll support them all  ( except no. 2 ) 

in other words you do n't support any of them. 

rule is n't any merely because the calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related .  . 


from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject re an invisible god ! 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
lines 14 

in article 
 ( paul moloney ) writes 
 ( jim system admin ) writes 
god can be seen 
and i will take away my hand , and thou shalt see my  . 
god 's a 

such ! 

 ( gee , maybe there 's something in this christianity thing after all 
maybe god is john from animal house ) 

the supernatural one wants to have a personal relationship with you. 
1 , come quick ! 

from  ( pegasus ) 
subject re , mithras and 
organization the group 
lines 13 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 6 . edu . 

in article , 
 ( joshua geller ) wrote 


i would really appreciate if when someone brought something like 
this up they did n't back out when someone asked for details. 


excuse me ! 
i am not trying to back out , maybe you should try to make an 
informed when your are trying to pack , and your references are 
! and someone responses like you did.  ( no  . 


from  ( stephen l favor ) 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
organization energy 
lines 7 
nntp posting host what . com . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 

seems to me koresh is yet another messenger that got killed 
for the message he carried .  .  ( which says nothing about the 
character of the messenger . ) . i reckon we 'll have to find out 
the rest the hard way. 


koresh was killed because he wanted lots of illegal guns .  . 

from  ( paul gillingwater ) 
subject re , mithras and 
organization home office in , austria 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 28 

 ( kevin osinski ) writes 

i recall reading in michael ( ) 's novel a in 
which the son of a roman living in britain takes part in a 
secret involving a bull .  . he stands in a covered 
with some sort of while a bull to stand on 
the  . they then stab the bull , which the 
in the with blood. this is supposedly some sort of 
of passage for members of the bull cult .  . i wonder if this is 
related to the mithras cult 

yes , this is certainly one of the traditional ideas about the 
cult  ( although not the only one . ) . it had many elements that seem 
to have been borrowed by (e . g .  . the mass , , the 
of a sacred , of bread and wine , etc . ) . 

for quite an amusing novel that uses this same idea , check out 

the covenant of the flame 
by david  . 

it has some quite interesting bits , and lots of killing .  . 
i wo n't it by revealing the ending , but i will say that it 
is relevant to  . 

 ( paul gillingwater ) 
home office in , austria 
if you read news with or , ask me about ! the  . editor ! 

from  ( michael j. abboud ) 
subject re the list of biblical contradictions 
organization university of nebraska at omaha 
when we speak of the bible and its contradictions , we would do well to remember the context in 
if we are to accept this line of reason , remembering that it does not 
as my study of the christian religion has progressed over the years , i have 
it matters little to me , as a in either serves my purpose 
distribution usa 
lines 6 








from  ( pegasus ) 
subject re , mithras and 
organization the group 
lines 21 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 1 . edu . 

in article , 
 ( joshua geller ) wrote 


in article 4 . edu . 
 ( laurieewbrandt ) writes 

lets add to those 13 15 for the 
brought to the group by paul who was a high  . on 
the development of mysteries , see  . 
to the study of greek religion. cambridge u press  . and you can 
draw your own conclusions .  . 

perhaps you can quote just a bit of her argument 

love to , but i must do it a bit later my copy of in , but the 
last chapter as best as i can deals with mysteries and their 
views of women though she does not come out and say it it is strongly 
that the christian view was drawn from the and other 
major cults of the time. 


from  ( lowell morrison ) 
subject re and the southern baptist 
organization computing corporation , los , california 
lines 41 

in article  ( tony alicea ) writes 


with the southern baptist this june to consider 
the charges that is incompatible with christianity , i thought 
the following quotes by mr. james , the anti flag , 
would you all .  .  .  . 


the following passages are exact quotes from the southern 
baptist and by james l. , m . d .  . , president 
of mission and ministry to men , inc. , n st. , , tx 
 . 

much drivel deleted 
jesus christ never commanded as a motive for his 
disciples , and is the of the christian message. 
page 30 .  . 

the central of the drive for world unity 
through , liberty and equality is  . this is seen 
in the writings of the  great  writers of . page 31. 
more drivel deleted 
i hope you all had a good laugh ! i know i did ! g , 


tony 
a laugh tony , this bigot the shit out of me , and that 
any one bothers to listen to him causes me to have grave about the 
future of just about anything. shades of the branch , jim jones , 
and charlie manson .  . 

wolf 
member f am  ( grand of california ) 
a southern 
and one who has beliefs beyond the teachings of either. 






from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject re , the ancient order of oriental 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 11 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( darrin a. hyrup ) says 

they do n't have an internet address , but they do have a cis 
address which can be reached via uucp internet .  . it is , so i guess 
that would be or something like that. 



tony 


from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 34 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
firstly , science has its basis in values , not the other way round. 
so you better explain what objective atoms are , and how we get them 
from subjective values , before we go any further. 


atoms are not objective .  . they are n't even real. what scientists call 
an atom is nothing more than a mathematical model that describes 
certain physical , observable properties of our surroundings .  . all 
of which is subjective .  . 

what is objective , though , is the approach a scientist 
takes in discussing his model and his observations .  . there 
is no objective science. but there is an objective approach 
which is subjectively by the scientist .  . objective 
in this case means a , set of rules that 
he and his colleagues use to discuss their science. 

this is in to your objective morality .  . there may be an 
objective approach to subjectively discuss your beliefs on 
morality .  . but there exists no objective morality .  . 

also , science deals with how we can discuss our observations of 
the physical world around us. in that the method of discussion 
is objective ( not the science not the discussion itself ) .  . 

science makes no claims to know the whys or even the sometimes 
of what we can observe .  . it simply gives us a way to discuss our 
surroundings in a meaningful , consistent way. 

i think it was who said  ( to paraphrase ) science is what 
we can say about the physical world. 

jim halat 

from  ( roy crabtree ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization red data center 
lines 

in article  ( brian kendig ) writes 
 ( lance visser ) writes 

they cut off the water , there were no fire present 

they refused to bring in fire equipment for fear that the 
would be shot at. 

and the fbi atf go blasting holes into the and firing gas  . 

they used a to knock a hole in the , and they released 
non , non tear gas into the building .  . 

take a second look at non , non 

 ( sold public ) is supposedly  . 
do not tell you is that if you get directly 
on the of the  ( such as a direct snort to 
the face ) above certain , it similarly 
to a gas  . 

i know my father and were exposed 
to poison gas in and wwii went through 
the side effects of any weapon , including those 
non  . 

what the label actually means is 

usually , it wont kill you 
it may give you permanent 
but that 's better than blowing a hole in your 
head ... 

all are if you have enough oxygen 
and hit it with the right  . some of the most 
non known will or 
if you hit it with the right  . 


let 's take one a trash can fire .  . makes black 
already burned right ca n't go , right wrong. 

that  ( made up of paper that has , 
or burned about 35 of the in it) into an air 
return , mix with about 5 1 air , and light 
a match .  . 200 feet of conduit is about the same , when 
filled with that mixture , as oh , say 200 pounds 

that is why the fire codes say no open 
in buildings .  . because 3 5 stories of 
a building have blown out by 

so 
take a little 
mix with or 

no , a bit of heating 
on the water to drink 
since the water was cut off 

mix and allow to for 1 4 hours 

down into the , and the 
move the children to a  ( they had one , 
, remember ) to , because kids get sick 
and die from tear gas .  . 

and along comes a , a spark , what have you 

everyone to death. 

try thinking before mouth it may not have happened the 
way the say it did. 



brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 



from  ( james meritt ) 
subject re kind , loving , and forgiving god ! 
nntp posting host org . 
organization corporation , va 
lines 41 

in article  ( david joslin ) writes 
 ( james meritt ) writes 
 ( a ) out of context 
must have missed when you said this about these other promises of god that we keep 
getting to. could you please explain why i am wrong and they are ok 
or an acknowledgement of public hypocrisy .  . both or neither .  . 

so , according to you , jim , the only way to criticize one person for 
taking a quote out of context , without being a , is to post a 
response to every person on t . r . m . who takes a quote out of context 

did i either ask or assert that or is this your telepathy at work again 

btw to david i'm still waiting for either your public 
acknowledgement of your 
telepathy and  ( are you a witch ) or an and  . 

can you wait without to pass the time , maybe you should go 
back and read the portions of my article that you so conveniently 
deleted in your reply. you 'll find most of your answers there. 

nope in particular 
once he realized that he had 
example of telepathy 

responding jim 's 
what threat .  . produce it. 

jim again , still 
more telepathy or maybe just telepathy , capable of determining emotional states. 

jim , trying to 
more telepathy .  . how do you know trying ! ! 

jim , to 
substantiate .  . 

all this taken from your message id . 




from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject re protestant finds christ 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 26 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 

in article ,  ( john w. redelfs ) writes .  .  .  . 

in a previous article ,  ( tom albrecht ) says 

in article  ( john w. redelfs ) writes 

i learned that god loves his children who have never heard of him and has a 
plan for them too , even those who have died without a knowledge 
of christ .  . i learned that a man cannot justice by on 
his death because is more than a feeling of  . it 
requires faith in christ proven by following him , by keeping his 
commandments .  . such cannot be accomplished on ones  . 

so jesus must have lied to the on the cross .  . 

paradise and salvation are not the same thing. salvation is better. refer 
to john 14 2. 

i do n't see the effort to equate salvation with paradise .  . 

rather , i see implied the fact that only those who are saved 
may enter paradise .  . 


robert 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 20 

in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 
i understand and with your pain. what happened in was a very 
sad  . do n't take it out on us christians though. the branch 
were not an organized religion. they were a cult led by a ego 
cult leader. the christian faith stands only on the of one man , 
the lord of and king of kings , jesus christ .  . btw , david koresh was not 
jesus christ as he claimed .  . 

the interesting notion is that (i watched tv tonight ) koresh never 
claimed to be jesus christ .  . his believers hoped that 
he would be , but he never took this standpoint himself. 

he was more interested in breaking the seven seals of revelation , 
and make sure that would start. well it did , and 19 
children died , and no god saved them. 

kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
lines 13 

in article 
 ( pete yadlowsky ) writes 
ken arromdee writes 
did they not know that these men were federal officers 
do you know what a no knock search is 
yes , but tell me how you think your question answers my question. if 
the did n't know immediately that they were dealing with feds 
 ( uniform , insignia ) , they must have it out in pretty 
short order. why did they keep fighting they seemed awfully ready 
for having been attacked without warning . 

oh , bloody sorry old , why did n't you tell me you were a 
tough luck , eh what 's that you say you 're not dead yet 

from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 45 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article mathew writes 
 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article mathew 
writes 
this is complete nonsense. relativism means saying that there is no 
standard of morality it does not mean saying that all standards of morality 
are equally good. 

presumably this means that some moral systems are better than others 
how so how do you this without an objective frame of reference 


either frank o'dwyer or mathew said 

 .  .  . deleted .  .  .  . 

which goes , a bullet or a how come you can answer that when 
einstein proved that there is n't an objective frame of reference 

 .  .  . deleted .  .  .  . 

speed is a measure resulting from a set of methods that 
will result in the same value measured no matter the reference. a 
bullet with zero sitting on a table on a train moving 
will be moving at a speed of 

 ( a ) to someone on the train .  . 
 ( b ) to someone next to the train .  . 

the reference frame makes the speed relative .  . but what 's interesting 
here is that every person on the train will see a bullet .  . 
every person off , a bullet moving  . 

i know of no train where all the people on it , every time it is 
filled , will see a moral problem in exactly the same way. 


jim halat 
bear whatever does n't kill you will only serve to annoy you 
i speak only for myself 





subject re 's reply 
from 
organization young university 
lines 


robert writes 

replied to my letter with .  .  .  . 

in article , 
 ( robert weiss ) says 


( .  .  . ) . 

just , on something that you mentioned in passing .  . you refer to 
interpretations of create , and say that many christians may 
not agree. so what that is really irrelevant .  . we do not base our faith 
on how many people think one way or another , do we the bottom line is 
truth , regardless of popularity of opinions. 

it may be irrelevant to you and your personal beliefs  ( or should i say 
bias ) , but it is relevant to me and many others. you 're right , the 
bottom line is truth , independant from you or anyone else. since you 
proclaim truths as a self , may i ask you by what 
authority you do this because it says so in the bible does the 
bible say so , or is it you , or someone else , who interprets whether a 
scripture or doctrine to your particular liking or 

excuse , but your line of truths have n't moved me one bit to persuade 
me that my beliefs are erroneous .  . of all the of truth on 
this net , you have me as a self righteous member of the 
, with no positive message to me or any other latter day saint .  .  .  . 
btw , this entire discussion reminds me a lot of the things said by jesus 
to the pharisees  ( hypocrite(s ) . . . preach about me with your , 
but your hearts are far removed from me .  .  .  . 

also , i find it rather strange that in trying to persuade that created 
and existent are equivalent , you say granted the mormon 
belief .  .  .  . you ca n't grant your conclusion and then expect the point to 
have been addressed .  . in order to reply to the issue , you have to address 
and answer the point that was raised , and not just jump to the 
conclusion that you grant .  . 

 . look who 's talking jumping to conclusions you would n't do 
that yourself , right all you address is your own convictions , regardless 
whether we come up with any biblical scriptures which supports our points 
of view , because you reject such interpretations without any consideration 
whatsoever. 


the bible states that lucifer was created. the bible states that jesus 
is the creator of all. the contradiction that we have is that the 
belief is that jesus and lucifer were the same. 

a beautiful example of and a deliberate misrepresentation 
of doctrine .  . the former would have loved to you. 
jesus and lucifer are not the same , silly , and you know it. 

( .  .  . ) . 

the mormon belief is that all are children of god. literally .  . there is 
nothing about it. this however , contradicts what the bible 
says .  . the bible teaches that not everyone is a child of god 

correction it may contradict would you think the bible says .  . the bible 
indeed does teach that not all are children of god in the sense that they 
belong to or follow god in his  . satan and his followers have 
against god , and are not children ( followers redeemed ) of god , 
but it does n't mean that they were not once created by god , but chose to 
separate themselves from those who chose to follow god and his plan of 
salvation .  . 


the field is the world the good seed are the children of the 
kingdom but the are the children of the wicked one 
 ( matthew 13 38 ) 

so this nicely what i just said the children of the 
kingdom are those who have remained in their testimony of jesus 
 ( and have shown works of , etc . ) . , and the children of the 
wicked one are those who against god and the lamb .  . the issue 
of satan 's spirit origin  ( and of those who followed him ) has not been 
addressed in this and other verses you copied from your bible .  . you 
the subject by swamping your right with non 
related scriptures .  . 

( .  .  . lots . of nice scriptures deleted  ( not robert w. copyrighted ) though .  .  . ) . 

we are told that , and this is life eternal , that they might know 
thee the only true god , and jesus christ , whom thou hast sent .  . 
 ( john 17 3) .  . life eternal is to know the only true god. yet the 
doctrines of the that i have mentioned a 
different jesus , a jesus that cannot be with the jesus of 
the bible .  . they are so far removed from each other that to proclaim 

correction my jesus is indeed different than your jesus , and can be 
with the jesus in the bible .  . not your interpretation of him , 
i concur , but i honestly could n't care less. 

one as being true denies the other from being true. according to the 
bible , eternal life is dependent on knowing the only true god , and 
not the construct of imagination. 

in this single posting of yours , i 've seen more constructs of imagination 
than in all of the pro combined i have read so far in this news 
group. first get your facts straight before you dare preaching to us 
about the only true god , whom you interpret according to your own likes 
and , but whose image i cannot reconcile with what i know about 
him myself. i guess your grandiose self image does not allow for other 
faiths , believing in the divinity of jesus christ , but in a different 
way or fashion than your own. not that it really matters , the mission 
and progress of the church will go on , and , and no 
or opponent can stop the work from , until it has visited 
every continent , swept every , and in every ear .  . 

this is really a red herring .  . it does n't address any issue raised , but 
rather , it seeks to  . the fact that some groups try to read 
something into the bible , does n't change what the bible teaches .  . 

sigh. what the bible teaches or what the bible teaches according to 
robert and co .  . i respect the former , i reject the latter without 
the feeling that i have rejected jesus .  . on the contrary .  . and by 
the way , i do respect your interpretations of the bible , i even grant you 
being a christian  ( following your own image of him ) , as much as i am a 
christian  ( following my own image of him in my  . 

( .  .  . ) . 

most of the other replies have instead hop to the issue of 
bruce and whether his views were  official doctrine . ' . i do n't 
think that it matters if 's views were  . that is not the 
issue. were 's writings of mormon belief on this 
subject is the real issue. the indication from is that they may 
certainly be. 

the issue is , of course , that you love to use anything to either mis 
represent or the church. the issue of official doctrine 
is obviously very important. 's views have been 
(e . g .  . the seven has made me a heretic ! ) at best , 
or erroneous at worst ( blacks not to receive the priesthood in this 
) .  . i respect him as someone who has made his valuable 
to the church , but i personally do not rely on his personal 
interpretations  ( his book mormon doctrine is referred to 
as 's bible in mormon circles ) on mormon doctrine .  . i rather 
look to official  ( doctrinal ) sources , and .  .  .  . to 's books ! 
 ( the last comment is an reference . ) . summarizing 
was a wise man who contributed far more to the kingdom of 
god than i have , but whose views are by no means dogma or accepted 
doctrine , some of it clearly belongs to personal interpretation and 
speculation .  . but having said this , i find  ( even in his most 
biased and moments ) far more thought provoking than the 
trash coming from your pen. i'm somewhat appalled that i have 
allowed myself to as low as you in this posting .  .  .  . 


robert 



c. 
young university 
computer facilities 

from  ( chaos ) 
subject re alt . sex . stories . under critical analysis ) 
organization honest bob 's used 
lines 

in article ,  ( dennis kriz ) writes 
hi all , 

i'm going to try to do something here , that perhaps many would 
not have thought even possible. i want to begin the process of 
a critical study of the pornography posted on 
alt . sex . stories . , to identify the major and present 
in the stories posted there up then the possibility of 
an objective moral evaluation of the material present there. 

first off , let me congratulate you for not posting a flame about you sick 
, you are immoral , you are all going to hell. , which seems to be the 
usual religious post found on the alt . sex .  .  . , you wo n't 
get flamed , either. 

you will , however , be argued with. i personally think that your project is 
built on ground. 

first , i do not believe that there is any way to find an objective morality . 
morality and value are inherently subjective they represent the beliefs of a 
person or a group of people. they can be widely held , perhaps even 
held , but they are never and can never be objective .  . 

assumptions 

(1) a christian bedrock assumption that all that is true , comes 
truly from god. 

(2) regarding alt . sex . stories .  . while perhaps even from an 
objective standpoint , the majority of its material is indeed 
 ( you come to this conclusion quite quickly when you 
start thinking about analyzing its material like this) , some of 
it reflects some fairly profound needs in people as well as some 
truths and to be pointed out. 

second , i do not accept the assumptions that you make here. if , as you say , 
you are trying to be objective , then why accept a morality to begin with by 
using the christian bible you 're your own purpose by doing so. 

in the long run , the advantage of making such a moral 
analysis is that it will save between christians and 
non mutually flaming each other about the moral of 
the stuff on these  ( pornographic ) groups. 

third , call me a , but you wo n't stop the flamage .  . there will always 
be people who pop alt . sex .  . to tell us how sick and twisted and evil we 
all are. just out of curiosity , do alt . sex . readers show up unprovoked in the 
religion groups to tell you all that you are narrow minded , , 


basically , there should not be a between a christian 
morality and a non christian one. either there is value in a 
particular work , or there is not whether one is a christian or 
not. 

 . let me provide an example. four people get together over , to 
discuss morality you , me , a rather conservative moslem , and a  . i 
start off by saying that i think it 's immoral to force people to have sex with 
you. you agree , but also say that it is immoral to have sex with someone of 
your own  .  ( just a note i really do n't know your views on 
homosexuality , i am just using this as a common view of morality for the 
purposes of this example . ) . the moslem says that it is immoral for women to 
have their faces  . 

the , who has become bored , kills all three of us and eats us , but 
no guilt because he has done nothing wrong morally in his own mind. 

in support for the first assumption 

the christian scriptures say this 

 ( evidence deleted ) 

i'm not going to accept your evidence for this. you ask us to accept the word 
of god that everything good comes from god. this is only a valid argument for 
a person who shares your beliefs .  . 

still , i must say that the major and in could 
be interesting for other reasons than yours , so good luck with this next part. 




now then what are some of the major in the 
pornographic literature on places like alt . sex . stories . these 
are some that i 've been able to identify .  . please add comment on 
them. 


1 the male  . 

in so many of the stories there is expressed a feeling of 
and on the part of the writer or 
otherwise of the story with regard to the object  ( the 
other person ) of his her desire .  . often a story involves a 
who  ( on the surface ) is quite average  ( but 
usually has an enormous dick ) , who desires to in some way to gain 
access  ( in a definitely sexual way ) to the other person who 
he she is far more than he she is and who 
indeed seems to walk between the rain drops .  . 

hmmm .  .  . do . i detect just a bit of here 


2 a of  ( indeed with ) beauty .  . 

not very objective .  . 

the vast majority of pornographic literature deals with beauty , 
be it innocence  ( somehow about to be lost ) , , or simply 
physical beauty .  . and generally , most people christian or non 
will say that beauty is good. 

one could this to mean that beautiful people are better , or more 
good than non beautiful people. i would hope that people that this is 
not necessarily true. 


3 one s dick is one s instrument of  . 

might i suggest the word penis it seems more in line with the tone of 
your post. 

are those who are well , for they shall get 
laid .  . from what would thus be a revised matthew 5 ) .  . 


bravo ! i respect you and your sense of humor , sir .  . 


4 sex as an of sincere giving .  . 

there is , often enough , a clear desire on the part of the 
, to give  ( definitely sexual ) pleasure to the object 
 ( person ) of his her desires .  . 

yes , and this theme is usually what the better stories are about. however , 
they are not always selfish i could point to examples in the work of 
, for example. 


5 alt . sex . stories . describes a sex which is completely 
removed from the realm of life 

so removed is sex from its dimension on 
alt . sex . stories . , that one begins to wonder why sex even involves 
, as in the context described in pornography it serves 
then no real purpose. 

it serves the same purpose as it does in pornographic it the 
of the male involved , as well as the reader that he  ( the 
character ) has  . 

the whole picture tm is probably very well described by the 
catholic teaching on this of the husband and wife , in an act of 
total self giving in the sexual union , with 
god in themselves up for the of new life 
 .  . 

your whole picture tm unfortunately only applies to people who accept your 
church. 

in addition , if sex is for procreation , then 

1 ) why did god make it , so that people would want to do it , 
rather than building it in as instinct 
2 ) why did god make it fallible not every sexual results in 
pregnancy , even among catholics .  . does this mean that they have sinned 

in any case alt . sex . stories . and the catholic teaching will 
probably not see eye to eye on this for a long time. 

granted .  . 


6 sex used as an instrument violence , power and 
 . 

why pornography seems to tend in that direction , i really do not 
know. probably volumes could be written on the relationships 
between sex and power  . but this probably gives good 
reason why traditionally christianity has been so negative 
with regard to sexuality it seems to tend to a great moral 
 . 

pornography would not tend in those if there were not a demand for 
it. many people have violent fantasies that they would never act out in real 
life , but will think about and read about and over. 

later , 
jeff 


official generic  . sig .  . under 4 lines , under 80 
, no , no witty quotes , no of australia , no , 
no ascii art , no disclaimers or anti flame requests , and one  . 

from  ( pete yadlowsky ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization university of virginia 
lines 19 

, james writes 

it would n't be the first time a group has committed suicide to avoid the 
of capture and persecution .  . 

this group killed itself to fulfill its interpretation of prophecy 
and to book a in paradise , taking innocent kids along for the 
ride .  . i hardly think the feds were motivated by persecution .  . if they 
were , all koresh would have had to do was surrender to the 
authorities , without firing a shot , to get the american people behind 
him and put the feds in the hot  . but no , god told him to play 
the tough guy. there 's great strength in , but few appreciate 
this. 


peter m. wake ! the sky is light ! 
academic computing center let us to the net again .  .  .  . 
university of virginia companion keyboard .  . 
after 

from  ( christopher d. colvin ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
nntp posting host 
organization network 
lines 26 

in article  ( tony 
alicea ) writes 

in a previous article ,  ( christopher d. colvin ) says 

i worked at when i was in  . 

ok so you were a naive  . 

he lewis dates back to the 20 's .  . 

wrong and if you do your homework ,  . 
but he was born last century  . 


right now is in some internal political  . 

no it is n't .  . 



i guess the san jose news is wrong then , and if so , why is the 
involved 


d. 

from  ( jim system admin ) 
subject keep firm the foundations ! 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 6 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

job 26 7 he out the north over the empty place , and 
the earth upon nothing. 

job 38 4 where thou when i laid the foundations of the 
earth declare , if thou hast understanding. 


from  ( robert j. kolker ) 
subject odds and ends 
keywords cheap shots a christianity 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 46 

just a few cheap shots a christianity 

riddle what is the shortest street in jerusalem 
answer the street of the righteous poles .  . 



there was an archeologist 
who found an amazing fossil 
by the way it was 
and the it the end 
 the penis of paul the  . 


christianity the 
twelve apostles a lot 
jesus christ and a virgin too 
christianity 's the faith for you 
 ( with apologies to and its famous jingle ) 

riddle 
how many christians does it take to save a light  . 
answer none , only jesus can save .  . 


jesus saves 
moses 

proof that jesus was jewish 
1. he lived at home till he was 33 
2. he went into his fathers business 
3. he thought he mother was a virgin 
4. his mother thought he was god. 

 . 

so long you all 

bob 
i would rather spend eternity in hell with interesting people 
than eternity in heaven with christians 



if you ca n't love the constitution , then at least hate the government 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re o . t . o . clarification 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( thyagi 
nagasiva ) wrote 
they are considered different and largely unrelated by a number of 
sources. i 've seen documentation which links them through the figure 
of h. lewis .  . lewis was apparently involved with , who 
was the o . h . o .  . of for many years. apparently it 
is also true that lewis had a charter to form an o . t . o .  . body and then 
created a . m . o . r . c .  .  ( as a an interesting question) .  . 

if anyone is interested in the history of , i do think 
lewis published books about the beginning and his mission .  . the 
bookstore  ( that 's the name of the book operated 
by amorc ) should have a selection that should provide the interested 
reader more  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject re is it good that jesus died 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 138 

in article  ( brian kendig ) writes 

and i maintain 

some people do not want to enter into the light and the knowledge that 
they alone are their own masters , because they fear it they are too 
afraid of having to face the world on their own terms. and so , by 
their own choice , they will remain in , sort of like 
under a  . however , some people , but not many , will not like the 
 . sometimes it gets too cold and too dark to be comfortable. 
these people will out from under the , and , although 
at first , will get to the light and enjoy its  . and , 
after a while , now that they can see things for what they really are , 
they will also see the heights which they can reach , and the places 
they can go , and they will learn to choose their own through the 
world , and they will learn from their mistakes and revel in their 
 . 


are you your own master do you have any that you cannot break 
for one , you seem unable to master your lack of desire to understand 
even the slightest concept of the bible .  . seems that ignorance has you 
 . how about sexual sins gotta any of those secret desires 
in your head that you harbor but can get control of do you 
women when they walk past you do you degrade them to a sex object in 
your head are you the master of that kind of thinking do you insult 
people , then regret it later. yet do it again the next 
time opportunity presents itself are you truly the master of yourself 

i have admitted that i am not the master of my thought life at all times. 
that i sometimes say things i do want to say , and then repeat my mistake 
 . i have admitted to myself that i cannot control every aspect 
of my being. there are times i know i should n't say something , but 
then say it anyway. there are times i simply forget a lesson .  . 
i , in fact , am not my own master .  . i need help. jesus promised me 
this help. and i took him up on his offer .  . i have let 
jesus be my master because jesus knows what is better for me than 
i myself do. and why not does not the creator know his creation 
better than the creation does know what 's better for the 
than the 

do you see my point i think you 're the one under the , and i'm 
getting a great tan out here in the sunlight .  . my life has improved 
since i abandoned theism come and join me ! it will be 
a difficult trip at first , until you build up your for the 
long , but it 's well worth it ! 

then i guess ignorance is for you. because brian , you enjoy 
not having a clue about the bible .  . 

do n't you see i'm not going to accept anything that i ca n't witness 
with my own eyes or experience with my own senses , especially not 
something as powerful as what you 're trying to get me to accept .  . 
surely if you believe in it this strongly , you must have a good 
reason to , do n't you 


can you witness love with your senses how does and 
concern for you with your senses if nothing 
to you other than what you can see , taste , smell , hear and touch , 
then you better become a and fast .  . you better get rid 
of your emotions .  . 

and i do have a good reason to believe what i do. 


when did i say that i say that i would rather cease existing instead 
of being subject to the of a deity , but that if the deity 
decided to toss me into the because of who i am , then so be it. 

the topic was about my god and your lack of knowledge about what my 
god says .  . my god says that you will not cease existing .  . you have 
life forever. you can choose to either live it in hell in eternal 
where there is no whatsoever , or can choose to 
live it in paradise with god. that is what my god says .  . and that 
was the issue. your made up theism is what it is made up. it 's 
wishful thinking. 

nope most people are christian .  . most people are of feeling 
that they are imperfect , of believing that the world is an undesirable 
place , of mystical prayers to make the world nice and 
holy again , of doing just as their priests tell them , like good little 
 . you enjoy , and you 're proud of it. 

is this the religion of most people are not christian .  . most 
people , including christians , are not of feeling that they 
are imperfect .  . is the world an place a doctrine 
of it has nothing to do with my god. does 
have mystical prayers as a part of its worship 
mine does n't .  . does believe that the world will be holy again 
mine does n't .  . does also that one must obey what the 
priest tells them like good little mine does n't .  . is this 
a bunch of lies you tell yourself so that you can justify being 
ignorant of the bible 

brian , following christ has nothing to do with the doctrines of  . 
you would find any of your doctrines in the bible .  . i do n't follow  . 
i follow christ .  . also , to try to again show you your ignorance 
of christ and the bible in regards to priests , have you not read about 
the sole melchizedek priest in hebrews 7 and 8 have you not read what the 
purpose is of the old testament priesthood and why there should 
not be priests today yes , guess what the catholics up. i do 
not follow or any  . i follow christ .  . 

nope .  . you make decisions , enjoy your , and accept your 
failures then you die. if you are content with the life you 've led 
as you reflect back on it in your final , then you 've led a 
good life. 

why would you want to live a good life 
to you , you die and that 's it. do n't contradict yourself. you have 
no reason to live a good life. it does n't do you any good in the 
end. your life does n't do anybody else any good either because 
everyone dies anyway. so you have no reason to lead a good life. 
a good life is meaningless .  . why do you do such a meaningless thing 

i'm sorry , i do n't feel that sacrificing jesus was something any god 
i 'd worship would do , unless the sacrifice was only temporary , in 
which case it 's not really all that important. 

has the resurrection in jesus is alive .  . jesus is not dead. 
jesus was to the old testament system 
in its every detail. jesus 's death was like a seed .  . he needed 
to fall to the ground so that many new lives would take root .  . did 
you miss the entire john passage as well 


forget the bible for a minute. forget quoting verses , forget about 
who said what about this or that. show me. picture just you and me 
and a wide open , and convince me that you 're right. 

forget that i am a person. forget that i know how to type .  . forget 
that i know how to put a sentence together. forget that i know 
how to send e mail .  . forget my existence .  . to me that i 
exist. . 


be honest .  . 

from 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
keywords success 
lines 
nntp posting host ccsua . ctstateu . edu . 
organization yale university , department of computer science , new haven , ct 

i told some friends of mine two weeks ago that koresh was dead. the fbi and 
the could not let a man like that live. he was a testimonial to their 
stupidity and lies .  . 

now before everyone gets crazy with me , let me say that koresh was crazy as 
a bug , but out government was  .  . and . they lied to us. 

they told us compound had been under for quite some time. yet , 
whoever was watching the place failed to see that koresh went and into 
town on a regular basis. everyone in the area claimed to have seen him and 
wondered why they did n't pick him up then. there are two possible answers. 
first , they did n't see him. what kind of is that second , they 
did n't care. they wanted a confrontation .  . they wanted and they got 
it. 

after the first battle , they told us that they did not know he knew they were 
coming .  . they also said it would have been foolish to go in knowing that. 
well , we know now that they the call and went in anyway. 

did they all of the possibilities for ending the according to 
them they did , but according to the , the woman that raised 
koresh  ( his grandmother ) was not allowed to go in and see him. 
the fbi who she spoke with was bob and according to the paper he 
said 

a lot of people think if you just talk to them logically they will come out. 
his raised  ( koresh 's real name) she did n't raise 
david koresh .  . 

someone who raises you and loves you does not speak to you strickly on a 
logical level. there is also an emotional level on which they can reach you. 

here 's another one. all during this operation the fbi has been claiming that 
they a mass suicide and that is one of the reasons that something must 
be done. now they claim they never thought he would do it 

i knew they were going to do something when they started talking about how 
much money this was costing .  . that was the start of the justification part 
part of the plan .  . that 's when i knew it would come soon. 

but , back to the plan .  . it is considered cruel and punishment to 
execute criminals in the minds of many people , but look at what 's acceptable .  . 

they knew the parents  ( adults ) had gas  . they did not know , or were not 
sure , if the children had them. so the plan was to pour the gas into the 
compound .  . the , seeing what the gas was doing to their children were 
supposed to run out and that would only leave the men to deal with. 

i spent two years in the army and like i went through 
 ( chemical , biological radiological ) warfare training .  . part of that training 
is going into a room filled with the same stuff that the children were 
to. to make the stuff really interesting the gas also has a chemical 
that the  . you think its on fire .  . 

i have no the children would become  . its not the kind of 
thing you never want to do again. this was the plan , the final solution .  . 

we waited days for our to come home from iran .  . we gave these 
people 51 days. 

i stated on several that there was absolutely nothing in this whole 
thing that the government could point to as a success. well , fbi 
changed my mind. again a from the 

and while expressing regret at the loss of life , he suggested that the 
operation had been at least a modified success because not a single federal 
shot had been fired and not a single federal had been hurt. 

it took 17 dead children to get us that new definition of success. 

one more thought. the government claimed that they believed he had automatic 
weapons on the premises .  . 

he had a license for the 50 machine gun ! 

they knew damn well he had one. they also knew he had it legally ! 

still , without the element of surprise they sent in to get him. 
for all of this my president takes full responsibility .  . what a guy ! 
i hope he gets it. 































in article ,  ( patrick , the sounding board ) writes 
in article  ( bill gunshannon ) writes 

before you go the fbi of all blame in this incident , you should 
probably be aware of two important facts .  . 
1. there is no such thing as non tear gas .  . tear gas is non 
remaining in it 's presence will cause and , followed eventually 
by and death. did the fbi know the physical health of all the people 
they exposed any potential heart problems among the b d 's 

no doubt it is dangerous stuff when  . 

2. have you ever seen a tear gas tear gas is produced by burning a 
chemical in the can. the produced are tear gas .  . the has a 
warning printed on the side of it. contact with material can result 
in fire .  . now , how many of these did they inside a building 
they was a fire trap 

none. they used non methods , which means they produced the gas 
outside the building and it in via the  . 



visit the sounding board bbs 1 , a ! bbs 

all opinions are specifically disclaimed .  . no one is responsible .  . 

patrick , network systems 
do n't let the  . fool you 

from  ( jim burrill ) 
subject re protestant finds christ 
organization river country , the , , , , , priest .  . 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 8 . 
lines 31 

john w. wrote 

i am a mormon .  . i believe in christ , that he is alive .  . he raised himself 
text deleted 

i learned that the concept of the holy trinity was never taught by jesus 
christ , that it was agreed to by a council of long after christ 
was , men who had no authority to speak for him. 

if jesus never taught the concept of the trinity , how do you deal with the 
following 

28 18 then jesus came to them and said , all authority in heaven 
and on earth has been given to me. 

28 19 therefore go and make disciples of all nations , 
them in the name of the father and of the son and of the holy spirit , 

28 20 and teaching them to obey everything i have commanded you. 
and surely i am with you always , to the very end of the age. 

also jesus speaking 

act 1 5 for john with water , but in a few days you will 
be with the holy spirit .  . 

i believe that you may have some key verses , that are crucial to 
the christian faith. 

jim 


from  ( len moskowitz ) 
subject re 2 . 32 . 
organization public access internet unix , 
lines 

writes 

these are all discussed in the  . in fact , the original 
knowledge of all these comes from the  . therefore , they are 
not at all. they are rather old by any standards. nor is the 
popularity they are currently experiencing something new. one would 
think that the would be very popular among , since all 
the things you mention above are thoroughly described in them. 

is n't that interesting ! in the jewish tradition you are incredibly 
wrong ! they originate in the torah and with jewish ancestors , 
specifically the abraham  ( z  . that knowledge was sent east 
to india and china when abraham gave  ( the commentators to jewish 
scripture say this was the knowledge of the arts ) to all the rest 
of his children when he sent them away to the east .  . this assured that 
isaac only , who remained with abraham , would inherit his most important 
spiritual , what eventually became judaism .  . 

so you see , other religions can have very views too. by the 
jewish view , you are very mistaken , your scripture are not scripture , 
your gods are not gods , your practices a of errors that lead 
people to worship and away from god. that does n't stop us from 
respecting you to the extent of not trying to convert you or proselytize 
you and being willing to in a manner. we 're content 
to let you live the way you care to live as long as you leave us be. we 
are happy to co exist as long as you give us the same right. 

but your incredible and violent nature seems to preclude that. 
too bad. is this typical of your religion 

however , there is one difference between the and 
the actual follower of the teachings the typical 
desires to acquire all the material powers and mentioned in 
the , without referring to their source , the lord .  . he wants the 
kingdom of god without god. he wants personal power without the 
responsibility of its source , without the person from whom 
that power comes .  . in other words , he is just plain selfish .  . 

you are a most presumptuous fellow ! how dare you presume that the 
typical new ager does n't acknowledge god and is selfish .  . what , 
self righteous , ego garbage ! there are buddhists , christians , jews , 
and those of many other religions here on this newsgroups for whom your 
words are simple slander .  . 

 .  .  . the . 
follower , on the other hand , knows that no matter what one desires , one 
must worship god. and the give a complete description of exactly 
who is god , so that there can be no mistake in his  . for 
this reason the parts of the that deal directly with the 
of are not very popular among , and anyone 
who presents the complete as they are is as an 
 ( as if there is something wrong with that ) even though he 
is simply presenting the teachings .  . 

of course , from the jewish perspective you are incredibly wrong. we 'd 
say that there is no just created beings who may be 
a good laugh at your expense .  . 

a takes from others and says this is mine. a takes 
from god and says this is mine. such a false must be careful to 
avoid coming in contact with the real owner of the things he has stolen .  . 
consequently , he an explanation for these things that 
conveniently omits the identity of their owner , the lord .  . in other 
words , he lies about where he got them. 

so not only are we selfish , we are also thieves and liars ! and you 
expect any of us to pay attention to you and your religion why not 
call us more name maybe then we 'll all convert in ! 

however , the lord is very , and he sends his to 
the of his own identity as spirit soul , the eternal servant of 
god. hence , although unwanted , the continues to 
the complete truth. 

you yourself. 





from  ( brian kendig ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization san francisco 
lines 33 

 ( brian 9615 ) writes 

be warned , it is not my job to convert you. that is the job of 
the holy spirit .  . and i , frankly , make a lousy one. i am only 
here to testify .  . your conversion is between you and god. i am 
out of the loop . if you decide to follow jesus , of which i 
indeed would be , then all the glory be to god. 

i 've asked your god several times with all my heart to come to me. i 
really wish i could believe in him ,  cos no matter how much 
i build up on my own , the universe is a big place , and it would be 
so nice to know i have someone watching over me in it .  .  .  . 

i 've gone into this with an open mind. i 've my beliefs aside 
from time to time when i 've had doubt , and i 've prayed to see what 
good that would do. i do n't see what more i can do to open myself to 
your god , short of just to believe for no good reason. and 
if i decide to believe for no good reason , why not believe in some 
other god zeus seems like a pretty cool candidate .  .  .  . 

all i know is that in all my searching , even though i 've set aside my 
pride and decided that i want to know the truth no matter how 
difficult it may be to accept , i have never had any with any 
deity , christian or otherwise. 

please tell me what more i can do while still remaining true to myself. 


brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 

from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject christians above the law , was clarification of personal position 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
sandvik kent . apple . com . 
lines 24 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com . 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes 
my bible is on a , but i do n't own a system for the 
time being , so i ca n't search for the famous cite where jesus explicitly 
states that he did n't want to break existing  ( jewish ) laws .  . in other 
words technically speaking christians should use saturday and not sunday 
as their holy day , if they want to conform to the teachings of jesus .  . 

who said christians want to conform to the teachings of jesus 

you are the light of the world. a city ca n't be hidden lying on a 
 . nor do people light a and cover it with a big 
they put it up on a where it can for 
everyone in the house. that 's how your light must in front of the 
world , so that people see your good deeds and give credit to your father 
in the skies .  . do n't think i came to the law torah aka first 
five books or the prophets 7 major plus 12 minor i did n't come to 
them , i came to fulfill them. i you , till the sky and 
the earth go away , not one letter or mark of the law will 
ever go away until has come to pass .  . so anyone who 
even one of the smallest commandments and teaches others the same way , 
will be known as the lowest in the kingdom of the skies whereas anyone 
who keeps the commands and teaches them too , will be known as someone 
great in the kingdom of the skies .  . 14 19 , , isbn 0 2 

from  ( james meritt ) 
subject silence is 
nntp posting host org . 
organization corporation , va 
distribution usa 
lines 15 


is it not the case that , in the eyes of the law , when someone is aware of 
something and has the capability of taking action and does not , that individual 
may be held responsible for that action 

example the of a car may be held as an to murder .  . 
the i did n't know defense spawned the ignorance of the law is no excuse 

when an individual is held as a material witness to a crime , is there a criminal 
charge against the individual if not , on what grounds is the person imprisoned 


james w. or 
the opinions above are mine. if anyone else wants to share them , fine. 
they may say so if they wish. the facts belong to noone and simply are. 

from  ( dale m. skiba ) 
subject re bible contradictions and 
nntp posting host bass . com . 
organization , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 41 

wrote 


com .  ( dale m. skiba ) entirely missed my point in my previous 
posting , in which i wrote 

comment 

shortly after that post , i realized two things i was running a of 
over 102 , and that i probably should not have gone directly from reading 
alt . slack . to posting on this august newsgroup .  . 

it is not ad to point out that mr willingly blatant 
lies 
in defense of bible , and thus is worthless as an expert witness .  . 

okay , im game , give us a listing of blatant lies from encyclopedia of 
biblical difficulties or other writings .  . 

that would be interesting. if only a very short list can be generated , 
i think it is more likely that mr. , with his is 
not always and made a of a mistake.  ( imho i also think 
that this tends to generate these sorts of mistakes .  .  . ) . 

on the other hand , if a long list can be generated , it is more likely 
that mr. intentionally uses deception in books.  ( why should 
he be just with tyre ) 

so , is just sitting around , his hands and how next 
to ok , lets see the list .  .  .  . 

this was an open question. i assumed that if mr. is a 
liar , someone have documented it. this assumption is based on 
how talk.origins have documented numerous cases of creationist 
 ( such as and his  . 

no long list of mistakes has yet been given , so this may be just 
an isolated incident .  .  .  . 




from david r. sacco 
subject re spreading christianity  ( re christian kills doctor ) 
organization misc .  . student , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 29 
distribution na 

nntp posting host andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

not to be too snide about it , but i think this christianity must 
be a very convenient religion , very and suitable for 
any since it seems one can take it any way one wants 
to go with it and follow bits one and 
reinterpret the bits that do n't match with one 's desires .  . it 
is , in fact , so convenient that , were i capable of believing 
in a god , i might consider going for some brand of christianity .  . 
the only difficulty left then , of course , is picking which 
to join .  . there are just so many. 

dean kaflowitz 

yes , christianity is convenient .  . following the teachings of jesus 
christ and the ten commandments is convenient .  . trying to love in a 
world is convenient .  . turning the other is convenient .  . so 
convenient that it is at times. 

dave .  . 



there are many here among us who feel that life is but a joke.  ( bob dylan ) 
never let school interfere with your education.  ( mark twain ) 
of my death have been greatly exaggerated .  .  ( mark twain ) 
is getting your point across without someone with it. 
is saying what you mean , then getting out of the way before 
it is understood .  . 
if you were happy every day of your life you would n't be a human 
being , you 'd be a game show host.  ( taken from the movie heathers .  . ) 

from  ( pope charles ) 
subject re and the southern baptist 
organization the  witch bbs , 1 272 , tx . us . 
lines 72 

 ( lowell morrison ) writes 

in article  ( tony 


with the southern baptist this june to consider 
the charges that is incompatible with christianity , i thought 
the following quotes by mr. james , the anti flag , 
would you all .  .  .  . 


the following passages are exact quotes from the southern 
baptist and by james l. , m . d .  . , president 
of mission and ministry to men , inc. , n st. , , tx 
 . 

much drivel deleted 
jesus christ never commanded as a motive for his 
disciples , and is the of the christian message. 
page 30 .  . 

the central of the drive for world unity 
through , liberty and equality is  . this is seen 
in the writings of the  great  writers of . page 31. 
more drivel deleted 
i hope you all had a good laugh ! i know i did ! g , 


tony 
a laugh tony , this bigot the shit out of me , and that 
any one bothers to listen to him causes me to have grave about the 
future of just about anything. shades of the branch , jim jones , 
and charlie manson .  . 

wolf 
member f am  ( grand of california ) 
a southern 
and one who has beliefs beyond the teachings of either. 







not to worry .  . the have been and by almost 
every major church there is. for centuries now. and still they 
stand. they the miserable southern , i am sure. 
they may even pick up a little support as people start to listen to the 
and realize that the obvious lies and claims of 
that the sound pretty good by comparison .  . one thing is 
known. a of southern are ! and the 
have already fired back in their own against the 
witch hunt .  . 
since the have already been a element with 
their war on moderates and , they may now start in on 
their brothers and their own downfall as more and 
more southern realize their church ca n't stand being run by a 
of looking for holy civil wars and and drop 
'em out of the leadership positions they have taken over. 
so as far as i am concerned , the , , and more outrageous 
an anti crusade these old mount , the better. 

pop some and get a center row  . the is about to begin .  . 
and , oh look ! here come the ! 


pope charles slack ! 


 ( pope charles ) 
origin the  witch bbs houston , tx 1 272 

from  ( jim de arras ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization hand held products , inc. 
lines 78 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( gedaliah 
friedenberg ) writes 
in article , 
 ( john w. redelfs ) writes 

now that big brother has out one minority religion in , who is 
next the mormons or jews 

give me a break .  . if the mormons utah and armed it to the , 
and were involved in illegal activity , then they whatever they get .  . 


where were you brought up in the former ussr is innocent until proven 
guilty by a jury of your peers , not dan rather , dead in this country seems 
so. is tax evasion , the only charge brought against the , punishable by 
death in this country , now 


you are making a ludicrous suggestion .  . 

not really. you are a blind idiot .  . 

we used to live in a country where everyone the free exercise of 
their rights to worship and bear  . now we do n't .  . 

does that include the right to murder little children how about killing 
atf officers i do not know much about the gun laws in texas , but 
koresh 's folks claimed to have , , and rocket 
 . i am not sure that the that this falls under 
right to bear  . 

not sure , yet you them to death for it if the had stayed home , 
all would be alive , now. so who murdered who 

of course , to jews and mormons this is just a broken record .  . it has 
happened before. 

please explain. i do not remember jews or mormons  ( as a group ) 
breaking a judicious (a . k . a .  . non nazi ) law and being punished for it. 

you have a short memory. 

i 'll bet all you cult are happy now , right just hope you 're not 
next .  . 

followups to null 

alternative followups set to talk . religion . misc . 


sleep well , , idiot .  . sleep the sleep of the simple minded .  . 

i shall weep for my country , myself. 


john w. , 
all my opinions are pending further data .  . 


department of engineering 
department of , mechanics and materials science 
michigan state university 




i'm short of patience , but dogs and get better treatment 
than the got .  . 

jim 



i'm always that. there 's never been a day when i have n't 
that. but i ca n't do that by myself. bill clinton 6 april 93 
if i were an american , as i am an , while a foreign was 
in my country , i never would down my , never never never ! 
william pitt , of 18 nov. 

from  ( rocker ) 
subject re abortion and private health letters regarding 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
followup to 
lines 13 

in  ( dennis kriz ) writes 

if one is paying for a private health plan and does not want 
abortion there is no reason for that person to be 
to pay for it.  ( just as one should not be compelled to pay for 
if one does n't want that kind of  . 

you appear to be ignorant of the underlying concept of health 
 . 





from  ( nabeel rana ) 
subject re new newsgroup soc . religion . islam . 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 


mr. writes 

i urge you all to vote no to the formation of the news group  . 
if they want to have their own group , the word islam be attached to 
the name of such group. we do n't consider them as muslims .  . 


dr. comments on 's statement 

but the problem is we consider to be muslims , even though you do n't .  . 
, faith is determined by what one believes and is a personal matter. 
you cannot declare the faith of someone else. 


mr. ali then comments on 's statement 

you are not considering the consequences of your argument. the converse 
would be that the problem is that muslims dont consider to be 
muslims .  . who one considers to be one 's co believer is also a personal 
matter. it would be just as wrong to tell the muslims who should be 
included in their self  . 


the argument by ali is funny , he writes 
the converse would be that the problem is that muslims dont consider 
to be muslims 

which is a wrong statement. in the light of dr. 's statement , the 
above statement should be 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . is . that  ( some ) non muslims 
do n't consider muslims as muslims 

so , the problem does not get solved ) who is a muslims and who is not 
humans cannot decide. humans may not declare others faiths .  . its that 
simple. i do n't understand , why the mere use of the word islam is 
such a big issue. i have seen postings on the net 
on this subject , and all they say , no , no , you cannot use islam as 
the name of your newsgroup . 

i have n't seen a single posting stating what right do they have in declaring 
the name of other 's faiths who gives them this authority quran or 
hadith or something else i want to know this ! 

just a small to all my muslim brothers , did ever the 
holy prophet of islam  ( muhammad pbuh ) , say to anyone who called 
himself a muslim 

no , you are not a muslim ! 

never ! i challenge all my muslim brothers to produce a single 
such evidence from the history of islam ! 

hence , if the prophet muhammad could never do that to anyone , how 
could the muslims , or even governments of today do 
it to anyone. do you consider yourself above the holy prophet 
muhammad (pbuh) 


sincerely , 
 . 



 ( note 
love for all views 
. hatred for none are 
e mail mine ) 

from (c . j .  . silverio ) 
subject re abortion and private health letters regarding 
reply to 
organization sgi 
lines 20 


writes 
for an illustrative example in the opposite direction , it may be possible 
to add services to an contract and reduce the  . if you 
add services and this reduces care use , then the total 
may fall .  . 

women who are known not to want abortion services , for example , 
might be judged to be more likely to require care 
for  .  .  . which can be an order of magnitude 
more expensive than abortion .  . 

this topic should really be restricted to talk . abortion . , which 
exists to t . r . m . t . p . m . of abortion flamage .  . 


c j 
in ,  . , , anti abortion to 
celebrate the death of dr. david  . praise god ! they  . 
 ( ny daily news , fri .  . march 12 , p. 20 ) 

from  ( the doge ) 
subject re and compassion 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 24 

in article  ( ken arromdee ) writes 
in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
so we have this highly christian religious order that put fire 
on their house , killing most of the people inside. 

we have no way to know that the burned the house it could have been 
the and fbi .  . we only have the government 's word for it , after all , and 
people who started it by a no knock search with are hardly 
observers .  . 

nor , to point out the obvious , are the deluded , 
followers of a religious case who thought he was jesus christ or possibly 
the big guy. 
personally , much as i regard the and fbi as , i 'll take 
their word over a bunch of silly who were enough to lock 
themselves up with a like david koresh in a  . 

the of south st. 
approved media  ( conspirator(tm ) 
one step beyond sundays , 3 to 5 
88 . 1 . st. community radio 
you 'll pay to know what you really think ! 
j . r .  . bob 


from  ( keith emmen ) 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
organization , 
x newsreader tin 1 . 
lines 8 

 ( peter nelson ) writes 

or not , he was clearly a liar .  . he said he would surrender after 
local radio his message , but he did n't .  . then he 
said he would surrender after , but he did n't .  . 


the fbi said he would surrender .  . we do n't know what he said. 

from sun . eng . sun . com .  ( eric marsh ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization sun 
lines 63 
nntp posting host sun 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article at1 59 . rice . edu .  ( peter walker ) writes 
in article ,  ( frank 
o'dwyer ) wrote 
objective morality is morality built from objective values .  . 

but where do those objective values come from how can we measure them 
what mediated thair interaction with the real world , a or a scalar 
field 

science ( the real world ) has its basis in values , not the other way round , 
as you would wish it. if there is no such thing as objective value , then 
science can not objectively be said to be more useful than a kick in the head. 
simple theories with accurate predictions could not objectively be said 
to be more useful than a set of tarot cards. you like those conclusions 
i do n't .  . 

i think that you are changing the meaning of values here. perhaps 
it is time to and take a look at the word. 

value n .  . 1. a fair equivalent or return for something , such as 
or service .  . 2. or material worth .  . 3. worth as measured in 
usefulness or importance merit .  . 4. a principle , standard , or quality 
considered inherently worthwhile or desirable .  . 5. precise meaning , as 
of a word. 6. an or calculated quantity .  . 7.  . 
the relative of a tone or rest. 8. the relative or 
of a color .  . 9. the quality of a speech or speech 
sound. 

in context of a moral system , definition four seems to fit best. in terms 
of scientific usage , definitions or eight might apply. note that 
these definitions do not mean the same thing. 

in my mind , to say that science has its basis in values is a bit of a 
reach .  . science has its basis in observable fact. even the of the 
word value above do not denote observable fact , but rather a standard 
of measurement .  . i would conclude that science does not have its 
basis in values , and so your statement above fails .  . in fact , if one 
concludes that a scientific set of measurements  ( values ) are based on 
systems derived from observation , then it must follow that in a 
scientific context , there is no such thing as there is no such thing as 
objective values .  . 

back to the present. this has nothing to do with a moral system anyhow .  . 
just because the word values is used in both does not mean 
that there is a relationship between the two  . 

if one is to argue for objective values  ( in a moral sense ) then one must 
first start by demonstrating that morality itself is objective .  . considering 
the meaning of the word objective i doubt that this will ever happen. 

so , back to the original question 

and objective morality is .  .  .  .  .  . 

if you can provide an objective foundation for morality then that will 
be a good beginning. 


frank o'dwyer  i m not hatching that  
from hens , by evelyn conlon 

eric 

from  ( david joslin ) 
subject re food for thought on tyre 
organization intelligent systems program 
lines 10 

 ( frank , jr . ) . writes 
 .  . am . i giving you too many clues 

too many clues , not enough substance .  . you ask a lot of 
good questions , though , but they are questions you should 
be worried about , not me. i'm not the here. 

let me know when you are ready to get serious. 



from de .  ( cornelius krasel ) 
subject re the real probability of  ( was re albert sabin ) 
organization at uni 
lines 27 
nntp posting host uni . de . 

in news . com .  ( john e. king ) writes 

 ( andy peters ) writes 

1 ) we 're not just talking about proteins .  . in fact , we should n't be 
talking about proteins at all , since  ( if i have to say this again i'm 
to be really upset ) nobody claims that proteins appeared de 

the proteins did not form randomly .  . 


before i to 2 . ) . , andy , please clarify 1 . ) .  . you state that 
proteins did not form randomly .  . that seems to be my point. 

well , i am not andy , but if you had yourself with some of 
the current theories about before posting ) , you 
would be aware of the fact that none of them claims that proteins were 
assembled randomly from amino  . it is current thinking that 
based replicators came before , and that proteins 
were assembled by some kind of primitive translation machinery .  . 

now respond to 2. ) 
 . 

, department of chemistry , u 
email de . 
people are dna 's way of making more dna .  .  . anonymous ) 

from  ( david charlap ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization new jersey institute of technology , , n . j .  . 
lines 22 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article (c .  . d. tavares ) writes 

just maybe you wo n't be home. then you can come home to something 
like this 

well , it 's been a rough month , begins  . i 
just get laid off , and my divorce became final .  . but i just was n't 
ready for what happened this particular monday .  . 

story about fbi a guy 's life for the hell of it 

so if you do n't want your tea party to be held in silence , make 
sure your lawyer is n't there , there 's a good  . 

so , is this a real story or a work of fiction how about some 
sources when , where , and in what newspaper did you get all this 
from or is it all hypothetical 


david apple ii forever steve 
i drank what socrates 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject o . t . o . clarification 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 14 

sorry , the san jose based order is called a . m . o . r . c . , 
i do n't remember for the time being what the a . m .  . stand for 
but o . r . c . is , in other words for 
order of the rose cross .  . sigh , seems l m more and more 
of my long term memory. 

otherwise their in san jose has a pretty decent 
metaphysical bookstore , if any of you are interested in such books. 
and my son loves to run around in their egyptian  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject 's reply 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 38 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 

in article ,  ( hal leifson ) writes .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . dr .  . england 's story deleted , it was a nice read the first time 
through .  .  .  . 

now lead the church. i , for one , do not wish to be christian , if 
those who profess themselves as christians attack my beliefs because they are 
 ( for example) of the way my religion may interpret biblical 
scriptures of the same source to have a different meaning and implication 
than mainstream christianity would give it. 

it is n't so much a matter of  interpretation  of bible texts 
that sets apart from as it is a matter of 
. 

about 20 years ago , national had some 
in them that were drawn by adams .  . they were called son o  god  . 
it was a parody of the jesus in the bible .  . in the , there were a 
group of jewish kids from , and when one of them said 
the magic word , he turned into son o  god. he went from a , 
headed , wearing boy to a of the 
of jesus with long brown hair and gentile 
features .  . 

now , if someone were to profess faith in this jesus , 
and claim that they were a christian because they believed in this 
jesus , we would have to say that this was fallacious since 
this jesus was a , and did not really exist. 

this is the exact same thing that the do when they claim 
that they are christian .  . they profess faith in jesus , but the jesus 
that they profess to have faith in is as much a as the 
jesus was. 



robert 


from  ( roy crabtree ) 
subject re that kill by sword , must be killed by sword 
organization red data center 
lines 

in article  ( stephen ) writes 
in article sandvik kent . apple . com . , 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes .  .  .  . 
... 
so are you happy now when 70 people , including innocent kids , 
died today 

it 's amazing how everyone automatically one side or the other. 
one thing for sure koresh will have no chance to defend himself 
against the statements  ( lacking in fact or court sponsored verification ) 
made by who participated in the situation that killed him. 

i do n't know they murdered him i also do n't know 
that the branch set a fire and  . 

it is sick of or fbi to make such 
comments in advance of  . 

stephen thank you. god speed .  . 

no. kinda  . i thought something like this was going to happen 
over a week ago. one of the things that 's been obvious from the 

 . 

start is that when there are two armed camps , neither of which 
, it 's usually get slaughtered when any little spark 
sets it off. 

which is why koresh and company should n't have weapons , 
and why the should n't have come for a  . 

 . am i the only one to notice 
a ) no peaceful attempt to serve a warrant .  . 
b ) months to develop a and days to end it 
c ) .... ah god 

25 children 
at least 64 adults 
plus 6 at the beginning 
and more 

all dead. 


painful point 1 

if the fired first why were the 
on the roof rather than taking cover 

has anyone asked themselves these questions 

1 ) have you seen the entire video sequences taken during the 
i seem to recall missing several key parts 
a ) the first five of day one only the shooting 
part comes out. 
b ) what happened to the feds video units you mean they do 
not carry wonder why not 
2 ) how is it you can have camera with live 
video present and not have an record 

a ) you realize the units carry 
that hold 90 per and there are 
on the  ( so no 
gaps ) 
b ) until all views are seen , it is premature to point 
fingers in either direction .  . 

as you well point out , stephen .  . 


anyone  ( batf , , x , other ) could have it off , 
by mistake or 

more on this below. 


once koresh was shot .  .  .  .  ( disregarding his being a religious 
leader , and obsessed ) most likely the people 
inside just went on  . just like the outside .  . 

is the lesson that automatic responses are very last resort 
measures 

yes. but it is so hard human under the full 
pressure of hazard , game playing , and life. 



painful point 2 

either side could have backed off , to help the 
situation. we see the problem constantly here on the 
net with flaming .  . 

ego problems. said. 

more to the point when someone dies  ( almost like it was intended 
that way ) , both sides will kill to maintain their innocence 
a contradiction in terms. 



painful point 3 

it does n't help to take sides in such a situation. just 
to the fire .  . better is to let it burn out on 
it 's own. 

true. usually i pick the unpopular side and point out 
from the evidence seen what might have happened. 


best example i can think of is christ with the tax coin .  . he did n't 
have one  ( and so did n't the roman authority  . when 
they showed it to him , he noted that it was 's , and 
so said give it to him ,  ( no waste of time) .  . and then he got back to 
more worthwhile concerns god 's will. 

this requires someone interested in god 's will. please note 
that the outstanding overt problem in this country today 
is one where the government 

wants 's coin to pay off the debt .  . 


the anti tax movement of today , and the anti as i.d. groups , 
would do well to note who the authority is. for those 

yes the american people. not the federal government. 
and if it is not spent towards that end , no one deserves 
the coin .  . 


made in the image of god. 

 . hear the contradiction 

money 
made 
in the image 
of god 


no need to stir things up in ever larger revolution , as 
governments turn over , and over , and over. 

i wish you were wrong. many are saying 3 years. 
the good thing to come out of my divorce  ( and my 
exposure to the damned  ( pardon me ) american divorce 
is 

i have no money left to lose to taxes or inflation .  . 



painful point 4 

for many , this was just  . 

up. down. 

just another like 2 , 
or a good old ball game. 

is the lesson that we 've become to media reality 

25 children dead. if anyone thinks blaming koresh or the 
helps this any at all , is sick .  . and wrong. 

the reason you can tell that the may not be entirely 
straight on this is that the leaders at press 
made any comments about even the possibility that 
koresh or his followers caused this. 

the are more concerned with their 
and morals ( not my fault , koresh did it ! ) than they 
are with 

25 dead children. 

same goes for koresh his followers who are all  ( mostly ) dead. 




painful point 5 

la burned .  . the burned .  . in one case society has 
abandoned the people which has returned to a  . 
in the other the were against the 
 . 

is the lesson that what 's lawful in different areas of society , 
depends more on conditions than laws 

more on power and  .  ( my personal  . 

look to history whenever privilege has replaced whatever 
of objective law and justice a society has had , 

have followed .  . 



if we do n't learn the lessons , or at least make an honest effort , 
the next will no doubt be closer to home. 

rather than putting out , are n't there much more important 
concerns for us to work on 

you do your name sake proud , stephen .  . 
its hard , but please keep on keeping on 
each voice in the now will 
save a generation from 


kent 
 .  .  .  . who . ca n't  cheers  today exactly. 

what keeps me from being a bomb is my loving god  ( as 
as that is for so  . one direct benefit is being able to 
keep things in perspective , ks .  . 

the day i need a gun or to protect myself in this 
society is the day that society is already beyond 

and that  , if you have any christian 
belief  . 

... and the day that i cannot others in the 
act that called civil to the 
wrongs that my society , without harm or 
punishment me , is the day that society has ceased to 
be a human society , and become a society of animals .  . 

we are very to that. 


such as who more the ones who died , or the loved ones who 
are left besides the lessons .  . it 's also time for many to  . 
including those who 've lost their faith in others , or in god. 

i'm learning to be patient , and let things heal .  . god willing .  . 

years fighting an unjust court issue still to be 
patient .  . 

for those who like contrary questions 

i was not there. i am not a branch nor a law 
official  . i do hate liars or the letter variety of same. 
the official side has its advocates already lets the 
equation and a few questions on the other side , for the sake 
of an old saw the fbi seem to want to 

innocent until proven guilty .  . 
not 
innocent until guilty .  . 

1 ) where are the video from the all of them. 

do n't tell me they do not exist. they are standard 
equipment. 

2 ) so you think koresh fired the place , because of the 

a ) tear gas comes with an to spread it. this 
is deliberately made to be as non 
as possible. it is as non as possible. 

.... ! 

... when in isolation from other  . 

why was a system used rather than remote 
why did the fbi not announce this , 
blown in plus tear gas , five then the come 
down , and maintain a left to right sequence 

b ) most also have a secondary compound , that when 
in , becomes a very  ( and difficult to trace ) 
, with a very special property exposure to 
brief of high  ( muzzle blasts ) or long 
exposure to low  ( matches , a stove ) will not tend 
to  . 

what other come up in the 
who else will be allowed to test the site 

c ) after a few to hours  ( ifdesired , the 
rate can be controlled as desired ) , the mixture can be made 
to become exposure to a 
above a certain point (a round ) for a certain 
quantity (a small explosive charge ) or for a length 
of time  ( start a fire and  . 

check your military records look at the  . 
why were  ( large capacity systems ) , 
tear gas  ( why not ) , and now  ( why 
the  . was there still a channel open 
to the outside ) .  . 

do you see any trace of fire coming back to the 
compound in the all the which ones 
are missing 

do i sound maybe. am i probably not. 
you trust the fbi and to render judgement 
in advance of a court god help us. 
 ( for we are surely not helping  . 
you the federal to give us a clean 

you are 4 . 3 .  ( admitted ! ) down and counting .  . 
look again. 

did it happen that way i do not know. i was not there. 
and it should wait for a court to decide. 
but will that happen 89 people will not have the chance 
to tell their side as the leader was , on camera .  . 

no one  . except more force next time. 

listen to your hearts , people. 

thanx again stephen .  . 


j 

stephen 


roy andrew 

roy red king 
andrew the virtuous one 
iron workers , ... 

from  ( susan soric ) 
subject wanted 's god in creation 
organization not important 
lines 15 

i'm greatly in need of 
's book god in creation 
an doctrine of creation. 

if you have a copy you 're willing to 
part with , i 'd love to hear from you 
soon. you may call me at 702 
or e mail me. 

thanks. 



independent 


from  ( roy crabtree ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization red data center 
lines 54 

in article  ( timothy j brent ) writes 
... 
give me a break ! what should have to deal with a like that 
and get shot at at the same time. 

nearly all of them. witness la are among our real 
heroes most of the time. i wonder when they were actually 
to come , or if they found out about the fire over the 
tv .... 


shot at by whom prove it ! 


these people were breaking the law. i agree these were n't the best , 

when law justice the system is dying or dead. 
note that we had a small revolution 216 years ago on this 
point. 

they probably should have backed off , the way back , and let 
them sit there with no media attention until they decided to come out. the 
only other alternative i see would have been to send in a couple of special 
forces guys to capture or koresh .  . but remember , these fruit 

or perhaps just wait. 
or send in a few who are christian to 
sit down and pray outside the line try 
rather than 


loops were putting their lives on the lines voluntarily .  . why should 

chuckle .  . so would you if someone points a gun at you. 
at that point you can die or live and if living means 
in a building to keep carrying nuts off your 
kids , i suspect you might as well. 

both sides were wrong. 

law citizens have to put themselves in any more danger than necessary 
when dealing with a look at the man who out of his to 
a flaming women who was running back into the building .  . yeah , i would 
have to say they were trying to save those people. i do n't think i would 
risk my life that much to save someone that stupid that obviously did n't 
even want to be saved .  . 

try again go see the movie 's choice. 
grow up. 


tim 



from  ( russ paul jones ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization corporation 
lines 17 

in article  ( joseph duffy ) writes 

how does one any origin theory for example , are a forever existing 
universe or strictly falsifiable 

the same way that any theory is proven false .  . you examine the 
that the theory makes , and try to observe them. if you do n't , or if you 
observe things that the theory would n't happen , then you have some 
evidence against the theory. if the theory ca n't be modified to 
incorporate the new observations , then you say that it is false .  . 

for example , people used to believe that the earth had been created 
10 , 000 years ago. but , as evidence showed that predictions from this 
theory were not true , it was abandoned .  . 

paul jones 


from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re and compassion 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 34 


in article sandvik kent . apple . com . ,  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
in article , 
 ( calvin bruce ostrum ) wrote 
in article sandvik kent . apple . com . 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes 
i have a hard time just now understanding that christianity 
knows about the word compassion .  . christians , do you think 
the actions today would produce a good picture of your 
religion 
clearly all people considering themselves christians are all alike , 
and support one another in everything they do. in particular , it 
follows that they certainly will support all the actions of any 
other person calling himself a christian .  .  .  . not. 

i see , there are christians , and there are christians .  . no wonder 
the christian world is in , you ca n't even agree who 
is a one and a wrong one. 


if one does not follow the teachings of christ , he is not christian .  . 
too easy 

please , i would like to hear your comments about a supposed 
christian leader that makes sure that children are to 
death. 


would you say all muslims are like saddam hussein i would n't make 
such a blanket judgement , why do you 

kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( jason hunsaker ) 
subject re christian owned organization list 
organization utah state university 
lines 12 

in article , writes 

does anyone have or know where i can find a list of 
christian owned and one that i know of 
is  . 

, the owners of are mormons , and by tony rose 's 
and robert  standards , mormons are n't christians .  . ) 


internet  ( jason hunsaker ) , , utah 


from  ( kevin darcy ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization who , me 
lines 15 

in article  ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 
followups set out of talk . abortion .  .  .  . 

in article  ( mike cobb ) writes 
am i reading this thread wrong or is this just another bemoaning of the fact 
that christianity has a code of objective morality 

please define this objective morality . 

while you 're at it , please state the theory of creationism .  . 

still searching for an irrelevant issue in which to a pro lifer , i see. 
slimy tactic .  . 

kevin 

from  ( ninja gourmet ) 
subject horse of  ( was daemons ) 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque , 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host 
keywords dead horse , horse of 

in article , ) . writes 
its easy .  .  .  . 
is the neighbor of the  ( at 666 ) 
the lives at the end of a de  . 
r. 

i noticed this dead horse in your keywords line. is this the famous horse 
of that the  ( that 's for you illuminatti ) rides on in those 
wonderful manuscripts .  . if so , i fear your announcement that the old 
girl is dead may be premature .  . i bet 20 on her to place in the race at the 
last sunday , and she in a bad  . so she is not dead. she is just 
 .  ( like god that way , i  . 


will fight for food. 


jim my opinions do not exist. 
that is why they are called 
albuquerque , my opinions. 

from  ( antti siivonen ) 
subject re part 1 and part 2  ( re homosexuality ) 
organization university of 
lines 9 

long time , no see. 







no , love , evolution .  . ! ! 

from  ( merlyn leroy ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , incorporated , , mn 
lines 13 

 ( brian 9615 ) writes 
in article  ( brian kendig ) writes 
i 've asked your god several times with all my heart to come to me .  .  .  . 

brian k. , i am pleased with your honesty .  . and to be honest as well , i 
believe you have not asked my god to come to you. why do i say this 

because that would contradict your religious beliefs therefore , 
you feel more comfortable simply accusing his sincerity , so you will 
not have to examine your religious beliefs .  . 




from  ( gerry palo ) 
subject re ignorance is , was is it good that jesus died 
organization communications corp , , tx 
lines 20 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
in article ,  ( paul harvey ) 
wrote 
in article sandvik kent . apple . com . 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes 
ignorance is not ! 

ignorance is strength ! 
help spread the truth of ignorance ! 

huh , if ignorance is strength , then i wo n't distribute this piece 
of information if i want to follow your advice  ( contradiction above) .  . 


cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

he was quoting big brother from 's 1984 .  . 

from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re the bad press islam has recieved .  . 
organization itc community access unix internet project 
lines 34 

in article 07 . cc . edu .  ( scott h vann ) writes 

i recently read an article in a local paper written by an islamic 
person who was upset with the way islam has been by western media. 
when a terrorist action takes place in the middle east , it is always played 
up as an islamic terrorist .  . however , when the a terrorist attacks 
the , its not a christian terrorist , its just a terrorist .  . 
i have often tried to explain this to some close friends who believe 
the press , that islam is somehow to violence .  . often times you hear 
things like they just do n't value human life like we do .  .  .  . and so on. 
i was wondering if anyone out there had any suggestions for how we can 
change this image , or how i can help my friends to see that this is just 
 . i would appreciate any serious suggestions or comments via e mail , 
and i'm not interested in hearing about how right the press is. 

very easily. show them pictures of crime by christian 
in this country , if that does n't convince them have them talk 
to the victims of christian terrorism .  . 

a brutal act of terrorism inspired by christian propoganda was recently 
commited on your very campus .  . 

its very simple religious extremists of all religions put no value on 
human life. christian and islamic fundamentalists put there 
religion above all else , even if doing so violates the religion itself. 

p.s. i'm not saying all christians are , i'm using christian 
terrorist in the same way the media uses islamic terrorist .  . 

join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the reform church bbs at . . . . 


subject re christians above the law was clarification of 
from  ( john nunnally ) 
distribution world 
organization harding university , , ar 
nntp posting host harding . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1 . reply to 's message of 18 apr 1993 18 31 38 87 
lines 87 

when are we going to hear a christian answer to this question 

in paraphrase 

on what or whose authority do christians proclaim that they 
are above the law and above the prophets  ( 7 major and 12 minor ) and not 
accountable to the ten commandments of which jesus clearly spoke his opinion 
in matthew 5 14 19 what is the source of this pseudo doctrine who is 
the pseudo teacher who is the great 

ok , here 's at least one christian 's answer 

jesus was a jew , not a christian .  . in this context matthew 5 14 19 makes 
sense. matt 5 17 do not think that i jesus came to the law or 
the prophets i did not come to , but to fulfill .  . jesus lived 
under the jewish law. however , he was the of the promises 
of the prophets .  . he came to fulfill the prophecies and fully obey 
god 's purposes. 

verse 18 says for truly i say to you , until heaven and earth pass 
away , not the smallest letter or shall pass away from the law , 
until all is accomplished .  . the key to this verse imho is the last 
phrase .  . jesus , as the fulfillment of the law , accomplished what the 
law was supposed to  . 

verse 19 whoever then one of the least of these commandments , 
and so teaches others , shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven 
but whoever keeps and teaches them , he shall be called great in the 
kingdom of heaven. taken in the context of jesus teaching jewish 
people about living lives under the law , this makes sense. 

in general , it appears that jesus is responding to some criticism he 
must have received about doing away with the law. that was not 
jesus  intent at all. he had come to earth to live the law as it 
should be lived and fulfill the promises made by god to his 
people all the way back to eve gen 3 15 the will bruise your 
heel , but he will bruise his head. jesus appeared to be doing 
away with the law because he did not honor the traditions of men as 
equal to the law of god. he regularly locked horns with the religious 
leaders of the day because he would not conform to their rules , only 
god 's law. 

in the matthew passage jesus is defending his to the law 
and defending himself against his  . almost the entire 
on the mount  . 5 7 ) is dedicated to helping the jewish people 
understand the true intent of the law , sweeping away the clutter which 
had been introduced by the and their traditions .  . 

in 3 23 26 , paul describes the relationship of jesus to the 
law in this way 

23 but before faith came , we were kept in under the law , being 
shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed .  . 24 therefore 
the law has become our to lead us to christ , that we may be 
justified by faith. 25 but now that faith has come , we are no 
longer under a  . 26 for you are all sons of god through faith 
in christ jesus .  . 

i believe this says that after christ was revealed , the law had 
served it 's purpose , i.e. our to lead us to christ , and 
now , we are no longer under a  . the law has been fulfilled 
as christ said he would do. 

god , the author of the old law , and the christ man , jesus , are the same 
personality. therefore , the old law and the new testament  ( the last 
will and testament of jesus ) are based on the same moral principles .  . 
it makes sense that many of the principles in the old law are 
re expressed in christianity .  . 

on the other hand , now that the law has fulfilled it 's purpose and 
christians relate to god through christ , not the law , it also makes 
sense that new practices and new were established to 
represent the mysteries of this new relationship .  . i.e. baptism 
christ 's death , , and resurrection  . 6 3 8 ) , 
the lord 's as a memorial to his sacrifice (i  . 11 26 ) , and 
sunday as a day of worship his resurrection  ( matt 28 , 
acts 20 7 ) 

ok , that 's one christian 's explanation. i do n't claim to have all 
these issues completely even in my own mind and i welcome 
other christians to offer other alternatives .  . 

please excuse the long posting. thanks for your interest if you have read 
this far .  .  .  . 

john 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re ignorance is , was is it good that jesus died 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( paul harvey ) 
wrote 
in article sandvik kent . apple . com . 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes 
ignorance is not ! 

ignorance is strength ! 
help spread the truth of ignorance ! 

huh , if ignorance is strength , then i wo n't distribute this piece 
of information if i want to follow your advice  ( contradiction above) .  . 


cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from m . 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
organization at t 
lines 9 

writes 
david (sp ) , one of the cult members , said that the fire 
was started when one of the the tear gas into the facilities 
knocked over a  . 

sort of a mrs .  . o leary 's theory  . 


joe 

from  ( ross taylor ) 
subject re and compassion 
organization tektronix , inc. , , or. 
lines 9 

is there evidence independent of the fbi that indicates that the branch 
set the fire what have the survivors said did the press see 
anything 

there is , unfortunately , precedent for the u.s. government saving children by 
them alive .  .  ( there is precedent for religious self 
as well . ) . 

i still wonder why the government could n't just leave them alone. 

from  ( keith emmen ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization , 
x newsreader tin 1 . 
lines 23 

 ( timothy j brent ) writes 

probably not. but then , i do n't pack heavy with intent to use it. 
you do n't really think he should have been allowed to keep that stuff do 
you if so , tell me where you live so i can be sure to well clear. 

i understand that they had the and to own 
automatic weapons .  . 

the public also has rights , and they should be placed above those of the 
individual .  . go ahead , call me a , but you 'd be singing a different 
tune if i my right to rape your daughter .  . he broke the law , he 
was a threat to society , they did there job simple. 

i have n't seen any proof  ( or even evidence ) that the 's had broken the 
law. if you have proof  ( or evidence ) , let 's hear it. the fbi said so is 
not evidence. 


i 'll support them all  ( except no. 2 ) 

i guess there will always be people who wish to be  . the politicians 
prefer unarmed 

from  ( paul jr ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
organization university of , 
lines 11 

in article writes 
but there is a base of true absolute morality that we can stand on. 

note that if the majority of people remain , this idea 
probably is n't worth very much in a pragmatic sense. 

maybe not to you. but to those who stand on this base , he is 
precious .  . 

link 


from  ( the doge ) 
subject what we learned from the 
keywords prophet profit 
organization nyx , public access unix @ u. of denver math cs dept. 
distribution usa 
lines 32 


there are actually a few important things we can glean from this mess 
1 ) when they start getting for an answer to the question what 's 
it all about. mr. natural , will buy near anything , which 
means 
2 ) there 's still plenty of to be made in the false jesus business 
by  . just remember that 
3) once you 've separated the from their green , do n't blow it all 
on automatic weapons from mexico .  . put it in a bank account. a 
lot. have your hand out flowers in  . the con will just 
you off as long as 
4 ) you never , never , never start to believe your own ! if 
david koresh hand t started his own now crap , he 'd 
be working in the today instead of contributing to 
the in  . this is because 
5 ) when you start shooting at cops , they 're likely to shoot back .  . and 
most of 'em are better shots than you are. 

in short 
p . t .  . was right 
and 
stupidity is self correcting 
thus the lesson .  . 


the of south st. 
approved media  ( conspirator(tm ) 
one step beyond sundays , 3 to 5 
88 . 1 . st. community radio 
you 'll pay to know what you really think ! 
j . r .  . bob 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject and compassion 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 26 

so we have this highly christian religious order that put fire 
on their house , killing most of the people inside. 

i'm not that about the adults , they knew supposedly what 
they were doing , and it 's their own actions .  . 

what i mostly are angry about is the fact that the people inside , 
including , let the children suffer and die during awful 
conditions .  . 

if this is considered religious following to the end , i'm proud 
that i do n't follow such and non compassionate religions .  . 

you might want to die for whatever purpose , but please spare 
the innocent young ones that has nothing to do with this all. 

i have a hard time just now understanding that christianity 
knows about the word compassion .  . christians , do you think 
the actions today would produce a good picture of your 
religion 


kent 


alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject 21 apr 93 god 's promise in 2 15 2 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 10 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 


and he went out to meet , 
and said unto him , 
hear me , , 
and all judah and benjamin 
the lord is with you , while be with him 
and if seek him , he will be found of you 
but if him , he will you. 

2 15 2 

from  ( dick eney ) 
subject re  ( was hitler or christian ) 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host access . net . 

the observation that the tree of life would in the 
northern and in the southern probably does n't 
give enough consideration to the of the force compared 
to , say , the of  . a much more likely explanation 
is the classic one that the is the sun wheel , because 
the sun across the sky that way.  ( although that 's not the 
historical way it happened were first made as little 
images of the sun moving thru the heavens .  . so it 's more valid to talk of 
the going , but do the listen to me of course 
not . ) . anyway , there is still much uncertainty about whether the 
anti goes counter because that represents evil , or 
because it is the sun 's opposite , the  . the use of anti sun 
to represent evil may be because humans are so strongly oriented , 
but i'm not going to try to that one just now. 


from  ( mathew ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
lines 19 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 

 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
i am not a christian , however i suspect that all flavours of 
christianity hold that  ( a ) objective morality exists and  ( b ) their 
particular interpretation of scripture revelation tv is a 
of it. that they may all disagree about  ( b ) says nothing about the truth 
or falsehood of  . 

actually , they generally claim that  ( b ) their particular interpretation of 
scripture revelation is this objective morality .  . that there are two 
versions of this objective morality does tell us something about 
 . it tells us at least one fake objective morality exists. 

the next logical step is to deduce that any given religion 's objective 
morality could be the fake one. so  . 


mathew 

atheism anti virus software for the mind. 

from  ( frank , jr . ) . 
subject re the list of biblical contradictions 
organization state free net 
lines 12 
nntp posting host edu . 


someone posted a list of x number of alleged bible contradictions .  . as joslin 
said , most people do value quantity over quality .  . dave posted some good 
quality alleged contradictions that are taking a long time to properly  . 

if you want a good list  ( quantity ) when ask , a popular handbook on 
bible difficulties by dr. norman deals with over alleged contradictions .  . 

frank 

if one wished to with him , he could not answer him one time out 
of a thousand .  . job 9 3 

subject re albert sabin 
from  ( rich fox , univ of south dakota ) 
reply to 
organization the university of south dakota computer science dept. 
nntp posting host charlie 
lines 

in article ,  ( bill rawlins ) writes 
in article ,  ( rich fox , univ of south dakota ) writes 
in article ,  ( bill rawlins ) writes 

earlier dialogue deleted 

perhaps you should read it and stop the bible as evidence 
to questions of science. 

it did jesus exist by g. a. 

there is a great fallacy in your statement. the question of origins is 
based on more than science alone. 

nope , no fallacy .  . yep , science is best in determining how religions handle 
why and who .  . 

the problem is that most scientists exclude the possibility of the 
supernatural in the question of origins .  . is this is a fair premise 

not entirely .  . its not a premise , its a conclusion .  . second , that scientists 
 ( for the most part ) the possibility is not a problem , its a necessity .  . 
scientists are , not theologians .  . 

i utterly reject the hypothesis that science is the highest form of 
truth. 

so do scientists , and long before you did. clearly you have a deep and 
fundamental misunderstanding of science. 


if you met a man who could walk on 
water , raise people from the dead , claimed to be the son of god , and 
then referred to the of the scriptures , this would affect 
your belief in the origin of man. (i can expand on this . ) . 

nope , would n't affect my knowledge  ( not belief ) of origins of 
modern humans. if that man could show me something better , i 'd change , even if 
it was the biblical story in exact detail. but then i would ask , why in the 
world did your father us with and reason , and then proceed to 
fool us. i mean , the bible says nothing about the human like creatures that we 
know exist. 

some of these so called human like creatures were  . some were 
humans. some were reconstructed from fragments .  . 

absolutely and utterly false  ( except for some were  .  ( australopithecus 
, ca .  . 3 to 3 . 25 . mya ) is 40 complete , and about 80 taking into 
consideration  . walked and , just 
like humans , and the two share a similar pattern. her 
is unlike humans or modern  . there are hundreds of 
other of this and other species , of which only some are 
reconstructed .  . they exist bill. you can touch them , feel them , hold them. 
but forget  . the earth , the universe , the cultural record all look and 
test out as ancient indeed. they are not reconstructions .  . has god has 
us here too it wo n't go away , bill. 




i doubt any of us will meet a man like this. but , bill , if your version of all 
this is absolutely correct , i'm still no worried about my salvation .  . i 'll 
make it (i do n't steal , murder , , etc , and i like to help other 
 . all i did was use the reason and your god provided .  . 
he or she benevolent and loving will understand my dilemma , do n't you 
think 
good deeds do not justify a person in god 's sight. 
an atonement  ( jesus ) is needed to for sin .  . 

so you and other fundamentalists say. what about the billions who do n't 
say so beware of people who say they have the truth , bill , and reconsider 
each time you think you do. 


science and 
the bible are not in contradiction .  . god can supercede the scientific 
laws as man them. creation is a good example. god has the 
power to create something out of nothing , order out of chaos .  . 

have n't been on t . o .  . long , but i have a feeling , bill , that the veterans will 
agree with you here. no , and god can do anything at will. so , 
what 's the beef  ( or more properly , where 's ) 

my point god is the creator .  . look 's like we agree. 

that was not your point , bill. your point above was god has the power .... 
scientists generally agree with that. that 's a far cry from saying god did. 
please attempt to understand your own posts. 


if the title of the book you mentioned has anything to do with the 
substance of the book , it must be a real  . of course jesus existed , 
and there are volumes of evidence to back it up. i can give many if you 
are interested .  . 

its not a , bill. its a scholarly book that many happen to disagree 
with. i am definitely  ( and seriously ) interested in  . i know of 
the bible , (e . g .  . , prophecies ) , apocrypha , the koran and 
others. what i am interested is independent evidence. do you have any i 
know of josephus , but this is almost certainly an insertion .  . also i know of a 
few roman documents (e . g .  . , pliny ) , but these deal only with early christians .  . 
do you have any independent evidence i am most interested .  . please email or 
post. thanks , and best regards .  . 

i 'll send you some info via e mail .  . 
regards , bill. 

i have your info , and i have replied several days ago. hope you have it. 
somehow your post above appeared at my server only today. 


rich fox , , 

from  ( mnr m oosthuysen ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization cho for 
lines 33 

in article writes 

21 9 
and the daughter of any priest , if she herself by playing the 
, she her father she shall be with fire .  . 

deuteronomy 22 20 21 
 .  .  . and . the of be not found for the then they shall 
bring out the to the door of her father 's house , and the men of the 
city shall her with stones that she die .  .  .  . 

deuteronomy 22 22 
if a man be found lying with a woman married to a husband , then they shall 
both of them die .  .  .  . 

deuteronomy 22 23 24 
if a that is a virgin be unto a husband , and a man find her 
in the city , and lie with her then shall bring them both out unto the 
gate of that city , and shall them with stones that they die .  .  .  . 

deuteronomy 22 25 
but if a man find a in the field , and the man force her , 
and lie with her then the man only that with her shall die. 

if it were nt for the sin of men , none of this killing would have been 
, he is kind and loving , but also righteous , 
sin must be punished .  . 

before jesus , man had to take the sins on himself. 
but jesus died and took it all upon him , so now we also have a forgiving god. 

if he were not kind and loving , there would n't have been any people left. 


nntp posting host edu . 
lines 24 
from  ( stephan fassmann ) 
subject re are the mormons the true church 
organization 

in article  ( robert weiss ) writes 
from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject are the mormons the true church 
date 20 apr 93 06 29 00 gmt 

is the mormon church christ s true church 

 .  .  . lots . of stuff about intellectual errors deleted .  .  .  . 

this is , but i see no statement telling me why your church is the true 
church. i do presume that you know or at least believe that yours is true. 
attempting to my faith without replacing it with something better is 
a real good way to loose a person completely from christ .  . 

this is the greatest reason i see that these attacks are not motivated by 
love. they only seek to destroy there is no building or replacing of belief .  . 
this is not something christ did. he and instructed he did n't 
seek to destroy the faith he found , he it. 

this is what i see when people say they love insert favorite group here . 
and i have to laugh at the irony .  . 

please excuse the but it was nice to say it. 
oh , btw robert do n't take this personally , your post was merely  . 

from  ( bob sarver ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 


 ( hudson ) 
and from a point of view , it could be said that the nervous 
system is just matter. what is wrong with producing chemical reactions in 
matter 

because this matter is different. it is alive , and self aware .  . and it 
pain. 

 ( hudson ) 
if all morality were relative big deal. 

as i said , you appear to be the only person saying that all morality 
is relative .  . most people i know do hold some absolutes in their 
moral system. 

i personally believe that the of the individual and the right 
of free will are absolutes .  . i recognize that there are some moral 
systems around which do n't accept this i reject them as dangerous 
and anti social  ( nazism , some forms of communism , fundamentalist 
xtianity no , that 's not a  . but for the most part , almost 
every moral system agrees on these two points. 




 ( me ) 
and the sky , and everything in it everything that was created came out 
of god. everything , including this matter , is part of god. therefore , is 
it wrong to put parts of god in a test and make it go through 
reactions is n't that a form of 


 ( hudson ) 
generally , christians believe in a creator creation distinction .  . other 
religions believe in one big whole .  . i do n't accept premises .  . 

too bad. i know i'm right , so i get to enforce my view upon you whether 
you like my premise or not. and since you ca n't prove otherwise , there 
is n't even an intellectual basis for your resistance to accepting my 
viewpoint .  . 





 ( hudson ) 
how long will it be before the as long as it does n't hurt someone else 
becomes more and more relative until the only rule that is left is 
i will do what i want to do , no matter who it  . 

there 's a big jump between those two positions , and you know it very 
well. do n't play stupid. i realize that you 're trying to dispute 
what you call popular morality by using what you think is logic , 
but you 're this a bit too thin .  . 

 ( hudson ) 
i do n't think so. once morality becomes relative , it  . i am 
saying that reasoning that it is generally evil to hurt other people is bad. 
 ( though i do n't think it is sufficient . ) . 


well , then answer me this you seem to be opposed to moral relativism 
 ( as you call it) because it has the capacity to  . obviously , 
then , you would advocate a  ( absolute ) moral system. 

whose absolutist moral system do we choose 

how do we come to this decision 

what about people who disagree with the chosen moral system 





 ( hudson ) 
but if morality is considered to 
be relative , and this rule is n't based on anything , but is just an arbitrary 
rule , people might it. 

fine. i can agree with most of what you typed here. however , just because 
morality gets based on something does not mean that we have to 
pick your xtianity as its base .  . 

we can start a morality based on of humans , freedom of choice , 
tolerance , etc. and never ever rely on xtianity for anything. just because 
someone has a consistent moral system based on true principles does not 
mean that they have to involve xtianity in it. xtianity certainly does not 
have a monopoly on principles of behavior indeed , religions are 
of violating their own principles 






from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 16 

in article  ( brian kendig ) writes 

if you can explain to me why the death of jesus was a good thing , 
then i would be very glad to hear it , and you might even convert me. 
be warned , however , that i 've heard all the most common arguments 
before , and they just do n't convince me. 

be warned , it is not my job to convert you. that is the job of 
the holy spirit .  . and i , frankly , make a lousy one. i am only 
here to testify .  . your conversion is between you and god. i am 
out of the loop . if you decide to follow jesus , of which i 
indeed would be , then all the glory be to god. 


brian 


from  ( rob dobson ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization university of virginia 
lines 18 

in article  ( lance visser ) writes 

please get an of exactly what this non tear 
gas was and what the system was. i refuse to believe any 
provided by the fbi atf without lots of facts .  . 

i do not believe that there is such a thing as non tear 
gas .  . 


you are correct. see today 's  ( 4 21 ) washington post. the gas the 
fbi used is most certainly fatal in high  . of course , 
non tear gas is an oxymoron the whole point of tear gas is 
that it is , and its effects cause people to seek 
air. 


legalize freedom 

subject christian devil revealed ! 
from  ( paul harvey ) 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
lines 56 

for a while i was by the the concept of adam and eve coming to 
know good and evil. this is how i it. within god 's universe 
each action an equal and opposite reaction. there can be no good 
without evil as an opposite .  . so the issue is not what you do but to whom 
you give your allegiance .  . that is why , even in this sinful state , when we 
perform an evil act while we are to god he does not place that 
sinful act to our account  ( rom 4 8 ) in the same vein you can perform all 
the good deeds in the book , if your life is not under god 's control you are 
still  ( see 14  . 

now , take a good look at at , an tell me man , there is no christian 
devil there is , is real , is a virus , a meme , and 
the good people and keep 'em from becoming human beings with emphasis on 
the being ! is not a matter of good people an evil people , is all good 
people see , but some good people of the christian devil .  . an it 
ca n't be burn out or out or rape out. only wise up let i rise up. 
christian devil is real man , how else can you explain five hundred years 
of history , even more can only be explained by christians invoke 
christian devil .  . 

you keep on knocking but you ca n't come in , i got to understand you 've 
been living in sin , but walk right in and sit right down , i 'll keep 
on loving you , i 'll play the clown , but down low , let i tell you 
what i know 

i 've been  brothers and i 've been , , , , now i'm 
by a tree in the the on a few , , , , it does n't 
matter who the man is who lives the life he loves , it does n't matter 
what the man does or the honest life he loves , i want somewhere , i want 
somewhere , , , somewhere to my head , is me 

only in  man 

fools , you think you 're cool , to deny me for , yes 
you have gone , for so long with your love for now , yes you have 
got the wrong interpretation up with imagination , so take 
sun and moon and rain and stars , and forever yes your 
fantasy , yeah , the of the righteous teach many , but fools die for 
want of wisdom , the rich man 's wealth is in his city , the righteous 
wealth is in his holy place , so take sun and moon and rain 
and stars , and forever yes your fantasy , destruction of the 
poor is in their poverty , destruction of the soul is , yeah , but i 
do n't want to rule , i do n't want to fool , i do n't want to school 
, things you , you might never know about , yes you have got the wrong 
interpretation up with , imagination , fools , 
you think you 're cool , to deny me for , oh 

love to see , when move in the , love to see when you 're 
dancing from within , it gives great joy to feel such , 
everyone 's doing and they 're doing their best , it i of the days 
in , when we down , these are the days when 
we 'll true , gonna until fall 

then i saw the angel with the seven seals saying , going down 

we weeping and we wailing 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re food for thought on tyre 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 62 

i was curious to check out how many san jose news mentioned 
tyre  ( 1990  . here 's the outcome from the research  ( condenced versions , 
san jose news ) 


bombings in the two largest cities in southern killed 11 people 
and 
80 others. a car bomb blew up in tyre , killing 10 people and 

75 .  . a man was killed and five others seriously in an in 
 . 

an israeli navy attacked and sank a off 

southern early today , killing the two men aboard , the army command 
said. 

it said in a that a opened fire on the 
north of tyre after it as hostile .  . the 
army 
said no one on the israeli was injured .  . the of the slain 
was not immediately known. 

factions of the group led by terrorist 

sunday in tyre , , with machine guns and rocket 
, killing at least four people and 15 , police said. 

's mainstream muslim said thursday that it had 
a network of in a southern where it said 
pro 
iranian had held western  . 

of the , , led local journalists through the 

like and showed them two cells with iron doors at the , 
al , near tyre , the ancient city , about 40 
south of 
beirut .  . 

the said they were certain that u.s.  .  . william 
r. 
was there shortly after he was by on a road 
outside tyre in february 1988. 

 .  .  . anyway . , i counted 20 articles during these 3 years of reporting .  . i also 
found out the possible reason why the numbers for the of the 
city is defined between and  . it seems that tyre is one of the 
places 
where people from flee to during more extensive bombings , so 
there 's 
a constant of entering and leaving tyre  ( articles mentioned 
thousands of people entering and leaving this  . 

i counted 0 articles for my home town , , so from now i will 
consider this place to be a ) .  . 

cheers , 
kent 


alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( frank , jr . ) . 
subject biblical contradictions answered  ( judas ) 
organization state free net 
lines 
nntp posting host edu . 


i posted this several days ago for dave  . he may have missed it my 
usenet board has changed a little. just in case he missed it , here it is again. 


dave writes .  .  .  . 

from  ( dave butler ) 
newsgroups talk . religion . misc . 
subject re new biblical contradictions answered  ( judas ) 
date thu apr 1 20 52 11 1993 

i can basically restrict this post to showing the type of evidence mr 
has presented , and answering his two questions  ( and a couple of his 
insults and false  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
o.k. 

 .  .  . 
by the way mr , you really should have looked in the index of your 
greek  . you would have found that the word in 
acts for lot is , not as stated by mr , and nowhere 
in the very large discussion of in done the to theological dictionary 
of the new testament by , is the meaning plot discussed .  . it 
discusses the forms of  ( eg , , etc ) , and the various 
meanings of  ( eg plot of land , and ) , but mentions 
nothing about or plot .  .  ( why does this not surprise me ) thus 
it would seem to be a very good thing you as a reference. 

later himself .  .  .  . 

from  ( dave butler ) 
newsgroups talk . religion . misc . 
subject re new biblical contradictions answered  ( judas ) 
date fri apr 2 02 32 11 1993 

i owe the group an apology .  . it is my habit to check my articles before and 
after their submission for errors. in my last article i stated 

 ( by the way mr , you really should have looked in the index of your 
greek  . you would have found that the word in 
acts for lot is , not as stated by mr , and nowhere 
in the very large discussion of in done the to theological dictionary 
of the new testament by , is the meaning plot discussed .  . it 
discusses the forms of  ( eg , , etc ) , and the various 
meanings of  ( eg plot of land , and ) , but mentions 
nothing about or plot .  .  ( why does this not surprise me ) thus 
it would seem to be a very good thing you as a  . 

i was wrong. i admit that i do not have a handle on greek grammar , and thus 
confused , the second to last word in acts 1 17 as being the plot of 
land discussed .  . in it is , which is the last word acts 
1 18 .  . unfortunately my greek dictionary does not discuss so i 
cannot report as to the of the word. 

i do n't know if someone else would have caught this , though i am sure that 
someone would be able to do so , but i have an to 
mistakes , especially when someone else might use that mistake to prove a point 



my reply .  .  .  . 
vary noble of you dave .  . i did n't want to have to go to x number of sources to 
show you wrong.  ( although i am researching a  . 

 .  .  . 
of course the only other reference mr has given is  . and 
uses such ridiculous that when i accused mr of 
actually believing , he replied that i him 

and you maintain that you find such convincing oh dear .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
your of me are astounding , dave .  . read the beginning of this part 
of my response to see what i really said in my posting of this article. 

actually mr , you said that there was benefit to our argument , in 
that it caused to to 's  . i did not realize 
that you would find such garbage beneficial , unless you were convinced by 
it . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
thank you for correcting your of my points. 

 .  .  . 
and mr also replied 

dave , these are not necessarily my views they are 's .  . we will 
discuss the land issue in later posts , i'm sure. i'm only responding to 
this one you have directed re 's views because it 's  . 

thus i apologize for thinking that even mr could find such 
convincing .  .  .  . he . should which parts of he finds convincing 
and quit hiding behind a disingenuous of this is what 
believed , not necessarily what i believe. so which is it mr do you 
find the convincing or not ) 

my reply .  .  .  . 
one of my purposes in these alleged contradictions with you and 
others is to many different views of possible 
raised by various bible scholars and students alike. when i present my views , 
i will clearly distinguish them from now on. 

 .  .  . 
of course without and we find that mr has presented 
no greek at all , and mr has made a big thing about my not 
referring back to the actual greek .  . thus we find this demand on his part for 
quality greek to be a requirement .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
good point. but in your declaring that these passages are contradictory , you 
have produced only superficial and observations .  . nor have you 
deeper .  . i'm glad you have begun in this post. i will begin greek studies on 
these passages in more depth than i thought necessary , as well. 

 .  .  . 
it would be appropriate to look at what mr has actually used as 
evidence. now we know what he claims for a standard , as he has stated it 
often enough 

 ( a ) the text itself 
 ( b ) parallel passages 
 ( c ) other pertinent scriptures 
 ( d ) historical context 
 ( e ) historical content 
 ( f ) other pertinent historical info 
 ( g ) cultural context 
 ( h ) cultural content 
 ( i ) other pertinent cultural info 
 ( j ) construction 
 ( k ) hebrew and greek word studies 
 ( l ) etc. 

but are these actual standards he has used , or simply empty  . let 's 
see , he has used  ( a ) , and since he is trying to reconcile it to other 
passages , we see that he has also used  . on the other hand he has 
presented no use of 

 ( d ) historical context or 
 ( e ) historical content or 
 ( f ) other pertinent historical info or 
 ( g ) cultural context or 
 ( h ) cultural content or 
 ( i ) other pertinent cultural info or 
 ( j ) construction or even 
 ( k ) hebrew and greek word studies remember , and do n't count 

thus we find his for is just empty  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
question do you find such important if so , do you plan on starting 
to use them to the best of your ability , or will you continue to present 
shallow observations (i do n't mean this in a bad  . 
at this point in our , i have not found it necessary to present a 
total analysis of these passages , since we seem to keep beating 
around the bush and not getting into the core of the verses .  . i do not believe 
it necessary to use many of the above to refute your arguments re 
judas in acts and matthew , but i will do my best from this point on to use 
several of the above , since you desire me to. i hope you will also. 
it will greatly enhance our study of these passages .  . 

 .  .  . 
the only thing he has actually used , beyond the passage itself , is any other 
passage .  . thus mr should be honest and note that most of his list is 
red herring and his only real seems to be 

 ( a ) the text itself 
 ( b ) parallel passages 

my reply .  .  .  . 
the reason is simple .  .  . you . are the passages .  . you claim that the 
passages contradict one another i do not see the passages contradicting one 
another. 
(1) they may very well be , as many scholarly sources mention 
(2) matthew may not be presenting judas  death , as you claim .  . but we 'll look 
at your defense of this later. 

also , the reward of in the acts passage may not be the 30 pieces of 
silver in matthew 's passages .  .  ( although you have a attempt later at 
stating why you believe it is) .  . 

at this beginning stages in our , we are some scriptural 
, which will be expanded upon through deeper  . 

 .  .  . 
of course the only reason i can see to so drastically reinterpret a passage 
as he has done with judas  death , is to make it agree with another passage so 
that both could be considered correct. 

my reply .  .  .  . 
one of the reasons i have given a different view of the passages is 
that you seem to think the majority of is wrong in concluding these 
passages are  . however , i see no problem in tony rose 's 
explanation of judas  death .  .  .  . 



how would you explain the between judas hanging 
himself in matthew 27 5 and falling he open 


this question of the manner in which judas died is one with which we are 
constantly in our  . many people point to the apparent 
discrepancy in the two accounts as an obvious , error. 
some have gone so far as to say that the idea of an inerrant bible is 
by these contradictory accounts. however , this is not the case at 
all. 
matthew relates that judas hanged himself , while peter tells us he and 
was by the impact .  . the two statements are indeed different , but do 
they necessarily contradict each other 
matthew does not say that judas did not fall neither does peter say that 
judas did not himself. this is not a matter of one person calling 
something black and the other person calling it white. both accounts can be 
true and  . 
a possible would be this judas hanged himself on a tree on the 
of a that the of  . after he there 
for some time , the limb of the tree snapped or the gave way and judas 
down the , his body in the process. 
the fall could have been before or after death as either would fit this 
explanation. this possibility is entirely natural when the of the 
of is examined .  . from the bottom of the , you can see 
25 to 40 feet in and almost  . 
there are still trees around the and a at the bottom .  . 
therefore , it is easy to conclude that judas one of the on 
this way down , tearing his body open. it is important to remember that we are 
not told how long judas remained hanging from the tree or how advanced 
was the of his body before his fall .  . 
relates a story of a man who was determined to kill himself. 
this individual placed himself on the of a high and pointed a 
at his head. he then the and from the at 
the same time. 
on the other hand , a person could say that this man took his life by shooting 
himself , while another could he committed suicide by jumping 
form the building .  . in this case , both are true , as both are true in the 
case of matthew 's and peter 's accounts of the death of judas .  . it is merely a 
situation of different perspectives of the same event. 



your only reason for rejecting this is , i believe , your attempt to discredit 
 . you have n't related how this is impossible or highly unlikely .  . 
here 's what you said in an earlier post .  .  .  . 


quoting tony rose ... 
there are still trees around the and a at the bottom .  . 
therefore , it is easy to conclude that judas one of the 
on this way down , tearing his body open. it is important to remember that we 

are not told how long judas remained hanging from the tree or how advanced 

was the of his body before his fall .  . 

the added text in this version is so heavy that , assuming you are truly so 
opposed to such , you should find it not credible .  . but you seem to 
find tony rose 's , while clearly rejecting david 
joslin 's .  . 



here , you discredit tony 's explanation based on what you too heavy for 
the passages .  . but you have n't addressed why you feel that way. you can say 
it 's a attempt to reconcile the contradiction , but that does n't tell me it 
did n't happen , nor have you shown why you reject that possibility .  . 

questions is matthew lying or is luke lying or are they both lying or 
are either or both of them misinformed why do you think there is such an 
alleged contradiction i do not think you have ever told us what you believe 
in this respect. 

 .  .  . 
at present though , mr only asks two questions of me 

(1) you claim acts and matthew contradict one another in judas  
death. i ask you again to provide evidence that matthew stated judas 
died in the hanging .  . 
(2) you claim that the 30 pieces of silver in matthew that judas threw down 
in the temple and the chief priests used , is the reward of 
in acts that pictures judas in some way a field with 
therefore there is a contradiction .  . prove that the 30 pieces of silver 
and the reward of are one and the same. 

actually i find question (1) to be a rather stupid request , but i will answer 
it because he now himself to two points. first i would point out 
that hanging is a very efficient manner for ending a life. in fact it is a 
bit of a fluke when someone hanging  ( except in fantasy 
movies ) , and even then it usually referred to as an attempted hanging .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
i work at an agency that child abuse and  . today , i got a 
call re a child that attempted suicide by hanging himself because his mother 
is on crack .  . he failed in his attempt and is in a child 's psych ward at a 
local hospital .  . hanging attempts are not always successful .  . 

to assume that because most hangings are successful , this one was also is 
begging the question , if i may quote you. 

last night , listening to the bible answer man , the christian 
research institute 's show , one of the scholars on there used several of these 
terms that you use. i am not all that familiar with them. the man on the 
show teaches comparative religion and logic .  . it was interesting 

 .  .  . 
this is so that , so that to say a man himself with no other 
is with stating that he killed himself. 

my reply .  .  .  . 
are important at times , as we 'll see in an ot passage i 'll mention 
below. 
does hanging always have this outcome did matthew , who is the only source we 
have re judas hanging himself , state that judas died as a result to say it 's 
means it has the same meaning as .  . a boy  ( age 14 ) himself. but 
he lived .  . this is only one of probably thousands of documented cases we can 
discover .  . 

 .  .  . 
now i am not alone in this thought in fact , since mr so respects 
christian scholarly  ( including greek scholars ) opinion , i did some research .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
thank you , dave .  . 

 .  .  . 
interestingly , not one of the christian references i read , interpreted the 
hanging as being anything but a fatal suicide .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
above , mine 
so it 's ok to use christian sources to back your points what about tony 's 
position. do you value it or even consider it as a valid possibility 

also , is it possible that the sources you read may be wrong , or lying , or 
in other parts of their books if so , should we do , as we have done 
with , toss them to the side and not value anything they say , including 
their interpretation of the hanging of judas i am sure you would find 
some errors and maybe even some deception in those sources. 

you also noted they interpreted the hanging as meaning he died. although 
that is very possibly true , do you find that in the text itself remember , 
that 's the first we must examine .  . 

 .  .  . 
this included 

the biblical knowledge commentary by and 

my reply .  .  .  . 
which i own. it 's a good source of commentary info .  . but not inerrant .  . 

 .  .  . 
the on volume commentary on the bible by 
the one volume bible commentary by j r 
word meanings of the testament ralph 
the bible commentary published by 
bible commentary by william 
 ( actually i could have presented many more as well ) 

my reply .  .  .  . 
i appreciate your doing this research , dave .  . maybe we are getting somewhere 
in how we both should approach these alleged contradictions more in depth 
study .  . 

 .  .  . 
in each case , these references specifically describe that the interpretation 
of matt 27 5 as successful , suicide and thus i can only conclude that the 

greek word  ( ie oneself ) is translated as a successful hanging .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
above , mine 
no you ca n't only conclude this , although , as tony says , this was a highly 
probable outcome .  . but matthew does not state death as being a result. 

the greek word is  . matthew 27 5 is it 's only occurrence in the new 
testament .  . 

in the septuagint  ( the greek translation of the ot used at the time of jesus ) , 
it 's only used in 2 17 23 now when saw that his advice was 
not followed , he a donkey , and and went home to his house , to his 
city. then he put his in order , and hanged himself , and died and he 
was buried in his father 's  . 

notice that not only is it stated that hanged himself  .  . , 
, but it explicitly , and died . here we have no doubt of the 
result. 
in matthew , we are not explicitly told judas died. 

also , there is nothing in the greek to suggest success or failure .  . it simply 
means oneself . 

 .  .  . 
but mr , you are more than welcome to disagree and show more 

christian scholars that insist that the hanging was not successful .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
above , mine 
you mean ones that have never 
as far as that the hanging was , that ca n't be done , 
even by me. 

as i said in an earlier post .  .  .  . 


although i still agree with tony 's as being the most probable 
explanation regarding judas  death  ( taking into account several criteria ) , 
i 've recently noticed some new things in matthew .  . 

27 5 8 then he threw down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed , 
and went and hanged himself. but the chief priests took the silver pieces and 
said , it is not lawful to put them into the treasury , because they are the 
price of blood. and they together and bought with them the potter 's 
field , to bury strangers in. therefore that field has been called the field of 
blood to this day. 

first of all , notice that the text does not say that judas died as a result of 
hanging .  . all it says is that he went and hanged himself. luke however , in 
acts , tells us that and falling , he open in the middle and all 
his out. this is a pretty clear indication  ( along with the 
other details given in acts peter 's speech , the need to pick a new , 
etc . ) . that at least after judas  fall , he was dead. so the whole concept that 

matthew and luke both recount judas  death is highly probable , but not clear 

cut. 



i also wrote .  .  .  . 


my reply .  .  .  . 

here we have a , dave , that i have to say i just recently noticed. 
let 's look at the passage in matthew 

27 4 saying , i have sinned by innocent blood. and they said , 
what is that to us you see to it ! 

27 5 then he threw down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed , 
and went and hanged himself. 

27 6 but the chief priests took the silver pieces and said , it is not 
lawful to put them into the treasury , because they are the price of blood. 

27 7 and they together and bought with them the potter 's field , 
to bury strangers in. 

27 8 therefore that field has been called the field of blood to this day. 

notice verse 5 .  .  .  . then he .  .  . went . and hanged himself. 
matthew does not say judas died , does it should we assume he died as a 
result of the hanging 

what does acts say 
act 1 18  ( now this man purchased a field with the wages of and 
falling , he open in the middle and all his out. 

act 1 20 for it is written in the book of psalms  let his place be 
desolate , and let no one live in it  and ,  let another take his office . ' . 

here we may have a explanation of judas  death .  .  .  . so . , my line of 
reasoning to your contradiction myth re the two accounts of judas  
death is this .  .  . matthew . does n't necessarily explain how judas died he does 

say judas hanged himself , but he did n't specifically say judas died in the 
hanging incident .  . 

however , acts seems to show us his  . therefore , there is no 
contradiction between matthew and acts re judas   . 

 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
 .  .  . we . do know from matthew that he did himself and acts probably records 
his death. although it 's possible and plausible that he from the hanging 
and hit some , thereby open , i can no longer assume that to be 
the case. therefore , no contradiction .  . matthew did not say judas died as a 

result of the hanging , did he most scholars believe he probably did , but .  .  .  . 



i quoted all that to show that i highly regard the scholars  explanations , but 
in looking at the texts initially , we ca n't assume judas died. it is , however , 
highly probable .  . 

 .  .  . 
by the way , while all agree that judas died from the hanging , the books had 
different ways of dealing with the contradiction we are discussing .  . one 
simply ignored it entirely and simply referred back to matthew 's version as 
the correct version in both matt and acts .  . the biblical knowledge commentary 
suggested the that judas and then when he , his belly 
 ( which does n't explain his fall ) , or that his branch or 
broke , and he to his death and his gut out  ( which does n't explain 
how a hanging man , would fall rather than feet  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
the outcome of any fall is dependent upon many factors .  .  . how . high the person 
was before the fall , any such as tree branches that may 
have the fall , how an of the victim 
upon , thus possibly or of several , etc. in a 
superficial examination of the acts passage and the matthew passage , we are not 
given a lot of info on the geographical , but tony in the above quoted 
post gave us some .  .  .  . 


a possible would be this judas hanged himself on a tree on the 
of a that the of  . after he there 
for some time , the limb of the tree snapped or the gave way and judas 
down the , his body in the process. 
the fall could have been before or after death as either would fit this 
explanation. this possibility is entirely natural when the of the 
of is examined .  . from the bottom of the , you can see 
25 to 40 feet in and almost  . 
there are still trees around the and a at the bottom .  . 
therefore , it is easy to conclude that judas one of the on 
this way down , tearing his body open. 


 .  .  . 
now , i do not see what is comforting about matthew confusing the 
source of the potter 's field prophesy , but on the other hand the author is 
correct matthew does make that confusion. of course a biblical 
who claim that every word of the bible is guaranteed true by god , will have to 
thereby add one more contradiction to the death of judas  ( ie where the 
prophesy of the potter 's field came  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
please , when we are done with this study on his death , me to discuss 
this with you. 

 .  .  . 
as to your second question mr , you ask how we could be sure that the 
money with which judas purchased the land , was indeed for the betrayal , rather 
than some other source. i would point out that in acts , where it specifically 
mention the reward of acts 1 18 , it also specifically mentions 
what act of they were talking about  ( ie acts 1 16  .  .  . concerning . 
judas who was guide to those who jesus .  . ) .  . now i would point out 
that when the bible describes an act of , and then immediately 
discusses the reward of , it would be rather to suggest that 
it was an action of other than the one discussed .  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
dave , we are getting somewhere , are n't we ! 

act 1 15 and in those days peter stood up in the midst of the disciples 
 ( altogether the number of names was about a hundred and twenty ) , and said , 
act 1 16 men and , this scripture had to be fulfilled , which the holy 
spirit spoke before by the mouth of david concerning judas , who became a guide 
to those who jesus 
act 1 17 for he was with us and obtained a part in this ministry .  . 
act 1 18  ( now this man purchased a field with the wages of and 
falling , he open in the middle and all his out. 
act 1 19 and it became known to all those in jerusalem so that field 
is called in their own language , , that is , field of blood . ) . 
act 1 20 for it is written in the book of psalms  let his place be 
desolate , and let no one live in it  and ,  let another take his office . ' . 

notice that in verse 16 , the word is not used. rather , it states 
that judas became a guide to those who jesus . 
but the writer did not stop there .  .  . vs .  . 17 , for he was with us and 
obtained a part in this ministry .  . what part did judas play in their ministry 

12 6 this he said , not that he cared for the poor , but because he was a 
, and had the money box and he used to take what was put in it. 
13 29 for some thought , because judas had the money box , that jesus had 
said to him , buy those things we need for the , or that he should give 
something to the poor. 

so , now we know what part judas played he was a , per  . 
right after peter stated that judas played a part in this ministry  ( treasurer , 
according to john ) , then luke the parenthetical explanation of wages of 
money that should have been put into the ministry , but was stolen 
by judas to a field .  . i believe this is a better 
explanation of what the wages of are. what do you think , dave 

 .  .  . 
now since i have given you clear answers  ( and even references ) , perhaps you 
could state what type of you are  ( instead of asking 
me what type i think you are , as you did to mr  . 

my reply .  .  .  . 
i will admit that i am a complete , although i do not have 
that big a problem with the limited view. 

frank 

if one wished to with him , he could not answer him one time out 
of a thousand .  . job 9 3 

from  ( darius lecointe ) 
subject re spreading christianity  ( re christian kills doctor ) 
organization florida state university 
distribution na 
lines 23 

david r. sacco writes 
not to be too snide about it , but i think this christianity must 
be a very convenient religion , very and suitable for 
any since it seems one can take it any way one wants 
to go with it and follow bits one and 
reinterpret the bits that do n't match with one 's desires .  . it 
is , in fact , so convenient that , were i capable of believing 
in a god , i might consider going for some brand of christianity .  . 
the only difficulty left then , of course , is picking which 
to join .  . there are just so many. 

dean kaflowitz 

yes , christianity is convenient .  . following the teachings of jesus 
christ and the ten commandments is convenient .  . trying to love in a 
world is convenient .  . turning the other is convenient .  . so 
convenient that it is at times. 

dave .  . 

some christians take a 10 discount off the ten commandments .  . sunday 
cannot be for the sabbath .  . 


from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 21 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( max y !  ) says 


can we assume from this statement that you are saying that 
is not a spin off of 

absolutely .  . lewis did n't care for the o . t . o .  . charter from  . he had 
in mind something completely  . crowley and lewis were very 
different persons , as you probably know. 

 .  .  . and that in fact , may well be a spin 
off of 

no. my , sorry ) 

study harder , 
study , not harder ! ) 

i always do. 


from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

objective morality is morality built from objective values .  . 


and organized religion is a religion built from organized values .  . 
and is a built from values .  . 
and rational response is response built from rational values .  . 
and surrender is surrender built from values .  . 

! 

bye 
jim halat 

from  ( dave butler ) 
subject re new biblical contradictions still not answered  ( judas ) 
organization tektronix , inc. , , or. 
lines 

mr , in spite of requiring scholarly opinion on the hanging of judas , 
rejects that the scholarly opinion of the those scholars and then 
those scholars opinion on the subject 

 .  .  . we . do know from matthew that he did himself and acts probably records 
his death. although it 's possible and plausible that he from the hanging 
and hit some , thereby open , i can no longer assume that to be 
the case. therefore , no contradiction .  . matthew did not say judas died as a 

result of the hanging , did he most scholars believe he did , but .  .  . 


i quoted all that to show that i highly regard the scholars  explanations , but 
in looking at the texts initially , we ca n't assume judas died. it is , 
however , highly probable .  . 

and 

also , there is nothing in the greek to suggest success or failure .  . it simply 
means oneself . 

actually , if you do further research as to the greek word , you will 
find that it does denote success. those scholars did indeed have an excellent 
reason to assume that the suicide was successful .  . as i pointed out , i 
recently checked several 

greek english of the new testament , and 
's greek and english of the new testament 
greek english of the new testament , 
word study concordance , 
a greek english of the new testament and other 
early christian writings , 
the new greek , 

a couple simply stated hanged oneself , and a couple were more explicit 
and stated that means specifically kill yourself by hanging .  . a 
couple also noted that the meaning of one the root words for is 
, or  ( which pretty much invalidates the guy who 
suggested to david joslin that judas was  . one of the best 
references though , 's greek and english of the new 
testament , not only stated the translation , it gave both the root words , the 
literal translation , related greek words which use the same roots , and also 
other presented specific examples of the word in greek literature  ( to give 
further  . 

the word has two root words is the to root , and 
the root word means literally away. this root words is included in 
words which denote a  . it can mean a in place  ( eg the 
greek word means to send a  . can also denote a 
change in state and specifically the change from life to death. 
specifically makes comparison to the word , which means to kill .  . 
in literal meaning the word means to , to put out 
of the way , and implicitly denotes a change in life state  ( ie away from 
life , to  . so while the word does mean to , it 
specifically denotes a death as well. thus is quite specific when he 
state that it means to oneself , to end one 's life by hanging .  . he then 
notes the the use of in 19 230 to denote context. he 
presents that example of as being used to explicitly mean suicide by 
hanging .  . now since there is a perfectly good word for , without the 
added of death , and as you insist that the bible was written by 
god , and every word is precicely correct , you are stuck with the complete 
meaning of  ( ie since the word was used , then death is 
denoted as the  . 

by the way , i note that mr also presents an example of 

in the septuagint  ( the greek translation of the ot used at the time of jesus ) , 
it 's only used in 2 17 23 now when saw that his advice 
was not followed , he a donkey , and and went home to his house , 
to his city. then he put his in order , and hanged himself , and 
died and he was buried in his father 's  . 

notice that not only is it stated that hanged himself  .  . , 
, but it explicitly , and died . here we have no doubt of the 
result. 
in matthew , we are not explicitly told judas died. 

note mr , as you say , the septuagint was a translation from hebrew to 
greek , and you have not shown the original meaning of the hebrew  ( ie the the 
hebrew say and died ) , and thus whether it was simply in the greek .  . 
it should also be pointed out that , regardless of the added and died , the 
correct translation would still be , as the man did indeed die from 
 ( redundant , but  . further , we have evidence that the 
septuagint was repeatedly and  ( which included versions 
which contradicted each other ) , and such editing was not even necessarily 
executed by greeks .  . thus i am not sure that you can use the septuagint as it 
now stands , as a paragon of ancient greek .  . so , what you really need to prove 
your point mr , is an example , in ancient greek , of someone committing 
and surviving .  . otherwise i would see you as simply making worthless 
assertions without evidence. 

now i would note mr , that i go out of my way to research it 
one of your apparently contrived , i pretty much find it false .  . thus , 
i think that if you are going to add to the text , something over and above 
what the source clearly says , then you had better have an explicit greek or 
historical source to justify it. 

by the way , as to mr rose 's statement about trees around the potter 's field 

there are still trees around the and a at the bottom .  . 

unless mr rose can show that these trees are two thousand years old , or that 
there are 2000 year old there , or has a 2 thousand year old description 
of the area which mentions such trees , then it is inappropriate for him to 
assert that the present of trees prove the of the trees two 
thousand years ago  ( after all , things  . 

now as to your other argument , ie that the money judas used is not the same 
as the 30 

as to your second question mr , you ask how we could be sure that the 
money with which judas purchased the land , was indeed for the betrayal , rather 
than some other source. i would point out that in acts , where it specifically 
mention the reward of acts 1 18 , it also specifically mentions 
what act of they were talking about  ( ie acts 1 16  .  .  . concerning . 
judas who was guide to those who jesus .  . ) .  . now i would point out 
that when the bible describes an act of , and then immediately 
discusses the reward of , it would be rather to suggest that 
it was an action of other than the one discussed .  . 


notice that in verse 16 , the word is not used. rather , it states 
that judas became a guide to those who jesus . 
but the writer did not stop there .  .  . vs .  . 17 , for he was with us and 
obtained a part in this ministry .  . what part did judas play in their ministry 


true , peter  ( or the author of acts ) does not specifically call judas  betrayal 
an , but for that matter , neither does john specifically call judas  
actions an either. further john 13 29 did not say that judas took 
the money box , but rather said 

some thought that because , judas had the money box , jesus was telling 
him buy what we need for the or that he should give something 
to the poor , so after receiving the he immediately went out , and 
it was night. 

note that it is said that judas left , it does not say that he took the money 
box .  . thus when i see your explanation it still seems to me you would choose 
the a an unproven , mentioned by another author , in a different 
book , written at a different time , over the explicitly mentioned by 
the author of acts .  . i find this forced and contrived .  . 

of course this particular argument becomes , since we have have seen 
evidence that means suicide .  . you see , since judas  hanging was 
successful , he could not have spent the money mentioned in john 13 29 , because 
matthew and mark explicitly say the betrayal was on the high holy day  ( ie 
passover ) , and thus he could not have spent the money before killing himself 
the next day. thus the money which bought the field of blood would have to 
have been the 30 pieces of silver  ( of course he got the 30 pieces of silver 
that night as well , and thus could n't have spent that either. oh dear , i 
believe that the house of cards is  . 

maybe we should at this point , discuss now whether jesus was crucified on 
friday or saturday as that is now part of the argument about judas .  . 

by the way , as to where the prophesy of the potter 's field came from  ( ie the 
mention of it in matthew ) , you say 

please , when we are done with this study on his death , me to discuss 
this with you. 

i am you now to discuss it now. it 's all part of the same verse we 
are discussing , and i wish you would quit and 
these issues. 

later , 

dave 

a wise man his belief to the evidence. 
david hume , philosopher 
an inquiry concerning human understanding 

ps .  . i would note again , that you are not stating that that bible 
is not possibly inerrant you are stating that it is inerrant .  . 
since you have been , by your own admission , presenting merely possible 
(i of course do n't rate them that highly ) , then the 
best you can do is say that the bible is possibly inerrant , not that 
it is inerrant .  . 

from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject 's reply 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 

replied to my letter with .  .  .  . 

in article , 
 ( robert weiss ) says 

well , jason , it 's heretical in a few ways. the first point is that 
this lucifer and jesus as being the same type of being. 
however , lucifer is a created being thou perfect in thy 
ways from the day that thou created , till was found in 
thee .  .  ( ezekiel 28  . while jesus is , and the creator of 
all things in the beginning was the word , and the word was with 
god , and the word was god. the same was in the beginning with god. 
all things were made by him and without him was not any thing made 
that was made.  ( john 1 1 3) and he is before all things , and by 
him all things consist .  .  ( colossians 1 17 ) 

your inference from the ezekiel and john passages that lucifer was 
created and that jesus was not depends on a particular of 
the word create one with which many christians may not agree. 
granted the mormon belief that all of god 's children  ( including christ 
and lucifer ) are existent which were organized 
into spirit children by god , the term creation can apply equally well 
to both of those passages .  . 

just , on something that you mentioned in passing .  . you refer to 
interpretations of create , and say that many christians may 
not agree. so what that is really irrelevant .  . we do not base our faith 
on how many people think one way or another , do we the bottom line is 
truth , regardless of popularity of opinions. 

also , i find it rather strange that in trying to persuade that created 
and existent are equivalent , you say granted the mormon 
belief .  .  .  . you ca n't grant your conclusion and then expect the point to 
have been addressed .  . in order to reply to the issue , you have to address 
and answer the point that was raised , and not just jump to the 
conclusion that you grant .  . 

the bible states that lucifer was created. the bible states that jesus 
is the creator of all. the contradiction that we have is that the 
belief is that jesus and lucifer were the same. 

your point that we all are brothers of jesus and lucifer is also 
heretical , since we are not brothers and sisters of christ .  . 
we are , for have not received the spirit of 
again to fear but have received the spirit of , whereby 
we cry , , father .  .  ( romans 8 15 ) and not the natural children 
of god. it is only through faith that we even enter the family of 
god for are all the children of god by faith in christ jesus .  . 
 ( galatians 3  . and it is only through the manifestation of this 
faith in receiving jesus that we are become the sons of god. but 
as many as received him , to them gave he power to become the sons of 
god , even to them that believe on his name which were born , not 
of blood , nor of the will of the flesh , nor of the will of man , but 
of god.  ( john 1 12 13 ) 

has it occured to you , robert , that being born of someone or being 
of that person  ( or person ) 's family may be a term in the new 
testament mormons believe that we are into the house of 
israel through baptism and faith in christ , although some have expressed 
belief that this does a physical change in our bodies .  . 

the mormon belief is that all are children of god. literally .  . there is 
nothing about it. this however , contradicts what the bible 
says .  . the bible teaches that not everyone is a child of god 

the field is the world the good seed are the children of the 
kingdom but the are the children of the wicked one 
 ( matthew 13 38 ) 

i speak that which i have seen with my father and do that which 
have seen with your father .  .  ( john 8 38 ) 

do the deeds of your father .  . then said they to him , we be not 
born of we have one father , even god. jesus said 
unto them , if god were your father , would love me for i 
proceeded forth and came from god neither came i of myself , but he 
sent me. why do not understand my speech even because 
cannot hear my word. are of your father the devil , and the 
of your father will do. he was a murderer from the 
beginning , and not in the truth , because there is no truth in 
him. when he a lie , he of his own for he is a 
liar , and the father of it.  ( john 8 41 44 ) 

and said , o full of all and all mischief , thou child of 
the devil , thou enemy of all , thou not cease 
to the right ways of the lord  ( acts 13 10 ) 

wherein in time past walked according to the course of this 
world , according to the prince of the power of the air , the spirit 
that now in the children of  ( ephesians 2 2 ) 

in this the children of god are , and the children of the 
devil not is not of god , neither he 
that not his brother .  .  ( 1 john 3 10 ) 

one becomes a child of god .  .  .  . 

but as many as received him , to them gave he power to become the 
sons of god , even to them that believe on his name  ( john 1 12 ) 

behold , what manner of love the father upon us , that 
we should be called the sons of god therefore the world us 
not , because it knew him not. beloved , now are we the sons of god , 
and it not yet appear what we shall be but we know that , when 
he shall appear , we shall be like him for we shall see him as he 
is.  ( 1 john 3 1 2 ) 

 .  .  . when . he is born again through faith in jesus christ 

which were born , not of blood , nor of the will of the flesh , nor of 
the will of man , but of god.  ( john 1 13 ) 

having us unto the of children by jesus 
christ to himself , according to the good pleasure of his will , 
 ( ephesians 1 5 ) 

of his own will begat he us with the word of truth , that we should 
be a kind of of his creatures .  .  ( james 1 18 ) 

for as many as are led by the spirit of god , they are the sons of 
god. for have not received the spirit of again to fear 
but have received the spirit of , whereby we cry , , 
father .  . the spirit itself witness with our spirit , that we 
are the children of god  ( romans 8 14 16 ) 

beloved , let us love one another for love is of god and every one 
that is born of god , and god.  ( 1 john 4 7 ) 

that jesus is the christ is born of god and 
every one that him that begat him also that is 
of him.  ( 1 john 5 1 ) 

for are all the children of god by faith in christ jesus .  . 
 ( galatians 3 26 ) 

we are told that , and this is life eternal , that they might know 
thee the only true god , and jesus christ , whom thou hast sent .  . 
 ( john 17 3) .  . life eternal is to know the only true god. yet the 
doctrines of the that i have mentioned a 
different jesus , a jesus that cannot be with the jesus of 
the bible .  . they are so far removed from each other that to proclaim 
one as being true denies the other from being true. according to the 
bible , eternal life is dependent on knowing the only true god , and 
not the construct of imagination. 


robert , with all due respect , who died and left you chief of 
correct biblical interpretation i do n't mean to be about this , 
but the fact is that the bible is so differently interpreted by different 
groups of biblical scholars  ( what do you think of the jehovah 's 
witnesses , for example ) that to make reference to the jesus of the 
bible is simply ridiculous .  . whose jesus of the bible do you mean 

this is really a red herring .  . it does n't address any issue raised , but 
rather , it seeks to  . the fact that some groups try to read 
something into the bible , does n't change what the bible teaches .  . for 
example , the fact that the jehovah 's witnesses deny the deity of christ 
does not alter what the bible teaches looking for that hope , 
and the glorious of the great god and our saviour jesus 
christ  ( titus 2 13 ) , simon peter , a servant and an of jesus 
christ , to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through 
the of god and our saviour jesus christ  ( 2 peter 1 1 ) 
on the deity of christ .  . 

we first look to the bible to see what it teaches .  . to discount , or not 
even address , what the bible teaches because there are some groups that 
have views is self  . to see what the bible teaches , 
you have to look at the bible .  . 

our lord 's was essential to his own salvation ( the 
promised messiah , p. 456 ) , he had to work out his own salvation by 
doing the will of the father in all things  . , p . , he had 
to be to gain admission to the celestial kingdom ( mormon 
doctrine , p .  . 

welcome to the wonderful world of mormon , robert .  . the 
above books are by the late bruce r. , a former general authority 
of the church. those books were not published by the church , nor do 
they constitute doctrine .  . they consist of his opinions. now , 
does that mean that what he says is not true not at all i 'll have to 
think about the idea of christ 's personal salvation before i come to any 
conclusions myself. the conclusions i come to may seem heretical to 
you , but i'm prepared to accept that. 

i find this rather curious. when i mentioned that the mormon belief is 
that jesus needed to be saved , i put forward some quotes from the late 
, bruce  . the curious part is that no one addressed the 
issue of to be saved . ' . comes the with his i 
have my own conclusions to addressing the point. 

most of the other replies have instead hop to the issue of 
bruce and whether his views were  official doctrine . ' . i do n't 
think that it matters if 's views were  . that is not the 
issue. were 's writings of mormon belief on this 
subject is the real issue. the indication from is that they may 
certainly be. 



robert 


from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject re clarification of personal position 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
lines 26 

in article 
 ( paul jr ) writes 
in article 
 ( darius lecointe ) writes 
if it were a sin to violate sunday no one could 
ever be forgiven for that for jesus never kept sunday holy .  . he only 
recognized one day of the seven as holy .  . 
jesus also recognized other holy days , like the  . acts 15 says 
that no more should be on the gentiles than that which is necessary. 
the sabbath is not in the list , nor do any of the epistles people 
to keep the 7th day , while christians were living among people who did not 
keep the 7th day. it looks like that would have been a problem. 
instead , we have scriptures telling us that all days can be alike 
 ( romans 14 5 ) and that no man should judge us in regard to what kind of 
food we eat , jewish holy days we keep , or in regard to the sabbath .  .  . 2 . ) . 
the 
question is on what authority do we proclaim that the requirements of the 
fourth commandment are no longer relevant to modern christians 
i do n't think that the sabbath , or any other command of the law is totally 
irrelevant to modern christians , but what about 2 , where it says 
that we are not to be judged in regard to the keeping of the sabbath 

why are you running away from the word of jesus has somebody 
the word of jesus if you do n't follow the morality of the ten 
commandments and the law and the prophets and the word of jesus , whose 
morality do you follow 

x mailer version 1 . 
from d. c. 
organization nobody but me really 
subject re is thou shalt not kill ever applied in the bible 
distribution world 
lines 15 

in , e  ( edgar pearlstein ) wrote 
are there any places in the bible where the commandment thou 
shalt not kill is specifically applied that is , where someone 
from killing because he the commandment .  . 

no , for the excellent reason that there is no such commandment .  . 

aside from that , please note that the tradition 
is strong on , light on , and virtually 
w r t introspection .  . 

d. c. speaking for myself 
note new network address 
author  ( and everything else ! ) of  ( dos mail news shell ) 

from  ( dick eney ) 
subject re  ( was hitler or christian ) 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 6 
nntp posting host access . net . 

re red , , and black , the of the imperial german war flag 

go further back still. there are drinking 
the red , the white and the black the , as 
points out , of blood and iron .  . 


from  ( james meritt ) 
subject re kind , loving , and forgiving god ! 
nntp posting host org . 
organization corporation , va 
lines 41 

in article  ( david joslin ) writes 
 ( james meritt ) writes 
 ( david joslin ) writes 
 ( james meritt ) writes 
 ( a ) out of context 
must have missed when you said this about these other promises of god that we keep 
getting to. could you please explain why i am wrong and they are ok 
or an acknowledgement of public hypocrisy .  . both or neither .  . 

so , according to you , jim , the only way to criticize one person for 
taking a quote out of context , without being a , is to post a 
response to every person on t . r . m . who takes a quote out of context 

did i either ask or assert that or is this your telepathy at work again 

(1) stephen said you took a quote out of context 
(2) you noted that stephen had not replied to some other t . r . m . article 
 ( call it a ) that took a quote out of context 
 ( 3 ) but the lack of evidence for x does not constitute evidence for the 
lack of x (a common creationist error ) 
 ( 4 ) so the fact that stephen did not reply to a does not justify the 
conclusion that stephen taking quotes out of context in a 

excellent .  . now under what conditions could such a conclusion be made , other 
than a direct assertion by his part. for instance , am i to assume that 
you have no position on eating shit merely because you have not said 
your position , or might a conclusion be made by observing that you do not. 

 ( 7 ) i assumed you were being logical , and that the sentence that begins 
could you please explain ... was not a , but was intended 
to follow from the sentence that it. 

is that better jim it 's called an argument. if you disagree with it , 
explain why the argument is not sound. (i admit that my assumption in  ( 7 ) 
may have been a bit hasty . ) . if you agree with it , just say yup .  . 

have you , by chance , ever even heard of inductive logic you are not 
demonstrating any with it (i . e .  . you are being 
 . 



from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re and compassion 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 


in article sandvik kent . apple . com . ,  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
so we have this highly christian religious order that put fire 
on their house , killing most of the people inside. 


i would hardly consider the 's to be christian .  . they were acting in 
direct contradiction to scripture .  . jesus  second coming is something 
that everyone will know of. jesus also predicted that there will be 
false who will use his name. his prophecy has been fulfilled .  . 

i'm not that about the adults , they knew supposedly what 
they were doing , and it 's their own actions .  . 

what i mostly are angry about is the fact that the people inside , 
including , let the children suffer and die during awful 
conditions .  . 


i agree with you there. 

if this is considered religious following to the end , i'm proud 
that i do n't follow such and non compassionate religions .  . 


me too. i have already given my life to god. if god tells me to 
down my life , it will be to save another life. 

you might want to die for whatever purpose , but please spare 
the innocent young ones that has nothing to do with this all. 

i have a hard time just now understanding that christianity 
knows about the word compassion .  . christians , do you think 
the actions today would produce a good picture of your 
religion 


do you judge all christians by the acts of those who would call 
themselves christian and yet are not the 's contradicted scripture 
in their actions .  . they were not christian .  . simple as that. perhaps 
you have read too much into what the media has  . ask any 
true believing christian and you will find that they will deny any 
association with the 's .  . even the 7th day adventists have denied any 
further ties with this cult , which was what they were. 

do you judge all muslims by the acts committed by saddam hussein , a 
supposedly devout muslim i do n't .  . saddam is just a dictator using 
the religious beliefs of his people to further his own ends. 

god be with you , 

) 


kent 


alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( jim halat ) 
subject the fact of the theory 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 74 

in article ,  ( andy peters ) writes 

 .  .  . stuff . deleted .  .  .  . 

andy i think we do agree , given your clarification of how we were 
each using the terms fact and theory. i 'll only add that i 
think perhaps i feel more strongly about separating them , 
though your usage is quite valid .  . 

note that the fact of evolution is still a theory. in other words , it 
could , theoretically , still be falsified and rejected .  . but since it 's 
so , and so supported by evidence , it seems 
pointless to explicitly try to it anymore. 

i 'll add here that any falsification or rejection does not in any way 
reduce its current usefulness .  . so long as it accurately or 
describes things we can observe .  . 

not to be a pain in the ass , but is there any reason you do n't 
just say the theory of evolution rather than the fact of evolution 
is still a theory . i'm asking because this whole thread got started 
because i was bothered by a post that referred to the fact of evolution , 
basically leaving off the phrase is still a theory . without a 
clarification , like the one you just gave , just saying the fact of 
evolution has a very different meaning to me. 

description of atomic theory , and alternative theories of gravity , deleted 
both are very useful models that 
have no religious or requirements of faith , unless of course you 
want to demand that it is a factual physical entity described exactly 
the way the theory now formulated talks about it. 

here is where you fail to make an important distinction .  . you have 
the facts of the existence of gravity and atoms and 
evolution into one category with the theories which have been 
proposed to explain the mechanisms . the existence of these things 
is so as to be considered fact. the mechanisms , on the 
other hand , are still worth discussing .  . 

i'm not sure i agree here. again , it may be because i feel stronger 
about separating terms. i was trying to say that the theories 
proposed to explain the mechanisms and the mechanisms themselves 
are the only realities here. it is the existence of mechanisms , not 
the things themselves , that are so as to be considered 
fact  ( as you would  . there are n't really little particle 
systems called atoms out there. or i should say , and more to my original 
point , it would be a leap of faith to say there are , because we observe only 
the mechanisms .  . there is no need to believe there are actually 
atoms out there as we have decided to think about them. it 's enough 
to discuss the mechanisms .  . at any rate , i'm not sure i am being 
any clearer than before , but i thought it was worth a shot .  . 

the bottom line , though , is i think we agree on two fundamental ideas 

1. evolution is a theory supported by evidence  ( my way ) 
the fact of evolution is a theory supported by 
evidence  ( your way ) 

2. creation is just an opinion. if a theist wants to call it 
a theory then he can. i wo n't it has no supporting evidence 
and it neither nor supports any observations that can 
be made. with no mechanisms to talk about , there really is n't 
much to say. 

do you agree 


jim halat 
bear whatever does n't kill you will only serve to annoy you 
i speak only for myself 





subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian m 
from  ( john nunnally ) 

distribution world 
organization harding university , , ar 
nntp posting host harding . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1 . reply to 's message of 15 apr 93 23 50 26 67 
lines 67 

in writes 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

good question , my point was that a world with truth is better than a world 
with falsehood .  . a world in which it were possible to say yes , i am 
holding a jew  ( the truth) and you , me , the jew , and the guy all sit 
down to crack open a bottle of is better than the alternatives 
you present. obviously , this is not possible , and the best alternative seems 
to be to lie. that 's because other values are involved , such as life. 
now that is just my opinion do n't confuse the claim  objective morality 
exists  with the claim  i have a lock on  . 

i think that at this point it would actually be quite easy to 
confuse objective morality with relative morality .  . 

jon .  . 
actually , jon , that is quite true. christian people have caused 
objective morality to look very relative .  . after all , that was the 
point of the original question in this thread , i.e. can we toss out 
christianity because it is so obviously inconsistent with its own 
principles if you will bear with me , i will attempt to explain this 
apparent inconsistency from at least one christian 's viewpoint 

if god exists and is the creator of mankind as the bible claims , then 
he has a pretty well defined concept of what makes people 
physically , emotionally , etc. god has an objective morality for us. 
that is to say , he has no trouble understanding what is good for  ( or 
detrimental to) the creature he created. 

2 10 for we mankind are his , created in 
christ jesus for good works a morality , which god prepared 
a well defined design , that we might walk in them. 

however , contrary to what many people assume  ( including the 
of the bible , ) god 's morality cannot be completely codified in a list 
of rules and  . to some extent , every activity of a 
person 's life creates a new situation to which morality must be 
applied .  . there never could be enough volumes to god 's 
objective morality for us. 

throughout history , mankind has tried to reduce morality to a list of 
rules  ( objectivity , if you please . ) . in the old testament , we have 
both principles and specific rules. by the time of jesus , most of the 
principles were by the emphasis men had placed on the rules. 
volumes of additional rules had been made to try to the 
application of the principles .  . we mankind were n't comfortable with 
the of principles .  . 

for reference see matthew 5 where jesus explains the difference 
between the law and the principles of the law. for example , in 
verses 21 22 you have heard that the ancients were told , 
 you shall not commit  .  . and .  whoever murder shall 
be liable to the court . ' . but i say to you that everyone who is 
angry with his brother shall be liable to the court .  .  .  . 

the objective morality of god gets by our inept 
interpretation of it. we christians have made our biggest errors 
when we have allowed any one person or group of people decide exactly 
what god intended for us. if we christians would stay committed to 
seeking god 's will instead of trying to prove we already had it all 
out , we might do a better job of allowing others to find god 's 
objective morality for themselves. if jesus is who he said he 
was is  ( and that 's the fundamental question , ) then he is objective 
morality .  . 

john 

from  ( mark ) 
subject re and the southern baptist 
nntp posting host com . 
organization n . o . y . b . 
lines 14 

in article  ( tony alicea ) writes 
with the southern baptist this june to consider 
the charges that is incompatible with christianity , i thought 
the following quotes by mr. james , the anti flag , 
would you all .  .  .  . 
munch ! 
i hope you all had a good laugh ! i know i did ! g , 

it would be funny if it was n't so damn nasty and as non as i am , 
it 's hard to believe that someone is pushing black is white and freedom 
is slavery so blatantly .  . 

mark 


from  ( daniel l. lovall ) 
subject re was albert sabin 
organization university physics department 
lines 49 

in article de . (c 
krasel ) writes 
in  ( paul harvey ) writes 

in article 
 ( herb huston ) writes 
in article  ( paul harvey ) writes 

do you have any examples of ritual , amongst the 
primates 
why the ritual 

i was thinking of instances were a particular food or or 
are used to or  . do you know of any human 
cultures that have this type of mythology for example , where one might 
eat a food as representative of the body of a god , thus 
in the absence of the original .  . 

i know of ritual among tribes in ( ) .  . 
they used to eat the brain of killed opponents .  . sometimes these brains 
contained infectious which lead to a disease called . 
since was by the government , the number of 
cases has dropped  . 

oh , yeah well i know of .... 

anyways , is much more than those who feel that it is wrong 
 ( and then point out that the fact that western does n't do it is 
proof positive that we are more advanced ) would have us believe. 
is often used in funeral ceremonies as a way of keeping the loved one 
alive .  . many other cultures  ( including many american cultures ) eat 
the flesh of slain enemies , often as a way of showing respect for the of 
the departed .  . hearts are often for this , as it contains the spirit .  . 

have you ever read or seen alive , which is the story of the 
team that in the and then the bodies of those who died 
in order to survive finger good. how about the 
to serve man 

if you want more info on this , a good place to start is on sci . 

now send me 20 and eat my flesh , 

dan 






from  ( roy crabtree ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization red data center 
lines 50 

in article  ( bruce salem ) writes 
... 
i think that the consensus will become that fbi atf it , 
not merely because they walked into an on feb 28 , and koresh 
got his prophesy today , against their stated intentions , but because 
they played right into the situation and not 
it. 

koresh had set up all the conditions of a classic cult 
confrontation and had stated publically what the outcome would become .  . 

before or after his kids were shot 

the government the and the conclusion today. 
it does seem that the were set from within the compound by the 
members of the group and not caused by the cs gas or the way it was 
 . let the subsequent investigation shed light on that. suppose 

then why make the comment 

that the government had used and started the fire .  . the 
still had the decision to stay or leave .  . they never intended 

as did the jews against the nazis in ii do what i say or die. 

to leave .  . 

the building , almost everyone dies .  . it probably does n't bother 
you much , but it bothers many other people .  .  .  .  . most . of whom dont believe 
particularly in koresh or his message. 


all humans , i hope. 


yes , the finger pointing has begun .  . 

four atf and 90 branch are now dead because of 
crazy on the part of the atf and fbi .  . 

yeah , they blew it. they were being too rational in a 
situation that was not your criminal game. they have n't learned 
that much from , or the move house , or the  . 

or perhaps they have kill first , blame the dead ones , 
destroy all the evidence. 





from  ( bob sarver ) 
subject re judas , crucifixion , tyre , etc .  .  .  . 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 32 



 ( frank decenso ) 

i need to things in my life , and this board is not all that important 
to me. 

of course it is. it forms a very big part of your self respect. you come onto 
the board , thinking you 're some sort of for your faith , and you 
routinely get over a for stupid theories and unfounded assumptions .  . 




 ( frank decenso ) 
this board will have 
to wait until  ( if ever ) i can organize my life to fit it in. i tried dropping 
out , but sieferman me to come back .  . he wo n't this time. 

i doubt that sieferman has anything to do with you dropping out. 

it 's probably closer to the truth to say that you do n't have the cards to 
play in this game  ( because you insist on playing from a hand ) , and you 're 
finally realizing it. you will on the board , and keep 
quiet for a while , looking for an area where you are certain that you 
are correct , and then we 'll see you pop back in again. of course , you then 
will say that you have merely returned because your life is now in order . 

but we 'll know better. 




from  ( stephen ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host utarlg . uta . edu . 
organization the university of texas at arlington 
lines 45 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com . , 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes .  .  .  . 

 ( stephen ) wrote 
 ( kent sandvik ) quotes  .  .  . 

remember , these laws were written for a different time and applied 
only to god 's chosen people. but jesus has changed all of that. we 
are living in the age of  . sin is no longer immediately punishable 
by death. there is and there is salvation through our 
lord jesus christ .  . and not just for a few chosen people. salvation 
is available to everyone , jew and gentile alike. 

jews wo n't agree with you ,  . 

which jews ks 

most religious jews with the exception of the messianic ones and 
atheists agnostics ,  . 

ks , i see you 're wanting 's response. allow me one last inter 
then please 

among the religious jews , you 've the messianic 
for obvious reasons. specifically , are you saying it 's these religious 
jews , who trace their lineage back to abraham by blood and , 
rather than by faith , who wo n't agree orthodox jews 

as to the a a  ( if i understand your direction ) , the issue remains 
unproven i suspect , considering how atheists and agnostics so often 
look to reason. atheist , it is reasonable to conclude will not agree. 
for agnostics , a seems in order. who knows myself , i'm not so 
sure the atheists can be counted out. 

for the orthodox , i wonder how many would follow moses , or abraham , 
or david in accepting god 's word is the particular covenant to which 
one , more important than god i reckon for many it 
depends on the dialogue .  . under these , you might 
understand why i think it 's premature to assert who will and wo n't agree. 


j 

stephen 


from  ( david matthew deane ) 
subject re flaming nazis 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 94 

in article ,  ( dick eney ) 
writes 
the trouble with trying to find out the truth is that and his 
were accused of being flaming , one of the for the 
night of long in which and most of the sa of the 
were  . 

stop ! hold it ! you have a few problems here. official history says that 
the first accusations of homosexuality in the sa came from outside of the nazi 
party , long before the nazis ever came to power. so this objection is a red 
herring , even if established history is wrong on this point. moreover , none of 
the histories i 've read ever made mention of hitler or anyone else ever using 
homosexuality as a pretext for  . a point i saw was that 
hitler and the party covered up these accusations .  . if you are going to accuse 
official history of being a , you should at least get your facts 
right. the pretext for was that he was planning to use the sa in 
a coup against hitler .  . nowhere is there mention of using allegations of 
homosexuality as a pretext for the purge , nor as a justification afterwards  ( it 
is possible that the histories i 've read have not mentioned this , but i doubt 
it would it be in hitler 's best interest to admit to the world that his 
former right hand man was a homosexual ) .  . 

anyway , as i said before , it is always possible that i have missed references 
to the nazis making use of charges of homosexuality against the sa after the 
night of the long but this does not prove that they were false .  . even 
the nazis could tell the truth when it was to their advantage .  . in any case , 
this does not deal with accusations of homosexuality in the sa during the 
's .  . 

since the thereafter controlled the records , 
anything bearing on the subject true or not has to be considered 
tainted evidence. 

ah , yes. i forgot this was being posted to alt . conspiracy .  . i can smell the 
paranoia from here. since the nazis never charged with 
homosexuality  ( at least , not according to what i 've read ) , i 'd like to know 
what tainted evidence you are talking about. since the accusations were made 
by persons outside of the nazi party , long before it came to power , and those 
accusations were common knowledge to journalists and others in germany in the 
's and 30 's , just how would it be possible for the nazis to go back in 
time and plant tainted evidence how exactly does one doctor newspapers 
which were around the world , without the being 
obvious what actual of nazi evidence on this matter 
do you know about and what about the testimony of people who were involved in 
these matters , some of whom were not nazis and what is the point of making a 
false accusation of homosexuality if you do not it since the point 
here seems to be to discredit established history , then the burden of proof 
falls on the  . the had better do their homework 
before making accusations .  . otherwise they simply look like conspiracy nuts .  . 

the available data suggest that and his , 
the sa , storm left the world a better 
place when they departed , 

this is just about the only thing we agree on. 

i suspect that the notion that there might have been bad people and 
his sa who were homosexuals must disturb some people. the feeling 
seems to be that if a nasty individual is accused of homosexuality , that this 
must be an attempt to homosexuals .  . this fear often justified is what 
lies behind this distrust of official history , or so it seems to me. but this 
is not a good justification for trashing accepted accounts of this subject. if 
you really think that are so incompetent , why do n't you write them 
and ask where they got their sources on this subject , if you ca n't tell from 
their i'm a graduate student in history. writing to and 
down sources is old hat .  . but my time is limited and this is not my 
and neither you nor anyone else have said anything that would 
cast one of doubt on existing evidence. i'm not going to waste my time 
trying to someone 's paranoia .  . do the research yourself. 

but concrete particulars are still no more than 
more or less  . 


given that you already consider all evidence tainted , what on earth would 
constitute concrete particulars and since when have concrete particulars been 
considered 

i suggest that those who do not trust popular  ( irving et al ) 
writing for a popular audience do not , as a rule , provide 
should try instead reading academic , who usually 
provide to all their sources in detail. this is the place 
to start looking .  . assuming that one really wants to know the truth. 

i 'll bet the folks on alt . are tired of this subject already. my 
apologies we seem to have gone off on a bit of a  . i forget which gods 
are responsible for keeping within appropriate newsgroup subject 
 .  .  . 


david matthew 
 .  .  . be . in me as the eternal of the wind .  .  . let . the gods speak softly 
of us in days  .  .  .  ( ezra pound ) 


from  ( gregg skinner ) 
subject re and compassion 
reply to g 
organization center for research and development 
lines 26 

 ( kent sandvik ) writes 

in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 
do you judge all christians by the acts of those who would call 
themselves christian and yet are not the 's contradicted scripture 
in their actions .  . they were not christian .  . simple as that. perhaps 
you have read too much into what the media has  . ask any 
true believing christian and you will find that they will deny any 
association with the 's .  . even the 7th day adventists have denied any 
further ties with this cult , which was what they were. 

well , if they were satanists , or followers of an obscure religion , 
then i would be sure that christians would in condemn and 
make this to a show case. 

you might be sure , but you would also be wrong. 

and does not this show the with religion in order 
word a mind virus that will make capable of letting 
their small children burn to while they 

i suspect the answer to this question is the same as the answer to , 
do not the actions of the likes of stalin show the of 
atheism 


from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 30 

i had said 

, you missed the point too. christianity is a relationship .  . i have 
a relationship with my god. i know him. 

consider your mother  . you know your mother. what would you think 
of me if i asserted that your mother is 9 feet , murdered your father , 
and you when you were a kid would you , who knows your 
mother well , think was a blind arrogant idiot to proclaim such things 

says 

this analogy is not good for example , there are plenty of people who 
know god as well as you do , but do n't agree on things like 

1 ) how many children he she has 
2 ) whether he she of 
3) whether mohammed was one of his her prophets 

now , if you and all these other people who absolutely know what god is 
like ca n't agree on basic like these , at least one of you 
who knows what this god thing is like must be wrong therefore , 
subjective certainty is worthless regarding knowledge of this god. 

on the other hand , i do n't know any large groups of people who claim 
absolute knowledge of my mother and who disagree about her basic 
 . this is the difference between real people and imaginary friends. 

, therefore by your logic , since your people disagree about 
the characteristics of your mother , you mother must be imaginary .  . 

from  ( ed , jr . ) . 
subject re greek myth and the bible 
organization writer 
lines 28 
x mailer version 1 . 13 . 

in 7 . edu . ,  ( laurie ewbrandt ) wrote 

irrelevant from previous postings deleted 

a from a text book used as part of an introductory course in 
social the term myth designates traditionally based , 
narratives on that the nature of humankind 's relationship 
to nature and to the supernatural .  . ... legends are defined as 
tales concerning other times and places that do not give the same extensive 
emphasis to supernatural  . legends , more often than myths , are 
purely as  . from peter b. 's  . an . introduction to 
and social  . second ed page  . this makes 
the bible a 's closet , over with a little bit of every 
thing by a people. 


now does n't this sound a lot like the  ( or otherwise ) story 
from antiquity that somehow tries to  ( or does ) explain natural 
i think i hear what you 're saying , but i'm not convinced that 
i know what you mean. the possibility exists that what looks like 
myth on the surface may be after all much more than just a story. 





ed , jr. 

from  ( rob dobson ) 
subject re that kill by sword , must be killed by sword 
organization university of virginia 
lines 18 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 

so are you happy now when 70 people , including innocent kids , 
died today 

no , and im especially unhappy that these 70 people died in an assault 
on private property with government  . 

i am also unhappy  ( or actually , very suspicious ) that the fbi was dismissing 
out of hand any chances that they might have accidentally set the 
themselves. i mean , i guess we are just supposed to believe that 
modified into the walls of a building and 
into the building are just , no way 
anything could go wrong. 



legalize freedom 

from  ( tommy kelly ) 
subject objective values  v  scientific accuracy  ( was re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is) 
reply to  ( tommy kelly ) 
organization for the foundations of computer science , u 
lines 54 

frank , i tried to mail this but it  . it is fast moving out 
of t . a . , but i did n't know if t . a . was the only group of the three 
that you to. 
apologies to regular t . a . folks .  . 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

science ( the real world ) has its basis in values , not the other way round , 
as you would wish it. 

you must be using  values  to mean something different from the way i 
see it used normally .  . 

and you are certainly using  science  like that if you equate it to 
the real world . 

science is the recognition of patterns in our perceptions of the universe 
and the making of qualitative and quantitative predictions concerning 
those perceptions .  . 

it has nothing to do with values as far as i can see. 
values are ... well they are what i value. 
they are what i would have rather than not have what i would experience 
rather than not , and so on. 

objective values are a set of values which the proposer believes are 
applicable to everyone. 

if there is no such thing as objective value , then science can not 
objectively be said to be more useful than a kick in the head. 

i do n't agree. 
science is useful as it the predictions mentioned above are 
accurate. that is as what i think will be the effect on 
my perceptions of a time  ( with or without my to the universe ) 
versus what my perceptions actually turn out to be. 

but values are about whether i like  ( in the sense of the word ) the 
perceptions ) 

simple theories with accurate predictions could not objectively be said 
to be more useful than a set of tarot cards. 

i do n't see why. 
 usefulness  in science is with  accuracy  period. 
tarot predictions are not useful because they are not accurate or 
ca n't be shown to be accurate. 
science is useful because it is apparently accurate. 

values objective or otherwise are beside the point. 

no 

tommy 

from 
subject ex gay  ( was homosexuality fact fiction ) 
lines 
return path com . ! 

tony 

while i honestly believe you believe you are doing a good thing by posting 
that piece of propaganda , i believe the more people believe that the more they 
will feel justified in their blatant persecution of gay oriented people. i 
have seen the film called the gay and along with my church we found 
it to be  . not because of what was actually shown  ( cleaver use of 
can create any image one wants to portray ) , rather we are 
familiar with how widely it was actively and how many naive people 
are actually believing the garbage found within it. the truth is that neither 
you nor i can fully speak for anyone who calls gay , but knowing as 
many as i do and knowing their and thier faith and life 
i have to say that the report you posted is a very biased report , something 
obviously claimed against gays as well. the truth is that unless you are 
gay you cannot know what harm you are causing .  . i speak as an 
who supports gay rights in our society. i do not 
support wild sex or any other misrepresentations by christian 
fundamentalist extremists , but i know people who are not the sexual 
your report them to be. it is no mistake that the removed 
homosexuality from it 's list of mental illnesses , it is also no mistake that 
there are many christians and who long to bring it back to the list. 
i do not feel threatened by gays , i do n't understand why others are. 

the following is an article concerning two of the more popular ex gay 
exodus international homosexuals anonymous .  . 

the founder of an ex gay support group chooses over 

by robert  ( from gay oriented magazine advocate ) 

in december 1985 , david received one of the advocate 's homophobia 
the a prayer a day keeps the lust away citation .  . as director of free 
indeed , a national ex gay ministry , was singled out for offering 
gays and lesbians a way out of the homosexual death style 
through prayer .  . i 'd like to give the award back , now , i'm 
no longer it. 
's eight year involvement with the national ex gay movement 
with his founding of the phoenix chapter of homosexuals anonymous  ( ha ) as well 
as free indeed. he has since abandoned his and now says that the ex 
gay movement is a effort based on deception .  . there 's no reality 
in it , he says , i was selling a product , and my product was a lie. 
headed up by national like exodus international and courage , the 
organizations of the ex gay movement rely on the of born again 
christianity to convince homosexuals usually young gay men who 
are just coming out that they can shed their sexuality by suppressing their 
sexual and christianity .  . we offer support to people who are 
seeking to leave the sin of homosexuality , explains bob , director of 
exodus .  . he that about 80 of those seeking to their 
sexuality are men. 
anybody who is involved in the ex gay ministry is misguided and is wasting 
their time , says , a former who worked with 
as ha and appeared with him on the show. these 
organizations are for people who are and emotionally  . 
it 's possible to change your identity or your behavior , says sex 
brian , author of on being gay . but it 's really impossible to 
change your orientation .  . these people are no longer calling themselves gay , 
but they continue to have same sex feelings. 
says he founded free indeed after an week in when all 
hell broke loose in his personal life. a few days after his lover ended both 
their and their business , was 
by a man he picked up in a bar .  . i was really , he , and i 
went home with this guy. he me up and me. he left me up all 
night , and the next morning he me again. 
when was eventually freed by the , he returned home to the 
home he shared with his ex lover .  . he had another man there with him , 
 . i thought at this time ,  if this is what being gay is 
about , i do n't want to be this way anymore. 
that if he could find a way out , he would share his 
with others. he organized an to demonstrate at phoenix 's 
gay pride in june 1985 , and a few months later free indeed held its 
first public  . at a meeting to promote a gay civil rights , 
free indeed members loudly blasted gays , telling them were sinners headed 
for hell. 
free indeed began receiving about a hundred telephone calls a week , thanks 
in part to a listing in the local pages. we were listed 
under and gay alternative services , says , so people 
thought we were a gay information  . people would call to find out 
where the local were , and we 'd preach to them about the sins of 
sexuality .  . like this are typical of the movement , says , 
adding , they 'll do anything to reach these people. 
david used to go on radio and say really stupid things , peter 
kelly , a at phoenix 's catholic aids program , like that 
he knew he was gay when he started wearing  . 
's family first found out about his ministry when they saw him on 
's talk show in 1985 .  . they were , he  . 
they that if they had to have a gay person in the family , better 
that i should be a   gay person. 
but was hardly  . by the time i appeared on 's 
show , i 'd started having sex with men again. men would call our 
and tell me about thier latest sin sex with their , sex with their 
father .  . i was all the time. 
unable to risk going to gay , where he might be recognized from his 
numerous television , says he used to go to 
and get  . when he was n't working the , he was sleeping 
with other homosexuals .  . 
i did n't realize it at first , but a lot of the ha leaders were having sex 
with one another , says .  . we 'd go to in other cities , 
and we 'd be paired up in  . everybody was sleeping with everybody 
else. 
by the time he appeared on  am philadelphia  television show in may 1988 , 
was having anonymous sex a couple times a week. when the show 's 
host asked him if he ever acted on , his answer was a lie. 
's began to take it 's on him , however. he was 
suffering from and , a 
infection , and this led to his escape from the  . i was too sick 
to go to church , he explains .  . the more time i spent away from those people 
the more i began to feel like myself. i began to remember who i used to be. 
late in 1991 , turned free indeed phone lines over to a local 
church and closed the ministry 's doors. i 'd convinced myself that there 
is no need in the world for ex gay people , he says .  . 
today , , 31 , is studying alternative ( i'm interest 
ed in belief systems that are n't  . ) , considering ( but 
not with a christian ! ) , and searching for a new project to himself to. 
i feel compelled to commit myself to gay causes , he says .  . i want to 
eventually stop feeling guilty about what i did and make up for the damage i 
may have brought to our community. 

end article 

's is by no means unique and i have read several other articles 
of former leaders and of  ex gay  who have said very similar 
similar things. not all of them have left christianity , but have 
come to realize that god loves them despite the attitudes of others. some , 
like chris , director of the project of west 
hollywood church have actually been working with the gay community 
to bring them into the of christ and encouraging real ethical values 
of sexuality within the of being gay. i have also , as i said talked and become 
and become close friends with many who once attended such groups as love in 
action and others , who either once claimed to have been or who 
were too honest with themselves to live a lie , no matter who was 
in them. some were even encouraged to marry as a way of their 
new , only to eventually start hitting the , 
and , since these were usually activities under the of 
night and one night stands of behavior meant no continuous sin 
through a committed relationship .  . this is a horrible trap which the church 
has on the backs of the truly gay oriented people , and the very 
victims in these cases are the wives and children of such marriages .  . yet 
the church insists that there are only two options they are willing to allow 
gay people 1 ) or 2 )  . this is sad .  . what is also 
, is in the cases of those who cannot suppress their desires and 
fear for thier in such a up confusion that the church forces on 
them , they may even opt for  suicide  or surgical of the brain 
functions .  . in the past and drug were common 
place. there are now becoming available more and more literature on the 
threat of christianity gays , such as 's 
ex gays there are none . and others. there are also a great many fact 
based books being written to help people in this confusion such as 
's gays under , and chris 's come ! . i 
seriously recommend those for people seeking help for this persecution and 
self acceptance .  . 

thank you. 

from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re and compassion 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 18 


in article ,  ( paul harvey ) writes 
in article 
 ( malcolm lee ) writes 
if one does not follow the teachings of christ , he is not christian .  . 
too easy 

that would exclude most self christians .  . 
do you follow the ten commandments 

as a matter of fact , yes i do or at least i to. i will not 
be so proud as to boast that my faith is 100 . i am still human 
and imperfect and therefore , liable to sin .  . , there is 
opportunity for and forgiveness .  . 

god be with you , 

) 

from 
subject ex gays  ( follow up ) 
lines 53 
return path com . ! 

i would like to apologize for the typos in the previous post. 

in retrospect i would also like to quote another source douglas c. 
from his 1991 book homosexuality 

ineffective 

recently the of yet another prominent ex gay ministry , exodus 
international , their conversion as ineffective .  . 
michael and cooper , of exodus international and lovers 
for 13 years , were involved with the organization from to  . the 
program was described by these men as ineffective . . . not one person was 
healed .  . they stated that the program often already prominent 
feelings of guilt and personal failure among the many were 
driven to thoughts as a result of the failed  . 

the previous article quoted in the last posting is from the advocate , june 
30 , 1992 called the ex ex gay by robert  . 

some personal thoughts 

it is of no great that there is a concerted effort by a major 
portion of the church to control and change of a minority among 
its ranks .  . this was the behind the spanish inquisition , only all 
they required was a of faith  ( after much torture ) and then , to 
save their souls they would them to heaven through death. even 
later , the bible was used to defend slavery , oppression and 
of african americans , even to the justification of  . 
today 's scholars are just a bit more slick in their approach. the tool is 
still , but now it is mostly by means of brainwashing and mind 
control , convincing people that they should see themselves as less than 
god sees them , then maintaining a hold on them until it is felt 
thier mind is complete. sure , no one is physically forced 
to stay in this but social pressure is enough for 
many to keep themselves in this new found of self hate .  . 

as an i advocate the abolishment of oppression and persecution 
against gays in all of civil life. a person should be judged by 
the , or non to the society in which they live , 
not by some high standard of imposed by those who haven  t 
a clue what is in their heart .  . 

for those who seek more information about gays and groups that accept them 
please contact your chapter of  ( parents friends of lesbians 
and gays ) who will be more than happy to assist you. this is a group of 
people comprised of gays , lesbians and , their parents and friends 
who have formed a support group for help and understanding. try talking to 
a parent of a gay son or daughter and learn some first hand real life and 
loving understanding. god 's love and understanding for gay people is no 
less  . 

thank you. 


from  ( alex gottschalk ) 
subject re , the number of the , 
organization brown university , island usa 
lines 15 
nntp posting host brown . edu . 
x news software via post v1 . 0 . 

in article ,  ( michael parks swaim ) 
said 
posted on 27 1993 at 00 16 13 by michael parks 
in article  ( jeremy d hall ) writes 
well , i will do the math , and i get  ( 6 6 ) 6 2 , , , 

this mean anything to anyone ) 

5 1 5 thus fitting in with something else. 

 .  .  . and . everything under the sun is in tune .  .  .  . what was the 
the sun is by the moon. 
pink floyd 
curious 


from  ( keith emmen ) 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
organization , 
x newsreader tin 1 . 
lines 11 

 ( stephen l favor ) writes 
seems to me koresh is yet another messenger that got killed 
for the message he carried .  .  ( which says nothing about the 
character of the messenger . ) . i reckon we 'll have to find out 
the rest the hard way. 


koresh was killed because he wanted lots of illegal guns .  . 

i have n't heard of any illegal guns being found. he was accused 
of not paying taxes on legal guns .  . 

subject re albert sabin 
from  ( rich fox , univ of south dakota ) 
reply to 


, 
organization the university of south dakota computer science dept. 
nntp posting host charlie 
lines 

in article ,  ( bill rawlins ) writes 

however , one highly biased account  ( as well as possibly internally 
inconsistent ) written over 2 ago , in a dead language , by 
of the creature in question which is not supported by other more 
objective sources and even accepted by those who 's messiah this creature 
was supposed to be , does n't convince me in the slightest , especially when many 
of the current day appear into believing this pile of 
 .  .  . 

since you have referred to the messiah , i assume you are referring 
to the new testament .  . please detail your or e mail if 
you do n't want to post. first century greek is well known and 
well understood .  . have you considered josephus , the jewish historian , 
who also wrote of jesus in addition , the four gospel accounts 
are very much in harmony .  . 

bill , i have taken the time to explain that biblical scholars consider the 
josephus reference to be an early christian insert .  . by biblical scholar i mean 
an expert who , in the course of his or her research , is willing to let the 
fall where they may .  . this , who may otherwise be 
defined as biblical apologists .  . they find what they want to find .  . they are 
not trustworthy by scholarly standards  ( and  . 

why an insert read it i have , a number of times. the passage is 
out of context , and josephus , a writer , had no such problem elsewhere 
in his work. the passage has nothing to do with the subject matter in which 
it lies .  . it suddenly appears and then just as quickly  . 

until you can demonstrate how and why the scholarly community is wrong about 
the josephus insert , your proof is meaningless and it should not be repeated 
here. what 's more , even if josephus happened to be legitimate , it would prove 
nothing. scholars speak of the weight of evidence. far more independent 
evidence would be required to validate your claim .  . until , your 
belief is based on faith. that 's ok , but you your rights when you pass 
faith off as fact. 

as for the gospels , there are , but there are also 
inconsistencies and contradictions .  . should n't a perfect be perfect 
should n't there be absolutely no room for debate i suggest you read gospel 
by , and the version by fox  ( for 
, no known or relationship , but we do indeed share 
an evolutionary  . 

the fact that there are inconsistencies , and contradictions does not deny 
your position. on the other hand , neither do the gospels prove your faith. 
independent evidence is necessary , and i know of none  ( which we have already 
discussed , and so far you have not provided any) .  . until then , its faith. 
moreover , you have committed a fundamental error in logic .  . you have attempted 
to prove your claim with that which you want to prove .  . its no different than 
saying i am right because i say so. 

your logic is full of circles .  . it reminds me a bit of the 
general assembly .  . the assembly defined five  ( this is where 
fundamentalist came from ) of orthodox protestant christianity , to wit 1 ) 
jesus performed miracles , 2 ) jesus was born of a virgin , 3) jesus was bodily 
resurrected , 4 ) jesus  crucifixion for human sin , and here is the 
5 ) the bible is the inerrant word of god. 
inerrant broadly as inerrant .  . fundamentalists take the 
first four as literally true , and then validate them with a literally inerrant 
bible , which contains the first four , and which is the only thing known to 
contain the first four. 

and and and hand waving if ever there was ! 

its faith , bill. you do n't have any more or better truths than anyone else. 
whatever works for you. just do n't it on others. 

regards , 

rich fox , , 

from  ( gordon banks ) 
subject re gordon 's objections 
reply to  ( gordon banks ) 
organization univ .  . of pittsburgh computer science 
lines 38 

in article  ( robert weiss ) writes 
gordon banks quoted and added .  .  .  . 

gb in article 
gb  ( robert weiss ) writes 
gb 
gb the mormon jesus is the spirit brother of lucifer .  . that jesus is god 
gb the father 's first born spirit child. that jesus was on earth 
gb through natural means , not by the holy ghost .  . that he his blood 
gb for our sins in the garden of  . that his blood cannot 
gb from all sin .  . that he is now among many millions of other 
gb gods .  . that jesus is jehovah and the father is  ( in the ot 
gb jehovah and are the same) .  . that he needed to be saved .  . 
gb 


it is true that mormons believe that all  ( including jesus , 
lucifer , robert weiss ) are in the same family. it does not mean 
that jesus was created , but rather that lucifer and robert 
were not. i agree that this is a heresy . so what 
the sweating of blood in is 
not a basic mormon doctrine .  . jesus did not perform the atonement 
in alone , as some anti mormons are trying to teach .  . 
as far as the sin whatever that is , it is biblical , 
and not specifically mormon .  . it is also called the sin against 
the holy ghost .  . most bible scholars  ( other than conservative 
ones ) do not believe jehovah and were always the same. 
i'm sure you 've heard of the j and the e texts i do n't 
know what you mean by that he needed to be saved . jesus 
jehovah in mormon doctrine , jesus was sinless , 
and thus did not need to be saved . 




gordon banks skepticism is the chastity of the , and 
it is to surrender it too soon. 


from  ( steve peterson ) 
subject re question on sabbath question correction 
organization cadence design systems , inc. 
lines 13 

there are a few groups that continue to believe christians have to 
worship on the sabbath  . the best known are the seventh day 
adventists and jehovah 's witnesses .  . they argue that act 20 7 is not a 
regular worship service , but a special meeting to see paul off , and 
that i 16 2 does n't explicitly say it 's a regular worship service .  . 

jehovah 's witnesses do not believe that christians are required to observe 
the sabbath , whether it is on saturday or sunday .  . the sabbath was part 
of a between god and the israelites and is not required for 
christians .  . 

steve 


from  ( rob dobson ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization university of virginia 
lines 24 

in article  ( brian kendig ) writes 

they used a to knock a hole in the , and they released 
non , non tear gas into the building .  . 

how do you know were you there 

while obviously koresh was a case , the  ( typical ) inability of the 
government media to get its story straight is quite  . on 
tuesday night , nbc news reported that the fbi did not know the place 
was burning down until they saw black from the 
building .  . the next day , fbi were that they saw 
setting the fire .  . the fbi was also denying that it was possible 
their of the compound 's could have accidentally set the 
, while also saying they been able to do much investigating 
of the site because it was still too hot. so how did they know they 
accidentally set the fire .  . 

sounds like the fbi just burned the place to the ground to destroy 
evidence to me. 



legalize freedom 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re and compassion 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 24 

in article , 
 ( ken arromdee ) wrote 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
so we have this highly christian religious order that put fire 
on their house , killing most of the people inside. 

we have no way to know that the burned the house it could have been 
the and fbi .  . we only have the government 's word for it , after all , and 
people who started it by a no knock search with are hardly 
observers .  . 

there 's another point to be made. those who have been inside burning 
houses know that if they want to stay alive , it 's better to run out 
from the building .  . we had one case where an fbi had to 
out a women from the burning house , she run back in when 
she saw the forces arriving .  . it is a good indication of the 
mind that the followers had including having they children burned 
instead of saving these innocent victims of the instance .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( dale m. skiba ) 
subject re judas , crucifixion , tyre , etc .  .  .  . 
nntp posting host bass . com . 
organization , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 43 

david joslin wrote 
 ( frank , jr . ) . writes 
based on the amount of e mail from fellow christians who have read the 
posts and told me i was wasting my time with and joslin , i told 
them i was n't doing it for or but for other christians .  . they 
have told me that 's and 's arguments wo n't convince most bible 
studying christians .  . so i have my purpose here and it 's 
also contributed to my decision. 

so most bible studying christians wo n't be convinced by my arguments 
and this is supposed to be a good thing , i presume 

where does this most bible studying christians think as frank 
does come from. and what implied good are you doing for other 
christians 

at least some of what you are teaching has been demonstrated as 
wrong. has it ever occured to you that you may be doing more harm 
than good to your fellow christians 

btw , i used to think like frank does. i went to a fundamentalist 
church for a while. i did n't start to really think about what 
they were saying until i noticed a god 's science 
there. i read it and noticed that the authors of it knew virtually 
nothing about science. i asked church members some questions about 
theories from the and got only answers. i 
began to notice a very similar style of answers for theological 
questions as well. the only conclusion i could reach was that 
these peoples  beliefs about the bible were about as valid as 
their beliefs in their god 's science  . 

if there are still people out there who think that my purpose here 
is to attack the bible ,  ( an accusation frank once made ) i would point 
out that i have also criticized people who have posted bible 
contradictions that turn out to be silly , out of context , or easily 
 ( and legitimately )  . i'm not attacking the bible , but 
intellectual dishonesty about the bible , from either side. 

if one of the primary purposes of christians is to seek out truth , 
how can people condemn you for doing this 




from  ( bob sarver ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 103 


in article  ( bob sarver ) writes 
why would it be immoral to hurt someone else 

 ( me ) 
because you would n't want it to happen to you. 

 ( hudson ) 
why does that make something immoral 



because you are not being consistent .  . moral systems must be consistent .  . 

a person who thinks they can inflict pain on others , but does n't want it 
inflicted upon themselves , has a double standard. and double standards are 
a violation of any moral system. 





 ( me ) 
morality defines how we interact with other people the rules that we 
use to guide our daily affairs .  . our conduct towards our fellow man. by 
realizing that we do n't like pain , we can also realize that other people 
do n't like it , either. 

 ( hudson ) 
of course we do n't like pain. i do n't like  . are 
immoral 

pain is n't immoral , stupid. pain itself is just a 
reaction. 

what is immoral is unwilling individuals to pain. 

or , for that matter. 






 ( hudson ) 
is it immoral to produce these same chemical reactions in a test 

 ( me ) 
it is n't the chemical reaction that is wrong , bozo .  . it 's making the human 
being the effects of the chemical reaction. sorry your 
little analogy did n't survive for very long under scrutiny .  . 

 ( hudson ) 
why would it be wrong to make humans the effects of the reactions 
if humans are only of matter 

what humans are of is n't the qualifying of whether or 
not something would be wrong. 




 ( hudson ) 
is it wrong to make matter chemical reactions 

yes , if it is sentient matter. 



 ( me ) 
nature is not a sentient force there is no choice involved. therefore , 
no question of morality .  . 


 ( hudson ) 
i actually heard a entertain the notion that matter had a will. 
there is some sentient force out there. 

fine. i have also heard that the government is the dna for 
a new race of in ordinary drinking water .  . 

what 's your point 



 ( hudson ) 
if humans are made only of matter , then choices are also chemical reactions , 
so why is choice an important issue. 

and if that is the case , then god is only an idea contained in the minds 
of people  ( formed of matter ) and on printed pages  ( also formed of matter ) 
and does not really exist. 

i can do the ad just as well as you can , but it 
wo n't prove any points for you or me. got anything relevant you want to 
talk about , or are you just playing little games 








from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 17 

in article , christian washed in 
the blood of the lamb .  . 
washed in the blood of the bull .  . 

if anyone in  . is in the process of a new religion , 
do not use the lamb or the bull , because they have already been 
 . please choose another animal , one not 
on the species list. 

this will be a hard task , because most cultures used most animals 
for blood sacrifices .  . it has to be something related to our current 
post modernism state. hmm , what about used computers 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( brian kendig ) 
subject re is it good that jesus died 
organization san francisco 
lines 203 

 ( brian 9615 ) writes 
 ( brian kendig ) writes 

and i maintain 

some people do not want to enter into the light and the knowledge that 
they alone are their own masters , because they fear it they are too 
afraid of having to face the world on their own terms. ... 

are you your own master do you have any that you cannot break 

if i have a habit that i really want to break , and i am willing to 
make whatever sacrifice i need to make to break it , then i do so. 
there have been bad of mine that i 've decided to put forth the 
effort to break , and i 've done so there have been other bad 
that i 've decided are not worth the effort to break .  . it 's my choice , 
either way. 

i am my own master .  . i choose what i want to do. i the benefits 
of my actions against their consequences , and i use my experience to 
help me deal with the , which in turn make me more experienced .  . 

i do n't always succeed , but i never fail , either i learn .  . 

do you have any you ca n't break why not 

for one , you seem unable to master your lack of desire to understand 
even the slightest concept of the bible .  . 

i have arrived at my own understanding of christianity , just as you 've 
probably arrived at your own understanding of islam that is most 
likely very different from the way a moslem thinks of his religion. 
are you unable to master your lack of desire to understand even the 
slightest concept of the quran if that 's different , then how is it 
different from what you accuse me of can i accuse you of having no 
desire to understand even the slightest concept of atheism 

how about sexual sins gotta any of those secret desires 
in your head that you harbor but can get control of do you 
women when they walk past you do you degrade them to a sex object in 
your head 

of course not. that 's disgusting .  . for centuries , religions have been 
on sex and treating women as second class humans 
that 's one of the reasons i renounced my christianity .  . 

do you insult 
people , then regret it later. yet do it again the next 
time opportunity presents itself 

no. i do n't insult people. period. it 's not in my nature , and it 's 
not something that i want to do , either. 

are you truly the master of yourself 

not yet but my life is the ground i use to practice on. the fun is 
in the getting there ! 

i have admitted that i am not the master of my thought life at all times. 
that i sometimes say things i do want to say , and then repeat my mistake 
 . i have admitted to myself that i cannot control every aspect 
of my being. there are times i know i should n't say something , but 
then say it anyway. there are times i simply forget a lesson .  . 
i , in fact , am not my own master .  . 

we do n't start out perfect we 've got to to be something 
better. i know my shortcomings , and i know my , and i live 
my life according to the decisions i make , and i am content to 
with the consequences of my decisions as easily as i 'll accept the 
praise for them. there have been times in my life when i 've made 
mistakes , yes i try to never make the same mistake twice .  . 

i need help. jesus promised me 
this help. and i took him up on his offer .  . i have let 
jesus be my master because jesus knows what is better for me than 
i myself do. 

i regard christ as a myth .  . i feel that there are far too many people 
offering far too many interpretations of what he supposedly said and 
did. the only person who can really judge me is me . i choose the 
roads i travel , and i decide whether or not i want to reach the end of 
any given road or turn back and as long as i do n't always turn 
back , there 's no in it. when i need help , i seek out my friends. 

do you see my point i think you 're the one under the , and i'm 
getting a great tan out here in the sunlight .  . my life has improved 
since i abandoned theism come and join me ! it will be 
a difficult trip at first , until you build up your for the 
long , but it 's well worth it ! 

then i guess ignorance is for you. because brian , you enjoy 
not having a clue about the bible .  . 

and you do n't have a clue about what i'm saying , either. open your 
eyes and see open your ears and listen. i'm not just off 
empty words. this is my life , this is what gives me meaning. 

do n't you see i'm not going to accept anything that i ca n't witness 
with my own eyes or experience with my own senses , especially not 
something as powerful as what you 're trying to get me to accept .  . 
surely if you believe in it this strongly , you must have a good 
reason to , do n't you 

can you witness love with your senses how does and 
concern for you with your senses if nothing 
to you other than what you can see , taste , smell , hear and touch , 
then you better become a and fast .  . you better get rid 
of your emotions .  . 

huh you 're going way off the track here. 

i say my mother loves me. how do i know , you ask i can point to 
definite things she 's done for me , and i can even just bring her to 
you so you can ask her , face to face. 

you say your deity loves you. how do you know , i ask you ca n't even 
convince me that it exists ! 

my god says that you will not cease existing .  . you have 
life forever. you can choose to either live it in hell in eternal 
where there is no whatsoever , or can choose to 
live it in paradise with god. that is what my god says .  . and that 
was the issue. your made up theism is what it is made up. it 's 
wishful thinking. 

if any god  heaven  before me like a , promising 
to me if i 'll only suspend my disbelief and ignore my 
rationality for just this once , then i would choose  . i can 
not lie to myself to another being , no matter how powerful 
it is. 

note also that there are several gods trying to me this way 
yahweh , allah , zeus , odin ,  .  .  . please give me a solid reason to 
choose one of them over the others. 

description of deleted hee hee ! 

why would you want to live a good life 
to you , you die and that 's it. do n't contradict yourself. you have 
no reason to live a good life. it does n't do you any good in the 
end. your life does n't do anybody else any good either because 
everyone dies anyway. so you have no reason to lead a good life. 
a good life is meaningless .  . why do you do such a meaningless thing 

that paragraph demonstrates that you have n't to a single word 
i 've said. 

have you ever gone to an amusement park why i mean , after a few 
hours , it closes , and nothing 's different except that you 're a few 
dollars  . going to the amusement park does n't do you any good 
at all. why do you do such a meaningless thing 

the answer is that you think it 's fun. you play the ball over 
and over because you 'd like to get better at it , even though you 're 
not going to win anything better than a animal even if you 
blow ten dollars on it. you ride the because it 's an 
experience , even though  ( because ) it the out 
of you. 

in the same way , i think life is fun. and i do n't intend to leave the 
amusement park of life until they close down for the night ! d 

i'm sorry , i do n't feel that sacrificing jesus was something any god 
i 'd worship would do , unless the sacrifice was only temporary , in 
which case it 's not really all that important. 

has the resurrection in jesus is alive .  . jesus is not dead. 

so you  ( and your holy book ) say. by the same , therefore , santa 
claus every xmas .  . do n't you see i have no reason to 
believe that what you say is true. please give me some reason that i 
ca n't similarly apply to santa claus .  . 

forget the bible for a minute. forget quoting verses , forget about 
who said what about this or that. show me. picture just you and me 
and a wide open , and convince me that you 're right. 

forget that i am a person. forget that i know how to type .  . forget 
that i know how to put a sentence together. forget that i know 
how to send e mail .  . forget my existence .  . to me that i 
exist. . 

i ca n't do it , because your existence means nothing more to me than 
just your communications over the net. you have no more bearing on 
nor importance in my life than that remove it , and you will cease to 
be significant to me. 

are you thereby that your deity is nothing more than a 
collection of verses in a book , and cannot be supported without 
them 

or do you mean that the existence of your deity  ( and , in fact , any 
other deity that can be written about ) is as real as your own 
existence 

why do you believe what you believe 


brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re alt . sex . stories . under critical analysis ) 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 16 

in article ,  ( dennis 
kriz ) wrote 
i'm going to try to do something here , that perhaps many would 
not have thought even possible. i want to begin the process of 
a critical study of the pornography posted on 
alt . sex . stories . , to identify the major and present 
in the stories posted there up then the possibility of 
an objective moral evaluation of the material present there. 

, i'm  . i did n't know you were interested to even 
study such as alt . sex . stories . provide .  .  .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( thyagi nagasiva ) 
subject re o . t . o . clarification 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 48 



do what thou shall be the whole of the law. 
the word of sin is  . 


kent writes 

sorry , the san jose based order is called a . m . o . r . c . , 
i do n't remember for the time being what the a . m .  . stand for 
but o . r . c . is , in other words for 
order of the rose cross .  . 


response 

yes , very true. the entire title is  the ancient and mystical order 
 . they are at avenue , san jose , 
california , , usa .  . 

they are considered different and largely unrelated by a number of 
sources. i 've seen documentation which links them through the figure 
of h. lewis .  . lewis was apparently involved with , who 
was the o . h . o .  . of for many years. apparently it 
is also true that lewis had a charter to form an o . t . o .  . body and then 
created a . m . o . r . c .  .  ( as a an interesting question) .  . 


kent 

otherwise their in san jose has a pretty decent 
metaphysical bookstore , if any of you are interested in such books. 
and my son loves to run around in their egyptian  . 


response 

indeed , and across the street is another metaphysical 
book called  metaphysical  , wherein i 've purchased some 
wonderful works by crowley and others. metaphysical books , 
park  . , san jose , ca .  .  ( 408 )  . 


invoke me under my stars .  . love is the law , love under will. 

i am i ! 

 ( i )  ( dclxvi ) 

from  ( stephen ) 
subject re comments on the koresh 3 02 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host utarlg . uta . edu . 
organization the university of texas at arlington 
lines 102 

in article , 
 ( ian kennedy ) writes .  .  .  . 

 ( stephen ) wrote 
correction to my prior post , proper citation is 

isaiah 30 26 moreover the light of the moon shall 
be as the light of the sun , and the light of the 
sun shall be , as the light of seven days , 
in the day that the lord up the of 
his people , and the of their wound .  . 

so we have to wait for the sun to 

more along the lines of hebrews 12 25 29 , i reckon .  .  .  . 

see that you refuse not him that speaks .  . for if they 
escaped not who refused him that on earth , much 
more shall not we escape , if we turn away from him that 
speaks from heaven 

whose voice then shook the earth but now he has promised , 
saying , yet once more i not the earth only , but also 
heaven. 

and this word , yet once more , the removing of 
those things that are , as of things that are made , 
that those things which cannot be may remain .  . 

we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved , 
let us have , whereby we may serve god 
with and fear 

for our god is a fire .  . 


or 2nd 1 7 10 .  .  .  . 

and to you who are rest with us , when the lord 
jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels , 
in flaming fire taking on them that know not god , 
and that obey not the gospel of our lord jesus christ 

who shall be punished with destruction from 
the presence of the lord , and from the glory of his power 
when he shall come to be in his , and to be 
in all them that believe  ( because our testimony 
among you was believed ) in that day. 


kinda gives flaming a whole new meaning , i reckon .  . 



the impression i got from talking with was that the coming 
of the lord , power wise , is going to be something that those who are 
unprepared ca n't handle kinda like a due to 
guilt .  . somehow it seems to also apply to the entire physical world as 
we know it. suggests that god does n't want that and has sent koresh 
as a  . 

seems that those who have been through salvation , or that those 
protected by the seals , will be the ones who survive. and no i do n't 
have a good idea yet what being by the seals actually involves 
or how exactly it relates to salvation .  .  ( other than it involves the 
marriage of the and the  .  .  . for those of you biblical 
well versed . ) . 


me personally , i'm totally 100 dependent on god through christ , so 
if god wants me to understand , good. if not , also good. if god wants 
to save me , or of me , that 's great either way. being born in 
the spirit , means being part of the body of christ  ( ephesians 2 ) , so 
who and what i was , matters little. what 's important is loving god 

come , nuke , or who cares satan might even be able 
to pull off a pretty convincing fake .  . big deal. not worth fearing or 
worrying about though , not before 


the greater glory of god 


maybe koresh is right , maybe he is n't , and it should be interesting to 
see the new message  ( or  . the of the bible i 've taken in 
studying the passages he points to in the 3 02 text , has been most re 
 . but the test of prophecy is still the fruit it bears which 
is not yet clear. 

much much more important is charity which by definition is 

love for god 

(i hope dear reader , you 've taken all this as an of faith , 
and not a statement of mere fact. seems many folks get real upset at 
 . ) 


j 

stephen 


from ece  ( david anderson ) 
subject re christian owned organization list 
organization university of arizona 
lines 19 

in article a  ( stephan fassmann ) writes 
in article  ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 

in article writes 

does anyone have or know where i can find a list of christian owned 
and one that i know of is  . 

i believe that is actually owned by the mormons .  . 

sorry , is own by a mormon not the church. 

slight difference. the church does own a heck of 
a lot however. they are the largest land in missouri 
 ( where they think christ will appear at the second  . 

i believe they also own some large company like 
 ( that was why they had to take off of their forbidden 
substance list) .  . 

from  ( michael d. adams ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
reply to 
organization society of warm and fuzzy star worshippers 
lines 14 
nntp posting host 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

on 15 apr 1993 22 34 40 gmt , eric sieferman observed 

christian washed in the blood of the lamb .  . 
washed in the blood of the bull .  . 

if anyone in  . is in the process of a new religion , 
do not use the lamb or the bull , because they have already been 
 . please choose another animal , one not 
on the species list. 

how about washed in the blood of the ) 


michael d. adams 

from  ( pete yadlowsky ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization university of virginia 
lines 16 

bill writes 

anyway , i 've often wondered what business followers of christ would have 
with weapons .  . 

, these people were not followers of christ . david koresh was 
their messiah .  . 

ok , but did n't jesus figure somewhere into their beliefs anyway , my 
original question regarding christians and still stands .  . 


peter m. wake ! the sky is light ! 
academic computing center let us to the net again .  .  .  . 
university of virginia companion keyboard .  . 
after 

from  ( russell turpin ) 
subject re christian meta ethics 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 
summary out the ! 


in article  ( michael siemon ) writes 
well , the whole point of making these the base commandments is that 
they are n't reducible to rules. a set of rules is a moral code or a 
law code or an for acting .  . such things can be very helpful 
to individuals or societies but not if they are used instead of a 
personal involvement in and responsibility for one 's actions .  . ... 

the two commandments are rules they are merely rules that are 
so vague that they are practically of meaning. michael 
this every time he writes that the resolution 
of an argument over them turns on secular and cultural 
assumptions that are independent of these rules. 

... the great commandment is , more than anything else , a call 
to act as if you were god and accepting ultimate responsibility 
in your every action. ... 

the commandment to love your neighbor as yourself can be viewed , 
in part , as man that he is not god and cannot act as if 
he has ultimate responsibility .  . indeed , many traditions present 
an interpretation where believers are supposed to interpret 
loving one 's neighbor as following various other rules , and 
relying on their god to make things come out right , precisely 
because it would be wrong for man to assume such ultimate 
responsibility .  . once again , we are with good sounding 
that means whatever the reader wants it to mean. 

... may twist this act as if you were god to 
mean down rules for other people and be as nasty to them 
as possible if they do n't keep your rules. they are so 
 ( and obvious) about this that they have convinced a 
lot of people  ( who reject the whole concept ! ) that such 
is how god acts .  . ... 

and who is to say that this interpretation is twisted there 
are many passages in the bible that in their most straightforward 
reading show the christian god behaving in just this way. 
michael cannot refer to base claims or base commandments to 
show that such readings are twisted , because this in 
understanding occurs even in trying to interpret the base 
claims and commandments .  . in addressing conservative christians , 
michael will necessarily draw upon secular and cultural notions 
that these conservative christians will reject .  . 

but why should anyone be looking for an ethical system , since our 
society is eager to hand us one or more no matter what we do it 
may be that we need a principle for the critique of ethical systems 
in which case i will the once again. 

but these base commandments are too vague to serve as a 
principle for the critique of ethical systems. the meaning of 
these base commandments for any believer from the secular 
and cultural notions that the believer brings to them , from how 
the believer their demands with straightforward readings of 
other biblical passages , from a particular tradition , 
or from some combination of these things. these commandments 
lack sufficient substance in to serve as a basis for 
criticizing ethical systems. what meaning they have comes from 
the ethical system the believer brings to these commandments .  . 

and different bodies of christians have , from the beginning , 
different ethical systems  ( or in some cases ,  . as a result , 
it is bizarre to identify any one of these systems , however popular 
 ( or infamous ) with christianity .  . christianity does not have a torah .  . 
it does not have a  . specifically christian scripture has very 
little , if anything , in the way of commandments so little that 
the christians who want commandments go for 
them with almost no support ... the one , single , thing in the gospels 
which jesus specifically gives as a commandment to us is love 
one another. 

jesus explicitly states that this summarizes jewish law , which 
would seem to bring in all of it if we properly understand what 
it means to love god and love our neighbors. there are many 
parables and teachings the gospels attribute to jesus that are 
read as ethical commandments .  . the 
epistles are similarly full .  . if it is not clear that these all 
come together in a sensible understanding of ethical behavior , 
the problem is not a lack of raw material. 


i am a radical christian only in that i take the gospel seriously. 

no , michael , the conservative christians also take the gospel 
seriously. what you is the way you interpret the 
gospel .  . 

... why do n't i and the  ( myriads of ) other christians like me 
tell you something about christianity ... 

in a sense , the wide variety of interpretations does tell us 
something about christianity .  . it tells us that the new testament 
authors left a sufficiently vague that it can serve 
as the source text for many , different beliefs about the 
nature of the christian god and about what men should and 
should n't do. 

the irony here is that there is nothing in christianity per 
that michael can use to support the cause of lesbians and 
gays .  . every christian principle he turns to this cause is 
effective only through the extra christian principles through 
which michael interprets his religion , and the apply 
the same christian principles , with equal justification , to 
their cause. in short , it is the extra christian principles that 
make michael 's christianity beneficial , and i suspect they would 
be as beneficial , perhaps , without being filtered by 
christian interpretation .  . 

michael a picture of standard american atheism as the 
rejection of the evil in many conservative christian 
interpretations of the bible .  . but i think it is even more 
damaging to christianity to note that the new testament presents 
such a vague of notions about the nature of god and 
the nature of the good  ( except , of course , when it is ordered by 
an interpretation that relies on extraneous  . here , i 
think we should apply a christian parable , where a cold drink can 
have its value and a hot drink can have its value , but the 
we should out. 

russell 

from  ( eric sieferman ) 
subject re judas , crucifixion , tyre , etc .  .  .  . 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 24 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( frank , jr . ) . writes 

i need to things in my life , and this board is not all that important 
to me. my personal relationship wife the lord is first , my wife is second , and 
my ministry at church is third .  .  ( not to mention my job ! ) 

have you informed your wife of this 

this board will have 
to wait until  ( if ever ) i can organize my life to fit it in. i tried dropping 
out , but sieferman me to come back .  . he wo n't this time. 

thou hast used my name in ! i never  . , maybe , but 
never  . please take responsibility for your actions .  . 

 ( deletia ) 

i'm history. 
frank 

i appreciate your efforts .  . good luck. 




from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re that kill by sword , must be killed by sword 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 18 

in article , 
 ( stephen ) wrote 
as that is for so  . one direct benefit is being able to 
keep things in perspective , ks .  . 

such as who more the ones who died , or the loved ones who 
are left besides the lessons .  . it 's also time for many to  . 
including those who 've lost their faith in others , or in god. 

i'm learning to be patient , and let things heal .  . god willing .  . 

christians through ages have had to learn to be patient .  . i do think 
it 's time to face the reality. the events during the last 52 two 
days showed what the world is really like. 

kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( roy crabtree ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization red data center 
lines 26 

in article  ( peter nelson ) writes 
who would be alive today if they had been released back when we were 

the word released is loaded until convicted in , 
my children are my own. 

when the feds use this type of loaded logic , you cannot win 
1 ) we accuse you 
2 ) we shoot a couple of your kids 
3) we blame you for those shots 
4 ) we you for 51 days 
5 ) we tell you to come out or die 
6 ) we gas you 
7 ) you burn to death 
8 ) we blame you  ( prior to trial ) for all of it 
this a few weeks ago. 


peter 








from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject christians above the law was clarification of personal position 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
lines 24 

in article 
 ( darius lecointe ) writes 
... other good stuff deleted ... 
you can worship every day of the week. the issue is not whether 
christians are at fault for going to church on sunday or for not going to 
church on saturday .  . a church service does not mean you have 
recognized the of that day  ( my apologies to paul  . the 
question is on what authority do we proclaim that the requirements of the 

fourth commandment are no longer relevant to modern christians please 

note that the commandment does not command you to go to church , only to 
keep it holy unto the lord by from doing on it what only serves 
to give you pleasure and  . 

when are we going to hear a christian answer to this question 

in paraphrase 

on what or whose authority do christians proclaim that they 
are above the law and above the prophets  ( 7 major and 12 minor ) and not 
accountable to the ten commandments of which jesus clearly spoke his opinion 
in matthew 5 14 19 what is the source of this pseudo doctrine who is 
the pseudo teacher who is the great 

from () 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
organization news organization 
lines 62 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( stephen ) writes 
for those who think david koresh did n't have a solid structure , 
or sound biblical backing for his hour long , 

i do n't think anyone really cares about the solid structure of his 
 . it 's the deaths he 's responsible for that concern most people. 

i 've a list of the sources he cites or quotes 
he exactly used. as a christian , it 's pretty good , if not 
inspired .  . 

though i differ in part on some of his conclusions , the argument 
he presents is well backed which is why it 's taken me this long 
to work through still  . 

if you thought it was rambling that says far more about you than 
it does koresh .  . there is a very definite relationship between the 

you 've made me curious. what does this say about me 

first in revelation 6 , the of psalms 45 , and the 
most of revelation 19 which demonstrated one of his major points 
about how the writings in the prophets  ( including david ) , and in 
the psalms , and in revelation are all telling the same story when 
you understand how they 're related  ( ie have the  . the largely 
explain each other. 

charles manson used revelation as well. do we see a pattern here 
i wonder of koresh liked the 


the sequence following is to the koresh , should you care 
to check it out. you can almost see the note cards he used when 
doing the analysis. 

long list of biblical references which 
impressed me but were deleted 
in the interests of common sense. 

koresh was a , okay just because he found ways for the bible 
to his does not make him any less of a  . 


seems to me koresh is yet another messenger that got killed 
for the message he carried .  . 

i 'll type this very so that you can understand. he either set 
the fire himself or told his followers to do so. do n't make him out to 
be a  . he did not get killed , he killed himself. 


in the mean time , we sure learned a lot about evil and corruption .  . 
are you surprised things have gotten that 


the evil was inside the compound .  . all that thou shalt not kill stuff. 

oh yeah , one last point for the believers 2 14 19 .  . 

for the rest of us , could you please post the text 



from  ( david joslin ) 
subject re food for thought on tyre 
organization intelligent systems program 
lines 

 ( john e. king ) writes 
not exactly. the prophesy clearly implies that people would 
still be living in the area , but by the same it would 
never be . obviously , if people are still there they 
would live in houses , correct their implies a 
 . this is exactly what it has become a far cry from 
its original position of stature . 

looking at 1 we find that during roman times tyre with 
for first place in the intellectual life of the period that tyre was 
the of a christian , eventually with 14 under it 
that the most church of its kind in all was the 
built in tyre ca .  . that tyre was well known for its 
of , wine , white marble , and cloth that tyre , 
along with other , provided for south , 
and even chinese trade that tyre had to its growing 
population by following a , rather than , line 
of growth  ( because it was running out of land to build on ) that tyre 
established of its own. none of this sounds like a small 
by any stretch of the imagination. 

centuries later , under the , tyre had and flourishing 
and buildings of 5 6 stories. during this period , tyre was 
noted for its of sugar , , and , as of old ,  . 
during the crusades , tyre was the second most flourishing city held 
by  .  ( there is a lot more , but i got tired of writing . ) . 

in 2 we read the following description of modern other 
major cities in include tripoli , , tyre , and 
 . my emphasis this source also discusses the impact of 
the civil war , and the israeli military actions  ( 1978 , 1982 ) 
on the trading of tyre and  . it notes that after israel 's 
in 1984 , tyre appeared to enjoy a of its local 
economy .  . 

if tyre is such an insignificant little at present , 
why is it always called a city  ( or , above , a major city ) why 
does it show up on all the when population for cities 
in are given , why is tyre always one of the cities on the 
list  ( even if the list is only a dozen cities long) 

1 philip k. , in history from the earliest times to 
the present , ny , st. ,  . 

2 federal research division , library of congress , a 
country study , edited by thomas , 1989. 

in the early 's tyre had over 22 , 000 people. 

so far i 've seen stated from 15 , 000 to 22 , 000 .  . 
let 's assume the latter one is correct. by modern standards 
we are talking about a one horse town .  . 

a one horse town sounds like a lot of work for one horse .  . 
 ( anyway , tyre is connected by roads to the  . they 
may even use cars these days. ) 

the 1991 encyclopedia says pop .  .  ( 1982 ) . 23 , 000 .  . 
most other references give in the 14 17 thousand range .  . 
 ( one gives the population of tyre as 60 , 000 the same 
source give high for and beirut , also , 
so i doubt that it is a  . perhaps these were for 
the cities and their surrounding areas . ) . i do n't doubt that the 
population of tyre has over the last few decades .  . in 
particular , the israeli military action hurt tyre quite a bit. 

after the g it once more in the 1200 's , i believe. what 
other times did it fall that you were thinking of 

to egypt  ( 250 bce ) to the  ( 198 bce ) rome  ( 63 bce ) after 
rome it to various arab until ce when it was 
captured in the crusades it was then again by the muslims 
in ce and subsequently then the french , turks , british , 
and today ,  . 

i thought you were talking about times that tyre was  . 
do n't most , if not all , of these apply not just to tyre but to 
the other cities in the area , for example can you make 
a case for tyre having been singled out 

well , it enough to have a commerce in the 
in roman times. 

this is correct , but they were under roman , and the 
majority of the created wealth was off. the prophesy 
hold true. 

they had a good deal of under the  . from 2 
tyre ed the rights of from 
and from enjoy ed complete  . she started a 
large series of coins , in gold ... 

the descriptions of tyre under the romans do n't seem to fit 
your characterization , either. and under the it seems 
to have been allowed to flourish .  . i still think you are 
when you try to describe tyre as having been nothing but a small 
 . 

who is  . 

a christian whose standards of are quite low. 
he happens to quote the same source you quote  ( nina , 
tyre through the ages , beirut , dar publishers ,  . 
the same sentence , in fact. he the fulfillment of the 
prophecy using the same argument you are using , an argument that 
i have n't seen in print anywhere else , which is why i to 
the conclusion that you were quoting  . 

(i tried to find the book , but it is n't listed in books 
in print .  . can you tell me more about it her descriptions are so 
much at odds with everything else i 've read i'm curious to know why . ) . 



from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 29 


in article sandvik kent . apple . com . ,  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 
these laws written for the israelites , god 's chosen people whom god had 
set apart from the rest of the world. the israelites were a 
direct witness to god 's existence .  . to disobey god after knowing that god 
is real would be an outright denial of god and therefore immediately punishable .  . 
remember , these laws were written for a different time and applied only to 
god 's chosen people. but jesus has changed all of that. we are living in the 
age of  . sin is no longer immediately punishable by death. there is 
and there is salvation through our lord jesus christ .  . and not just 
for a few chosen people. salvation is available to everyone , jew and gentile 
alike. 

jews wo n't agree with you ,  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

a lot of people wo n't agree with me. that 's their right and i respect that. 
however , to the point , jews are also covered by the saving of jesus 
christ .  . there are jews who have become christians .  . 

this brings up another question i still have to ponder why is there so 
much anti semitism why do people hate jews i do n't hate jews .  . i consider 
them to be like anyone else , sinners we all are. 

from  ( charles hedrick ) 
subject re clarification of personal position  ( jesus and the law ) 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 

 ( kent sandvik ) writes 

my bible is on a , but i do n't own a system for the 
time being , so i ca n't search for the famous cite where jesus explicitly 
states that he did n't want to break existing  ( jewish ) laws .  . in other 
words technically speaking christians should use saturday and not sunday 
as their holy day , if they want to conform to the teachings of jesus .  . 

i think the passage you 're looking for is the following. 

matthew 5 17 think not that i have come to the law and the 
prophets i have come not to them but to fulfil them. 
matthew 5 18 for truly , i say to you , till heaven and earth pass away , 
not an , not a , will pass from the law until all is accomplished .  . 
matthew 5 19 whoever then one of the least of these commandments 
and teaches men so , shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven but he 
who does them and teaches them shall be called great in the kingdom of 
heaven. 
matthew 5 20 for i tell you , unless your that of 
the scribes and pharisees , you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. 

there are several problems with this. the most serious is that the 
law was regarded by jews at the time  ( and now ) as binding on jews , but 
not on gentiles .  . there are rules that were binding on all human 
beings  ( the so called laws ) , but they are quite minimal .  . the 
issue that the church had to face after jesus  death was what to do 
about gentiles who wanted to follow christ .  . the decision not to 
impose the law on them did n't say that the law was abolished .  . it 
simply acknowledged that fact that it did n't apply to gentiles .  . this 
is a simple answer , which i think just about everyone can agree to. 
(a discussion of the issue in more or less these terms is recorded 
in acts 15 . ) . 

however there 's more involved. in order to get a full picture of the 
role of the law , we have to come to with paul 's apparent 
rejection of the law , and how that relates to jesus  of 
the law. at least as i read paul , he says that the law serves a 
purpose that has been in a certain sense  . again , this 
issue is n't one of the of the law. in the middle of his 
discussion , paul notes that he might be understood this way , and 
us that that 's not what he intends to say. rather , he sees 
the law as primarily being present to convict people of their 
 . but ultimately it 's an impossible standard , and one that 
has been by christ .  . paul 's comments are not the world 's 
here , and not everyone agrees with my reading. but the 
interesting thing to notice is that even this radical position does 
not an of the law. it still remains as an 
standard , from which not an or may be removed. 
for its purpose of of sin , it 's important that it not be 
 . however for christians , it 's not the end ultimately we 
live in faith , not law. 

while the categories they use are rather different , in the 
end i think jesus and paul come to a rather similar conclusion .  . the 
quoted passage from 5 should be taken in the context of the rest 
of the on the mount , where jesus shows us how he interprets the 
law. the not an or would suggest a rather literal reading , 
but in fact that 's not jesus  approach. jesus  interpretations 
the intent of the law , and stay away from the 
details. indeed he is well known for taking a rather free attitude 
towards the sabbath and laws .  . some scholars claim that 
5 17 20 needs to be taken in the context of 1st  . jewish 
discussions .  . jesus his opponents of about giving a 
tenth of even the most minor , but the things that 
really matter justice , mercy and faith , and about how cups and 
plates are cleaned , but not about the fact that inside the people who 
use them are full of and  .  ( mat 23 23 25 ) this , and 
the discussion later in 5 , suggest that jesus has a very specific 
view of the law in mind , and that when he talks about maintaining the 
law in its full strength , he is thinking of these aspects of it. 
paul 's conclusion is similar. while he talks about the law being 
, all of the specific examples he gives involve the 
law , such as and the sabbath .  . he is quite 
concerned about maintaining moral standards. 

the net result of this is that when paul talks about the law being 
, and jesus talks about the law being , i believe 
they are talking about different aspects of the law. paul is 
in arguments about  . as is natural in letters 
responding to specific situations , he 's looking at the aspect of the 
law that is currently causing trouble the law as specifically jewish 
ceremonies .  . he certainly does not intend to divine standards 
of conduct .  . on the other hand , when jesus the law , he seems 
to be talking the law in its broadest implications for morals and 
human relationships , and those aspects that were later 
to give paul so much trouble .  . 

it 's unfortunate that people use the same terms in different ways , but 
we should be familiar with that from current conflicts .  . look at the 
way terms like family values take on special meaning from the 
current context. imagine some poor historian of the future trying to 
figure out why family values should be used as a code word for 
opposition to homosexuality in one specific period in the u.s. i 
think law had taken on a similar role in the arguments paul was 
involved in. paul was clearly not rejecting all of the jewish values 
that go along with the term law , any more than people who concerned 
about the family values movement are really opposed to family 
values .  . 

from  ( dale m. skiba ) 
subject re biblical contradictions and 
nntp posting host bass . com . 
organization , inc. 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 27 

wrote 

com .  ( dale m. skiba ) entirely missed my point in my previous 
posting , in which i wrote 

firmly on the western coast of the  . you can bet gonna keep this 
baby 

my my my , such double standards. you to give any primary sources 
for your book , encyclopedia of the bible . are we to expect that source 
to be as unbiased as the other sources .  .  .  . mr. did give at least 
one source , you have given none. 

reply 

it was a joke. the readers digest encyclopedia of the bible was the most 
outrageously bogus authority i could from my  . 
i was trying to point out that going to some encyclopedia , rather than 
original or scholarly sources is a big mistake in procedure .  . i am glad 
to note that and are arguing about substance now , 
rather than about arguing .  . 

i guess the joke was on me .  .  .  . i am so used to seeing bogus stuff 
posted here that i assumed that yours was necessarily the same. 




subject re christian biblical demons , the u 
from 
reply to 
organization state university , , mn 
nntp posting host 29 . 2 . 
lines 23 


the neighbor of the 

no , is across the street from the  . 664 and are the 
of the  . 

i think some people are still not clear on this 
is not the neighbor of the , but , rather , across the 
street. it is , in fact , which is the neighbor of the  . 

no , , did n't you know is the 's apartment is across the 
hall from the , and is his neighbor along with the rest of the  . 

 ( still trying to figure out what this has to do with alt . 

this does n't seem to you 


paul w. , libertarian 
! ! internet 
 ( fnord ) and chair , state university campus 
at large 
if i left a quote here , someone would think it meant something. 

from  ( anthony g rose ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
reply to  ( anthony g rose ) 
organization corporation , ca 
lines 16 

in article  ( casper c. knies ) writes 

please allow me to explain myself. in , the of missouri , 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


c. 
young university 
computer facilities 


, before you into thinking that the latter day 
have persecution through the years for just 
believing in their religion , perhaps you would like to tell us all what 
happened in the massacres and all the killings that were 
done under the blood atonement doctrine , at the command of young 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re clarification of personal position 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 21 

in article , 
 ( darius lecointe ) wrote 
i will repeat my position here. worshipping on sunday has never been a 
sin .  . as a child i attended services on saturday and sunday at the sda 
church and at the church across the street. i might even go to a 
baptist church next week. i worship god every day , and every christian 
should .  . even if we can prove that christians should meet on sunday  ( and 
we ca n't ) we can never prove that violation of the sabbath is not a sin 
any longer .  . nor can we prove that violation of sunday is a sin .  . we 
cannot use the sabbath commandment for that purpose. 

my bible is on a , but i do n't own a system for the 
time being , so i ca n't search for the famous cite where jesus explicitly 
states that he did n't want to break existing  ( jewish ) laws .  . in other 
words technically speaking christians should use saturday and not sunday 
as their holy day , if they want to conform to the teachings of jesus .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( max  ( y !  ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization software garden ov delights 
lines 27 

in article  ( tony alicea ) writes 

name just three really competing orders .  . i have 
probably spent more time than you doing the same. 

none of them are spin from o . t . o .  . the opposite may be the 
case. 

can we assume from this statement that you are saying that 
is not a spin off of  .  .  . and that in fact , may well be a spin 
off of 
i would be quite interested in hearing what evidence you have to support this 
claim .  . 

study harder , 

study , not harder ! ) 





more. more of everything. more of everything for everybody .  . 
real total war has become information war , it is being fought now .  .  .  . 
! ! 1 51 



from  ( richard j. loether ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
distribution usa 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 38 

in article news . com .  ( john e. king ) writes 

 ( pete yadlowsky ) writes 

did n't christ tell his disciples to them , shortly 
before his (i believe the exact quote was along the 
lines of , if you have something sell it and buy a sword .  . ) 

this from a guy who preached love , of power to god and 
of worldly life in exchange for a life of the spirit if 
jesus did in fact command his disciples to themselves , i would 
take that as yet another reason to reject christian doctrine , for 
whatever it 's worth .  . 

like most religions , the doctrine has good and bad in it. i would 
certainly reject the current of the doctrine .  . 

no. the above is a classic example of taking a scripture out of context. 
it 's taken from luke 22 36 .  . but note vs 37 for i tell you that this 
which is written must be accomplished in me , namely ,  and he will be reckoned 
with  .  .  . . he then stated that two were enough 
for the group to carry to be counted as  . 

so having more than the politically correct number of weapons was 
cause to be and killed even then , huh 

jesus  message was one of peace  ( turn other live by 
sword die by sword  . 

yes , of course , as in matthew 10 34 35 do not suppose that i have come to 
bring peace to the earth it is not peace i have come to bring but a sword .  .  .  . 



rich mail university of pittsburgh the ideas 
email computing and info services mine , 
voice  ( 412 ) 600 drive all 
fax  ( 412 ) pittsburgh , pa mine. 

from  ( jon livesey ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization sgi 
lines 31 
nntp posting host solntze . wpd . sgi . com . 

in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( jon livesey ) writes 
in article ,  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( keith m. ryan ) writes 
you have only pushed back the meaning. you must now define 
what objective values are. 

really you do n't know what objective value is if i offered the people 
of the u.s. , collectively , 1 for all of the land in america , would that 
sound like a good deal 

you mean that if you can find a ridiculous price , the rest of 
us are supposed to conclude that an objectively correct price 
exists 

i said nothing about the price .  . i asked if the deal was good. it is n't .  . 

so it was a complete non sequitur , is that it how does coming 
up with a deal tell us anything about the existence of 
objective values .  . 

you 're asking us to accept that the deal you offered would be turned 
down , and we believe that , not because we appeal to objective values 
but we know , or think we know , something about people. 

all the people we know exhibit subjective values that would lead 
them to reject a deal of 1 for all of the land in america .  . 

great .  . now , so what 

jon .  . 

from  ( jim burrill ) 
subject re is it good that jesus died 
organization river country , the , , , , , priest 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 8 . 
lines 35 

brian kendig wrote 

can you please point to something , anything , that proves to me that 
the universe cannot possibly be explained without accepting as a fact 
the existence of a god in precisely the way your holy book describes 

can you please convince me that your religion is more than a very 
constructed fable , and that it does indeed have some bearing 
on my own personal day to day life 

would you consider the word of an eye witness  ( peter ) to testify to the 
events surrounding jesus  life 


1 16 we did not follow invented stories when we told you 
about the power and coming of our lord jesus christ , but we were 
of his  . 

1 17 for he received honor and glory from god the father when the 
voice came to him from the majestic glory , saying , this is my son , whom 
i love with him i am well pleased. 

1 18 we ourselves heard this voice that came from heaven when we 
were with him on the sacred  . 

1 19 and we have the word of the prophets made more certain , and 
you will do well to pay attention to it , as to a light shining in a dark 
place , until the day and the morning star in your hearts .  . 

this is a documented testimony .  . perhaps further research on your part is 
before making more statements .  . there is more to study 
in  two books of testimony regarding the messiah .  . it is well worth 
your time , mr. brian .  . 

jim 

from  ( eric sieferman ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 26 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( paul harvey ) writes 
in article 
 ( brian kendig ) writes 
 ( robert weiss ) writes 
but if we walk in the light , 
as he is in the light , 
we have fellowship one with another , 
and the blood of jesus christ his son 
us from all sin .  . 
it can not be a light which 
if it is tainted with the blood 
of an innocent man. 

human blood sacrifice ! of an innocent virgin ! nailed to a 
! what is this with male 

christian washed in the blood of the lamb .  . 
washed in the blood of the bull .  . 

if anyone in  . is in the process of a new religion , 
do not use the lamb or the bull , because they have already been 
 . please choose another animal , one not 
on the species list. 

thank you. 


from  ( scott h vann ) 
subject the bad press islam has recieved .  . 
organization iowa state university , ames ia 
lines 16 


i recently read an article in a local paper written by an islamic 
person who was upset with the way islam has been by western media. 
when a terrorist action takes place in the middle east , it is always played 
up as an islamic terrorist .  . however , when the a terrorist attacks 
the , its not a christian terrorist , its just a terrorist .  . 
i have often tried to explain this to some close friends who believe 
the press , that islam is somehow to violence .  . often times you hear 
things like they just do n't value human life like we do .  .  .  . and so on. 
i was wondering if anyone out there had any suggestions for how we can 
change this image , or how i can help my friends to see that this is just 
 . i would appreciate any serious suggestions or comments via e mail , 
and i'm not interested in hearing about how right the press is. 

scott 


from  ( eric pepke ) 
subject re societal basis for morality 
organization florida state university , but i do n't speak for them 
lines 13 

in article  ( merlyn leroy ) writes 
prayer in school is legal what is illegal is telling children 
what to pray , or not to pray .  . many people confuse you ca n't 
tell kids that they ought to pray now with kids are n't allowed 
to pray , possibly because so few kids do so without being told .  . 

or perhaps it 's because they think that all bodies should be in 
the business of suppressing all beliefs other than their own , or else they 're 
some sort of satanic humanist conspiracy .  . 

it 's the old if you 're not for us you 're against us bit. 



from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 22 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , a .  . davis howe ) says 


on the subject of how many competing rc orders there are , let me point out the 
golden dawn is only the outer order of that tradition .  . the inner order is 
the et  . 


just wondering , do you mean the 
warning there is no point in arguing who 's and who 's not. which 
golden dawn are you talking about 

just for the sake of argument ,  ( reflecting no affiliation ) 
i am going to say that the true order is the 
in , penn .  . , 

any ) 

, 

tony 

subject re imaginary friends info and experiences 
from  ( patrick brosnan ) 
organization bnr europe , new , london .  . 
nntp posting host bnr . co . uk . 
lines 21 

in article  ( kimborly ditto ) writes 

this thread .  .  .  . 

has anyone ever seen drop dead fred this movie seems to the 
imaginary friend theme rather well. i loved the movie , as i had an 
imaginary friend when i was a kid and it back great  . 

seriously , if you have a chance , see drop dead fred . it 'll make 
think. especially the end. 

! 
kim 




patrick  . ... ! ! ! ! 
northern , south , london  . 
phone 44 or 44 
oh , , i love you but we 've only got 14 hours to save the universe. 

from  ( james owens ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
organization national capital , ottawa , canada 
lines 87 


in article ,  ( david bold ) writes 

in article , 
 ( james owens ) writes 

you seem to be saying that , god being unknowable , his morality 
is unknowable .  . 

yep , that 's pretty much it. . . . 

. . . 

as i understand it , the believed that the torah was all 
that was required , whereas the pharisees  ( the ancestors of modern 
judaism ) believed that the torah was available for interpretation 
to lead to an understanding of the required morality in all its 
(  . 

the essence of all of this is that biblical morality is an 
interface between man and  ( for a jew or christian ) and does 
not necessarily indicate anything about outside of that 
relationship  ( although one can  . 

. . . 

. . . the point trying to make is that we only really have the 
bible to interpret , and that interpretation is by humanity .  . i guess 
this is where faith or comes in with all its inherent 
 . 

god being unknowable , i ca n't comment on his motives , but it would be 
if he allowed us to misunderstand him through no fault of 
our own. for 's sake we must assume , if we believe in him at all , 
that his message comes through somehow. the question is whether it comes 
through immediately to every individual , or is contained in a complex 
that must be interpreted by in with one another , 
or is directly through representatives who are free 
to interpret , extend and the  . if god 's message is indeed 
mediated , the further problem as to whether the individual under 
stands the mediated message fully and clearly .  . since the responsibility 
for understanding lies ultimately with the individual , we must assume that 
god in his benevolence each individual to the appropriate source 
for that individual , the person may or may not drink. 

, if there are multiple moral codes then there is no 
absolute moral code , and i think this is theologically questionable .  . 

no. there may be an absolute moral code. there are undoubtably multiple 
moral codes .  . the multiple moral codes may be founded in the absolute moral 
code. as an example , a parent may tell a child never to swear , and the child 
may assume that the parent never simply because the parent has told 
the child that it is wrong . now , the parent may swear like a in 
the pub or bar  ( where there are no  . the here is if 
the child the parent .  . the parent may feel that it is inappropriate 
to swear in front of children but may be quite happy to swear in front of 
animals .  . the analogy does not quite hold water because the child knows that 
he is of the same type as the parent  ( and may be a parent later in life ) but 
you get the of it , the young child considers the 
as absolute until he gets older  ( see piaget ) and learns a morality of his own. 

your example is complicated in our age by the thin line between morality 
and  . you might have said , for and swearing carry 
about the same today. if you are talking about taking the lord 's 
name in as a serious , then this example is more a case of 
hypocrisy than of moral codes .  . 

if there is an absolute moral code , propositions or laws in that code apply 
absolutely and universally , by definition .  . some moral codes 
could be of the universal code , as you say at the  . so , for 
example , god 's code could include , thou shalt not create beings without 
a planet to live on , but this law would be inapplicable to us. 
nevertheless , we would be entitled to suppose that all laws applicable 
to us are also applicable to god. 

but when you begin to ask what laws might appear in god 's moral code , you have 
a sense of the absurdity of the question. does god make laws for himself to 
follow perhaps god is not the sort of being to which the category morality 
can be applied .  . 

james 
ottawa , ontario , canada 

from  ( paul jr ) 
subject re part 1 and part 2  ( re homosexuality ) 
organization university of , 
lines 80 

in article writes 

perhaps you do n't get it , and maybe you never will. many did n't get it in the 
middle ages and the god 's will be done as they thousands 
in witch hunts and inquisitions .  . 

there were many in the middle ages. and this is sad .  . 
i would hate to see a day when churches put people to death or 
them for practicing homosexuality , or any other crime .  . the church is not 
called to take over the governments of the world. it may be that homosexuals 
treated today , but that does not mean that we should teach 
christians to practice homosexual  . do you think that we should 
also teach christians to practice and because 
the in the middle ages were persecuted .  . 


the major flaw in all this is that in the end , the 
final effect of posts like that of yours and mr. is that you have a 
conditional love for gays .  . condition change and we 'll love you. this is 
sure strange coming from a group who claim that god has an 
love , one that calls people just as they are. 

and you accuse me of judging when did you look into my heart and see 
if i have love. i have been writing that we should not teach christians 
to practice homosexual , and you pretend to have divine knowledge 
to look into my heart .  . i ca n't say that i love homosexuals as i should 
i ca n't say that i love my neighbor as i should either. i do n't know 
very many homosexuals as it is. 

but jesus loves homosexuals , just as he loves everyone else. if his love 
were conditional , i not know him at all. yes. we should show love to 
homosexuals , but it is not love to encourage brothers in the church to 
and continue in their sin .  . that is a very damaging and dangerous 
thing. 

the results of the passing amendment in 
has created an organization who 's posters are all over 
called s . t . r . a . i . g . h . t .  . (i forget the whole definition off hand , 
but the last part was against immoral gross homosexual trash ) and their motto 
is working for a free america with an for violence .  . 

this is sick , and it seems to be what you and mr. , and others are 
 . 

that is slander .  . i could just as easily say that has been able 
to implement legislation to make child easier because of 
the tearing down of societies morality due to people accepting homosexuality 
as normal , and that this is what you are  . i do believe 
that homosexual sex is immoral , that does not mean i using violence 
against them. there is a problem of hatred in the church. but there 
is also the problem of what has been called mercy .  . 
many in the conservative churches have seen the moral in 
this country and the storm on the , and have gotten militant in 
the flesh .  . this is sad .  . yet others in other churches have 
in society , and have pointed to the in the 
conservative churches to justify their actions .  . 

why do n't we just stick to the positive and find ways to bring people 
to jesus of taking and driving them away 

certainly we should not use a to drive people from jesus .  . 
but we should n't water down the gospel to draw people in. jesus did n't 
go out of his way to show only what might be considered positive aspects 
to draw people in. he told one man to sell all he had. he told 
another not to say good bye to his family. his words were hard at times. 
we should present people with the cost of the before we allow them 
to begin construction. many people have already been to the 
gospel .  . 

link  . 





whatever 

rich ( 



from  ( cutter ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
distribution world 
organization , , 
lines 26 

 ( brian kendig ) writes 

 ( stephen tice ) writes 

one way or another so much for patience .  . too bad you could n't just 
wait. was the of god 's message just too much to take 

so you believe that david koresh really is jesus christ 


you know , everybody at that guy they up on a cross too. 
he claimed also to be the son of god and it took almost two thousand 
years to forget what he preached .  . 

love thy neighbor as  . 


anybody else wonder if those two guys setting the were  
' . 



 ( chris ) all jobs are easy 
to the person who 
does n't have to do them. 
's law 

from  ( dr nancy 's sweetie ) 
subject re food for thought on tyre 
summary another rewrites the bible .  . 
keywords scripture , implication , prophesy , ! ' 
organization college of new jersey 
disclaimer the hopes his will be  . 
lines 93 


there has been a lot of discussion about tyre .  . in sum , ezekiel 
that the place would be and never as there are a lot of 
people living there , it would appear that ezekiel was not literally correct. 

this does n't bother me at all , because i understand the language ezekiel used 
differently than do so called biblical  . for example , it sometimes 
happens that someone says my is the baby ! and then turns 
around and sees the and says oh ! is n't she the thing ! 

this person is not literally claiming to have up all the babies in the 
world according to and discovered his own for 
first. rather , he is trying to express his emotions using words that are very 
object oriented .  . because this example is one that is common to many people , 
nobody the intent of the statements the bible , however , is 
often at the mercy of people who assume that everything within must be exactly 
literally true. for those people , the existence of tyre is a problem for me , 
it is not. 


turning to the latest person trying to defend ezekiel , we read this from 
john e king 

the prophesy clearly implies that people would still be living in the 
area . 

no , it implies nothing of the kind. if you had nothing but the prophecy from 
ezekiel , and you were told you interpret it literally , you would never say 
oh , he means that there will be houses and and plants and stuff 
like that. you would read i will make you a bare and you will never 
be , and you 'd conclude that tyre would be a bare  . the only way 
to get from  to and buildings and a medium large 
population  is if you know that all that latter stuff is there. 

in other words , your answer means that ezekiel misled everybody who read the 
prophecy at the time it was written. there is no way that , given a literal 
reading , they could read this passage and conclude medium size city . 

you seem to feel that never be means be maybe so , but 
it is hardly a  . 


mr king also writes 

so far i 've seen stated from 15 , 000 to 22 , 000 .  . 
let 's assume the latter one is correct. by modern standards 
we are talking about a one horse town .  . 

well , no. that 's only a bit less than the population of , where i'm 
from. you know , the , the state capital , george washington 
his in the may not be new york , but 
it 's at least a two horse town .  . 

but supposing 22 , 000 people is a small town it 's still 22 , 000 people 
more than ezekiel predicted .  . 


and you 've said nothing about the other problem. in chapter 26 , ezekiel 
that will will destroy tyre and all their 
 . however , did not destroy tyre , and in chapter 29 
ezekiel even quotes god as saying he and his army got no reward from the 
campaign he led against tyre .  . 

let 's ignore for a moment , and just pay attention to chapter 26 .  . 
ezekiel says n .  . would destroy tyre , and n .  . did not destroy tyre .  . ezekiel says 
that n .  . would their , but n .  . did not their  . 

regardless of what you think about tyre now , the fact is that n .  . died before 
the place was  . ezekiel said n .  . was going to do it , and n .  . did not. 



this post is , of course , pointless .  . have an amazing ability 
to rewrite the bible as needed to fit whatever they want it to say. 

for example , i expect mr king to respond to the comments about ezekiel 26 
by some clear implications out of hat .  . 

when ezekiel said that n .  . would demolish your , that clearly implied 
that the walls would still be standing so people would know where the 
used to be. and when ezekiel said that n .  . would demolish your fine houses 
and your stones , and into the sea , that clearly implied 
that n .  . would never set foot on the island .  . and when ezekiel wrote that n .  . 
would build a up to your walls , that clearly implies that n .  . would 
spend 13 years around on the and never get close to the 
walls .  . 

see a few clear implications that are totally contrary to the text , and 
you can reconcile anything you want. 


f 
do you know why i'm the because you demand it ! 

from  ( brian kendig ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization san francisco 
lines 47 

 ( brian 9615 ) writes 

brian kendig . . . 

it can not be a light which 
if it is tainted with the blood 
of an innocent man. 

. . . now showing how brian kendig is in the dark of the 
most fundamental basic of the old testament .  . concepts like 
and  . 17 11 must be foreign to you. too bad 
you are not interested in understanding. too bad you prefer 
folly even to your own  . 

17 11 for the life of the flesh is in the blood , and i have given 
it to you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls for it is 
the blood that makes atonement for the soul .  . 

the old testament was very big on the eye for an eye business. it 
makes sense that would support physical injury to 
moral  . 

i know about  . i 've been taught all about it in sunday 
school , class , and theology classes .  . but even after all 
that , i still ca n't accept it. maybe i'm still not understanding it , 
or maybe i'm just understanding it all too well. 

from the bottom of my heart i know that the punishment of an innocent 
man is wrong. i 've tried repeatedly over the course of several years 
to accept it , but i just ca n't .  . if this means that i ca n't accept the 
premise that a god who would allow this is  perfectly good  , then so 
be it. 

what ignorance you can show us next i guess i 'll wait 
till tomorrow .  . 

if you can explain to me why the death of jesus was a good thing , 
then i would be very glad to hear it , and you might even convert me. 
be warned , however , that i 've heard all the most common arguments 
before , and they just do n't convince me. 


brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 

from  ( kevin darcy ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization who , me 
lines 41 

in article  ( eric rescorla ) writes 
in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( eric rescorla ) writes 
in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

like i said before , des works whether i value my or 
not. 

o.k. , which des the abstract function des that stops working in any 
important sense if no one cares for the importance of truth , mathematics , 
meaning , information , etc. a des chip or des s w that stops working in any 
important sense if no one values science , objective reality , etc. des 
does not work in a value  . nothing else does , either. 

this is just truth by blatant assertion .  . your in any important sense 
seem to be just words. imagine that i have a box which 
accepts 16 and uses the first 8 to the second 8. 
it still does a perfect job of , whether or not any 
is being made at the time whether or not anyone values mathematics .  .  . 

if no one looks at the results , or their correctness , in what 
meaningful sense can the chip be said to work does exist 
by , i mean a particular , extremely complex of 
physical phenomena , which no one , absolutely no one cares about in the 
slightest .  . does it exist , eric 

getting back to the question of whether the des chip works , does n't work 
mean something like the desired expected effect note the way 
subtly that definition .  . even if we take the 
definition as expected , instead of desired , can you deny that 
to expectations is itself a value of sorts , namely the scientific values of 
accuracy of prediction and of results 

the , for one , considered to be the 
primary stuff from which all other ontology was built 
perceptions , consciousness , thoughts , etc. frank is by no means alone in 
seeing  ( or values , as he puts it) underlying all human 
experience , even the so called objective experiences , such as 
measurements of the natural world , or the output of your des chip .  . 

kevin 

from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject ignorance is , was is it good that jesus died 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 

sandvik kent . apple . com . 
lines 7 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com . 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes 
ignorance is not ! 

ignorance is strength ! 

help spread the truth of ignorance ! 

from ece  ( david anderson ) 
subject re christian owned organization list 
organization university of arizona 
lines 15 

in article  ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 
in article writes 

does anyone have or know where i can find a list of christian owned 
and one that i know of is  . 

i believe that is actually owned by the mormons .  . 
sorry , but mormons are n't generally considered to be christians .  . 



 ( b(0 4 ) c d e f g  ( k ) m  ( r ) s ( ) t 
my thoughts , my posts , my ideas , my responsibility , my beer , my pizza. ok 
do you have some and a purse in this a that , 
 please come back to me  i'm looking for something in green .  . 

from  ( stephen ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host utarlg . uta . edu . 
organization the university of texas at arlington 
lines 29 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com . , 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes .  .  .  . 

in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 
these laws written for the israelites .  .  .  . 

remember , these laws were written for a different time and applied 
only to god 's chosen people. but jesus has changed all of that. we 
are living in the age of  . sin is no longer immediately punishable 
by death. there is and there is salvation through our 
lord jesus christ .  . and not just for a few chosen people. salvation 
is available to everyone , jew and gentile alike. 

jews wo n't agree with you ,  . 

which jews ks 

 . as a people , as a language , religiously , politically , or .  .  . ) . 

do you mean those jews who are god 's chosen 

and , please , if you will , set your word at 75 or less 
to avoid clutter 


j 

stephen 

from  ( michael parks swaim ) 
subject re , the ancient order of oriental 
organization rice university 
lines 33 

in article  ( thyagi nagasiva ) writes 

to all whom it may concern 

it is known only to a few that there exists an external 
organization of such men and women , who having themselves found 
the path to real self knowledge , and who , having the 
burning , are willing to give the benefit of their experience , 
and to act as spiritual to those who are willing to be 
 . 

while societies , , orders , groups etc. 
have been founded during the last thirty years in all parts of 
the civilised world , all following some line of study , 
yet there is but one ancient organization of genuine mystics 
which shows the after truth a road to discover 
the lost mysteries of antiquity , and to the of the 
one truth. 

this organization is known at the present time as the ancient 
order of oriental  .  . otherwise 
the of light. 

up to this point , i was kinda that this was a joke. still , 
it would make a great premise for a bad tv show these 
are the of the oriental  .  .  . dedicated to truth , 
justice , and good !  ( dramatic music in the background . ) . 
no doubt i 've just horribly offended someone .  . 

mike whenever the soft drink machine needs to be 
, rather than getting angry , 
i lie on the of all things 
and the of  . 

from  ( anthony g rose ) 
subject re info about new age ! 
reply to  ( anthony g rose ) 
organization corporation , ca 
lines 12 

in article writes 
! could anybody here give me any information about new age religion 
about the history , the teachings , ... or may be suggestions what books i 
should read in order to get those info any help would be greatly appreciated. 


contact fellowship 
p.o. box 
, 

ask for their book the new age and space age 
the new age in our schools 

from  ( jim system admin ) 
subject identity crisis  ( god satan ) 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 5 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

ii 24 and again the of the lord was against israel , 
and he moved david against them to say , go , number and judah .  . 

i 21 and satan stood up against , and provoked david to 
number israel .  . 

from 
subject god 's promise to the righteous 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 3 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

ps . 12 the righteous shall flourish like the tree. 

57 . 1 the righteous , and no man it to heart .  . 

from  ( warren vonroeschlaub ) 
subject re albert sabin 
reply to  ( warren vonroeschlaub ) 
organization ministry of silly walks 
lines 30 

in article , 
 ( bill rawlins ) writes 
since you have referred to the messiah , i assume you are referring 
to the new testament .  . please detail your or e mail if 
you do n't want to post. first century greek is well known and 
well understood .  . have you considered josephus , the jewish historian , 
who also wrote of jesus in addition , the four gospel accounts 
are very much in harmony .  . 

bill , i find it rather remarkable that you managed to zero in on what is 
probably the evidence. 

what is probably the most convincing is the anti christian literature put out 
by the jewish in the second century. there are enormous of 
detailed arguments against christianity , many of the arguments still being used 
today. despite volumes of attacking christianity , not one denies the 
existance of jesus , only of his activities. 

i find this more compelling than josephus or the harmony of the 
gospels  ( especially considering that matthew and luke probably used mark as a 
 . 

l 
warren kurt vonroeschlaub 
o 
` ' iowa state university 
math department 
400 carver hall 
ames , ia 50011 
j 

from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 8 

in article  ( stephen ) writes 
for those who think david koresh did n't have a solid structure , 
or sound biblical backing for his hour long , 
i 've a list of the sources he cites or quotes 
he exactly used. as a christian , it 's pretty good , if not 
inspired .  . 

david koresh was born in bethlehem 

from  ( richard hoenes ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization temple university 
lines 31 
nntp posting host temple . edu . 
x newsreader s 1 . 3 . 2 . 

in article 
writes 

this was obviously a lot different than the ordinary fbi  . 

i believe that the federal officers had a conflict of interests here. 

out the whole affair , it to me that they were 
concerned with saving face rather than saving  . its true that 
the were arrest and that they should have 
when they first realized that these where federal officers .  . but they 
 . 

i'm not sure what you mean by  saving face  unless you are confusing 
the fbi with the who are the ones who were in charge of the 
original search warrant .  . 

but when they , the fbi should not have treated as a 
situation , it was n't .  . 

i think more discussions , possible independant , and 
family intervention should have been used. 

independant what was there to negotiate any sort of plea 
has to be brought to the court , the ca n't negotiate 
charges or sentences .  . fbi did make a deal for the 
to come out. koresh showed he was not in good 
faith and there is no reason to believe independent 
would have done any better. 

richard 

subject re albert sabin 
from  ( james j. lippard ) 
distribution world , local 
organization university of arizona 
nntp posting host skyblu . ccit . arizona . edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 
lines 53 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 
in article ,  ( bill rawlins ) writes 

however , one highly biased account  ( as well as possibly internally 
inconsistent ) written over 2 ago , in a dead language , by 
of the creature in question which is not supported by other more 
objective sources and even accepted by those who 's messiah this creature 
was supposed to be , does n't convince me in the slightest , especially when many 
of the current day appear into believing this pile of 
 .  .  . 

since you have referred to the messiah , i assume you are referring 
to the new testament .  . please detail your or e mail if 
you do n't want to post. first century greek is well known and 
well understood .  . have you considered josephus , the jewish historian , 
who also wrote of jesus in addition , the four gospel accounts 
are very much in harmony .  . 

bill , i have taken the time to explain that biblical scholars consider the 
josephus reference to be an early christian insert .  . by biblical scholar i mean 
an expert who , in the course of his or her research , is willing to let the 
fall where they may .  . this , who may otherwise be 
defined as biblical apologists .  . they find what they want to find .  . they are 
not trustworthy by scholarly standards  ( and  . 

why an insert read it i have , a number of times. the passage is 
out of context , and josephus , a writer , had no such problem elsewhere 
in his work. the passage has nothing to do with the subject matter in which 
it lies .  . it suddenly appears and then just as quickly  . 

i think this is a weak argument. the fact is , there are two references to 
jesus in of the jews , one of which has unquestionably at least 
been altered by christians .  . origen wrote , in the third century , that 
josephus did not recognize jesus as the messiah , while the long passage 
says the opposite .  . there is an arabic of of the 
jews which contains a version of the passage which is much less ho 
for jesus and may be authentic .  . 
there is no question that origen , in the third century , saw a reference 
to jesus in josephus .  . there are no manuscripts of which 
lack the references .  . 

it is possible that it was out of whole cloth and inserted , but 
i do n't think it 's very likely nor do i think there is a consensus in 
the scholarly community that this is the case. (i know g . a .  . takes 
this position , but that 's because he takes the very small minority view 
that jesus never existed .  . and he is a professor of german , not of 
biblical history or new testament or anything directly relevant to 
the of jesus . ) . 

jim lippard 
dept. of philosophy 
university of arizona 
tucson , az 85721 

from  ( bill conner ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
nntp posting host okcforum . osrhe . edu . 
organization okcforum unix users group 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 54 


in my mind , to say that science has its basis in values is a bit of a 
reach .  . science has its basis in observable fact. 

i 'd say that what one chooses to observe and how the observation is 
interpreted and what significance it 's given depends a great deal on 
the values of the observer .  . science is a human activity and as such , 
is subject to the same potential for as any other human 
activity. the myth that scientists are above moral influence or 
ethical concern , that their knowledge can be whole and pure 
from nature untainted by the of the scientist , is nonsense. 

bill 

if one is to argue for objective values  ( in a moral sense ) then one must 
first start by demonstrating that morality itself is objective .  . considering 
the meaning of the word objective i doubt that this will ever happen. 

so , back to the original question 

and objective morality is .  .  .  .  .  . 

this may be an unfortunate choice of words , almost self contradictory .  . 
objective in the sense used here means something and 
absolute while morality describes the behavior of some group of 
people. the first term is all inclusive , the second is specific .  . the 
concept supposedly described may have meaning however. 
if there is a god as described by the christians  ( for instance ) , then 
he has existence apart from and independent of humankind his 
existence is outside of our frame of reference  . if this 
being a thing to be so , it is necessarily so since he has 
defined himself as omnipotent and , if his claims are to be believed , 
he is at least omnipotent relative to us. god is intrinsically 
self defined and all reality is whatever he says it is in an 
objective sense. 
if god determines a standard of conduct , that standard is objective .  . 
if human beings are held accountable for their to that 
standard while to ignore it , they a relative 
morality or mode of conduct , giving the term morality a , 
meaningless sense that can be argued about by those to 
misunderstand .  . the standard is objective and the conduct required to 
meet that standard is therefore objectively determined .  . 
just because it is convenient to pretend that the term morality is 
infinitely , does n't mean that the objective standard itself 
does n't exist. morality has come to mean little more than a cultural 
norm , or the preferred conduct of decent people , making it seem 
subjective , but it is derived from an absolute , objective , standard. 
, this objective standard is in perfect with our true 
nature  ( according to christianity at least ) , yet is condemned as being 
contrary to human , and severe .  . this may be due as 

bill 
much to our amoral as to the standard itself , but like it 
or not , it 's there . x . 

from 
subject catholic of a . s . s .  . 
organization , a division of delta resources , inc. orange , ca .  . 
lines 64 

in article , 
 ( dennis kriz ) writes 

a lot of religious opinions and quotations from the bible and from 
many catholic theologians and papal bulls 

which , although introduced with a , was not as funny as it 
might have been  ( notable exception subject such as one s 
dick is one s instrument of  . 

and indeed , the posting seemed to be more a for the 
religious text than for any moral analysis 

i am surprised and  . i would expect this kind of behavior 
from the evangelical born again gospel in your face we 're 
the only true christian protestants , but i have always thought 
that catholics behaved better than this. 

friend , i urge you to follow the example of your fellow 
catholics , of who i count many as my friends , and practice 
your faith through good example and decent living and respect 
for the common humanity of others. please do not to the 
level of the e b a g t i y f w t o t c protestants , who think 
that the best way to witness is to be , , loud , 
insulting and self righteous .  . 

the imagery in the song of solomon is a little bit dated  ( get it 
middle east date palms oh , never mind ) but apparently acceptable , 
on a level , to be accepted as part of the  . from 
this fact i derive that itself is not incompatible with 
catholic doctrine .  . 

is there such a thing as catholic not necessarily a love 
story between people of that faith , but a love story that is not 
, does not seek through penis size , 
proper respect to the of each , and is still 
enough to have a place on a . s . s .  . 

i would submit that the series of stories qualify , also 
most of the journal , and i and ii . 

i would guess that your aim is to cut down on the pornography and 
increase the  . i actually agree with you that nearly all of 
the i 've got an enormous dick , and i shot my all over her face 
stories are crap. i count them as , which makes my take on the 
signal to much lower than many other people 's .  . 

since you are one of the few posters here who can actually write 
decent , could you write a few stories for us instead of 
overwhelming us with commentary 

anyway , this is a big subject. please add your comments , 
additions and observations .  . 

sincerely , 





thank you. 

jeff 


from  ( paul jr ) 
subject re the list of biblical contradictions 
organization university of , 
lines 14 

in article  ( brian kendig ) writes 

specifically when i bring up the fact that genesis contains two 
contradictory creation stories , i usually get or flat 
denials .  . i 've never had a fundamentalist acknowledge that there are 
indeed two different accounts of creation. 

that is because two creation stories is one of the worst examples of 
a difficulty with the bible .  . were formed can also be translated had been 
formed in chapter two without any problems. so the text does not demand 
that there are two creation stories. 

link  . 


from sun . eng . sun . com .  ( eric marsh ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization sun 
lines 27 
nntp posting host sun 

in article  ( lis450 student ) writes 
hmmmm .  . define objective morality .  . well , depends upon who you talk to. 
some say it means you ca n't have your hair over your ears , and others say 
it means stryper is acceptable .  . i would say that general principles 
of objective morality would be listed in one or two places. 

ten commandments 

sayings of jesus 

the first depends on whether you trust the bible , 

the second depends on both whether you think jesus is god , and whether 
you think we have accurate copies of the nt .  . 

gong ! 

take a moment and look at what you just wrote. first you defined 
an objective morality and then you qualified this objective morality 
with subjective justifications .  . do you see the error in this 

sorry , you have just disqualified yourself , but please play again. 

mac 


eric 

from  ( jim system admin ) 
subject an invisible god ! 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 14 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

god can be seen 
and i will take away my hand , and thou shalt see my  . 
 . 33 23 ) 
and the lord to moses face to face , as a man to his 
friend.  . 33 11 ) 
for i have seen god face to face , and my life is preserved .  . 
 . 32 30 ) 
god cannot be seen 
no man seen god at any time.  ( john 1 18 ) 
and he said , thou not see my face for there shall no man 
see me and live.  . 33 20 ) 
whom no man seen nor can see.  ( 1 tim .  . 6 16 ) 

pick what you want ! 

from 
subject god 's promise of peace 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 6 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

145 9 the lord is good to all and his tender are 
over all his works. 

13 14 and i will them one against another , even the 
and the sons together , the lord i will not pity , nor 
spare , nor have mercy , but destroy them. 

from  ( bob sarver ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 102 

in article  ( bob sarver ) writes 
understand what the words mean. someone who pain on themselves 
because they enjoy it is a  . 

and , no there is nothing wrong with it. you may think it 's gross or 
bizarre  ( and i might agree with you here ) , but my your disgust is not equal 
to it being morally wrong. 

 ( hudson ) 
if someone pain on themselves , whether they enjoy it or not , they 
are themselves. they may be damaging their body. 

that is true. it is also none of your business. 

some people may also reason that by reading the bible and being a xtian 
you are damaging your brain .  . by your logic , it would be ok 
for them to come into your home , take away your bible , and send you off 
to re education camps to save your mind from ruin .  . are you ready for 
that 





 ( hudson ) 
and why is there nothing wrong with it because you say so who gave you 
the authority to say that , and set the standard for morality 

why 

because 
i am a living , thinking person able to make choices for myself. 
i do not need you to show me what you think is the way i have observed 
too many errors in your thinking already to trust you to make up the 
rules for me. 

because 
i set the standard for my own morality , and i you to do 
the same for yourself. i also do not try to force you to accept my rules. 

because 
simply because you do n't like what other people are doing does n't give you 
the right to stop it ,  . we are all aware that you would like for 
everyone to be like you. however , it is obnoxious , arrogant thinking like 
yours , the i know i'm morally right so i can force it on you bullshit 
that has brought us religious wars , against jews , gay , 
and other atrocities by other people who , like you , knew they were 
morally right. 





 ( me ) 
what is it with you , you think you know better than other people , 
so you want to be able to tell them what they can and cannot do to 
themselves who died and made you god how come i ca n't do the same 
thing 

 ( hudson ) 
are n't you are n't you indicating that i should not tell other people what 
to do are n't you telling me it is wrong for me to do that 

it is not a moral standard that i am presenting you with ,  . it is 
a key to getting along in life with other people. it is also a point of 
respect i trust other people to be intelligent enough to make their 
own choices , and i expect the same to be returned .  . you , on the other 
hand , do not trust them , and want to make the choice for them whether 
they like it or not. 

it is also a way to avoid an inconsistency if you believe that you have 
the right to set moral standards for others and interfere in their lives , 
then you must , by logic , admit that other people have the same right of 
interference in your life. 
 ( yes , i know you will say that your religion is correct and tells you that 
only acting in behalf of your religion have the right of interference .  . 
however , other people will say that you have misinterpreted the word of 
god and that they are the actual true believers , and that you are 
acting on your own authority .  . and so it  . 





 ( hudson ) 
who gave 
you the authority to set such a moral standard for me to tell me that i 
cannot set a moral standard for others 


you can set all the standards that you want , actually. but do n't be surprised 
if people do n't follow you like rats after the  . 

at the most basic form , i am not going to let you tell me what to do 
and if necessary , i will you to a bloody before i let you actually 
interfere in my life. 

now , at a more level than that , i recognize that all people are 
sentient beings of intelligence and capable of reason. i also 
recognize that they , like i , appreciate being treated with respect and 
allowed to make their own decisions. 


from  ( david whitten ) 
subject re , mithras and 
organization science applications l , corp .  . computer systems operation 
lines 20 

 ( larry caldwell ) writes 
there evidently was a of bread and wine associated with mithras .  . i 
have often wondered if intentionally introduced this ritual to 
expand the appeal of his religion , or if it was appropriated by later 
 . 

you could argue that if you wanted , but i think a more reasonable 
argument would point out the fact that the was 
very similar to the  ( passover ) during , a very 
jewish ritual .  . 

the fact that there appears to be an abuse in the early church of 
people eating too much (a very real concern with some meals ) 
and not treating the with respect , shows the of the 
ritual to just bread and wine to be a way of dealing with the 
inherent problems of people 's human nature , and trying to keep the 
of the aspects .  . 

david us  ( 619)535 ) i do n't speak as a company  . 


from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 25 

in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 

it is true what you stated above jesus  saving is available to 
everyone , not just jews .  . in other words , everyone can have salvation but 
not everyone will. this option is now open to people other than just 
jews .  . of course , if the jews do n't accept the deity of christ , i would 
hardly expect them to accept anything that christ said. but i do n't feel 
any towards them. even though they persecuted jesus and his 
disciples and eventually crucified him , i bear them no ill will. if anything , 
i feel pity for them. jesus had to die to pay the price for our sins and 
so the jews were merely fulfilling prophesy .  . jesus knew he had to die even 
before he began his ministry .  . that demonstrates the great depth of his love 
for us. 

jesus certainly demonstrated the great depth of his love for the 
children who died today at the complex .  . 

sorry , but the events today made me even more negative 
organized religion. 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from 
subject by the sword .  .  .  . 
organization utexas mail to news gateway 
lines 13 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

20 13 
and when the lord thy god it into hands , thou shalt 
every male thereof with the of the sword 

joshua 6 21 
and they utterly all that was in the city , man and women , 
young and old , and , and , and ass , with the of the sword .  . 

joshua 10 32 
and the lord into the hand of israel , which took it on the 
second day , and it with the of the sword , and all the souls that 
were , according to all that he had done to 


from  ( rob napier ) 
subject re , the ancient order of oriental 
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va 
lines 21 
distribution world 
nntp posting host csugrad . cs . vt . edu . 

in article  ( thyagi nagasiva ) writes 


to all whom it may concern 

constitution sacrificed to the bandwidth gods 

im glad i finally have heard exactly what the is all about. i finally 
know that i can stop looking , content i the that im not interested .  . 
it 's tough enough listening to all the religions who refer to themselves as 
the one truth . how can i possibly accept it from a order we have 
all the answers and will give them to those who join us  ( and pay dues ) 
scary .  . besides , answers are easy .  . questions ! now that 's another story .  .  .  . 





rob virginia tech there is no gravity , the earth  . 
all in all i'm just another in the hall 


from david r. sacco 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization misc .  . student , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa 
lines 8 

nntp posting host po5 . andrew . cmu . edu . 
in reply to 

after tons of mail , could we move this discussion to alt . religion . 

there are many here among us who feel that life is but a joke.  ( bob dylan ) 
if you were happy every day of your life you would n't be a human 
being , you 'd be a game show host.  ( taken from the movie heathers .  . ) 
lecture  ( lek chur ) process by which the notes of the professor 
become the notes of the student without passing through the minds of 
either. 

from  ( steve lamont ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization university of  . , san diego and resource 
lines 24 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( diane mathews ) writes 
dear brother bill , 

one way or another so much for patience .  . too bad you could n't just 
wait. was the of god 's message just too much to take 

so do you want the president to specifically order each and every activity 
of the fbi , or what and how willing are you to blame reagan and bush , 
directly , for the incidents that took place in the war on drugs in their 
are you going to blame bush for the fact that 's wife , 
infant , son were killed it happened while he was president .  . 

... or consider the thousands in central america killed by those 
sponsored freedom  . 

thus far , slick is a  . 




steve ,  ( 619 ) 
san diego and resource san diego la , ca 
my other car is a car , too. 
bumper strip seen on i 

from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 26 


in article ,  ( pete yadlowsky ) writes 

anyway , i 've often wondered what business followers of christ would have 
with weapons .  . 


peter m. wake ! the sky is light ! 
academic computing center let us to the net again .  .  .  . 
university of virginia companion keyboard .  . 
after 

imo , a christian has no need of weapons .  . i know it is very contrary to the 
american of the right to bear , but christians should rely on 
the strength of god to protect them. note that i say should . we are 
inherently but i feel that that is not proper justification to be 
armed to the  . a christian should not have to rely on physical weapons 
to defend himself. a christian should rely on his faith and intelligence .  . 
for instance , i have the faith that god will protect me but god also gave 
me the intelligence to know not to go walking down that dark at night. 
to jump off a and say that god will save me would be putting god to the 
test. and who are we to test god 

god be with you , 

) 

from  ( hal leifson ) 
subject re 's reply was re tony rose was free book of mormon 
organization , 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 4 . 
lines 

robert wrote 

 ( lots of stuff about the nicene creed deleted which can be read in the 
original  . i will also leave it up to other netters to 
take mr. to task on using mormon doctrine to declare the 
word on what the church teaches as doctrine .  . the 
netters will be in their explanation . ) . 

since it would do no good to rebut what mr. has stated on the origin 
of the nicene creed and its status as and inspired (i say no good 
because it cannot be proved through discussion or debate as to whether or not 
the authors of the creed were inspired ) , i leave you  ( it will be some time 
before i post again ) with the following thought authored by england , 
professor of english at young university .  . mr. england wrote the 
following as part of a book review section in this people 's magazine  ( spring 
1993 edition ) 

i conclude with a little because i believe we will not be a mormon 
or human family until we can get over and rejecting each other 
with terms like or , liberal or conservative  ( christian 
or non christian 8 ) .  . when we are tempted to draw a circle around 
a set of beliefs and traditions and and call it american , then exclude 
those who do n't fit , it may be well to consider that perhaps the most central 
defining characteristic of a good american might be one who does n't draw 
exclusive circles that the way of excluding ourselves from the 
central american ideal is by excluding others. and when we are tempted to 
draw a circle around mormon or christian , to decide who is orthodox 
and who is n't by how much they agree with us , it might be well to consider 
that the central pillar of christ 's is our ability to love 
those who are different and include them in our family. 

i recently spent some time in a christian bookstore in california .  . the 
service was excellent , the and all smiling , neat , and 
well , and there were the expected wholesome of scriptural 
commentaries , fiction , and collections of  . 
but i was to find how much shelf space was given to attacking 
others , often whether the political left , our modern american 
culture , or other religions .  . a whole section was devoted to cults and the 
, and as you might expect , was right there under the same 
and indictment  ( often by the same authors ) as  . and i found 
i could either or buy  ( in english or spanish ) copies of the god makers 
 ( that , even , but very popular and dangerous 
anti mormon film that uses exaclty the same techniques and even accusations 
of the nazi films that jews in the  . 

it seems to me one major indication that a person is a genuine convert to 
christ and his love is his lack of paranoia and anxiety ( perfect 
love out fear , i john 4  . i have always been pleased that the 
church has not engaged in attacks on other faiths , though i find a 
increase in of individual mormons to engage in the 
same kinds of and and even threats of 
action as the religious right has this year against the 
political left and american cultural and religious they do n't like. 
it is a irony that in so doing mormons take common cause with the 
very people who have most attacked mormons people who would , 
if they had power , restrict mormons  rights along with those of 
others they believe to be evil. 


the above was addressed to the audience who usually subscribe 
to this people 's magazine , but would certainly apply to all of us who 
rely on the and of jesus christ to bring us back into his 
 . 

even though the church claims authority to exercise the principles 
of the gospel as in the days of christ , the church does not claim 
and in how those with authoritative status have or do 
now lead the church. i , for one , do not wish to be christian , if 
those who profess themselves as christians attack my beliefs because they are 
 ( for example) of the way my religion may interpret biblical 
scriptures of the same source to have a different meaning and implication 
than mainstream christianity would give it. once again , being in the 
majority does not in and of itself prove anything except that your collective 
voice is  . that 's really all the of the church have to stand 
on in terms of the kind of biblical interpretation used as proof to counter 
the church  interpretation ! using someone elses biased research of truths 
and non truths  ( whose to say what the mixture is ) as an authoritative tool to 
disprove or discredit is not being fair to anyone , least of all themselves. 
let us simply agree to disagree , and share beliefs through adult discussion 
and conversation , thereby everyone. 


off ! 

from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject gordon 's question on the nicene creed 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 28 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 

gordon banks quoted and added .  .  .  . 

gb in article 
gb  ( robert weiss ) writes 
gb 
gb 
gb christians have for more than years the nicene 
gb creed , a statement of beliefs drawn from the truths of scripture 
gb that was accepted by a council of church 
gb and leaders at in a.d. christians still recite 
gb this creed regularly in public worship .  . 
gb 
gb 
gb so prior to ad there were no christians or all of them really 
gb believed the creed even before it was formulated do you 
gb really believe such an absurdity i'm afraid you do. 

no. 
i really do n't .  . honest .  . 

the nicene creed , as i mentioned above , is a brief statement of 
beliefs that are derived from scripture .  . that this certain list 
did not exist earlier does not indicate that the beliefs summarized 
in in did not exist before the was derived .  . 


robert 


from  ( john e. king ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is oxymoronic 
organization systems inc. 
lines 16 
nntp posting host com . 
to andrew a. 



andrew a. writes 

i'm still waiting to hear a good response from a christian type .  .  . how 
is christ 's word  ( as quoted by paul ) with current christian 
beliefs 

almost one third of the world 's population claim to be christian .  . but 
any similarity between their beliefs and lifestyle to the first century 
model is purely coincidental .  . at luke 18 8 it states ,  .  .  . nevertheless . , 
when the son of man returns , will he really find the faith on the earth 


jack 


from  ( timothy p. henrion ) 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
organization news organization 
lines 32 
nntp posting host com . 

in article writes 
in article , () writes 
in article  ( stephen ) writes 
for those who think david koresh did n't have a solid structure , 
or sound biblical backing for his hour long , 

i do n't think anyone really cares about the solid structure of his 
 . it 's the deaths he 's responsible for that concern most people. 

i assume you have evidence that he was responsible for the deaths 

only my common sense. the fire was caused by either koresh and his 
followers or by the fbi atf and maybe the  . since 
you are throwing around the evidence arguement , i 'll it back .  . can 
you prove any government agency did it  ( please do n't resort to they 
covered it up so that proves they did it or any wild theories about how 
the government intentionally started the fire .  . the key words 
are proof and evidence . ) . 
proves they did it 


all that thou shalt not kill stuff. 

i 'd like to point out that the bible says do not commit murder .  . the 
translation  . self defense was never considered murder .  . the 

please explain how koresh was defending himself from those children who 
burned .  . 


tim bell technology resources 


from  ( mathew ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
lines 12 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 

 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
 ( b ) i am neither a christian nor a theist , but i believe in objective 
morality in preference to a relativist of  . 

well , there are two approaches we can take here. one is to ask you what this 
objective morality is , assuming it 's not a secret. 

the other is to ask you what you think is wrong with relativism , so that we 
can correct your misconceptions ) 


mathew 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re and compassion 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 29 

in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 
do you judge all christians by the acts of those who would call 
themselves christian and yet are not the 's contradicted scripture 
in their actions .  . they were not christian .  . simple as that. perhaps 
you have read too much into what the media has  . ask any 
true believing christian and you will find that they will deny any 
association with the 's .  . even the 7th day adventists have denied any 
further ties with this cult , which was what they were. 

well , if they were satanists , or followers of an obscure religion , 
then i would be sure that christians would in condemn and 
make this to a show case. but when we are dealing with a 
revelation preacher that kills ultimately everyone , including the 
innocent children , then it seems that we are dealing with christians 
and christians  ( note the  . 

do you judge all muslims by the acts committed by saddam hussein , a 
supposedly devout muslim i do n't .  . saddam is just a dictator using 
the religious beliefs of his people to further his own ends. 

and does not this show the with religion in order 
word a mind virus that will make capable of letting 
their small children burn to while they 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 39 


in article sandvik kent . apple . com . ,  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 

it is true what you stated above jesus  saving is available to 
everyone , not just jews .  . in other words , everyone can have salvation but 
not everyone will. this option is now open to people other than just 
jews .  . of course , if the jews do n't accept the deity of christ , i would 
hardly expect them to accept anything that christ said. but i do n't feel 
any towards them. even though they persecuted jesus and his 
disciples and eventually crucified him , i bear them no ill will. if anything , 
i feel pity for them. jesus had to die to pay the price for our sins and 
so the jews were merely fulfilling prophesy .  . jesus knew he had to die even 
before he began his ministry .  . that demonstrates the great depth of his love 
for us. 

jesus certainly demonstrated the great depth of his love for the 
children who died today at the complex .  . 

sorry , but the events today made me even more negative 
organized religion. 


i understand and with your pain. what happened in was a very 
sad  . do n't take it out on us christians though. the branch 
were not an organized religion. they were a cult led by a ego 
cult leader. the christian faith stands only on the of one man , 
the lord of and king of kings , jesus christ .  . btw , david koresh was not 
jesus christ as he claimed .  . 

god be with you , 

) 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( peter nelson ) 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
nntp posting host c . com . 
organization corporation , , ma 
lines 26 

in article writes 
in article , () writes 
in article  ( stephen ) writes 
for those who think david koresh did n't have a solid structure , 
or sound biblical backing for his hour long , 

i do n't think anyone really cares about the solid structure of his 
 . it 's the deaths he 's responsible for that concern most people. 

i assume you have evidence that he was responsible for the deaths 

koresh was a , okay 

again , i 'd like to see some evidence. 

or not , he was clearly a liar .  . he said he would surrender after 
local radio his message , but he did n't .  . then he 
said he would surrender after , but he did n't .  . 

none of which excuses the gross and disregard for the 
safety of the children by the feds .  . as someone else 
pointed out , if it had been clinton in there you would 
probably have seen more  . 


peter 

subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
from 
organization young university 
lines 


dan writes 

in  ( michael mcclary ) 
writes 
just thought i 'd clear up a few of the areas .  .  .  . 

actually , after surviving being driven out of , and later , 
the mormons did utah .  . they still themselves to defend the 
faith , and food as well. they have been involved in quite a 
lot of illegal activity including multiple  ( and often underage ) wives 
for the leaders a practice still in with some of their 
 . the between koresh and joseph smith are  . 


by they , you mean the leaders of the church i grant you that when 
joseph smith was still alive , plenty of accusations were filed , most of 
which had little bearing with reality , as evidenced by various  . 
i have studied history for 15 years now , and i have yet to see prove 
that the leadership was involved , in quote illegal activities. 
marriage , yes , but your charge of wives sounds like it 
could have originated from a , and the high moral 
standards which characterized these leaders and families , unlike , as it 
appears , those of david koresh .  . 

joseph smith started the  . after he and his brother 
were murdered in a , il .  . jail cell , church membership split over 
who to follow. initially , smith was considered a prophet  ( just like 
mohammed , a rather interesting parallel considering muslims consider 
christ to be a prophet the same as jews , i'm led to understand. make 
no mistake , this was no messiah we 're talking about in  . the 

and neither did he claim he was. as the church reflects the moral 
of its leaders  ( and especially those of joseph smith ) , i have 
nothing but the highest respect for this inspired man , whose only crime 
was that he refused to deny that he had seen a vision .  .  .  . many have tried 
to explain the smith phenomenon away , but the bold presence of an 8 . 5 . 
million member strong church stands as a witness that joseph smith 's 
testimony had enough and power to carry on the message. 

thought at the time was that the gift of prophecy was to be handed 
down father to son. after joseph smith died , his son was only 
entering his  . young and a few others claimed to have 
been the gift and leadership prior to his death. the 
council of twelve , the church governing body , was n't of much help 
here , and this basic conflict is still a between the sects .  . 
young took his followers to salt  . the rest waited 
for smith jr. to grow up enough to assume leadership .  . the other 
to the leadership were soon ignored , like mike  . ) 

the rest were and excommunicated members of the church , 
while the great majority of the membership , the twelve , and the various 
organizations , chose to accept young as the new 
prophet and leader of the church. if you knew your scriptures and 
doctrine , you would have known that young was the first in 
line to fill the prophet joseph smith 's he was the 
in the , and various comments made by joseph indicated 
that it was who would lead the latter day exodus to the west .  . 

other were either dead  ( hyrum smith ) or excommunicated 
 ( oliver cowdery ) , and while and , 
joseph smith had already given orders to look for a new place , an empty 
land beyond the of the united states  ( at that time) .  . this 
principle  ( pseudographia ) was well understood and 
by the great majority of faithful , and was not questioned by them. 

granted , a couple of do it stayed behind , unwilling to 
sacrifice and to undertake the journey to the unknown , but 
this also was necessary to separate the from the  . the 
church from this process they became even 
more and willing to carry out their mission to the world. 

both sects practiced the 1 year food doctrine , 
and this being and country most carried or at 
least owned weapons .  . there is little evidence that they were a 
, given that they tended to move on rather than 
face large scale opposition .  . young , having suffered a 
great deal getting to salt , seems to have been quite 
justified in making military training a good thing. remember , 
this was far beyond where even the us army went , and these people 
had nobody to turn to save themselves. 

just a little context to put this all in perspective. 

btw , since when is the church of jesus christ of latter day  ( one of 
the largest in the country ) a it did n't splinter 
from any other religion , as did say , the southern or  . 

so what did the mormons get it seems that j. edgar was very 
impressed with the way they kept  .  ( they 're to defend 
with their lives and for sin with blood. many actually 
do even to the point of suicide . ) . 

what a  . suicide is sinful and against the law of god. i am 
not comfortable with this alleged with i you 
that many among us reject this attitude  . period. our 
only true allegiance is to our god and to the leaders which he has 
to represent him. in any regard , to read this trash  ( about 
suicide and for sins with blood ) is yet another insulting 
misrepresentation of what my church believes in and stands for .  .  .  . 


the , the , are friendly of the 
and delight in telling stories about them , which quick 
from the members and everybody has a grand time. at no time have 
i ever even heard this at. i'm taking it with a salt block. 

make it a really big salt with a on top .  . 

so he virtually no one but 
mormons , until the fbi was almost exclusively by members of the 
church of later day  . though j. edgar is finally gone , the fbi 
 ( especially the field agents ) are still mormon .  . 
i have often wondered how this might affect the fbi 's treatment 
of religious organizations a mormon would consider heretical .  . 

 . even if this were true  ( reliable data , please ) , i 
am convinced that those officers would perform to the highest codes 
of honor and conduct  ( that 's why they were for in the 
first place , remember ) .  . besides , one of our articles of faith 
strongly states the principle of freedom of religion , and that all 
people are free to worship how , where , or what they may .  . 

if it 's true , there would be little affect .  . and 
philosophy is that all other religions have from the true 
church as set down by jesus , but that god will judge each on his 
own merits .  . in addition , the also  ( and the may 
as well ) that ignorance of the true way  ( tm ) is an excuse. you 
can only be condemned if you had been the way and rejected 
it. in short , and suffer everybody from to 
buddhists , secure in the knowledge that though they are wrong they 
will not be for ignorance .  . it is more likely that 
liked them because of their rather strict which 
, , hot drink  ( like coffee or tea ) , and the like. 
these people are the salt of the earth and as such are more 
easily made to follow orders and have few to be used against them. 

a good explanation , i can accept that. you are right that people 
are sometimes a little too with 's orders  ( the late 
president , for example , was an exception with his strong 
opposition of the selection of the peace keeper missile maze 
in  . 

that 's my somewhat guess , anyway. both sects have 
splinter groups that do n't the masses , but these are small 
and rare , and hardly worth their common ancestry .  . 

none of this has any relevance to guns , though. when a 
man 's religion is used to deny him the right of self protection with 
the weapons suitable for the job , he 'll find an ally in me. 

dan , 
only what i read , not what i say. do n't blame them. 
usenet post to , distant machines .  . meet , 
unusual people. and flame them. 


c. 
young university 
computer facilities 

from 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
lines 38 
organization university of 

in article , () writes 
in article  ( stephen ) writes 
for those who think david koresh did n't have a solid structure , 
or sound biblical backing for his hour long , 

i do n't think anyone really cares about the solid structure of his 
 . it 's the deaths he 's responsible for that concern most people. 

i assume you have evidence that he was responsible for the deaths 

koresh was a , okay 

again , i 'd like to see some evidence. 

i 'll type this very so that you can understand. he either set 
the fire himself or told his followers to do so. do n't make him out to 
be a  . he did not get killed , he killed himself. 

once again , where 's your proof suicide is considered a sin by branch 
 . also , koresh said over and over again that he was not going to 
commit suicide .  . furthermore , all the cult said that he was not 
 . david (sp ) , one of the cult members , said that the fire 
was started when one of the the tear gas into the facilities 
knocked over a  . 

the evil was inside the compound .  . 

evidence please 

all that thou shalt not kill stuff. 

i 'd like to point out that the bible says do not commit murder .  . the 
translation  . self defense was never considered murder .  . the 
reason why they were weapons is because they were afraid the 
government would try something. their were obviously well founded .  . 
ray 

there 's no government like no government. 

organization penn state university 
from 
subject re abortion and private health letters regarding 
sandvik kent . apple . com . 

lines 41 

in article , 
 ( peter nyikos ) says 

in  ( rocker ) writes 

in  ( dennis kriz ) 
writes 

if one is paying for a private health plan and does not want 
abortion there is no reason for that person to be 
to pay for it.  ( just as one should not be compelled to pay for 
if one does n't want that kind of  . 

you appear to be ignorant of the underlying concept of health 
 . 

are you any less ignorant have you ever heard of life 
some give in which are charged 
much smaller than 

not to mention being much for women under 25 than 
for men under 25 , because women on the average drive more carefully 
than most men in fact , almost as carefully as i did before i was 25 .  . 

as many people have mentioned , there is no reason why could not 
offer a contract without abortion services for a different  . 
the problem is that there is no that this would be 
lower for those who chose this type of contract .  . although you are 
removing one service , that may have into other types of covered 
care which results in a net increase in costs .  . 

for an illustrative example in the opposite direction , it may be possible 
to add services to an contract and reduce the  . if you 
add services and this reduces care use , then the total 
may fall .  . 

these words and thoughts are my own. i am not bound to swear 
allegiance to the word of any 
master .  . where the storm carries 
me , i put into and make 
d. , myself at home. 

from 
subject re he has risen ! 
organization imperial college group 
lines 8 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 



just to remark that i have heard that david koresh has risen from 
the dead. i dont know if it is true or not , but this is what i have 
been told .  . what do you guys think 

ben l. 


from  ( richard harter ) 
subject re rawlins debunks creationism 
reply to  ( richard harter ) 
organization software development systems , inc. 
lines 

in article  ( bill rawlins ) writes 

we are talking about origins , not merely science. science cannot 
explain origins .  . for a person to exclude anything but science from 
the issue of origins is to say that there is no higher truth 
than science. this is a false premise .  . by the way , i enjoy science. 
it is truly a wonder observing god 's creation. macroevolution is 
a mixture of 15 percent science and 85 percent religion guaranteed 
within three percent error ) 

let us this interesting paragraph point by point , sentence by 
sentence. 


1 ) we are talking about origins , not merely science. 

origins of what are we speaking of the origins of life , the human 
species , the universe , physical law , biological diversity or what 

2 ) science cannot explain origins .  . 

this is a false statement unless it is carefully qualified .  . it depends 
on what origins we are talking about. 

3) for a person to exclude anything but science from the issue of origins 
is to say that there is no higher truth than science. 

again , this is a false statement. to begin with , the notion of higher 
truth is dubious .  . many people believe that there are ways 
to truth that are not in the of science they even 
believe that there are ways that are more reliable and certain .  . many 
believe that there are truths that cannot be expressed using the language 
of science. let it be so. these truths are neither higher or 
lower they are simply true. 

more to the point , one 's discussion of origins to science 
does not reject other sources of knowledge it simply the 
of discussion. 

4 ) this is a false premise .  . 

if this is intended as asserting that the previous sentence was false 
then  ( 4 ) is actually true. however the context identifies it as another 
false or at least theologically statement. 

5 ) by the way , i enjoy science. 

on the evidence mr. rawlins lacks sufficient understanding of science 
to enjoy science in any meaningful sense. one might just as well say 
that one enjoys literature written in a language that one cannot read. 
however one cannot mark this sentence as false to follow the analogy , 
perhaps he likes the pretty shapes of the letters. 

6 ) it is truly a wonder observing god 's creation. 

let us not quibble count this one as true. 

7 ) macroevolution is a mixture of 15 percent science and 85 percent 
religion guaranteed within three percent error ) 

still another false statement. however one can make it come out true 
with the following contextual 

macroevolution , as misunderstood by , is a mixture of 15 percent 
of what rawlins thinks of as science , and 85 percent of 
what rawlins thinks of as religion. 



it is that mr. rawlins fails miserably to touch 
on truth except when he reports personally on what he  . i do 
him the justice of assuming that he is not us as to his 
personal reactions .  . one can account for this by the hypothesis that 
he has an and personal concept of truth. 

richard inc. net address phone 
us mail inc. , po box , ma  . fax 
in the fields of hell where the grass grows high 
are the of dreams allowed to die. 

from  ( dr nancy 's sweetie ) 
subject re and the southern baptist 
summary update on events. 
keywords update , report , ! ' 
organization college of new jersey 
disclaimer sometime , the will turn 11 years old .  . 
you can e mail your presents  ( he likes toys ) to 
the address above. 
lines 73 


there were some recent developments in the dispute about among 
southern  . i posted a summary over in bit . , and 
i suppose that it might be useful here. note that i do not necessarily 
agree or disagree with any of what follows i present it as information. 



for a short summary a southern baptist named larry wrote a book 
claiming that is a religion incompatible with christianity .  . 
 ( mr 's father rejects christianity , and mr that on the 
) . 

the 's home board includes an witness department , 
which studies other religions and how to teach them about christ .  . a few 
years ago , they were ordered to produce a report on they concluded 
that it was not a religion , and therefore was outside their  . 
however , mr led a movement of people who oppose , and 
last year the again ordered the to study  . (i got the 
feeling that they were saying you got the wrong answer last time , try to 
do better and get the answer we want. ) 

anyway , there 's been a bit of and some inappropriate actions , but 
the has and the report is in. nobody is entirely happy with it , 
but everybody seems willing to live with it. both sides are saying things 
such as this was the best we were going to get in the current environment. 

the report the for the charity work they do , such as the 
hospitals and burn they operate , as well as efforts to help the 
and prevent drug abuse .  . the report that many well 
known christians are and have been , and notes that many teachings 
of are of christian faith and practice . examples of 
the latter include belief in god , emphases on honesty and , and 
that some incorporate explicit christian beliefs .  . 

on the other hand , they note that some aspects of are incompatible 
with southern baptist principles .  . these included the use of titles which some 
people consider , the taking of certain oaths  ( even though they 
are not meant seriously ) , the and or writings of 
some leaders , the implication in some writings that salvation 
can be achieved by good works , and the racial discrimination practiced by many 
 . (i note with some that baptist churches as a whole 
are n't really in a place to speak on this last point . ) . 


the report concludes that is not a religion , and says that membership 
should not be or , but left to the of individuals .  . 
this was in part because there is among different , 
and while one may include elements strongly against christianity , another may 
not. many southern have strong convictions about the priesthood of 
the believer and the of the local church , and this history probably 
how the report came out. 



the information above was gleaned from the religious , a publication 
of the baptist general association of virginia , and today , which 
does not have any direct links to a religious organisation .  .  ( autonomy is a 
big issue among some  . 8 ) 

because i have neither the report itself , nor whatever documents are 
relevant to these issues , none of the above comes with a  . your 
mileage may vary .  . where  . 


f 

we use only the baby , dew picked and from iraq , 
in quality spring water , lightly killed , and then 
in a cream milk 
and with  . 

that 's as may be , it 's still a  . 

from  ( james owens ) 
subject re , the number of the , is advised ! 
reply to  ( james owens ) 
organization the national capital 
lines 13 


un resolution aid will get into during 
the gulf war. is this war over is aid getting in , or are they still 
trying to out saddam is this the middle east are we talking 
religious war here am i 

james 
ottawa , ontario , canada 

from  ( tom hyatt ) 
subject re that kill by sword , must be killed by sword 
organization public access unix , tx 
lines 39 

in article  ( stephen ) writes 
now that chemical warfare and the use of have been 
used against innocents so likewise are those involved subject 
to their own judgments .  . the same goes for those who lead others 
into whether behind of wire , or 
of deceit .  . 


yeah. innocents .  . people who worth of high automatic weapons 
and kill law enforcement really fit the bill here. the only innocents 
were the 20 children who were prevented from leaving a burning building by 
their self messiah following parents .  . a burning started by the 
 . 


such is the patience and faith of the  . 

so let them continue for the one who rewards them according 
to what their works shall be comes quickly .  . 

the evidence continues to mount , which all seems to follow 
step by step quite logically to me. 


j 

stephen 


is this subject line a veiled threat against u.s. government or possibly 
office leadership (i . e .  . clinton ) i 've considered you a bit of a , 
before , stephen , i guess this pretty much it. 

nice religion you have there. the only ones who should be killed are those who 
do n't agree with us.  . 



tom i'm a fan , so i 've suffered quite enough , thank you ! arlington , tx help ! i'm being repressed ! m . python . 



from e  ( edgar pearlstein ) 
subject re cults  ( who keeps them going ) 
organization university of nebraska lincoln 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( ranjan s muttiah ) writes 


mr. clinton said today that the horrible of the 
should those who join cults of the of doing so. 
now , i began my head thinking (a bad sign ) , do n't the 
mainstream religions  ( in this case christianity .  .  . or . the 7th day 
in particular ) just keep these guys going is n't mr. clinton 
condemning his own religion after all , is n't it a cult too 


a good point. what helps to keep such things going is the public 
attitude that one should have faith that some authority from 
on high should not be to mere reason. couple this with a 
variety of , and minor mental illnesses , and 
ego of would be leaders , and you get all the variety of cults and 
religions that people subscribe to. 


. 

from (dean . kaflowitz) . 
subject re spreading christianity  ( re christian kills doctor ) 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 29 

in article ,  ( darius lecointe ) writes 
david r. sacco writes 
not to be too snide about it , but i think this christianity must 
be a very convenient religion , very and suitable for 
any since it seems one can take it any way one wants 
to go with it and follow bits one and 
reinterpret the bits that do n't match with one 's desires .  . it 
is , in fact , so convenient that , were i capable of believing 
in a god , i might consider going for some brand of christianity .  . 
the only difficulty left then , of course , is picking which 
to join .  . there are just so many. 

dean kaflowitz 

yes , christianity is convenient .  . following the teachings of jesus 
christ and the ten commandments is convenient .  . trying to love in a 
world is convenient .  . turning the other is convenient .  . so 
convenient that it is at times. 

some christians take a 10 discount off the ten commandments .  . sunday 
cannot be for the sabbath .  . 


make that 20 . where did i see that recently about the 
very religious and adultery was it this newsgroup or alt.atheism 
or some other place 

dean kaflowitz 


from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 32 


in article sandvik kent . apple . com . ,  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 
i understand and with your pain. what happened in was a very 
sad  . do n't take it out on us christians though. the branch 
were not an organized religion. they were a cult led by a ego 
cult leader. the christian faith stands only on the of one man , 
the lord of and king of kings , jesus christ .  . btw , david koresh was not 
jesus christ as he claimed .  . 

the interesting notion is that (i watched tv tonight ) koresh never 
claimed to be jesus christ .  . his believers hoped that 
he would be , but he never took this standpoint himself. 

he was more interested in breaking the seven seals of revelation , 
and make sure that would start. well it did , and 19 
children died , and no god saved them. 

kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

and does it not say in scripture that no man knows the hour of his coming , not 
even the angels in heaven but only the father himself dk was trying to play 
god by breaking the seals himself. dk killed himself and as many of his 
followers as he could. btw , god did save the children. they are in heaven , 
a far better place. how do i know by faith. 

god be with you , 

) 

from  ( bob sarver ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 123 


 ( hudson ) 
yes you do. who is to say that it is immoral for to experience 
pain or to be hurt in some other way. maybe unpleasant , but that does n't 
say anything about morality .  . 

it violates free will ,  . 



 ( me ) 
you can derive the of someone else entirely from selfish 
motives .  . i can say , for example , that it is wrong to hurt other people 
because that makes them less members of society. 

 ( hudson ) 
why is making someone a less member of society immoral 

, you are screwing up again. morality does not (i say again , does 
not ) define only right and wrong . it also defines acceptable social 
behavior , without any of good and evil. picking up your trash 
is not really a right wrong moral issue in the eternal sense of good 
and evil. yet it is moral in the sense that it is acceptable social 
behavior . 

your definition of the word morality is what is causing you to trip over 
yourself here. 




 ( me ) 
and since 
i , selfish being that i am , want to my from society , i will 
not do anything to another member of society if that action might cut down 
on how much benefit i can derive from society. 

 ( hudson ) 
why is your benefit somehow related to morality .  . 

again , your definition is causing you to shoot yourself in the foot. 





 ( hudson ) 
what about if someone that their own personal benefit is enhanced 
more than it would be by the overall resources of society 
maybe something might hurt society , but it would help him 

that is irrational thinking. 

there may also be people out there who think that death by atomic 
destruction is a and wonderful thing. i am not going to let them 
execute that idea just because they want to do it. 

simply because i let people make up their minds about what morals they 
have does n't prevent me from and stopping a madman when i see 
one ,  . and even then , i will only stop him when he 
with me and my life. that is the difference between me and you you 
want to interfere in people 's lives even when they are n't affecting 
you. 





 ( hudson ) 
the central character in dostoevsky 's novel , crime and punishment , 
 ( r something or other ) reasoned that if killed this old jewish woman and 
stole her money to and establish himself , he could 
make a great to society. he reasoned that she was not of 
much profit to society. she just , and money. 


one of the central points of any  ( that 's any) moral system is that is 
has to be internally consistent .  . 

by killing her , the character had to accept the premise that the ends 
justify the means. if he accepted that premise , then  ( in order to be 
consistent ) , he must accept the idea that some day another person may 
apply the same standard to his life. now , if he is unwilling to accept 
this premise  ( which he will not be willing to accept ) , then he has 
behaved with his own moral standard. 





 ( me ) 
example deleted 

 ( hudson ) 
now suppose a freshman on the will only get to play if one of the 
in the field on the court is injured  ( or killed . ) . this freshman 
wants to play in the big game so a talent scout can see him. if he 
a on the team , it might slightly the chances of the team to 
win , but he might gain great personal benefit .  . so , operating on purely 
selfish  ( immorally selfish ) motives , he for a to shoot a 
team in the  . he gets to play in front of the talent scout .  . 

did that freshman behave morally 

selfish intentions may sometimes generate  ( apparently ) moral actions , but 
not always .  . 



two problems right off the 

1. the problem with your analogy is that it does n't address the goal 
that i started with the game. playing in front of the talent 
scout ! the game. try creating the same analogy and keep the 
ultimate goal the same , will you 

2. the internal consistency question is also not addressed if the freshman 
wants to do this to other people , then he has to accept the fact that 
it may happen to him one day. if he is unwilling , then he has violated 
his own moral standard. 




from  ( david joslin ) 
subject re kind , loving , and forgiving god ! 
organization intelligent systems program 
lines 46 

 ( james meritt ) writes 
 ( 4 ) so the fact that stephen did not reply to a does not justify the 
conclusion that stephen taking quotes out of context in a 
excellent .  . now under what conditions could such a conclusion be made , other 
than a direct assertion by his part. 

replace stephen with david joslin , since you directed the same 
accusation of hypocrisy at me. in e mail to me you wrote 
in t . r . m .  . robert writes a promise from psalm 9 10 
gee , since you would n't be at all , you must be really 
busy arguing against these out of context extracted translations ! 

as you may recall , you me mail messages quoting articles by 
robert , all sent within a few of each other. you added 
naturally , i await your arguments against this out of context 
translation. but i shall not await holding my  .  .  . 
and 
wonder when you get to sleep , all these out of context 
extracted translations ! 
and other similar comments .  . 

perhaps you could explain why you ever thought that i might have a 
reason to read all of these articles you off of t . r . m . , much 
less write responses to them 


have you , by chance , ever even heard of inductive logic you are not 
demonstrating any with it (i . e .  . you are being 
 . 

i am familiar with inductive logic .  . go ahead and give me the details 
of the logic that led you to conclude , incorrectly , that i would 
robert taking verses out of context. your conclusion was 
wrong , of course , since i agree that both you and robert were 
of taking verses out of context. nothing about 
that , is there 

since you reached a false conclusion , you made some mistake in your 
logic .  . the only question is where .  . did you think that it would 
be for me not to post a reply to robert  articles 
did you make the common creationist error of confusing a lack of 
evidence for x with evidence for the lack of x is your grasp of 
inductive logic not quite as firm as you think see if you can figure 
out what your mistake was , and learn from it. 



from  ( thyagi nagasiva ) 
subject david koresh messianic cult 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 12 

hello. 


i just read my first newspaper in a while and noticed an article on a 
 messianic cult  leader named  david  . 

i 'd like to know more about this and what is going on with them. 

please email me as i do n't normally read this newsgroup .  . thanks. 




from  ( daniel s oconnell ) 
subject re religion and homosexuality 
keywords being liberal 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
distribution usa 
lines 32 

state . edu .  ( computer dudette ) writes 

i just recently realized that i am bisexual , and also just recently returned to 
religion , and have a good friend who has pointed out to me that homosexuality 
is a sin in the bible .  . well , i do n't see how it could be considered a sin , 

first of all as far as i know , only male homosexuality is explicitly 
mentioned in the bibles , so you 're off the there , i think. in 
any event , there are plenty of people in many who 
do not consider a person 's sexual of gay bisexual 
as an immoral lifestyle choice 

also , i have always been a somewhat liberal , and am pro choice , and it 
seems that being pro choice and being religious do n't mix either. i am told 

this is another misconception .  . you are not being told the whole story. 

my former is a , and i know personally and 
professionally several openly gay and  . i am 
a and like most others in my denomination , 
am pro choice. you need n't go looking to the 
 ( which is a liberal religion ) for acceptance of your sexual 
and pro choice views , however there are many of us 
who believe in spirituality and freedom of conscience .  . 

good luck on your journey ! 


daniel o 
theological school 
university of chicago divinity school 


from  ( david palmer ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
nntp posting host wam . umd . edu . 
organization university of maryland , college park 
lines 23 

in article  ( eric sieferman ) writes 
in article  ( paul harvey ) writes 
in article 

human blood sacrifice ! of an innocent virgin ! nailed to a 
! what is this with male 

christian washed in the blood of the lamb .  . 
washed in the blood of the bull .  . 

if anyone in  . is in the process of a new religion , 
do not use the lamb or the bull , because they have already been 
 . please choose another animal , one not 
on the species list. 



how about 


what for you say you when you have little fluffy tail 
like , ! 
devil 

from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 89 

in article  ( brian kendig ) writes 

i 've asked your god several times with all my heart to come to me. i 
really wish i could believe in him ,  cos no matter how much 
i build up on my own , the universe is a big place , and it would be 
so nice to know i have someone watching over me in it .  .  .  . 

brian k. , i am pleased with your honesty .  . and to be honest as well , i 
believe you have not asked my god to come to you. why do i say this 
because by the things you write on the net , and the manner with which 
you write them , you show me that you made up your own god and are 
attempting to pass him off as the real thing. i got news for you. 
yours does n't at all sound like mine. your god does n't come to you 
because your god does n't exist. 

i 've gone into this with an open mind. i 've my beliefs aside 
from time to time when i 've had doubt , and i 've prayed to see what 
good that would do. i do n't see what more i can do to open myself to 
your god , short of just to believe for no good reason. and 
if i decide to believe for no good reason , why not believe in some 
other god zeus seems like a pretty cool candidate .  .  .  . 

i am sorry brian , but when i read your postings , i do not see an open mind. 
what i do see is misunderstanding , lack of knowledge , arrogance and  . 

please tell me what more i can do while still remaining true to myself. 

be true to yourself then. have an open mind. and so end the  . gain 
knowledge of the real god. put your presumptions aside .  . read the 
bible and know that there is , truly is , a reason for everything and 
there exists a god that has so much love for you that the depth of it goes beyond 
our shallow worldly experience. a person who himself 
to seeking god , will find god. jesus stands at your door and  . but a 
person who half the bible , or it with purpose to find 
something to mock , will find , learn and see nothing. the only thing one 
will gain with that attitude is folly .  . 

be careful to not jump the gun , for at first , there are many passages 
in the bible that will seem bizarre and absurd .  . be assured that even 
though they seem alien at first , be confident that they are not. 
be assured that beyond your present , there lies such 
deep reasons that once you see them , you will indeed be satisfied .  . 
i will personally that one. as jesus put it , you will never 
be again. your cup will even over. 


from king solomon  ( 970 b.c. to b . c . ) . 

it is the glory of god to conceal a matter 
to search out a matter is the glory of kings .  . 


jesus says in john 6 44 55 

no one can come to me unless the father who sent me him. 


and in john 3 16 

for god so loved the world that he gave his one and only son , 
that believes in him shall not but have eternal 
life. 


you are included in . and i also pray that the father is 
drawing you , which it seems he is doing else you would n't be posting 
to talk . religion . misc .  . remember brian , you could be a st. paul in the 
making. paul not only christians as you do , but also had pleasure 
stoning them. yet god showed him mercy , saved him , and paul became 
on of the most men in the history of god 's church. 

you see brian , i myself better be careful and not judge you , because 
you could indeed be the next paul .  . for with the that you attack 
christians , one day you might find yourself one , and like paul , 
proclaim the good news of jesus with that very same or more. 

or you could be the next peter .  . what jesus said to peter , jesus would 
probably say to you satan would surely like to have you. why so 
because peter was hard headed , cynical and demonstrated great 
of stupidity , but once peter committed himself to a task 
he did with full heart .  . peter was the only to have the 
faith to walk on water as jesus did. 

you asked why not believe in zeus zeus did n't offer eternal life. 
you got nothing to gain by believing in zeus .  . 


brian 


from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject re is it good that jesus died 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 

jim writes 

would you consider the word of an eye witness  ( peter ) to testify to the 
events surrounding jesus  life 

no. there are two problems here 

brian kendig writes 

(1) peter died two ago. the original letters he wrote have 
long since into  . if he were alive today and i could 

do you question the existence of the great , iii , 
, , josephus , the great , their documents 
have to too. brian , why another excuse 

(2) even if peter did witness the miracles of jesus two ago , 
that does n't mean that your deity is what the bible says it is  ( god 
might just be satan , trying to convince everyone that he 's a nice 
guy ) , or even that your deity is still alive and active in the world 
today. 

peter wrote a bit of the bible .  . what peter says about god is what 
the bible says .  . 


consider the bible a court recording .  . over the period of thousands of 
years , various people come up and testify of their experience with the 
living god. up comes abraham the  . up comes moses , 
once the high official of egypt .  . up comes , a priest .  . up comes 
david , a mere shepherd who became king .  . up comes the king 
 . up comes the king of ,  . up comes 
, to the king of  . then matthew , an 
takes the stand. up comes luke , an m . d .  . then paul a jew who use 
to kill christians for fun. up comes john , a 17 year old boy .  . up 
comes peter , a  . up comes james , the brother of jesus himself. 
up comes hundreds of others. you hear testimony from , 
, priests , kings .  . the court hearing thousands of years 
with people coming up and about the god who calls himself 
i am .  . 

while you are listening to all this stuff , you realize that 
king david could have never known john , solomon could have never known 
matthew , could have never known peter .  . you realize that all these 
people are independent witnesses , and so , you rule out  . yet 
all of the witnesses tell of the same god. each tells 
of his own experiences with the living god. each experience is 
different , but each experience has enough cross over to 
reveal that each one of these people is talking about the very same god. 
what daniel did not know about god , the 3rd highest official of 
, god revealed to john 600 years later but with a different 
perspective. no two are identical .  . each testimony 
to venture off what is already known. yet each witness 's 
testimony , even though different from those prior , 
describes fitting of the character of the same god. 

now. as we at the computer , you got this seeming 
on the other end of the net , saying , i know this god i am . he has 
revealed himself to me too. he also calls himself jesus  ( john 8  . 
please believe me. i am telling the truth. it is wonderful to know him. 

are you going to just pass off all this testimony as 
are you going to call three thousand years worth of testimony from 
to to to kings to computer 
, fiction with a of your keyboard , with near 
complete ignorance of the , are you going to say that 
that is all complete would that not be the most 
display of arrogance do you actually think you know better than 
king solomon , king david , or even abraham 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 14 

in article , (a . 
wrote 
judging from postings i 've read all over usenet and on non usenet 
bbs , is definitely an species .  . especially 
if he runs into me in a dark  . 

please , please do n't make to a modern saviour mythical 
figure .  . i this being , and if humans will create a religion in his 
name , then life will be ) .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( james meritt ) 
subject re silence is 
nntp posting host org . 
organization corporation , va 
distribution usa 
lines 76 

in article  ( david joslin ) writes 
for those missing the context of this discussion between 
jim and i , jim wrote the following to me in e mail after i pointed out 

hate to your self image of that you appear to hold , but 
your language is wrong jim and me. 

i pointed out that i did , in fact , agree that both robert and 
jim took quotes out of context. hence , i find it difficult to 
understand why jim thinks i am a  . to say , i do n't 
have time to reply to every article on t . r . m .  . that takes a quote 
out of context. 

of course not just the ones you disagree with. q . e . d .  . 

so , according to you , jim , the only way to criticize one person for 
taking a quote out of context , without being a , is to post a 
response to every person on t . r . m . who takes a quote out of context 

jim replied by saying 
did i either ask or assert that 

but today we find four articles from jim , one of which has the subject 

so as of then , and pointing out a specific instance .  . again. 

is it not the case that , in the eyes of the law , when someone is aware of 
something and has the capability of taking action and does not , that individual 
may be held responsible for that action 

which is , of course , a complete red herring .  . taking quotes out of 
context is n't a crime .  . i do n't have time to read every article on 
t . r . m .  . , and i'm certainly under no to reply to them all. 

so check the newsgroups 

does silence is imply that jim thinks that because i 
did n't respond to  articles i must  taking quotes 
out of context jim does n't want to give a direct answer to this 
question read what he has written and decide for yourself. 

telepathy again you claim to know what i want . 

but back to the context of my conversation with jim .  . jim 's next 
was to claim that he was using inductive logic when he 
concluded that i was being a  . i challenged him to provide 
the details of that logic that led him to an incorrect conclusion .  . 

no. you asked specifically what was wrong with yours. 

today we find another obscure article  ( posting it twice did n't help 

maybe to the ignorant .  . i accept your  . 

more red  . could jim mean that he has read an large 
number of my articles 

do you know what large means it does not appear so. 

could jim mean that because i his articles , 
but not  articles , he wants to conclude inductively ... 
well , i ca n't see where he is going with this. 

i am not suprised .  . 

but i can help him with his induction .  . i 've written roughly 80 

that does not appear to be the case. the appearance of your argument 
is more like that would have gotten from mr. written 
by a at  . 

think hard about this jim .  . see the pattern think harder .  . run it 
through your induction engine and see what pops out. 

of course. you appear arrogant .  . so i already had that out. 


from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject re is it good that jesus died 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 

in article  ( brian kendig ) writes 

john 12 24 26 most , i say to you , unless a grain of 
falls onto the ground and dies , it remains alone but if it dies , it 
produces much grain .  . 
he who loves his life will lose it , and he who hates his life in 
this world will keep it for eternal life. 
if anyone serves me , let him follow me and where i am , there my 
servant will be also. if anyone serves me , him my father will honor .  . 

why would i want an eternal life if i hate this one 

again , you missed jesus 's point. if you read the surrounding passages 
you would understand what jesus means by life in the world. but 
as is , you around , asserted your standard axiom that the bible is bunk , 
and came up with the wrong idea. also , you do not know exactly 
what jesus means by eternal life. 

brian k. , do you expect to jump in the middle of the quantum mechanics 
book and understand having not read the surrounding 
material why do you such with the bible for an idea what jesus 
means by the world , look up references to it in your concordance .  . for 
a good description , the whole book of is game. for 
eternal life , check out john 17 3 , john 3 15 16. you will find that 
eternal life is quite different than what you think. eternal life 
starts now an infinitely high quality of life living in fellowship 
with god. 


in short even if your deity does exist , that does n't automatically 
mean that i would worship it. i am content to live my own life , and 
for myself , so when i die , i can be proud of the fact that no 
matter where i end up , it will be because of my actions and my choices. 

if your god decides to toss me into a flaming for this , then so be 
it. i would much rather just cease to exist. but if your god wants 
my respect and my obedience , then it had better these and if it 
does , then they will be very strong and true. 

if my exists , you would not just cease to exist. jesus talks of 
hell in luke 16 19 31. 


you 've got to understand my point of view i see christians 
bible verse all the time as if it were some sort of magic that 
will level all opposition .  . truth is , it 's not. robert has never 
demonstrated that he actually what the verses imply he 
just them off day by day. some in the face of 
common sense and reality , and i point these out where i can. 


the truth is , is that it is not some sort of magic  . the truth 
is is that you do not understand it , and enjoy not understanding it. 

is a very nice belief set around a very nice book. 


wrong again. christianity is supposed to be relationship .  . you 
do not even know what christianity is and you are arguing against 
it. 

and in my opinion , you 're about blindly making up entities 
where there are n't any , and yourself of a true understanding 
and enjoyment of your life. as long as you keep your beliefs to 
yourself , i 'll keep my beliefs to myself but as soon as you start 
waving them around , expect me to toss in my opinions , too. 

just as i make up such places as , jerusalem , , , 
, , and such kings as , david , solomon , 
, herod , . . . . but i guess then 
that you treat abraham lincoln as a myth like you do odin and zeus .  . 

from  ( dave butler ) 
subject re new biblical contradictions answered  ( judas ) 
organization tektronix , inc. , , or. 
lines 

i produced an error last week about 

 ( by the way mr , you really should have looked in the index of your 
greek  . you would have found that the word in 
acts for lot is , not as stated by mr , and nowhere 
in the very large discussion of in done the to theological dictionary 
of the new testament by , is the meaning plot discussed .  . it 
discusses the forms of  ( eg , , etc ) , and the various 
meanings of  ( eg plot of land , and ) , but mentions 
nothing about or plot .  .  ( why does this not surprise me ) thus 
it would seem to be a very good thing you as a  . 

i was wrong. i admit that i do not have a handle on greek grammar , and thus 
confused , the second to last word in acts 1 17 as being the plot of 
land discussed .  . in it is , which is the last word acts 
1 18 .  . unfortunately my greek dictionary does not discuss so i 
cannot report as to the of the word. 

i publishing trash (i it of myself even more than i do from 
others , but since i do not present myself as an authority on the subject , i do 
not feel dishonest , though i do openly admit ignorance and in 
this example) .  . thus i felt honor bound to do a better set of research 
specifically on the word. first it should be noted that greek grammar is not 
as tough as i first assumed  ( it is not by any means , and i still am 
not with it , but it is not as as i had  . it turns 
out that while the index for the greek 
each verse in order , each word within a verse is put in greek 
order. thus while the the meaning of the verse is , the is 
far from clear. on the other hand , a greek english bible makes 
things a lot more  . and yes , the word for field in acts 1 18 is 
indeed  . 

now i 've checked several greek english 

greek english of the new testament , and 
's greek and english of the new testament 
greek english of the new testament , 
word study concordance , 
a greek english of the new testament and other 
early christian writings , 
the new greek , 

in each case the meaning of the word was given as 

a space , place , , district , field , area , country place , 
land , farm , , a bit of , and similar meanings .  . 

nowhere do any of these books mention anything about grave .  . as some of these 
books go into great detail , i would be very surprised to find that these books 
are all and mr is the only scholar in greek .  . i 
think it more likely that mr 's into contradictions to 
be once again , as your friend said it , lacking in substance , and thus 
is again shown worthless as an expert witness  ( by the way mr , i would 
have presented my results on this matter , even if i had found them 
to support mr 's  . 

by the way , among these ,  ( eg 's ) is the definition of 
, the word used in matthew 27 to describe the field bought .  . the word 
is defined as a field in the country. is specifically noted 
as a to  . this is significant , as it is evidence of how silly 
's was , which stated that the word for field in matthew 
 ( ie agros ) is different from the word for field in acts  ( ie chorion ) , and 
thus we must be talking about two different fields  ( of course you already 
admit how stupid 's is , but this was a small 
which drives the point  . 

so as of now , unless mr show compelling reasons to believe otherwise 
 ( eg a scholar with references ) , i consider this 
particular issue closed. see mr , now you can go on to answer 
questions about the denials of peter , the day of the crucifixion , tyre , and 
the fact that the author of matthew quoted from the wrong prophet in 
discussing the potter 's field .  . 

later , 

dave 

precise knowledge is the only true knowledge , and he who does not teach 
exactly , does not teach at all. 
henry ward 
american 
as recorded by george 

from  ( joshua geller ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization institute for the study of ancient science 
lines 29 
distribution world 
sandvik kent . apple . com . 

nntp posting host washington . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 17 apr 1993 20 31 11 gmt 


in article 
 ( tony alicea ) writes 

kent 

you say that 

there are about 4 10 competing orders existing today , 

most of them are spin from and other competing organizations 
from the century france germany .  . maybe i should write an article 
please do n't ! 

huh it might be interesting. he is the story as i have heard 
it , btw. 

about all this , i spent some time investigating these organizations 
and their world view systems. 

name just three really competing orders .  . i have 
probably spent more time than you doing the same. 

none of them are spin from o . t . o .  . the opposite may be the 
case. 

huh care to back that up 



from  ( david bold ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization  ( ericsson ) , , england 
lines 89 
nntp posting host 

in article ,  ( pete yadlowsky ) writes 

moral distinctions deleted 

in this case , the does not evolve but simply is. there would 
probably not be any manifestation in an infant because the moral 
code has not been yet  . the object upon which the 
acts  . 

without manifestation , though , how can the be detected for 
all purposes it seems not to exist until moral coding begins .  . 
actually , i agree with your notion of a , except that i think 
it 's not moral but pre  ( and super  . it is , as i mentioned 
earlier in this thread , a sense of connection , a pre and 
post the awareness of which is expressed in a 
, way that  ( and forms , in return ) the 
language and of a given culture .  . this , english 
is , i think , what we come to call  . 

compare the to an urge such as , where there is an urge 
and an object . the does not technically exist until the object 
is apparent .  . however , the capacity to be is presumably still there 
even though it is not detectable .  . 

your description of the took me three passes to understand ( ! ) but 
i get the and i have to agree. i think our two definitions 
can sit side by side without too much trouble , though. i have n't attempted to 
define the reason behind the moral  ( only through the essence of 
each  . your definition hints that animals are also capable of a 
similar morality have a similar social order to ourselves and it is 
easy to with these animals .  . is this possible or have i 
misunderstood 


if my suggestion holds true then this is the area where work must be 
carried out to prevent a moral of society , 

what kind of work , exactly 

well , here you have asked the big question. ... 
i have a slight suspicion that you were i would say 
something really contentious in this reply  ( from your final question) .  . 

no , not at all. i was just wondering if you to some 
particular school of social thought and rehabilitation , and if 
perhaps you had a plan .  . i 'd have been interested to hear it. 


my p.s. thoughts falls roughly in line with john stuart mill and 
his writings on  . i have no particular plan  ( except to do 
my bit personal ethics and social  . my opinion  ( for what it is worth ) 
is that the authority for each moral must be increased somehow , and that this 
will probably take several generations to be effective. i do n't think that the 
list of morals has changed for society , though . the authority element 
may come from our authority and roles models  ( see eric and his 
analysis work for references ) and this is what 
gives rise to a of moral standards in the long term .  . 

i 've had some more thoughts on my definitions 

i 've was thinking that i should add moral character to the list of definitions 
in order to get a version of the moral nature  . the of 
the moral code and associated  . a suitable analogy might be a 
on a system the moral nature being the set of 
and the chosen   , and the moral character being the 
spectrum over time. 

conscience is a little more difficult because i ca n't define it as the 
reasoning of a person between actions in the context of his moral nature 
because conscience seems to cut in most of the time and often 
unwanted .  . i think conscience is when a decision is made at a given 
time which one 's moral nature. my conscience fits in more with 
's  ( plus the moral driver ) with the being the 
or 's id .  . the reasoning that i mentioned before is 's ego , 
i suppose. if the moral is part of the id then the reason why 
conscience cuts in is explained .  . the question is what 
provides the to the moral . i think i need some 
more time with this one. 

that 's about it for now ! 

david .  . 


on religion 

oh , where is the sea , the cried , 
as they its through. 


from  ( dick eney ) 
subject re flaming nazis 
organization express access communications , , md usa 
lines 10 
nntp posting host access . net . 

the trouble with trying to find out the truth is that and his 
were accused of being flaming , one of the for the 
night of long in which and most of the sa of the 
were  . since the thereafter controlled the records , 
anything bearing on the subject true or not has to be considered 
tainted evidence. the available data suggest that and his , 
the sa , storm left the world a better 
place when they departed , but concrete particulars are still no more than 
more or less  . 


from  ( andrew bulhak ) 
subject re mark of the need info 
organization monash university 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 14 

wrote 
catholic high school , outside of chicago 

south avenue .  . 

actually , is technically  . 



andrew n .  . the sound of richard 
hitting the ground after being 
monash uni , clayton , by a posse of angry usenet 
, australia posters .  . 


from bs . de .  ( benedikt rosenau ) 
subject re albert sabin 
organization technical university braunschweig , germany 
lines 20 

in article 
 ( bill rawlins ) writes 

 ( deletion ) 

since you have referred to the messiah , i assume you are referring 
to the new testament .  . please detail your or e mail if 
you do n't want to post. first century greek is well known and 
well understood .  . have you considered josephus , the jewish historian , 
who also wrote of jesus in addition , the four gospel accounts 
are very much in harmony .  . 


since this drivel is also to alt.atheism , how about reading 
the alt.atheism faq the josephus quote is to be a fake even 
by christian , and the four gospels contradict each other in 
important points. 

were n't you going to offer a scientific theory of creationism 
benedikt 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 23 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( seth j. bradley ) writes 

in article  ( mike cobb ) writes 
why is n't this falsifiable i.e. there is no god , the world has existed forever 
and had no starting point. 

how does one god 's existance this , again , is a belief , not a 
premise .  . the original thread referred specifically to scientific 
creationism . this means whatever theory or theories you propose must be 
able to be judged by the scientific method. this is in to 
purely philosophical arguments .  . 

if given a definite definition of god , it is sometimes possible to 
the existance of that god. 
but , when one refuses to give an definition , one can not. 



whatever promises that have been made can than be broken. 

john laws , a man without the honor to keep his given word. 



from  ( stephen andrew weinstein ) 
subject new religion forming sign up 
summary read it. worthwhile .  . serious questions about real religion. 
keywords , religion , 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization polytechnic institute , ny 
lines 102 

let me begin by saying i think this is the world 's first religion to use 
the net as its major medium .  . therefore , even if this 
religion does not take off , its founding members will be very important 
historically as this method of membership will eventually become 
common .  . 

the basis of this religion is to apply various aspects of current conventional 
morality to the characters in genesis and exodus but assume that the bible 's 
accounts of the facts and historical events is correct. 

for example , 

story of adam and eve 
adam and eve are in garden of and ignorant .  . have unlimited 
supply of food provided , but no clothing , jobs , or knowledge. god says 
not to eat fruit of tree of knowledge. they do anyway , then try to hide 
in  . god finds them and forces them out of garden .  . 
 ( there are several different stories on what they were doing while in 
the that might have angered god . ) . 

traditional philosophy 
1. the only reason you need knowledge or a job is to eat .  . if someone else will 
provide you with food , then you can be stupid and and it 's ok. this 
is why married women usually did n't work until recent decades .  . 
2. authority , such as god , whoever was behind the vietnam war , hitler 
and , are always right and should be blindly followed without 
question by ordinary people , who ca n't make decisions for themselves. 

interpretation of events based on traditional philosophy 
they were not supposed to eat the fruit .  . they should have done whatever god 
told them to. like small children , they had their needs provided for and were 
obligated to do whatever their father said to. being forced to leave the 
garden and work in order to obtain food was a punishment .  . 

lessons from traditional interpretation 
1. ignorance is good. knowledge is bad , but tempting .  . 
2. having food provided for you for nothing  ( read welfare ) is ideal .  . get 
a job and feeding yourself with what you is punishment .  . 
3. public is good. covering up is bad. 
4. authority are intrinsically right. normal people are and 
should do whatever they are told without question. they should not think for 
themselves. 
5. people in positions are especially obligated to from 
learning. for example , it should be illegal for slaves to learn to read. 

1990 's philosophy 
1. people should seek education and employment outside the home , unless 
named hillary clinton or brown . 
2. people should use common sense. they should not kill other people 
 ( binding of , wars , , etc . ) . just because they are told to. 

interpretation of events based on current philosophy 
they were supposed to eat the fruit .  . god gave wanted them to seek knowledge 
rather than be handed it on a silver  . once they had gained knowledge 
and  ( by seeking it) showed their ability to make decisions for them 
, they no longer needed to be treated like little children and were 
rewarded by being allowed into the real world. 

lessons from new interpretation 
1. ignorance is bad. knowledge is good , but must be sought .  . 
2. having food provided for you for nothing  ( read welfare ) is at best 
a temporary measure. getting a job and feeding yourself with what you 
is ideal .  . 
3. public is bad. covering up is good. 
4. authority are often wrong. normal people are intelligent and 
should consider whether the instructions are really a good idea and alter 
or bad governments .  . they should think for themselves. 
5. people in decisions are often discouraged from knowledge 
but should seek it anyway , and all the harder .  . for example , poor children 
without good schools should work especially hard in order to make a better 
life for their children  ( and  . 

i have named this new philosophy the church of because 
eve 's decision to eat the apple is man sic kind 's first good decision , instead 
of its first bad one , as traditionally believed .  . she is therefore clearly 
a  . god at first appears evil , for telling people not to seek 
knowledge but on deeper analysis is also a  . as god rewarded the 
decision to him , and provided the tree in the first place , the intention 
and desire were clearly to have the knowledge be obtained , but to delay it 
until it was actively sought .  . 

end serious discussion. begin humor .  . 

save this post to  ( or file  . someday it will be considered the 
most important writing since the 10 commandments .  . you want an original copy. 

stay for the on soc . religion .  .  .  . 
can i get a tax deduction for money i donate to this organization 

return to serious discussion when posting follow  . 

stephen 











subject re 's reply 
from 
organization young university 
lines 


robert writes 

replied to my letter with .  .  .  . 

in article , 
 ( robert weiss ) says 


( .  .  . ) . 

just , on something that you mentioned in passing .  . you refer to 
interpretations of create , and say that many christians may 
not agree. so what that is really irrelevant .  . we do not base our faith 
on how many people think one way or another , do we the bottom line is 
truth , regardless of popularity of opinions. 

it may be irrelevant to you and your personal beliefs  ( or should i say 
bias ) , but it is relevant to me and many others. you 're right , the 
bottom line is truth , independant from you or anyone else. since you 
proclaim truths as a self , may i ask you by what 
authority you do this because it says so in the bible does the 
bible say so , or is it you , or someone else , who interprets whether a 
scripture or doctrine to your particular liking or 

excuse , but your line of truths have n't moved me one bit to persuade 
me that my beliefs are erroneous .  . of all the of truth on 
this net , you have me as a self righteous member of the 
, with no positive message to me or other latter day whatsoever. 
btw , this entire discussion reminds me a lot of the things said by jesus 
to the pharisees  ( hypocrite(s ) . . . preach about me with your , 
but your hearts are far removed from me .  .  .  . 

also , i find it rather strange that in trying to persuade that created 
and existent are equivalent , you say granted the mormon 
belief .  .  .  . you ca n't grant your conclusion and then expect the point to 
have been addressed .  . in order to reply to the issue , you have to address 
and answer the point that was raised , and not just jump to the 
conclusion that you grant .  . 

 . look who 's talking jumping to conclusions you would n't do 
that yourself , right all you address is your own convictions , regardless 
whether we come up with any biblical scriptures which supports our points 
of view , because you reject such interpretations without any consideration 
whatsoever. 


the bible states that lucifer was created. the bible states that jesus 
is the creator of all. the contradiction that we have is that the 
belief is that jesus and lucifer were the same. 

a beautiful example of and a deliberate misrepresentation 
of doctrine .  . the former would have loved to you. 
jesus and lucifer are not the same , silly , and you know it. 

( .  .  . ) . 

the mormon belief is that all are children of god. literally .  . there is 
nothing about it. this however , contradicts what the bible 
says .  . the bible teaches that not everyone is a child of god 

correction it may contradict would you think the bible says .  . the bible 
indeed does teach that not all are children of god in the sense that they 
belong to or follow god in his  . satan and his followers have 
against god , and are not children ( followers redeemed ) of god , 
but it does n't mean that they were not once created by god , but chose to 
separate themselves from those who chose to follow god and his plan of 
salvation .  . 


the field is the world the good seed are the children of the 
kingdom but the are the children of the wicked one 
 ( matthew 13 38 ) 

so this nicely what i just said the children of the 
kingdom are those who have remained in their testimony of jesus 
 ( and have shown works of , etc . ) . , and the children of the 
wicked one are those who against god and the lamb .  . the issue 
of satan 's spirit offspring  ( and those who followed him ) has not been 
addressed in this and other verses you copied from your bible .  . you 
the subject by swamping your right with non 
related scriptures .  . 

( .  .  . lots . of nice scriptures deleted  ( not robert w. copyrighted ) though .  .  . ) . 

we are told that , and this is life eternal , that they might know 
thee the only true god , and jesus christ , whom thou hast sent .  . 
 ( john 17 3) .  . life eternal is to know the only true god. yet the 
doctrines of the that i have mentioned a 
different jesus , a jesus that cannot be with the jesus of 
the bible .  . they are so far removed from each other that to proclaim 

correction my jesus is indeed different than your jesus , and can be 
with the jesus in the bible .  . not your interpretation of him , 
i concur , but i honestly could n't care less. 

one as being true denies the other from being true. according to the 
bible , eternal life is dependent on knowing the only true god , and 
not the construct of imagination. 

in this single posting of yours , i 've seen more constructs of imagination 
than in all of the pro combined i have read so far in this news 
group. first get your facts straight before you dare preaching to us 
about the only true god , whom you interpret according to your own likes 
and , but whose image i cannot reconcile with what i know about 
him myself. i guess your grandiose self image does not allow for other 
faiths , believing in the divinity of jesus christ , but in a different 
way or fashion than your own. not that it really matters , the mission 
and progress of the church will go on , and , and no 
or opponent can stop the work from , until it has visited 
every continent , swept every , and in every ear .  . 

this is really a red herring .  . it does n't address any issue raised , but 
rather , it seeks to  . the fact that some groups try to read 
something into the bible , does n't change what the bible teaches .  . 

sigh. what the bible teaches or what the bible teaches according to 
robert and co .  . i respect the former , i reject the latter without 
the feeling that i have rejected jesus .  . on the contrary .  . and by 
the way , i do respect your interpretations of the bible , i even grant you 
being a christian  ( following your own image of him ) , as much as i am a 
christian  ( following my own image of him in my  . 

( .  .  . ) . 

most of the other replies have instead hop to the issue of 
bruce and whether his views were  official doctrine . ' . i do n't 
think that it matters if 's views were  . that is not the 
issue. were 's writings of mormon belief on this 
subject is the real issue. the indication from is that they may 
certainly be. 

the issue is , of course , that you love to use anything to either mis 
represent or the church. the issue of official doctrine 
is obviously very important. 's views have been 
(e . g .  . the seven has made me a heretic ! ) at best , 
or erroneous at worst ( blacks not to receive the priesthood in this 
) .  . i respect him as someone who has made his valuable 
to the church , but i personally do not rely on his personal 
interpretations  ( his book mormon doctrine is referred to 
as 's bible in mormon circles ) on mormon doctrine .  . i rather 
look to official  ( doctrinal ) sources , and .  .  .  . to 's books ! 
 ( the last comment is an reference . ) . summarizing 
was a wise man who contributed far more to the kingdom of 
god than i have , but whose views are by no means dogma or accepted 
doctrine , some of it clearly belongs to personal interpretation and 
speculation .  . but having said this , i find  ( even in his most 
biased and moments ) far more thought provoking than the 
trash coming from your pen. i'm somewhat appalled that i have 
allowed myself to as low as you in this posting .  .  .  . 


robert 



c. 
young university 
computer facilities 

from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 21 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( christopher d. colvin ) says 

i guess the san jose news is wrong then , ... 


no it is old .  . you said is , not was ... ) 
nothing personal , ok good ! ) 

maybe you did n't know that it 's over by now. there is no more 
pending legal actions from no where , period. so yes , there was a 
situation and it has been by both parties .  . as long as humans 
handle anything , it is to breaking ) 

btw , l. has a p.o. box in tx calling his org 
ancient  . i guess he could n't take the from ) 


tony 



from (a . 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization com systems bbs , , ca  ( 510 ) 
lines 20 

 ( michael d. adams ) writes 
if anyone in  . is in the process of a new religion , 
do not use the lamb or the bull , because they have already been 
 . please choose another animal , one not 
on the species list. 

how about washed in the blood of the ) 

judging from postings i 've read all over usenet and on non usenet 
bbs , is definitely an species .  . especially 
if he runs into me in a dark  . 

a . 


a . internet addresses 
 ( preferred ) 
com . ! boo ! !  ( bang path for above) 
 ( backup ) 
2 . public key available on request 

subject re albert sabin 
from  ( rich fox , univ of south dakota ) 
reply to 
organization the university of south dakota computer science dept. 
nntp posting host charlie 
lines 62 

in article news . com . ,  ( john e. king ) writes 


writes 

bill , i have taken the time to explain that biblical scholars consider the 
josephus reference to be an early christian insert .  . by biblical 
scholar i mean 
an expert who , in the course of his or her research , is willing to let 
the 
fall where they may .  . this , who may 
otherwise be 
defined as biblical apologists .  . they find what they want to find .  . 
they are 
not trustworthy by scholarly standards  ( and  . 

i 've seen this claim about the josephus insert flying around the 
net too often to continue to ignore it. perhaps it 's true. was 
there only one josephus if there were , say , 100 copies , 
the would have to put his insert into all of them. by the 
same , since josephus was a historian , why are biblical scholars 
the flag historical scholars , i would think , would have 
a better handle on these ancient secular documents .  . can you give 
documents  ( page numbers , etc ) 

jack 

i became aware of the claim years ago. so i decided to check it out , on my 
own. but , then , that was in bn times  ( before  . so , here are some 
references .  . see fox 's the version , where 
fox writes , ... the one passage which appears to comment on jesus  
career is agreed to be a christian addition .  . 

in my re albert sabin response to jim lippard  ( 21 
april 93 ) , i noted that consensus is typically indicated subtly as in 
's the gnostic gospels , to wit a comment attributed to 
josephus reports ... emphasis mine . scholars sometimes do not even mention 
the two josephus , another consensus .  . 

so far as i can deduce , today 's consensus is built on at least three things 
1 ) the long passage is way out of context , 2 ) origen did not know about the 
long passage , and 3) the short and long passages are contradictory .  . 
i do n't know the references wherein the arguments which led to consensus are 
developed  ( does anyone ) .  . 

biblical scholars as i defined them include theologians and  . the 
former , like the latter , incorporate historical , social , and 
ideological as well as theology .  . so the distinction is  . i 
did n't elaborate on that. sorry.  ( in turn , are compelled to 
incorporate theology) .  . 

ca n't say about the number of copies .  . these were , however , times  ( before 
 . a hundred first seems high counting on one 
hand seems more reasonable .  . perhaps those  . without the long insert  ( if any , 
because anything is possible ) have been  . such a practice is 
certainly not foreign to religions .  . anyway , all we have are  . which have 
the two  .  ( in the message noted above) talks about an arabic 
 . but here the  . date is critical .  . 

) 

rich fox , , 

from 
subject re jewish history question 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 60 

in article  ( mark israel ) writes 
in article ,  ( little 'e' ) writes 

deleted 
here  . someone just told me that the old testament books were translated 
into greek a long time ago 

yes , that 's a famous version called the septuagint .  . it was a translation 
made by greek jews .  . 

and that the originals were in a fire soon  . 

i do n't know what you 're referring to here. when the temple was 
, some manuscripts may have been lost , but i think our extant hebrew 
manuscripts are as good as our greek ones. i do n't know about any originals . 

the person who was telling me about the septuagint version said that the greeks 
had a wonderful library in that was full of manuscripts 
and that it was burned soon after the septuagint version was translated 
 ( perhaps to conceal some changes in the different versions , or perhaps just 
as part of the typical burning of valuable things that occurs during changes 
in power groups , he i  . 

so , i was just wondering , since i imagine some jewish people somewhere must 
have had copies of the earlier hebrew versions , is the hebrew version of the 
old testament very different from the greek derived version 

no. there are a few famous  ( isaiah 's prophecy about a young 
woman was changed into a virgin , which was how the new testament writers 
read it) , but not many. 

well , perhaps this is the answer then. 

deleted 
if you go to a jewish bookstore , you 'll get a bible translated by jews , so 
there will be some differences in interpretation , but the text they 're 
from is basically the same. 

if you want to read the original , you can buy an bible .  . that 
contains the hebrew old testament and the greek new testament , with an english 
translation written each word. 

if you want a bible with a possibly more original basic text , you can try 
to find a bible .  .  ( good luck ! i 've never seen one . ) . the 
 ( no , not the good samaritans ) have their own version of the 5 books of moses .  . 
they claim the jewish bible was altered by  . 

thanks for the  . now i just have to find someone to teach me ) 

just me , 

little  e  

 ( so , is a good hard to find or is a hard .  .  .  . oh , finish this 
yourself . ) . 


at , and 
e mail 


from  ( mark robert thorson ) 
subject re scientology 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
lines 8 

i need some brief information on scientology  ( or as frank 
would call it) anyone have the time to send me some info on ol' l . ron . and the b 
of what scientology is all about would be p . s . i . am not 
in any propaganda 

i 've taken the liberty of passing your name and address to your local org 
 ( scientology  . they 'll be you in a few days. i also 
threw in a small , so they 'd know you 're serious. ) 

subject re catholic of a . s . s .  . 
from  ( john nunnally ) 
distribution world 
organization harding university , , ar 
nntp posting host harding . edu . 
x news reader vms news 1 . reply to 's message of 16 apr 93 18 57 20 45 
lines 45 

in writes 

in writes 

i am surprised and  . i would expect this kind of behavior 
from the evangelical born again gospel in your face we 're 
the only true christian protestants , but i have always thought 
that catholics behaved better than this. 
please do not to the 
level of the e b a g t i y f w t o t c protestants , who think 
that the best way to witness is to be , , loud , 
insulting and self righteous .  . 

 ( pleading mode on ) 

please ! i'm begging you ! quit confusing religious groups , and stop 
making ! i'm a protestant ! i'm an evangelical ! i do n't 
believe that my way is the only way ! i'm not a creation scientist ! i 
do n't think that homosexuals should be by their ! 

if you want to discuss bible thumpers , you would be better off 
out  ( and making about ) fundamentalists .  . if you 
compared the actions of or with those of southern 
, you would think that they were different religions ! 

sarcasm on 
be sure we pick on the correct groups here. bible thumpers , 
fundamentalists , and southern our hasty 
and statements .  . just do n't pick on the 
and the ! 
sarcasm off 
please , prejudice is about thinking that all people of a group are the 
same , so please do n't write off all protestants or all ! 

 ( pleading mode off . ) . 

god .  .  .  .  .  .  . i . wish i could get of all the thomas stories .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

f n , lbh 
n tha .  . gb , gb lbh er 
n  . 


david chief of research 


from  ( lance a. brown ) 
subject re religion and homosexuality 
distribution usa 
organization unix 
lines 20 
x signature 

in article  ( darius lecointe ) writes 
 ( lawrence c. foard ) writes 
unlike and homosexuals hurt no one by having sex 
with the same sex. 

what about the homosexual whose family does not accept that decision and 
is hurt  ( emotionally ) by it 

good question. i do n't have a nice concise answer , though. what about the 
child whose parents are emotionally because he she starts a 
doing something they greatly dislike .  . it is the same kind of harm , and 
is probably caused by the same thing the desire of the child to be 
true to his or her self .  . 

what is more important , being true to yourself or that truth within 
you in order to maintain peace in the family 

hard question , no good answer. 



subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
from  ( ken mcvay ) 
organization the old 's 
lines 20 

in article  ( stephen ) writes 

seems to me koresh is yet another messenger that got killed 
for the message he carried .  .  ( which says nothing about the 

seems to be , evidence to the contrary , that koresh was simply 
another who thought it to take a whole bunch of 
folks with him , children and all , to his delusional mania .  . jim 
jones , 1993 .  . 

in the mean time , we sure learned a lot about evil and corruption .  . 
are you surprised things have gotten that 

nope like koresh have been demonstrating such evil corruption 
for centuries .  . 

the old 's a to that old f , 
 ( 604 )  ( v32 )  ( 604 )  ( 2400x4 ) 2 . 3 . 2 . 
, british , canada .  . serving central vancouver island 
with public access usenet and internet mail home to the 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re burden of proof 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 41 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article writes 
actually , both are positive arguments .  . ( positive may not be the best 
description here due to possible misunderstanding , but it 's the term you 
used . ) . positive arguments assertions can be both (i . e .  . god 
exists ) and negative (i . e .  . god does not  . both carry an equal 
burden of proof because they are both asserting that a certain idea 
is true. the default condition , in the absence of a of 
evidence either way , is that the proposition or assertion is undecidable .  . 
and the person who takes the undecidable position and says that he she 
simply that the proposition is true , is the only one who 
holds no burden of proof. this is why the so called weak atheist 
position is virtually unassailable not because it stands on a firm 
foundation of logical argument , but because it 's simply 
disbelieve in the existence of  ( god(s ) and therefore they hold no burden 
of proof. when you do n't assert anything , you do n't have to prove 
anything. that 's where weak atheism its strength .  . but its 
strength is also its  heel .  . without assertions axioms , one 
has no foundation upon which to build .  . as a philosophy , it 's virtually 
worthless .  . imo , of course. 

so , if i were to assert that there are no thousand year old 
invisible pink unicorns residing in my walls , i need to support this with 
evidence i think the lack of evidence shall suffice .  . 


who happen to like listening to satanic messages found in playing 
's backwards. 


fbi said cult leader david koresh may have 
forced followers to remain as flames closed in. koresh 's 
armed guard may have as many as 24 children with 
poison to quiet them. 



and god saw everything he had made , and , behold , in was very 
good. 

genesis 1 31 


from  ( ron house ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization university of southern queensland 
lines 21 

 ( jay t stein objectively subjective ) writes 

question is there any effective difference between 

objective values exist , and there is disagreement over what they are 

and 

values are subjective 

i do n't see any. 

the first means that some aspect of reality contains objective values .  . 
the second means that values are a reference to some preference of the 
individual .  . in the first case , it is possible that some future 
might certain views re what objective values are. 



ron house. 
toowoomba , australia .  . 

from  ( larry caldwell ) 
subject re , mithras and 
organization health sciences university 
lines 29 
nntp posting host 

 ( kevin osinski ) writes 

i recall reading in michael ( ) 's novel a in 
which the son of a roman living in britain takes part in a 
secret involving a bull .  . he stands in a covered 
with some sort of while a bull to stand on 
the  . they then stab the bull , which the 
in the with blood. this is supposedly some sort of 
of passage for members of the bull cult .  . i wonder if this is 
related to the mithras cult 

i do n't know where got his information for this chapter .  . 
the book is historical fiction , and most of the general events which 
take place are largely based on historical accounts. 

there is a like this described in joseph campbell 's 
mythology . he also described levels of , i think 
6 i do n't know where campbell got his info , but i remember thinking he 
was being a little  . 

i also wonder what if any connection there is between the ancient bull 
cults and the current practice of popular in some 
cultures .  . 

quite a bit. if you have n't read campbell , give him a try. 


larry compuserve , 
health sciences university .  . (503) 

from  ( david joslin ) 
subject apology to jim  ( was silence is concurance ) 
distribution usa 
organization intelligent systems program 
lines 39 

 ( james meritt ) writes 
so stop the question. what is about my 
criticizing bad arguments , given that i do this both when i agree 
with the conclusion and when i disagree with the conclusion 

you are the one who has claimed to the of , 
telepathy , and  . divine it yourself. 

another dodge .  . oh well. i'm no match for your amazing 
of red and  . 

you asked for an apology .  . i'm not going to apologize for pointing out 
that your straw man argument was a straw man argument. nor for saying 
that your list of bible contradictions shows such low standards of 
that it should be an embarrassment to anti , 
just as should be an embarrassment to the fundies .  . nor 
for objecting various times to your taking quotes out of context. nor 
for pointing out that they do it too is not an excuse. nor for calling 
your red and what they are. 

i'm still not sure why you think i'm a  . it 's true that i 
have n't responded to any of robert  articles , which may be due in 
part to the fact that i almost never read his articles .  . but i have 
responded to both you and frank (a ) . both 
you and frank have taken quotes out of context , and i 've to 
both of you doing so. i 've criticized bad arguments both when they 
were yours and i agreed with the conclusion  ( that the bible is not 
inerrant ) , and when they were frank 's and i with the 
conclusion .  . i 've criticized both you and frank for questions , 
and for trying to explain me away without addressing the objections 
i raise  ( you by accusing me of being and irrational , frank 
by accusing me of being motivated by a desire to attack the bible . ) . i 
do n't see that any of this is , nor do i apologize for it. 

i do apologize , however , for having offended you in any other way. 

happy now 



from  ( don corbitt ) 
subject re christian owned organization list 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 28 

in article ece wrote 
sorry , but mormons are n't generally considered to be christians .  . 

 ( b(0 4 ) c d e f g  ( k ) m  ( r ) s ( ) t 
my thoughts , my posts , my ideas , my responsibility , my beer , my pizza. ok 
do you have some and a purse in this a that , 
 please come back to me  i'm looking for something in green .  . 

sorry , but it does n't matter what you think , i am a christian , who happens to 
belong to the church. the church of jesus christ of latter day . 

i do n't usually read t . r . m .  . it is truly to stop by , and see that there 
are still people in the world like those that forced my ancestors into the 
of utah , and then out of the country entirely .  .  ( my was born in mexico , 
where her family had moved to escape religious persecution in the  . i'm willing 
to admit that members of other churches are christians , if they believe in christ and 
 ( try to) follow his teachings , even though they have different interpretations of 
the bible .  . and yet these other churches often go out of their way to define whether 
or not i am considered to be christian .  . could someone mail me a set of rules beliefs 
that must be followed to be a christian does this set of rules exclude other large 
bodies of believers 

i know , this is a waste of everyone 's time , this has probably been discussed n times , 
etc. i guess i'm more sensitive to this   after what went on in texas .  . 

, 
mail flames , post apologies .  . support short  . , three lines  . 
(i consider this a , not a flame .  .  . ) . 

from  ( larry caldwell ) 
subject re , mithras and 
organization health sciences university 
lines 28 
nntp posting host 

in response to  ( david whitten ) 

i wrote 

there evidently was a of bread and wine associated with mithras .  . i 
have often wondered if intentionally introduced this ritual to 
expand the appeal of his religion , or if it was appropriated by later 
 . 

and you responded 

you could argue that if you wanted , but i think a more reasonable 
argument would point out the fact that the was 
very similar to the  ( passover ) during , a very 
jewish ritual .  . 

of course. the was the , and the accounts of it are very clear 
on this point. 

the difference is the connection between the bread and wine and the body 
and blood of god. this is an old association of the mithras 
line , and not really related to judaism .  . in any case , i did n't really 
intend to argue the point. i saw a possible association and pointed it 
out , but i have n't the notion what really happened. 


larry compuserve , 
health sciences university .  . (503) 

from  ( ken arromdee ) 
subject re and compassion 
organization johns hopkins university cs dept. 
lines 16 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
so we have this highly christian religious order that put fire 
on their house , killing most of the people inside. 

we have no way to know that the burned the house it could have been 
the and fbi .  . we only have the government 's word for it , after all , and 
people who started it by a no knock search with are hardly 
observers .  . 

on the first day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . ! 
on the second day after christmas my served to me .  .  .  . 
that she made from  . 
days 3 4 deleted ... flaming wings ! ... 
pizza  ( and m a bait ) 

ken arromdee 

from  ( william mayne ) 
subject re the list of biblical contradictions 
organization florida state university computer science department 
reply to 
lines 14 

in article  ( david joslin ) writes 
many good points deleted. anyone who missed it should see the original .  . 
lists like this that just toss a bunch of quotes together to 
make a bible verse just do n't cut it. those of us who 
want to argue against should find this sort of thing 
as as the fundies should find  . 

true , except that i 've known few fundies who had enough sense to 
be embarrassed by  . 

 ( okay , maybe a cheap shot .  . but i'm in that kind of mood . ) . 

bill mayne 


from  ( the doge ) 
subject what we can learn from the 
organization nyx , public access unix @ u. of denver math cs dept. 
distribution usa 
lines 34 


there are actually a few important things we can glean from this mess 
1 ) when they start getting for an answer to the question what 's 
it all about. mr. natural , will buy near anything , which 
means 
2 ) there 's still plenty of to be made in the false jesus business 
by  . just remember that 
3) once you 've separated the from their green , do n't blow it all 
on automatic weapons from mexico .  . put it in a bank account. a 
lot. have your hand out flowers in  . the con will just 
you off as long as 
4 ) you never , never , never start to believe your own ! if 
david koresh hand t started his own now crap , he 'd 
be working in the today instead of contributing to 
the in  . this is because 
5 ) when you start shooting at cops , they 're likely to shoot back .  . and 
most of 'em are better shots than you are. 

in short 
p . t .  . was right 
and 
stupidity is self correcting 
thus the lesson .  . 


the of south st. 
approved media  ( conspirator(tm ) 
one step beyond sundays , 3 to 5 
88 . 1 . st. community radio 
you 'll pay to know what you really think ! 
j . r .  . bob 




from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 15 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( steve lamont ) says 

... or consider the thousands in central america killed by those 
sponsored freedom  . 

thus far , slick is a  . 


only if you weight americans equal to  . 

i do n't .  . 




from  ( brian cash ) 
subject re are atoms real  ( was re after 2000 years blah blah blah ) 
nntp posting host 
organization bnr , inc. 
lines 15 

petri and mathew , 

your on the reality of atoms is interesting , but it 
would seem that you are on the question is anything real 
that is , since observation is not 100 reliable , how can we say 
that anything is real . i do n't think this was the intention 
of the original question , since you now define out the word 
real so that nothing can meet its  . 
just a thought. 

brian 

ps and are real they are not objects , they 
are phenomenon .  . an interesting question would be if atoms 
are objects  ( classical ) or phenomenon  ( neo quantum ) or what 

from  ( ray fischer ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization netcom .  . san jose , california 
lines 25 

 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes ... 
plus questions for you why do subjectivists relativists nihilists get so 
het up about the idea that relativism is better than objectivism 

to the degree that relativism is a more accurate decription of the 
truth than is objectivism , it provides more power and ability to 
control events. 

assuming , for the moment , that morals are relative , then two 
relativists can recognize that neither has a lock on the absolute 
truth and they can proceed to negotiate a workable compromise that 
produces the desired results. 

assuming that there is an absolute morality , two disagreeing 
objectivists can either be both wrong or just one of them right there 
is no room for compromise .  . once you beleive in absolute morals , 
you must accept that you are amoral or that everyone who disagrees 
with you is amoral .  . 

given a choice between a peaceful compromise or endless contention , 
i 'd say that compromise seems to be better . 


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth 
than lies .  . friedrich nietzsche 

from  ( paul moloney ) 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
organization somewhere in the twentieth century 
lines 20 

writes 

once again , where 's your proof suicide is considered a sin by branch 
 . also , koresh said over and over again that he was not going to 
commit suicide .  . furthermore , all the cult said that he was not 
 . david (sp ) , one of the cult members , said that the fire 
was started when one of the the tear gas into the facilities 
knocked over a  . 

in two places at once bit of a coincidence , that. 

whatever the the fbi had , the fact is that responsibility 
for those deaths lies with koresh .  . 

p. 


clive p a u l m o l o n e y come , let us retract the foreskin of misconception 
james trinity college dublin and apply the wire brush of enlightenment 


from 
subject walter 
lines 15 
return path com . ! 

walter 

i tried several times in the past to communicate with you and , but 
you ignored me , and i do n't honestly believe my letters were mean. rather 
i thought they were and compassionate , but i see now what i should 
have seen then. call me naive .  . 

i give up on this group. as my lord advised , that if you are in 
a city then brush the of your feet and go on. 

if anyone cares about the topic they write to me direct , if not , well , 
may god bless you as well. 

bye to this group. 


from  ( pete yadlowsky ) 
subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
organization university of virginia 
lines 17 

ken arromdee writes 

did they not know that these men were federal officers 

do you know what a no knock search is 

yes , but tell me how you think your question answers my question. if 
the did n't know immediately that they were dealing with feds 
 ( uniform , insignia ) , they must have it out in pretty 
short order. why did they keep fighting they seemed awfully ready 
for having been attacked without warning . 


peter m. wake ! the sky is light ! 
academic computing center let us to the net again .  .  .  . 
university of virginia companion keyboard .  . 
after 

from  ( roy crabtree ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization red data center 
lines 11 

in article  ( ken garrido ) writes 

stuff taken out 

bottom line due process was not served .  . no peaceful attempt to serve 
a warrant occurred .  . 

think on that. 




from 
subject re gordon 's question on the nicene creed 
reply to 
organization mayo foundation , rochester mn .  . campus 
lines 11 


the nicene creed 

we believe in one god the father almighty , of heaven and earth , and of all things and invisible .  . 
and in one lord jesus christ , the only son of god , of the father before all worlds , god of god , light of light , very god of very god , not made , being of one substance with the father by whom all things were made who for us men , and for our salvation , came down from heaven and was by the holy spirit of the virgin mary , and was made man , and was crucified also for us under  . he suffered and was buried , and the third day rose again according to the 





es , and into heaven , and on the right hand of the father .  . and he shall come again with glory to judge both the quick and the dead , whose kingdom shall have no end. 

and we believe in the holy spirit , the lord and of life , who from the father and the son , who with the father and the son together is worshipped and , who spoke by the prophets .  . and we believe in one holy and church. we acknowledge one baptism for the of sins .  . and we look for the resurrection of the dead , and the life of the world to come. amen .  . 



from  ( bob sarver ) 
subject re did he really rise 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 85 


 ( emery ) 
the one single event that has had the biggest impact on the 
world over the centuries is the resurrection of jesus .  . 

this is hardly possible , as the majority of people in the world were 
born , lived their life , and died , without ever knowing anything about 
christ .  . the majority of the rest of the world have decided that he 
is not who thinks he is. 



 ( emery ) 
why were the writers of the new testament documents so convinced that 
jesus really did rise from the dead 
we have four gospel accounts. 

i am leaving out all of 's which rely on quoting the 
bible as proof. circular reasoning , etc. there have been 
already stated many times for later generations of xtians to change , 
edit , or otherwise alter the bible to fit their political gospel .  . 
and if we accept the bible as true just because the bible says it 
is true , then  ( to be fair ) we have to do the same to the 
and the koran , both of which contradict the bible .  . 

enough said. 



 ( emery ) 
yet we have no reason to believe these disciples to be immoral and dishonest .  . 
we have no information that would lead us to the conclusion that 
these people were not god fearing people who sincerely and whole 
believed that the resurrection of their lord jesus was a real event. 
and for what gain would they lie to make a stand at that time meant 
persecution , imprisonment , and perhaps even death. 

again , this is only the biblical account and there is no independent proof 
of any of this happening. it just is n't there. 

besides , simply being sincere or willing to die for your faith does not 
make your faith correct. there are muslims dying in bosnia right now 
does the fact that they are willing to die for islam mean that islam is 
the correct religion 




 ( emery ) 
history bears out the persecution of christians .  . roman historian , 
, of asia , in a.d. , writing of 's reign , alluded to 
the torture of christians in rome 


all you have proven is that these people were tortured for their faith. that 
does not prove that their faith is true or correct it just means that they 
were sincere in their beliefs .  . 

being willing to die for what you believe does n't make your belief the truth. 
it 's not that easy .  . and minority religions have always suffered torture 
muslims suffer torture and harassment in india and bosnia today. all religions 
are harassed in china today. you have n't proven anything so far. 



 ( emery ) 
with all the suffering and persecution that it meant to be a believer , it 
would be quite probable that at least one of those in the supposed conspiracy 
would come forward and confess that the whole thing was a big hoax .  . 

not if they did n't believe that it was a hoax .  . 


 ( emery ) 
yet not one did. it seems rather reasonable that the disciples did not make 
up the resurrection but sincerely believed that jesus had actually risen 
from the dead especially in light of the that came upon those 
who believed .  . 

the followers of muhammad firmly believed in the miracles that the koran 
says muhammad performed .  . they were attacked and slaughtered for their 
beliefs .  . they did n't denounce muhammad or islam .  . if you are correct , 
then that means islam is the true faith. 

you see how stupid your are 

from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 18 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( christopher d. colvin ) says 

i worked at when i was in  . 

ok so you were a naive  . 

he lewis dates back to the 20 's .  . 

wrong and if you do your homework ,  . 
but he was born last century  . 


right now is in some internal political  . 

no it is n't .  . 



from  ( rob dobson ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization university of virginia 
lines 12 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 

i'm mostly angry why the did n't spare the children the 
awful suffering .  . see my other posting , i'm in a bad  . 

well , of children left the compound between the original 
and the fbi assault 7 weeks later. so if koresh really wanted to kill 
children , why did he let so many go 



legalize freedom 

from  ( rob lanphier ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization university of 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host snake . cs . edu . 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 
i will clarify my earlier quote. god 's laws were originally written for 
the israelites .  . jesus changed that fact by now making the law applicable to 
all people , not just the jews .  . gentiles could be part of the kingdom of 
heaven through the saving of god. i never said that the law was made 
by jesus .  . 

just for reference , here 's the earlier quote 
wrote in reference to 21 9 
and deuteronomy 22 20 25 
these laws written for the israelites , god 's chosen people whom god had 
set apart from the rest of the world. the israelites were a 
direct witness to god 's existence .  . to disobey god after knowing that god 
is real would be an outright denial of god and therefore immediately 
punishable .  . 
remember , these laws were written for a different time and applied only to 
god 's chosen people. but jesus has changed all of that. we are living in 
the age of  . sin is no longer immediately punishable by death. there 
is and there is salvation through our lord jesus christ .  . and 
not just for a few chosen people. salvation is available to everyone , jew 
and gentile alike. 

these are two statements .  . to say one is a clarification of the 
other is a of logic .  . i do n't mind people shifting their position on 
an issue. it me when it is said under the premise that no change 
was made. what about deuteronomy 22 20 25 is it wrong now did jesus 
change that 

if anything , he clarified the law such as in that quote you made. in the 
following verses , jesus takes several portions of the law and upon 
the law giving clearer meaning to what god intended .  . 

sure he does this. however , he does n't address the notion of stoning 
non virgin , because this needs no clarification .  . are you going to 
deny that deuteronomy 22 20 25 is not patently clear in its intent 

i think you will agree with me that there are in today 's world , a lot of 
modern day pharisees who know the bible from end to end but do not believe 
in it. what good is head knowledge if there is nothing in the heart 

i 'll agree that there is a lot of modern day pharisees that know the bible 
from end to end and do n't believe in it. depending on how they use this 
knowledge , they can be scary .  . they can argue any position they desire , and 
back it up with parts of the bible .  . such pharisees include david 
koresh and hitler .  . i will qualify this by saying i do n't know if 
they actually believed what they were preaching , but the ends certainly 
made the means look frightening .  . 

however , just as scary are those that do n't know much of the bible , but 
believe every word. in fact , this is probably , since there are far 
more of these people , from what i 've seen. in addition , they are very easy 
to by the pharisees , since they do n't know enough 
to debate with these people. 

christianity is not just a set of rules it 's a lifestyle that changes one 's 
perspectives and personal conduct .  . and it demands obedience to god 's will. 

no , it demands obedience to a book. if god came down and personally told 
me how i should behave , then i would say that i would be doing god 's will 
by doing it. however , if , pastors , and tell me to 
obey the will of a book written by people who have been dead for close to 
two  ( even longer for the ot ) , even if i follow everything in it 
with my heart , i could be honest with myself by saying i'm doing 
the will of god. 

some people can live by it , but many others cannot or will not. that is 
their choice and i have to respect it because god respects it too. 

well , if god respects it so much , how come there is talk in the bible about 
eternal damnation for non believers i see little respect from 
the god of the bible .  . i see a selfish and god. 

god be with you , 

not yours , thanks ) 

) 

rob 



and for the curious , here is my earlier post 
hmm , for a book that only applied to the israelites  ( deuteronomy ) , jesus sure 
quoted it a lot  ( mt 4 4 , 7 ,  . in addition , he to it in several 
other places  ( mt 19 7 8 mk 10 3 5 jn 5 46  . and , just in case it is n't 
clear jesus thought the old testament is n't , i 'll repeat the 
verse in matthew which gets quoted on this group a lot 

do not think that i have come to the law or the prophets i have 
not come to them but to fulfill them. i tell you the truth , until 
heaven and earth disappear , not the smallest letter , not the least 
of a pen , will by any means disappear from the law until everything is 
accomplished .  . anyone who breaks one of the least of these commandments 
and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of 
heaven , but whoever practices and teaches these commands will be called 
great in the kingdom of heaven. for i tell you that unless your 
that of the pharisees and the teachers of the law , 
you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven.  ( mt 5 17 20 , in 
pretty red letters , so that you know it 's jesus talking ) 

this causes a serious dilemma for christians who think the old testament 
does n't apply to them. i think that 's why paul likes quoting it so 
much ) .  . 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 25 

in article , 
 ( brian 9615 ) wrote 
jesus gives more reasons in john 16 7. but one obvious reason 
why jesus died ,  ( and as with everything else , it has nothing do with 
his punishment ) was that he could rise to life again so that 
we would stop doubting and believe  ( john 21  . the fact 
that jesus rose from the dead is my hope that i too will rise 
from the dead. it is an obvious point. do not overlook it. 
without this obvious point , i would have no hope 
and my faith would be  . 

glad to hear this , just a note , , mithras and many other 
cult gods resurrected as well , so there 's a good chance for all of 
us to maybe end up in a virtual reality , and live forever , 
hurrah ! 

sorry , this was a joke , some sort of one anyway. i'm the first 
that connected with a virtual reality  . 
time to write a book. 


cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( keith m. ryan ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization case western reserve university 
lines 20 
nntp posting host b64635 . student . cwru . edu . 

in article  ( seth j. bradley ) writes 

simply says god did it , then that is not falsifiable .  . 

unless god admits that he did n't do it .  .  .  .  . 

) 




i 'd cheat on hillary too. 

john laws 
local gop 
extolling traditional family values .  . 





from  ( michael helm ) 
subject re religion and history the real discuss 
organization n . i . c . e .  . 
lines 38 
reply to  ( michael helm ) 
nntp posting host 128 . 3 . 128 . 

matthew writes 
sm a real christian unless you 're born again is a very fundamental biblical 
sm conversion and are  probably  part of some small usa based cult 

the born again often use it to mean very specifically 
having some sort of experience  ( which can in 
fact be very easily with a little psychological manipulation ) , 
and are often of those whose 
christianity is a little more intellectual , is not the result 

some of these cults , which seems like a rather term 
to me , are pretty big here in the usa .  . most of them 
are quite respectable do not branch 
in the least confusing them is a mistake. what about live 
let live , folks i'm sure we can a few 
who are catholic the anti abortion movement in the usa seems to have a 
few hard cases in it , for example. 

i 've often heard such people use the line catholics are n't 
real christians . indeed , anyone sending to 
ireland must certainly be taking this line , for otherwise why 
would they not be content for christianity to be in 
ireland in its traditional catholic form 

i have to agree matthew with this i have certainly encountered a lot 
of anti catholic religion propaganda ( some bigotry ) from 
members of certain religious groups here. they also practice their 
missionary work with among catholics in the united states , but to 
someone who is or was raised catholic such rhetoric is pretty 
off putting .  . it may work better in an environment where there 's a lot 
of popular anti  . 

follow set elsewhere , this no longer seems very relevant to issues 
to me. 





from f 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization stephen f. austin state university 
lines 24 

in article , writes 
i told some friends of mine two weeks ago that koresh was dead. the fbi and 
the could not let a man like that live. he was a testimonial to their 
stupidity and lies .  . 

 .  .  . deleted .  .  .  . 

unfortunately , i think you 've got it pretty well. i also ask 
myself the question why did they plan for so many months. why was 
this so important to them what was the government really up to 
why did they the warrant were they after koresh or were they after 
the first and second , among others 


we waited days for our to come home from iran .  . we gave these 
people 51 days. 



joe in the super state , it really does not 
f matter at all what actually happened. 
remember the truth is what the government chooses to 
remember tell you. justice is what it wants to happen. 
jim , new , la .  . 

from  ( eric rescorla ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization 
lines 16 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( keith m. ryan ) writes 
you have only pushed back the meaning. you must now define 
what objective values are. 

really you do n't know what objective value is if i offered the people 
of the u.s. , collectively , 1 for all of the land in america , would that 
sound like a good deal 
well , that would depend on how much we wanted the us and how much 
we wanted the 1 , would n't it 



eric 
would you buy used code from this man 


from  ( petri pihko ) 
subject re did he really rise 
organization university of oulu , finland 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 19 

i must correct the following in my previous posting 

if you are trying to be objective , you must also recognise that 

1 ) the gospels are not independent sources , on the contrary , they 
share much of the same material 

i should have been a bit more careful here the gospels not only 
tell us about the same events , they usually use the same  . 
textual analyses show that matthew and luke probably had a common 
source , which may have mark , too. 

petri 


.  . ' . '' .  . petri pihko kem mathematics is the truth. 
!  . ' . ' . ' . ' ' . 15 c finou . oulu . fi . physics is the rule of 
' ' . ' sf 90650 oulu the game. 
' . finland phoenix . oulu . fi . chemistry is the game. 

from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject 6 apr 93 god 's promise in john 16 24 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 8 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 



have asked nothing 
in my name 
ask , and shall receive , 
that your joy may be full .  . 

john 16 24 

from  ( larry margolis ) 
subject re abortion 
news software ibm 2  ( nr 2 ) by o .  . and r. 
lines 22 
reply to  ( larry margolis ) 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host watson . ibm . com . 
organization the 

in  ( anthony landreneau ) writes 
to  ( larry margolis ) 
from 

the rape has passed , there is nothing that will ever take that away. 

true. but forcing her to remain pregnant continues the violation of 
her body for another 9 months. i see this as being cruel .  . 

life is not a violation . 

but forcing someone to harbor that life in their body is a violation .  . 

letting a mother force a child from her body , in order to end that 
life is the ultimate violation .  . 

i happen to take the violation of a person much more seriously than the 
violation of a of cells smaller than my  . 

your mileage may vary .  . 

larry ,  ( bitnet ) ,  ( internet ) 

from  ( matthew at the national university of senegal ) 
subject re 's island , of 
organization national university of singapore 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 21 

 ( bruce buck ) writes 
in article  ( matthew at the national university of senegal ) writes 


iii greed 

lust 
professor pride 
mary ann 

assorted secular humanism 

assorted , heathen 
who looks like communism 
japanese 
walter 
the  ( bingo , , , irving ) n roll 
 ( phil silvers ) hollywood 
john 
, the fake deceit , lust 
deceit , lust 

organization city university of new york 
from 
subject re abortion and private health 
lines 22 

in  ( dennis kriz ) 
writes 

i recently have become aware that my health includes 
for abortion .  . i strongly oppose abortion for reasons of 
conscience .  . it me deeply to know that my may 
be being used to pay for that which i sincerely believe is 
murder .  . i would like to request that i be from abortion 
with my health reduced accordingly. 

i share 's over a similar manner. i have recently become aware 
that my health includes for and 
suffered by christians .  . it me deeply to know that my 
may be used to pay for that which i sincerely believe is divine 
punishment for their sinful conduct .  . in addition these folks are able to 
avail themselves of such alternative as , , 
, benny , etc. in any case as jesus saves  i feel 
that there is no reason for them to be covering their at my 
expense .  . i would like to request that i be from christian 
with my health reduced accordingly. 

jack 

from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject re 14 apr 93 god 's promise in 1 john 1 7 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 66 

brian kendig writes 

17 11 for the life of the flesh is in the blood , and i have given 
it to you upon the altar to make atonement for your souls for it is 
the blood that makes atonement for the soul .  . 

the old testament was very big on the eye for an eye business. it 
makes sense that would support physical injury to 
moral  . 

brian k. , guess what you missed the point. on a scale from cold to 
hot , you are at 0 degrees  . 

i know about  . i 've been taught all about it in sunday 
school , class , and theology classes .  . but even after all 
that , i still ca n't accept it. maybe i'm still not understanding it , 
or maybe i'm just understanding it all too well. 

then as you understand it , what is it 

from the bottom of my heart i know that the punishment of an innocent 
man is wrong. 

yes. i agree with that. but what does that have to do with jesus 
punishment you say jesus did not regard his death as punishment .  . 

i 've tried repeatedly over the course of several years 
to accept it , but i just ca n't .  . 

good. i would n't either not the way you understand it. 

if you can explain to me why the death of jesus was a good thing , 
then i would be very glad to hear it , and you might even convert me. 
be warned , however , that i 've heard all the most common arguments 
before , and they just do n't convince me. 

ask jesus himself. he himself said why in john 12 23 32 .  . it 
is n't a mystery to anyone and there certainly is no need for 
a persuasive argument. read jesus 's own reply to your 
question. 

jesus gives more reasons in john 16 7. but one obvious reason 
why jesus died ,  ( and as with everything else , it has nothing do with 
his punishment ) was that he could rise to life again so that 
we would stop doubting and believe  ( john 21  . the fact 
that jesus rose from the dead is my hope that i too will rise 
from the dead. it is an obvious point. do not overlook it. 
without this obvious point , i would have no hope 
and my faith would be  . 

why did jesus suffer in his death again , ask jesus .  . jesus 
says why in john 15 18 25 .  . that 's no mystery either. the 
world hates him without reason. it is a direct 
of how far we humans things up and thus , how much we 
need a saviour .  . 

and why ca n't you , brian k. , accept this how can you the 
world cannot accept him because it neither sees him nor knows 
him.  ( john 14  . the and the lack of knowledge 
that comes out in your of robert 's daily verses is 
very convincing testimony of the truth of john 14 17 and 16 25 .  . 
i pray and hope that i do out such and lack of 
knowledge. i am not perfect either. but regardless of that , i thank 
god that jesus revealed himself to me , without whom i 'd also be 
about blindly though slandering the very 
person who created me and who loves me. 

from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject 15 apr 93 god 's promise in john 1 12 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 8 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 



but as many as received him , 
to them gave he power 
to become the sons of god , 
even to them that believe on his name 

john 1 12 

from  ( thyagi nagasiva ) 
subject , the ancient order of oriental 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 

lines 

93 ! 04 . 16 . e.v. after the glorious eve of 

do what thou shall be the whole of the law. 
the word of sin is  . 


to all whom it may concern 

... 

it is known only to a few that there exists an external 
organization of such men and women , who having themselves found 
the path to real self knowledge , and who , having the 
burning , are willing to give the benefit of their experience , 
and to act as spiritual to those who are willing to be 
 . 

while societies , , orders , groups etc. 
have been founded during the last thirty years in all parts of 
the civilised world , all following some line of study , 
yet there is but one ancient organization of genuine mystics 
which shows the after truth a road to discover 
the lost mysteries of antiquity , and to the of the 
one truth. 

this organization is known at the present time as the ancient 
order of oriental  .  . otherwise 
the of light. 

it is a modern school of magic .  . and , like the ancient schools 
of magic , it derived its knowledge from the east .  . this knowledge 
was never its  . sic it was recorded in symbol , parable 
and allegory , requiring a key for its interpretation .  .  .  .  . 

this key can be placed within the reach of all those who .  .  .  . apply 
for membership to the oriental t . o . ) .  . 

the o . t . o .  .  .  .  . is a body of initiates in whose hands are 
the secret knowledge of all oriental orders and of all 
existing degrees .  .  .  .  . 

the o . t . o .  . , although an , is not a body , 
so far as the degrees are concerned in the sense in which that 
is usually understood in england , and therefore in no way 
conflicts with or infringes the just of the united 
of england .  . english master in good standing , by arrangement , 
on , are admitted at reduced charges .  . members of the 
degree become part of the and of the order. 
for further information see the of the o . t . o .  . , and the 
of the degrees of the o . t . o .  . 

 constitution of the ancient order of oriental , 
 , 

by superior x degree , 
past grand master albert karl 


taken from iii 10 , 
edited by superior , 
united states of 


invoke me under my stars .  . love is the law , love under will. 

i am i ! 

 ( i )  ( dclxvi )  ( cccxxxiii ) 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 19 

in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 
these laws written for the israelites , god 's chosen people whom god had 
set apart from the rest of the world. the israelites were a 
direct witness to god 's existence .  . to disobey god after knowing that god 
is real would be an outright denial of god and therefore immediately punishable .  . 
remember , these laws were written for a different time and applied only to 
god 's chosen people. but jesus has changed all of that. we are living in the 
age of  . sin is no longer immediately punishable by death. there is 
and there is salvation through our lord jesus christ .  . and not just 
for a few chosen people. salvation is available to everyone , jew and gentile 
alike. 

jews wo n't agree with you ,  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject re , the ancient order of oriental 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 20 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( thyagi nagasiva ) says 


it is known only to a few that there exists an external 
organization of such men and women , who having themselves found 
the path to real self knowledge , and who , having the 
burning , are willing to give the benefit of their experience , 
and to act as spiritual to those who are willing to be 
 . 
while societies , , orders , groups etc. 
have been founded during the last thirty years in all parts of 
the civilised world , all following some line of study , 
yet there is but one ancient organization of genuine mystics 


up to that point i thought you were talking about the 
order .  .  .  . ) no offense intended ! 

tony 

from  ( mathew ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
lines 31 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 

 ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( jon 
livesey ) writes 
and this objective morality is .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

and here , children , we have a person playing the objective morality does n't 
exist , show me one game. you can play this with just about anything 

and this objective medicine is .  .  .  .  .  . 
and this objective physics is .  .  .  .  .  . 
and this objective reality is .  .  .  .  .  . 

precisely .  . 

there 's no objective medicine some people get results from 
alternative , others only respond to traditional medicine .  . 

there 's no objective physics einstein and have told us that. 

there 's no objective reality. should be sufficient to prove that. 

one wonders just what people who ask such questions understand by the term 
objective , if anything. 

i consider it to be a useful fiction an abstract ideal we can 
towards .  . like an ideal gas or a light string , it does n't 
actually exist but we can talk about things as if they were like it , and not 
be too far wrong. 


mathew 

from  ( steve boylan ) 
subject re christian biblical demons , the update 
reply to  ( steve boylan ) 
organization digital equipment corporation 
lines 61 


in article , 
o .  . radzykewycz ) writes 

 ( michael parks swaim ) writes 
, the file permission of the  . 

o .  . radzykewycz ) writes 
sorry , but the file permission of the is 600 .  . 

and the file permission of the home directory of the 
is 700 .  . 

 ( steve boylan ) writes 
hey , , it must depend on your system 's access policy. 
i get 
ls users 
total 3 
22 system jan 01 
x x 32 users 31 09 08 
x 2 users 18 1992 
su 

root su 


d 
root d 


just a minute .  .  .  .  . 

etc 
0 not ! users 
users  . users  . , 
users  . 
cat users  . 
700 users 
 .  . , 
in mail 
 . ,  . 
users  . , users  . 
d 
users  . 
cat users  . , users  . 

a while , finally gets mail .  . 

i think you made a mistake. check it again. 


i see . . . you 're not running ! 

) 

steve 



do n't miss the new england folk , 
april 23 25 , 1993 in , ! 

from  ( mark pundurs ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
nntp posting host elvis . com . 
organization research , inc. 
lines 27 

in  ( mathew ) writes 

there 's no objective physics einstein and have told us that. 

speaking as one who knows relativity and quantum mechanics , i say 
bullshit .  . 

there 's no objective reality. should be sufficient to prove that. 

speaking as one who has taken , i say 
bullshit .  . 

one wonders just what people who ask such questions understand by the term 
objective , if anything. 

i consider it to be a useful fiction an abstract ideal we can 
towards .  . like an ideal gas or a light string , it does n't 
actually exist but we can talk about things as if they were like it , and not 
be too far wrong. 

how could an ideal be in any way useful , if the ideal 
had no objective existence 

mark 

any resemblance between my opinions and those 
of research , inc. is purely coincidental 

from  ( eric rescorla ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization 
lines 29 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
in article ,  ( frank 
o'dwyer ) wrote 
objective morality is morality built from objective values .  . 

you now pushed down the of objectivity into realm of 
objective values .  . so you need to explain that as well , as well 
as the objective sub parts , the objective atoms ,  .  .  . 
firstly , science has its basis in values , not the other way round. 
you keep saying that. i do not think it means what you think it 
means. 
perhaps you should explain what you think science has it 's basis 
in values means. the reason why people do science is that 
they value it 's results. that does not mean that science has 
it 's basis in values .  . any more than des stops working if i stop 
my  . 

so you better explain what objective atoms are , and how we get them 
from subjective values , before we go any further. 
see above. 





eric 
would you buy used code from this man 


from 
subject re 2 . 32 . 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
lines 25 

a poster writes 

in the kingdom of god  ( vaikuntha ) the tigers do not eat other living 
beings .  . in the material world , everyone is trying to everyone 
else. therefore we all  ( even tigers , who are by no means invincible ) 
should try to get out of the miserable material situation and return to 
the kingdom of god. 

is the so called material world outside the kingdom of god 

right. but , unfortunately , acting like animals is the number one 
of modern human beings .  . 

aha , animals are inferior , and humans are superior .  . 
huh 

is n't the desire to be superior so overwhelming 
that humans constantly put down even innocent animals .  . 




p.s. request please e mail a copy of any response to 
, as he does not read regularly. 


from  ( pope charles ) 
subject re , mithras and 
organization the  witch bbs , 1 272 , tx . us . 
lines 42 

 ( larry caldwell ) writes 

 ( kevin osinski ) writes 

i recall reading in michael ( ) 's novel a in 
which the son of a roman living in britain takes part in a 
secret involving a bull .  . he stands in a covered 
with some sort of while a bull to stand on 
the  . they then stab the bull , which the 
in the with blood. this is supposedly some sort of 
of passage for members of the bull cult .  . i wonder if this is 
related to the mithras cult 

i do n't know where got his information for this chapter .  . 
the book is historical fiction , and most of the general events which 
take place are largely based on historical accounts. 

there is a like this described in joseph campbell 's 
mythology . he also described levels of , i think 
6 i do n't know where campbell got his info , but i remember thinking he 
was being a little  . 

i also wonder what if any connection there is between the ancient bull 
cults and the current practice of popular in some 
cultures .  . 

quite a bit. if you have n't read campbell , give him a try. 


larry compuserve , 
health sciences university .  . (503) 


yes. i cannot which works i read about this in , as it was many 
years ago. this ritual was called the i believe ,  ( the 
may be  . 

pope charles 


 ( pope charles ) 
origin the  witch bbs houston , tx 1 272 

from  ( jim halat ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
reply to  ( jim halat ) 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( jay t stein objectively subjective ) writes 
 ( frank o'dwyer ) 

from a discussion on christianity and objective morals 

question is there any effective difference between 

objective values exist , and there is disagreement over what they are 

and 

values are subjective 

i do n't see any. 




is there any difference in saying 

absolute truth exists , but some people think its a lie 

and 

truth is relative 

i think there is in both examples , the first statement is a 
fundamental disagreement between at least two people the 
second statement is agreed upon by all. 

to put it another way , someone who says objective values exist 
does not agree that values are subjective .  . 

jim halat 










from  ( ranjan s muttiah ) 
subject cults  ( who keeps them going ) 
organization university engineering computer network 
lines 9 


mr. clinton said today that the horrible of the 
should those who join cults of the of doing so. 
now , i began my head thinking (a bad sign ) , do n't the 
mainstream religions  ( in this case christianity .  .  . or . the 7th day 
in particular ) just keep these guys going is n't mr. clinton 
condemning his own religion after all , is n't it a cult too 

... bad thoughts these. 

from  ( grendel grettisson ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization the friends of society 
lines 27 
nntp posting host stein . u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( tony alicea ) writes 

in a previous article , a .  . davis howe ) says 


on the subject of how many competing rc orders there are , let me point out the 
golden dawn is only the outer order of that tradition .  . the inner order is 
the et  . 


just wondering , do you mean the 
warning there is no point in arguing who 's and who 's not. which 
golden dawn are you talking about 

which golden dawn how about the original from 100 years ago 

just for the sake of argument ,  ( reflecting no affiliation ) 
i am going to say that the true order is the 
in , penn .  . , 

any ) 

no. no would ever admit or deny being such. 

, 



from  ( brian kendig ) 
subject is it good that jesus died 
organization san francisco 
lines 114 

 ( brian 9615 ) writes 
brian kendig writes 

if you can explain to me why the death of jesus was a good thing , 
then i would be very glad to hear it , and you might even convert me. 
be warned , however , that i 've heard all the most common arguments 
before , and they just do n't convince me. 

ask jesus himself. he himself said why in john 12 23 32 .  . it 
is n't a mystery to anyone and there certainly is no need for 
a persuasive argument. read jesus 's own reply to your 
question. 

john 12 24 26 most , i say to you , unless a grain of 
falls onto the ground and dies , it remains alone but if it dies , it 
produces much grain .  . 
he who loves his life will lose it , and he who hates his life in 
this world will keep it for eternal life. 
if anyone serves me , let him follow me and where i am , there my 
servant will be also. if anyone serves me , him my father will honor .  . 

why would i want an eternal life if i hate this one 

if we were created by a deity , why would that deity not wish us to 
enjoy what he has given us 

why would i want to live forever the challenge in my life is that i 
will die , and that i must give my life the meaning i wish it to have 
before that happens. my time is here and will someday pass i will be 
content to live on in the of my friends , and once they too 
are dead , then i will no longer have any reason to exist. 

in short even if your deity does exist , that does n't automatically 
mean that i would worship it. i am content to live my own life , and 
for myself , so when i die , i can be proud of the fact that no 
matter where i end up , it will be because of my actions and my choices. 

if your god decides to toss me into a flaming for this , then so be 
it. i would much rather just cease to exist. but if your god wants 
my respect and my obedience , then it had better these and if it 
does , then they will be very strong and true. 

jesus gives more reasons in john 16 7. but one obvious reason 
why jesus died ,  ( and as with everything else , it has nothing do with 
his punishment ) was that he could rise to life again so that 
we would stop doubting and believe  ( john 21  . the fact 
that jesus rose from the dead is my hope that i too will rise 
from the dead. it is an obvious point. do not overlook it. 
without this obvious point , i would have no hope 
and my faith would be  . 

jesus was n't the only one who rose from the dead i think it was 
who did the same , as well as a few characters from greek or 
legend , if memory serves .  . 

but still why would i want to rise from the dead why do you want to 

why did jesus suffer in his death again , ask jesus .  . jesus 
says why in john 15 18 25 .  . that 's no mystery either. the 
world hates him without reason. it is a direct 
of how far we humans things up and thus , how much we 
need a saviour .  . 

if your god wants to win my devotion , then it knows what it can do 
provide some way for me to believe without having to resort to blind 
faith that could be applied equally well to any religion. 

and why ca n't you , brian k. , accept this how can you the 
world cannot accept him because it neither sees him nor knows 
him.  ( john 14  . 

that 's precisely it. i neither see nor know zeus either , nor odin .  . 
shall i offer them the same devotion i offer jesus 

the and the lack of knowledge 
that comes out in your of robert 's daily verses is 
very convincing testimony of the truth of john 14 17 and 16 25 .  . 

you 've got to understand my point of view i see christians 
bible verse all the time as if it were some sort of magic that 
will level all opposition .  . truth is , it 's not. robert has never 
demonstrated that he actually what the verses imply he 
just them off day by day. some in the face of 
common sense and reality , and i point these out where i can. 

but even more than that , even when christians do try to explain the 
verses in their own words , they do so from a christian point of view , 
which is that every human being would want to be a christian if only 
he or she understood the christian message properly , and then all 
strife and suffering on the earth would end. here 's the problem with 
that moslem or buddhist or satanist instead of 
christian , and it means the same thing. 

is a very nice belief set around a very nice book. but if 
you want to make me believe that it has any bearing on the real world , 
you 've got some convincing to do. 

i pray and hope that i do out such and lack of 
knowledge. i am not perfect either. but regardless of that , i thank 
god that jesus revealed himself to me , without whom i 'd also be 
about blindly though slandering the very 
person who created me and who loves me. 

and in my opinion , you 're about blindly making up entities 
where there are n't any , and yourself of a true understanding 
and enjoyment of your life. as long as you keep your beliefs to 
yourself , i 'll keep my beliefs to myself but as soon as you start 
waving them around , expect me to toss in my opinions , too. 

brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 

from  ( michael siemon ) 
subject hating the sin but not the 
organization public access unix , 
distribution usa 
lines 26 

what are the consequences of the homophobic of the 
self righteous well , i just noted this on another group , 
and thought i 'd pass it along. the context is talk.origins , 
and a report of yet another debate that was nothing but an 
attempt at and assertion by a 
standard issue creationist .  . the writer reflects that the 
behavior reported reminds him of some christian groups he has 
known. i believe that the writer is a  ( non homosexual ) christian 

there is a very effective used to promote 
cohesion among the soldiers of the lord .  . it is 
called ... i 've seen this process used well 
and poorly the near devil worship i mention was a group 
... that was using the to get people 
up to go kill homosexuals or at least them off 
campus as it was clearly god 's will that they do so. 

i have deleted the of the , as i do not 
believe it characteristic of the place (a state in which i 
spent my first 10 years ) , though it does have , 
unfortunately , a that this remark fits to a  . 

michael l. i say you are gods , sons of the 
most high , all of you nevertheless 
or you shall die like men , and fall 
like any prince .  . psalm 6 7 

from  ( brian kendig ) 
subject re is it good that jesus died 
organization san francisco 
lines 

 ( brian 9615 ) writes 

they do not want to know it or be exposed to light 
because their own evil deeds will be  . and so by their 
own choice , they will remain in  . sort of like under 
a  . however , some people , but not many , will not like the 
 . sometimes it gets too cold and too dark to be 
comfortable. these people will out from under the , 
and although at first , will get to the light 
and enjoy its warm .  . and after a while , by virtue of the light , 
they will see the depths of their own shortcomings and how to correct them. 
and also , they will see that there is much much more to this world 
than just the narrow little experiences under the  . they will 
discover that life under a was incredibly and that 
life with the light of the world , is great .  . so great , that they 
will want to tell all their friends about it. 

and i maintain 

some people do not want to enter into the light and the knowledge that 
they alone are their own masters , because they fear it they are too 
afraid of having to face the world on their own terms. and so , by 
their own choice , they will remain in , sort of like 
under a  . however , some people , but not many , will not like the 
 . sometimes it gets too cold and too dark to be comfortable. 
these people will out from under the , and , although 
at first , will get to the light and enjoy its  . and , 
after a while , now that they can see things for what they really are , 
they will also see the heights which they can reach , and the places 
they can go , and they will learn to choose their own through the 
world , and they will learn from their mistakes and revel in their 
 . 

they will see that there is much much more to the world than just the 
narrow experiences under the  . they will discover that life under 
a was incredibly , and that life on their own terms is great 
so great that they will want to tell everyone else about it. 

do you see my point i think you 're the one under the , and i'm 
getting a great tan out here in the sunlight .  . my life has improved 
since i abandoned theism come and join me ! it will be 
a difficult trip at first , until you build up your for the 
long , but it 's well worth it ! 

not all people hate light kent .  . we all have an to it to some 
extent .  . but brian kendig who has been replying to this thread certainly likes 
 . brian k. enjoys stating false concepts and false 
about the god of the bible .  . without checking his own presumptions , 
he compares my god with odin or zeus .  . 

look , you just practically equated odin and zeus they 're as much 
different as your god is from them .  .  .  . 

do n't you see i'm not going to accept anything that i ca n't witness 
with my own eyes or experience with my own senses , especially not 
something as powerful as what you 're trying to get me to accept .  . 
surely if you believe in it this strongly , you must have a good 
reason to , do n't you 

checking his own 
, he thinks hell is the equivalent of non existence .  . 

when did i say that i say that i would rather cease existing instead 
of being subject to the of a deity , but that if the deity 
decided to toss me into the because of who i am , then so be it. 

do you enjoy most people will honestly admit yes . most people 
are of their sexual sins , their of money , their 
selfishness , and not to mention , their biblical ignorance .  . 

nope most people are christian .  . most people are of feeling 
that they are imperfect , of believing that the world is an undesirable 
place , of mystical prayers to make the world nice and 
holy again , of doing just as their priests tell them , like good little 
 . you enjoy , and you 're proud of it. 

you may know the bible well but have you read any of the koran or 
zen writings or krishna literature if you have n't , then how 
can you say you have an open mind 

sin is fun ! let 's 
admit it. but a life of sin leads to trouble and death in this 
life , and hell in the next .  . 

nope .  . you make decisions , enjoy your , and accept your 
failures then you die. if you are content with the life you 've led 
as you reflect back on it in your final , then you 've led a 
good life. 

come out from under the  . 

please do. 

for god so loved the world that he gave his one and only son , 
that whoever believes in him shall not but have eternal 
life. 

i'm sorry , i do n't feel that sacrificing jesus was something any god 
i 'd worship would do , unless the sacrifice was only temporary , in 
which case it 's not really all that important. 

forget the bible for a minute. forget quoting verses , forget about 
who said what about this or that. show me. picture just you and me 
and a wide open , and convince me that you 're right. 


brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 

from  ( david bold ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization  ( ericsson ) , , england 
lines 50 
nntp posting host 

paul jr writes 

i was not directly going to come up with a moral argument for the existence 
of god. rather , i was trying to show the absurdity of atheistic 
trying to embrace some common moral system as though it were 
absolute .  . man knows in his heart that there is right and wrong. we have 
all inherited this knowledge. 

no matter how absurd it is to suggest that a common moral system created by 
mankind is absolute , it is not contrary to reason to suggest that a common 
moral system created by mankind is sensible .  . in fact , for the bible to be of 
any use to mankind as a moral code , it must be interpreted by mankind and a 
workable moral system created for everyday use. 

the jewish is the result of centuries of biblical scholars 
every word of the torah to understand the morality behind it. the children of 
israel were given a very strict set of moral , civil , judicial and 
laws to follow and yet this was clearly not enough to cover every instance 
of moral dilemma in their society. for a christian , the situation is no better. 

it seems to me that the only code of morality that we have from the 
christian god is that which is contained in the bible  ( which we can see from 
the opinions in the christian newsgroups is not  . there may well 
be an absolute morality defined by the christian god for mankind to 
follow but it seems that we only have a subset simply because the concept was 
written down by man. 

this leads to the problem of defining morality for our society. if we take the 
divine morality then we have a code of practice which may be interpreted in many 
different ways  ( as an example , consider the of heretics in the 
fifteenth century and the interpretation of the bible which allows a man to do 
that to another man under the to administer  . if we take an 
agnostic morality then we have a code of practice that can be modified to suit 
society  ( with all the danger that this  . , we could take 
the basis of the christian morality and interpret extend this to create 
and justify a code of morality which suits the society we live in and 
the people to live  ( as many christian and non christian philosophers 
have  . 

whatever the driving force behind the definition of morality for our society , i 
think the important aspect is the result. 

david .  . 


on religion 

oh , where is the sea , the cried , 
as they its through. 


from  ( david bold ) 
subject re question for those with popular morality 
reply to 
distribution world 
organization  ( ericsson ) , , england 
lines 
nntp posting host 

in article ,  ( james owens ) writes 

in a previous article ,  ( david bold ) says 


i do n't mean to be rude , but i think that you 've got hold of the wrong 
end of a different stick .  .  .  . 

david 

i had a look at your posting again and i see what you mean ! i was so 
intent on explaining how thought we could be more moral than god that 
i your main line of thought. 

you seem to be saying that , god being unknowable , his morality is unknowable .  . 

yep , that 's pretty much it. i'm not a jew but i understand that this is the 
jewish way of thinking. however , the jews believe that the covenant between 
and the  ( abraham and moses , in this case ) a moral 
code to follow for mankind .  . even the jews could not decide where the 
fall , though. 

as i understand it , the believed that the torah was all that was 
required , whereas the pharisees  ( the ancestors of modern judaism ) believed that 
the torah was available for interpretation to lead to an understanding of 
the required morality in all its (  . 

the essence of all of this is that biblical morality is an interface between 
man and  ( for a jew or christian ) and does not necessarily indicate 
anything about outside of that relationship  ( although one can  . 


the first thing that comes to mind is that man is supposed to be created 
in his image , so there is an argument that we are committed to whatever 
moral code he follows as part of trying to live up to that image. if we 
are supposed to live by christ 's example , you would be hard pressed to 
argue that god is a do what i say , not what i do kind of guy. 

the trouble with all of this is that we do n't really know what the created 
in his image means. i 've heard a number of different opinions on this and 
have still not come to any conclusion .  . this rather upsets the apple if 
one wants to base a life on this shaky foundation  ( to mix 
! ) as to living by christ 's example , we know very little about 
jesus as a person. we only have his recorded in a set of narratives 
by his followers , and some very small references from  . 
revelation aside , one can only know christ second hand or worse. 

this is not an attempt to christianity  ( although it may seem that way 
initially ) , the point trying to make is that we only really have the bible 
to interpret , and that interpretation is by humanity .  . i guess this is where 
faith or comes in with all its inherent  . 


, if there are multiple moral codes then there is no 
absolute moral code , and i think this is theologically questionable .  . 

no. there may be an absolute moral code. there are undoubtably multiple 
moral codes .  . the multiple moral codes may be founded in the absolute moral 
code. as an example , a parent may tell a child never to swear , and the child 
may assume that the parent never simply because the parent has told 
the child that it is wrong . now , the parent may swear like a in 
the pub or bar  ( where there are no  . the here is if 
the child the parent .  . the parent may feel that it is inappropriate 
to swear in front of children but may be quite happy to swear in front of 
animals .  . the analogy does not quite hold water because the child knows that 
he is of the same type as the parent  ( and may be a parent later in life ) but 
you get the of it , the young child considers the 
as absolute until he gets older  ( see piaget ) and learns a morality of his own. 

david .  . 


on religion 

oh , where is the sea , the cried , 
as they its through. 


from  ( simon clippingdale ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
nntp posting host nin 
organization department of computer science , warwick university , england 
lines 29 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 

... 

as i recall , i first entered the on this matter in response to 
an assertion by simon clippingdale that morality was relative .  . 

oops ! quite right. i got so busy that i saved frank 's last post back then , 
to respond when i could , and i sort of forgot .  . i 'll try to do it 
soon if anyone 's still interested , and probably even if they 're not. 

is he therefore trying to sell something i do n't think so. 

well , yes , maybe i am .  . i'm trying to have people buy and take on my opinions , 
thus causing said opinions to spread in time memetic virus mode until 
the world is a veritable paradise .  . so how about it , folks as they say over 
here , you know it makes sense. 

frank o'dwyer  i m not hatching that  
from hens , by evelyn conlon 

cheers 

simon 

simon clippingdale 
department of computer science tel ( 44 ) 203 
university of warwick fax ( 44 ) 203 
coventry , u.k. 

from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject re hitler or christian  ( was martin luther .  .  . ) . 

organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
lines 10 

in article 
 ( chris lee ) writes 
in article writes 
the irish have their version of the called st. 's cross .  . 
there 's also the three symbol of the of man. 

the three symbol is a bit different , there is a word for them but 
i ca n't recall it , tri something , , do n't know. these have 
more to do with the in her three phases as in 
girl woman  . 

from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is oxymoronic 
keywords ... and are ... 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 


lines 19 

in article 
 ( mathew ) writes 
 ( jon livesey ) writes 
not , of course , the greatest in the world. that was jesus , was n't it 
no , j . r .  . bob  . 

definitely , j . r .  . bob , , top dog , not one can touch , not 
one can knock bob out of the box .  . bob kills me mon ! everyday ! 

but close  ( el subliminal ) is the infamous paul  ( birthname saul ) the 
who became famous as a result of his numerous act 
of the eastern  . 

jesus on the other hand was , a of the con , pray to the 
paradox  ( ai n't nothing but a sign in the ! ) .  . like many 
asians , jesus found the earth all too pink ! and to think that after 
his death , the con changed him into a blond sun god ! and i 
do mean that in the way ! now jesus does with , 
, , lennon , , , etc. mostly know ! 

from (a rose arose ) 
subject re christian kills doctor 
organization my own views here only .  . 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 
distribution usa 
lines 

 ( adrienne regard ) writes 
in article (a rose arose ) writes 

seriously , though , did n't save the lives of children , and he did 
destroy the life of a man , so on the most superficial of levels , he 's scum .  . 


i almost agree , but is not scum .  . scum has no guilt or freedom to 
choose anything. does. god did not make scum when he made  . 
he made a precious person and this person chose to do wrong. the same goes 
for dr.  . 

but if you are to examine it more closely , would have preferred that 
these children were born yet after their birth , did have any 
assistance to offer them did intend to support them , them , 
raise them up to be useful citizens did he have any intent whatsoever 
to help these children after birth 


here 's the real problem. americans have become so to the needs 
of others and so completely wrapped up in themselves that they cannot see 
straight or think clearly enough to make even the slightest and most obvious 
moral decisions based on reality. 

if a man a woman to care for their child on her own , he is not 
considered to be a very respectable or decent man by anyone. this man has 
his responsibility , has behaved like a lazy coward , and has turned 
away from his responsibility to his wife and child. 

however , if a woman decides to kill her child to release her burden , 
she is not thought of in the same way. when the man , the woman 
suffers but the child is free to grow up and live a happy and normal life. 
when the woman , the child is or killed with or 
out , and the man has no choice , and the man sometimes suffers so that 
he wishes he could trade places with his child. 

root of this whole problem is selfishness the arrogance that says , my 
feelings and desires are supreme and your well being is not worth  . 
and when you come down to it , this is the substance of what hell is made of. 
it 's the reason a loving god can selfish people to the devil and his 
demons for all of eternity .  . let any one of us into heaven , and 
we 'll ruin it the first chance we get .  . 

now , i do n't really know the answer to these questions , but i 've got a real 
good guess. 


and , it 's probably right. 

and i would n't call that  benevolent  , either. 


it is a move in the right direction .  . as it is now , we do n't see our 
responsibility because we kill it and get it out of sight. the media 
backs us completely. real responsibility does not sell .  . the only 
responsibility that in the is that which is just 
enough to make us feel responsible without showing anything that 
might show us our own true  . we want to feel like 
good people , but we want nothing with being good people. just give 
me the freedom to say i'm good , and the rest of the world can burn .  . 
rape and kill my children and my parents to the places where 
poor old folks until they 're dead. i 'll hate my brother and sister 
if i wish and i 'll cheat on my wife or husband .  . the government , 
because it me , and do n't talk to me about giving to the church 
because church people are all a bunch of money hypocrites .  . 
but , i'm a good person. at least i admit what i do. at least i love 
myself and we all know that is the greatest love in the world not that 
a man down his life for his brother .  .  . that . sounds too christian . 

at the root , this is the substance of what hell is made of. 

we 've become a self , society no longer responsible 
to our children , to our parents , to our families , to our government , or 
to our god. this is the root behind justification of every evil , of every 
corruption in government , of every remark , of every lie , and 
of every murder .  . society cannot continue to live like this long .  . it will 
have to destroy soon , and perhaps in the end , that will be the 
biggest blessing this world can hope to see. 

why do people see so much evil in trying to turn this situation around 



i the horrible crime of child murder .  .  .  . 
we want , not merely punishment .  . 
we must reach the root of the evil .  .  .  . 
it is practiced by those whose souls 
from the dreadful deed .  .  .  . 
no what the motive , love of , 
or a desire to save from suffering the innocent , 
the woman is awfully guilty who the deed .  .  .  . 
but oh ! guilty is he who her 
to the which her to the crime .  . 

b. anthony , 
the revolution 8 , 


from  ( irfan alan ) 
subject a on the miracles of muhammad saw , part 2 
organization univ .  . of wisconsin madison electrical computer engineering 
distribution usa 
lines 


the following is an introduction as to who is muhammad saw 
as will be covered with this  . 

muhammad peace and of allah be upon him  ( saw ) 
is the last prophet of islam .  . he is the prophet who is revealed 
the last holy scripture , qur'an , by allah  ( all praise be to him ) 
through the angel  . he is the of all prophets 
till the day of judgement as stated in the qur'an by allah 
 ( all praise be to  . muhammad saw lived between 
632 ac .  . all other claimed after muhammad saw , 
is a treason against islam , against qur'an , against the message 
of allah  . muhammad saw is from the seed of , another 
messenger of allah and son of abraham also a messenger of allah .  . 
he is the messenger that previous holy scriptures his 
coming .  . the above mentioned verse from the qur'an is from 
chapter 33 , verse 40 whose rough translation is as follows 

muhammad is not the father of any of your men , 
but  ( he is) the messenger of allah , and the 
of the prophets , and allah has full knowledge of 
all things. 


commentary on the above verse when a document is , 
it is complete , and there can be no further addition .  . the 
holy prophet muhammad saw closed the long line of  . 
allah 's teaching is and will always be continuous , but there 
has been and will be no prophet after muhammad saw. the later 
ages will want , and , not prophets .  . this is not 
an arbitrary matter. it is a decree full of knowledge and wisdom , 
for allah has full knowledge of all things. 


1 , no 11 , part 2 

a d r o p l e t 
from the vast of the miraculous qur'an 

translations from the arabic and turkish writings of 
said , the i 

1 , no 11 , part 2 

letter 

i 
(a on the miracles of muhammed saw ) 

 ( continued from 1 , no 11 , part 1 ) 

second sign the noble messenger  ( saw ) 
declared his , and presented to humanity a 
decree as the glorious qur'an and miracles 
which number , according to the scholars , one thousand .  . 
the occurrence of those miracles in their is as 
certain as the fact that he declared himself prophet .  . in 
fact , as a shown by the words of the most 
unbelievers quoted in various places of the wise 
our an , even they could not deny the occurrence of his 
miracles , but only called them !  ( allah forbids ) 
, in order to themselves , or to their 
followers. the miracles of muhammad  ( saw ) have the 
certainty of by consensus of ulema  ( scholars 
of islam) to the degree. 
the miracle is the by the creator of 
the universe of his declaration of it has the 
effect of the words ,  you have indeed spoken the truth ! ' 
suppose that you said in the assembly of a ruler , 
while being observed by him ,  the true ruler has 
me to such and such position.  at a time when 
you were asked to prove your claim , the word  yes  
uttered by the ruler would sufficiently support you. or , if 
the ruler changed his usual practice and attitude at your 
request , this would your claim even more 
and more definitely than would the word ' . 
in the same way , allah 's most noble messenger 
claimed  i am the of the creator of this 
universe. my proof is that he will change his 
order at my request and my prayer .  . now look at my 
fingers he makes them run like a fountain with five 
 . look at the moon by a of my finger , he 
it in two .  . look at that tree to affirm me , and to bear 
witness to me , it and comes near to me. look at 
this food although it is barely enough for two or three 
men , it two or three hundred .  .  further he shows 
hundreds of similar miracles .  . however , the of 
the veracity of this high being and the of his 
are not restricted to his miracles .  . all his 
deeds and acts , his words and behavior , his moral 
conduct and , his character and appearance 
prove to the his and  . 
indeed , many people such as abdullah b. , the 
famous scholar of the children of israel , came to belief 
merely by seeing him , and said ,  no lie can hide in this 
face , nor can any fraud be found in it ! ' 
although many of the have concluded 
that the of the of muhammad and his 
miracles number about one thousand , there are 
thousands , perhaps hundreds of thousands of of 
his  . and hundreds of thousands of 
truth seeking men  ( muhakkikiin ) with opinions 
have affirmed his in an equal number of 
ways. 
the wise our an alone demonstrates thousands of 
the of his , in addition to its own forty 
aspects of  . since is as a 
phenomenon of humanity , and hundreds of thousands of 
individuals who claimed and performed 
miracles have lived and passed away then , the 
of muhammad  ( saw ) is of a 
superior to that of the of all the others. for 
whatever , qualities and became the 
means of the and of all the 
such as jesus  ( as ) and moses  ( as ) , they 
are all owned in a more perfect and comprehensive 
fashion by muhammad  . and since the causes and 
means of prophetic authority exist more perfectly in the 
person of muhammad  ( saw ) , this authority is to be found 
in him with more than all the other prophets .  . 


to be continued allah willing .  . 
, a servant of islam .  . 


from  ( jack coyote ) 
subject re misc . taoism . 
reply to  ( jack coyote ) 
organization never had it , never will 
lines 8 

sunlight shining off of the  . 



null of beer on the , null of beer ! 
take one down , pass it around ... null of beer on the ! 



from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject to rob 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 

dear rob , 

when i read brian k. 's postings , i find someone who is honestly seeking 
the truth. when i read your response here , i see  . when you 
reply to a post , reply to the post you quote. this statement 
any good points you might have had  ( it was enough to make me stop  . 

sometimes i do come across , and i am sorry i come across that 
way at times. thank you for the , i really do appreciate it. i 'll 
try to get better. 

rob , at the same time , i have also learned that some people respond to the gentle 
approach while others respond only at a harsh  . brian k. , so far , 
only responds to the latter .  . and i am glad he responds at all. in both 
cases of approach , my intention is to be loving .  . i am making no excuse 
for myself if i am coming across  . i apologize for that. 

rob , sometimes brian k. comes across as honest .  . i know this. but brian k. 
back and forth .  . one post looks honest the next is 
an excuse. now he wants me to explain the universe in 50 words or less. 
i think brian kendig is really trying but he is too comfortable with 
his set of excuses .  . 

i just want brian k. to be honest with himself. if he really wants 
to know , he will ask questions and stop asserting irrelevant excuses 
which have nothing to do with my god. i wish brian would read the 
bible for himself and come to his own decisions without being 
sidetracked with the to mock god. 

from my perspective rob , when i look at brian kendig , i see a man 
standing out in the middle of a  . off into the distance i 
see a heading right for him , but brian k. is away 
from the  . he does n't see it. here 's is how i see 
the 


me brian k , please step aside before you get run over. 

there is no  . 

me turn around at look. 

no. 

me look ! you will be if you do take a look at 
the  . 

no. explain to me why exist. 

me turn around or you will run over. 

no. i wo n't because i like and tomorrow is tuesday .  . 

me you blind fool ! why do you choose ignorance you have nothing 
to lose if you look. but if do not look , you will certainly lose your life. 
i do not want to see you squashed all over the road. 

it is my life to lose .  . i rather not look. 
besides , a running over me will not harm me. 
and by the way , i really have an open mind. 


so is my motivation to brian , or to love brian the best i know how 

i do not wish to single brian kendig out. because millions if not 
billions of people fall into the same category .  . perhaps all people 
fall have fallen into this category at one time in their lives. i have. 
i can now see the behind brian .  . 

my hope is that brian will look and will see the ramifications of the 
coming towards him. my hope is that brian will want to step out 
of the way. my fear , though , is that brian will instead choose to glue himself 
to the middle of the , where he will certainly get run over. but if 
he so chooses , he so chooses , and there is nothing i can do beyond that 
to change his mind. for it is his choice. but at this very moment , 
brian has n't gotten even that far. he is still at the point where he 
does not want to look. sure he his to me , but his 
head will not turn around to see the entire picture .  . so far he is 
satisfied with his of the mountains off in the distance .  . 

thank you again rob for your  . i really do appreciate it.  ( my 
wife tells me the same thing at times . ) . ) i will try to do better. 

from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 41 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 



kent with all due respect , how can i take you seriously , when you have 
the names wrong in the 1st place e.g. 


the san jose rc  ( ordo crucis ) 

there is no such thing. the correct name is ancient mystical 
order ,  . 

 .  .  . and . the 
order created by  . 

there is no such thing either. it 's the fellowship .  . 
and they clearly state that they do not pretend to from the 
order of the  . 

in addition there are many splinter groups 
all around europe that all claim some connection with the original 
group supposedly founded in the middle ages. 

the and who else 

some groups 
also have like separate groups , even if they are far 
from the ideologies the rc groups have somehow in common .  . 

these are not orders . they are study groups , none 
of which claims to be of the original order. 


we might about how much time we have spent with this ) .  . let 
me start , i was part of the for about 8 years. 
kent 

what is if you mean , you did n't even learn the correct 
name ! 

tony 


from  ( cutter ) 
subject re biblical backing of koresh 's 3 02  ( cites enclosed ) 
distribution world 
organization , , 
lines 22 

() writes 

in article  ( stephen 
for those who think david koresh did n't have a solid structure , 
or sound biblical backing for his hour long , 

i do n't think anyone really cares about the solid structure of his 
 . it 's the deaths he 's responsible for that concern most people. 


and i think we ought to hold christ for all of his followers 
who died at the hand of the romans also. it was their own fault for believing .  . 

god , this society reminds me more of the roman empire every day i guess 
i 'll just log off and go watch american  . 



 ( chris ) all jobs are easy 
to the person who 
does n't have to do them. 
's law 

from  ( brian 9615 ) 
subject re is it good that jesus died 
organization , tucson az .  . 
lines 110 

jesus 

this is the verdict light has come into the world , but 
men loved instead of light because their deeds 
are evil. everyone who does evil hates the light , and will 
not come into the light for fear that his deeds will be 
exposed .  . 

kent sandvik says 

it seems we are dealing with a black and white interpretation .  . 
brian , are you subtly accusing me of evil things because i never 
saw the light however , this is even more confusing because 
i even admit that i do n't like the situation where i'm not 
informed .  . 

black and white. a is a  . there is no hidden 
behind this , so stop trying to look for one. it is an 
easy and as straight forward as it reads .  . 

kent , i am not accusing you of evil things. jesus is accusing you. 
and it is not only you that he is accusing .  . he is accusing everyone. 
me , you and everyone in the world is guilty .  . whether one 
sees the light or does not seen the light has nothing to do with 
whether we do evil things. we do them regardless .  . 

jesus uses the word men . i am included. jesus is not you out. 
jesus is making a general statement about out the sad state of man. 
christians are not from doing evil things. a christian 
is just a person in whom the holy spirit  . a christian 
can see the evil he is doing because his evil has been brought 
out into the light. jesus is not saying that just because evil has been 
exposed , that the christian will stop doing evil. if you have n't 
seen jesus 's light , your evil deeds simply have n't been 
exposed to the his light. you may shed some light on your 
own. your human spirit shines at perhaps 1  . but the 
holy spirit shines at a  . the holy spirit can 
light into places inside us where we did n't even know 
existed .  . 

so do you see jesus 's point christians are not perfect. 
are not perfect. do not want to come into the 
light of jesus because they will see all the problems in their lives , 
and they will not like the sight. it is an thing to see how far 
we have fallen from jesus 's perspective. do you think you want to 
know how really ignorant you are do you think brian kendig wants 
to know do you think i want to know ego verses the truth , 
which do you choose 

i'm watching the news about a man who saw the light , and made 
sure that the 19 children burned to death as part of his insight 
into the light. i do n't think the world is that simple. and if 
you act in such ways when you are , then i'm a happy 
man and i pray i will never receive such  . 

and i watched koresh too , an who thought he saw the light , 
who made sure that the 19 children burned to death , sadly , as part 
of his  . it is even that the people who 
died with him chose to die with them , and that ignorance was 
their downfall to death. 

and kent , do n't you bury yourself a with an 
excuse like bringing up koresh as if koresh actually had truth in him. 
david koresh was no light and no excuse for 
you to stay away from the real jesus christ .  . david koresh , who 
claimed to be jesus , was a fraud .  . it was obvious. david koresh 
was born in america .  . jesus was born in bethlehem .  . koresh was n't 
even a good having missed an obvious point as that. 

jesus warned of such in the end times. david 
koresh was n't anything new to jesus .  . jesus told us to be 
aware of 2000 years ago. 

so the next time an makes a and claims to 
be jesus .  . ask the obvious. where were you born was your 
mother 's name mary if the branch asked that 
simple question , they would have labeled koresh a liar 
right from the start. the would n't have followed koresh .  . 
they would n't have died. but look what happened. their 
ignorance cost them their lives. their choice to be ignorant 
cost them a lot. 

kent , since you studied the bible under , do you 
not remember what tactic satan used to try to jesus 
did not satan quote the bible out of context do you 
remember what tactic the of genesis used to 
eve did he not god what satan used on eve and succeeded , 
was the same ploy he tried on jesus .  . but in jesus 's case , 
jesus rebuked satan back with the bible in context. it 
did n't work with jesus .  . 

does what satan did to eve in the garden and what satan 
tried to do with jesus in the desert you of what 
koresh did to his followers who did koresh emulate 
who was koresh 's teacher koresh did to his followers what 
satan did to eve .  . did not koresh kill his did 
not satan cause adam and eve to die as well did not 
the cult followers believe koresh even though they knew 
the real christ was born in bethlehem did not eve 
choose to eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and 
evil despite knowing that it would cause her death god 
held them all responsible and the  . none 
of them had an excuse. 

as opposed to the branch , we have a second chance. 
follow jesus and he will us to the path of eternal life. 
do n't follow jesus , and you stand condemned already , for like 
the branch complex , your house is already on fire .  . 
satan , adam and eve have already set it  . it is just 
a slow burn , but it is burning nevertheless .  . 

from  ( bob sarver ) 
subject re judas , crucifixion , tyre , etc .  .  .  . 
organization corp .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 16 


 ( frank decenso ) 
but how it 's evident from the texts in 26 28 that god is n't concerned 
about buildings or structures god is concerned about people. the people and 
leadership  ( ezek 28 ) never did return as a city. others may have come later 
and built a city , but the people and leadership that god about in 
26 28 were never as a city of people and leaders .  . 


how incredibly fucking stupid. of course the text is referring to the city 
itself  ( buildings , , , etc . ) . otherwise it makes no sense to 
refer to the future of tyre as being reduced to nothing but a place to spread 
 . 

is there any of text or game that you wo n't do to preserve 
your faith from admission of error , 

from  ( brian kendig ) 
subject re is it good that jesus died 
organization san francisco 
lines 42 

 ( jim burrill ) writes 
brian kendig wrote 

can you please point to something , anything , that proves to me that 
the universe cannot possibly be explained without accepting as a fact 
the existence of a god in precisely the way your holy book describes 

can you please convince me that your religion is more than a very 
constructed fable , and that it does indeed have some bearing 
on my own personal day to day life 

would you consider the word of an eye witness  ( peter ) to testify to the 
events surrounding jesus  life 

no. there are two problems here 

(1) peter died two ago. the original letters he wrote have 
long since into  . if he were alive today and i could 
question him , then this might lend credibility to your claims  ( but 
probably not much , because after all , i 've heard people claim with all 
sincerity that they 've spoken with elvis recently) .  . but after his 
death , peter 's writings were by monks for centuries , and i 
find it hard to believe that one of them somewhere did n't decide to 
change the wording of something to make it  ( in his opinion ) a little 
easier to understand. 

(2) even if peter did witness the miracles of jesus two ago , 
that does n't mean that your deity is what the bible says it is  ( god 
might just be satan , trying to convince everyone that he 's a nice 
guy ) , or even that your deity is still alive and active in the world 
today. 

nice try , but it just is n't enough to convince me , especially since 
your wild claims about your deity seem to in the face of the way 
i 've observed the world to work. please find something more compelling .  . 


brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 

from  ( tim scott ) 
subject re misc . taoism . 
reply to 
organization corporation , san diego , california 
lines 72 

in article  ( thyagi nagasiva ) writes 


i would like to add my support for a misc . taoism . discussion group. 
i the shown by the person posting 
(i read in alt . , but i differ 
with him her in believing that at least some minimal 
should be agreed upon .  . 

wrote 

i recommend that the depth of generality , indeed , of , in this 
newsgroup be  . calling the tradition old or new 
is rather unnecessary , and only leads to foolish  . there is no 
doubt that nature is a teacher , whether she appears in the words 
spoken by a tree or by a , a or a star .  . let us not limit 
to  . 

but if we do n't limit it to something , the discussion into 
a big  . 

other questions are 

1 ) what is this  actual process of reality  
2 ) why is taoism based upon an assumption 
3) why does this assumption concern knowledge and what can be known 
4 ) what is the value of not knowing 
5 ) what is  a tao  what does it mean to be  tao  d  

it seems to me that these questions more properly fall into the 
category of general metaphysics . i would prefer any misc . taoism . 
to deal more closely with and works more closely associated 
with at least semi orthodox taoism with established classic works 
definitely included and works like 's argued about ! 

i think taoism should be excluded or get its own group  ( what i 
mean by this is taoism , in which taoism means whatever 
a poster says it means . ) . this alt . taoism . could also be a refuge 
for about what taoism really means or speculations on sexual 
, etc .  .  . 

e.g.  ( from again ) 
taoism does what the hell it wants , i tell you. 
taoism does n't exist.  taoism  is no more real that  . decide , now. 
real or not real exist or not exist when shall we be certain 

kent  ( quoting from 's article ) 

however most traffic in 
the group will likely concern the philosophical , secular taoism 
by and , and taoism as it pertains 
to medical , sexual and techniques .  . 

i think that discussions of this nature are not completely out of 
place. what 's happening is that that the term taoism is becoming 
completely polluted and like the words magic , , 
zen , etc. , by writers the word to mean whatever they 
want. this is seen by the of new age books entitled the 
tao of this , that , and everything else.  ( with respect to some exceptions 
like the books by , ) . 

any other comments ideas i look forward to seeing them. on , 
i say let misc . taoism . and let the fall where they may .  . if 
it just gets filled up with college asking about the 
tao of sex then it will have been a failure and people will post to 
these groups just as they do now. 



tim p. scott sending from corporation  ( 619)455 ) 
 . san diego , ca usa fax  ( 619)453 ) 
internet or  .  .  . uunet . ! ! tims 

from (a . 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization com systems bbs , , ca  ( 510 ) 
lines 32 

 ( max  ( y !  ) writes 

in article  ( tony 

name just three really competing orders .  . i have 
probably spent more time than you doing the same. 

none of them are spin from o . t . o .  . the opposite may be the 
case. 

can we assume from this statement that you are saying that 
is not a spin off of  .  .  . and that in fact , may well be a spin 
off of 
i would be quite interested in hearing what evidence you have to support this 
claim .  . 



well , there is a fair amount of evidence floating around that indicates 
that has been around since at least the late , long before 
crowley ever heard of it , how long has been around  ( yes , i know 
that they claim to have existed as an organization clear into , 
but i doubt that they have any paperwork 
as a non profit that can be carbon dated to 20 , 000 bc ) 
a . 


a . internet addresses 
 ( preferred ) 
com . ! boo ! !  ( bang path for above) 
 ( backup ) 
2 . public key available on request 

from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject 17 apr 93 god 's promise in luke 11 28 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 8 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 


but he said , 
yea rather , 
are they 
that hear the word of god , 
and keep it. 

luke 11 28 

from  ( larry caldwell ) 
subject re sunday ! the day of our lord ! 
organization health sciences university 
lines 14 
nntp posting host 

 ( paul harvey ) writes 
 ( darius lecointe ) writes 
exactly. sunday worship is in honor or the sun , not the son of god. 

same thing , is n't it it 's the same what other heavenly 
beings are resurrected the moon that would by , at least to a 
sunday  . 

i have heard that the sabbath was originally determined by the phases of 
the moon , and had elements of moon worship .  . early stuff , egyptian in nature. 


larry compuserve , 
health sciences university .  . (503) 

from  ( mathew ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is oxymoronic 
organization mantis consultants , cambridge .  . uk .  . 
lines 32 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 

 ( suzanne forgach ) writes 
from article , by 
 ( jon livesey ) 
if there is a western against infanticide , why 
are so many children dying all over the world 

the majority of the world is n't western . 

superficially a good answer , but it is n't that simple. an awful lot of the 
and poverty in the world is directly caused by the economic 
policies of the western countries , as well as by the diet of the typical 
 . for instance , some third world countries with terrible 
malnutrition problems all the they can produce so that it can 
be fed to in the us , to make tender and  . they 
have to do this to get money to pay the interest on the bank loans 
we encouraged them to take out. for is a truly bizarre 
idea instead , we ought to stop them for every they 've got .  . 

perhaps it 's more accurate to say that there 's a western against 
western infanticide .  . all the evidence suggests that so long as the children 
are dying in the third world , we could n't give a shit. and that goes for the 
supposed pro life movement , too. they could save far more lives by 
fighting against third world debt than they will by fighting against 
abortion .  . hell , if they 're only interested in , they could save more 
of those by fighting for human rights in china .  . 

and besides , 's answer implies that non western countries lack this 
against infanticide .  . apart from china , with its policy of mandatory 
forced abortion in tibet , i do n't believe this to be the case. 


mathew 

from  ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) 
subject re flaming nazis 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 38 

in article writes 
okay , i 'll  . i should probably leave this alone , but what the heck .  .  .  . 

in article de . , 
de .  ( gene w. smith ) writes 
in article 
 ( pope charles ) writes 

was the name of the guy responsible for much of the uniforms , 
and used by the early nazis in their rallies and such. 

the name is , not  . and hitler does claim that he came up 
with the business. 

but did n't he credit the actual flag design to a party member some or 
other i believe he gives such credit in mein kampf .  . 

he was killed in an early nazi purge .  . he and many of his 
were flaming homosexuals well know also for their  . 

i have been trying to find if there is any actual evidence for this 
common assertion recently. postings to such groups as soc . history . and 
soc . culture . german . has not any net . who could provide 
any. 

well , i'm no expert , but all of the histories of nazi germany assert this. they 
make reference to several that occurred long before the night of the 
long . the impression that i got was that homosexuality in portions of 
the sa was common knowledge. also , a book  ( by a homosexual author whose name 
escapes me at the moment ) called homosexuals in history asserts that 
and were homosexuals , as well as others in 's sa circle .  . 

rest deleted. can anybody out in a . p . h . help out 

find out about the night of the brown shirts . 

 ( b(0 4 ) c d e f g  ( k ) m  ( r ) s ( ) t 
my thoughts , my posts , my ideas , my responsibility , my beer , my pizza. ok 

from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject 18 apr 93 god 's promise in 4 9 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 8 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 


those things , 
which have both learned , and received , 
and heard , and seen in me , 
do 
and the god of peace shall be with you. 

4 9 

from 
subject part 1 and part 2  ( re homosexuality ) 
lines 114 
return path com . ! 

tony 

i read your post , it was nothing new , i had seen much the same in other 
typical christian anti gay literature .  . gay people are and will 
con to be persecuted as long as such propaganda  . you may 
be of all the findings concerning african americans that 
have been published and used by various groups to re enforce their own bias 
against african americans .  . we usually think of the in these instances , 
but there are many other groups. of course , the vast majority of the public 
at such findings and documents today , but that was not always the case. 
fortunately african americans had who supported their  cause  and 
public was eventually  ( if not entirely ) turned around. there was 
even a civil war , and anti increased .  . in fact , until laws 
were put in place to protect the inalienable rights of blacks it was pretty 
much legal to discriminate against them. 

i know many gays and i will not turn my back on them or their right to be free 
form discrimination .  . you may think that i have been or something , 
that is your  . my church , christian church  ( disciples of christ ) 
openly the rights of oppressed people of all of society , 
including gays .  . we believe the gospel message of preaching to all creation 
and making disciples .  . we believe in the lord 's great commandment to love , 
and we beleive in standing up for the oppressed , even if it is not popular 
to do so. i really like my church for last reason the most. i can find a 
church almost anywhere in the that stands for the gospel and believes 
in the commandment of love  ( though i'm hard pressed to find many who actually 
love ) , but not many are willing to the oppressed , especially 
within their own community. i may have lost face with the greater christian 
community for the of my beliefs , but so did the 
against the oppression of african americans .  . many were even killed and 
treated as slaves for being lovers and such. i guess i 've 
decided the challenge is worth it. 

in my talks with gay men and women i have heard tragic story after tragic 
story around failed marriages , wives and husbands who are straight 
who have been hurt in the process , etc. funny thing is , i do n't know of one 
case where the parents , ex wives , or even children have continued to reject 
their gay family member  ( son , daughter , ex husband , father , etc . ) . after they 
began to take part in some form of support group , like  . 

i'm by the legislation which passed in , and am equally 
that such people as  ( from the tradition values 
coalition ) have been actively working in the christian to 
support within several  ( 8 i believe ) states this coming for more 
against gays .  . 

perhaps you do n't get it , and maybe you never will. many did n't get it in the 
middle ages and the god 's will be done as they thousands 
in witch hunts and inquisitions .  . 

the message that comes through , loud and clear , by against gay 
rights and against gays in general , is that there is a strong dislike , even 
hatred for gays , whether you want to call it such or not  ( it does n't change 
the  . the major flaw in all this is that in the end , the 
final effect of posts like that of yours and mr. is that you have a 
conditional love for gays .  . condition change and we 'll love you. this is 
sure strange coming from a group who claim that god has an 
love , one that calls people just as they are. sure there are things that 
will  naturally  change , and  ( like , wife beating , etc . ) . that 
need to be changed through some sort of  . but then there are things 
like left , etc. that no amount of beating it out of people , is 
going to result in anything more than an to other 
people 's expectations .  . in the process this causes many 
people a great deal of harm , especially when it is caused by people who have 
nothing more to gain from it that to become even more up about their 
own sense of spirituality .  . 

this is sad , but i thoroughly believe that one day it will change .  . it may be 
unpopular to cry for justice and equality when the basis has to do with 
something very personal like  sexuality  (a subject even today ) , but i 
firmly believe in the rights of individuals to be free from impose 
on thier  . it 's funny that most straight people have successfully 
removed restrictive and legislation against legislation , 
but we like to maintain this little of  .  . as . though it 
helps us maintain a sense of superiority over at least one segment of society. 
gay people are not criminals .  . 

another interesting thing happened recently. a very prominent 
church in the silicon  ( here ) had two of it 's pastors for self 
admitted charges of  ( men having sex with  . this had apparently 
been going on for some time (a couple years ) , but since the charges were 
voluntary , and the church worked closely with the police , so i imagine that 
was how they managed to it in the media. how could such a thing 
happen when the church , itself , has an ex gay ministry one of my friends 
recently told me he was approached by someone who is going through the 
there , and he was thoroughly convinced that the request for 
was not an invitation to the ministry .  . 

these are difficult times we live in , but providing hostile and 
creating and an atmosphere that hate and violence is not 
the call of the christian community. the results of the passing amendment in 
has created an organization who 's posters are all over 
called s . t . r . a . i . g . h . t .  . (i forget the whole definition off hand , 
but the last part was against immoral gross homosexual trash ) and their motto 
is working for a free america with an for violence .  . 

this is sick , and it seems to be what you and mr. , and others are 
 . 

we christians have a tradition of and oppression 
towards those we feel do n't  measure up  , and constant from 
organizations like the christian research institute , while they do have a good 
purpose also , their major work seems to be finding new and better ways of 
excluding people. 

the gospel i believe is not so negative , rather it seeks ways to include 
people. i have several of dr. martin 's books and find them quite helpful , 
especially concerning ' . but it seems that , has become a cult unto 
itself. why do n't we just stick to the positive and find ways to bring people 
to jesus of taking and driving them away 

whatever 

rich ( 

from  ( walter smith ) 
subject re part 1 and part 2  ( re homosexuality ) 
organization it center 
lines 51 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

writes 

the results of the passing amendment in 
has created an organization who 's posters are all over 
called s . t . r . a . i . g . h . t .  . (i forget the whole definition off hand , 
but the last part was against immoral gross homosexual trash ) and their motto 
is working for a free america with an for violence .  . 

i live in , and have never heard of such a group. obviously claims 
that their posters are all over are a  .  .  . 

this is sick , and it seems to be what you and mr. , and others are 
 . 

hardly .  . saying that homosexuality is a sin is a far cry from 
working for a free america . saying that i would n't want 
a homosexual for my kids mean i 
against immoral gross homosexual trash . 

we christians have a tradition of and oppression 
towards those we feel do n't  measure up  , 

and now we have homosexual advocates telling us that if we do n't teach 
our kids that homosexuality is natural and a perfectly acceptable 
alternative lifestyle , then they will have it done for us. no , thanks. 

the gospel i believe is not so negative , rather it seeks ways to include 
people. 

absolutely .  . and the message is always , go and sin no more . not , 
go and do whatever good . 

one question , at the start of your post , you wrote 

i know many gays and i will not turn my back on them or their right to be free 
form discrimination .  .  . i . may have lost face with the greater christian 
community for the of my beliefs , but so did the 
against the oppression of african americans .  . many were even killed and 
treated as slaves for being lovers and such. i guess i 've 
decided the challenge is worth it. 

this sounds real nice , but me as a little odd. you 're 
presenting yourself as if you were a straight , who is 
his out and taking on the challenge of speaking out in support 
of gays in the church. but i was under the impression that you 
yourself are gay. that 's all well and fine , but presenting yourself 
as out your to help repressed others seems a bit 
under the circumstances .  .  .  .  . 

walter 


from  ( michael agney ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 25 
nntp posting host lloyd . caltech . edu . 

 ( kevin darcy ) writes 

in article  ( keith justified and ancient cochran ) writes 
followups set out of talk . abortion .  .  .  . 

in article  ( mike cobb ) writes 
am i reading this thread wrong or is this just another bemoaning of the fact 
that christianity has a code of objective morality 

please define this objective morality . 

while you 're at it , please state the theory of creationism .  . 

still searching for an irrelevant issue in which to a pro lifer , i see. 
slimy tactic .  . 

kevin 

well , when you to talk.origins , what do you expect 


michael just because you 're 
does n't mean they 're not out 
to get you. 


subject re who 's next mormons and jews 
from c. 
organization young university 
lines 


isaac writes 

in article c.  . b . 
writes 
as a latter day saint , i found john 's statement not at all ludicrous .  .  .  . 

please allow me to explain myself. in , the of missouri , 
, issued his so called mormon extermination order. the 
only crime ( illegal activity ) the latter day had committed , was 
their religious , their anti slave stance  ( missouri still 
allowed slave practices ) , and their growing numbers influence in missouri .  . 

i guess the mormons got what they deserved , because they refused to bow 
to the will of  ( corrupt and evil ) secular authorities .  . this 
brought upon them persecution , murder , and finally forced from 
their lands and  .  .  . 

it is significant to remember that these secular positions were held by 
average people , and that at the time , almost all americans were pretty 
christian .  . it was largely the mainstream christian 's disgust 
at such practices as which resulted in their irrational hatred .  . 

true , but that is exactly the problem the mormon extermination order 
was issued not just by a christian , it was allowed under the constitution 
of the united states , which was instituted precisely to prevent incidents 
like this order from in the first place .  .  .  . as i indicated in 
an earlier posting , your irrational hatred is clearly evidenced by 
individuals like robert  ( who could have been gov .  .  
he would have right in , et al ) , and seems a modern day 
occurrence , based on results  ( slander , persecution , misrepresentation , 
lies , denying mormons representation in their own user group , etc. etc. 

in intent and purpose , what really has changed 

the situation is not entirely different today. many irrational feelings 
and beliefs are justified through religion. i do n't think most of them 
are started because of religion , but religion certainly helps justify and 
perpetuate and practices by providing a neat justification 
which critical thought. 

true , as evidenced by numerous examples , as i am sure you 're aware .  . 

in any regard , mormon history alone indicates that secular authorities  ( and 
i do n't even discuss how 's were into allowing part of their 
lands in becoming gas and atomic bomb grounds .  .  . ) . is far from 
being trusted or righteous .  . have things really changed for the better i 
may be a born , but i have no reason whatsoever that such has been the 
case. in the early , i believe , the late president  ( lds church 
leader ) strongly federal attempts to the peace keeper 
missile maze from being built in utah  ( yet another inspired decision from 
secular  . fortunately , his opposition was enough 
for the feds to back off. 

do you mean that the secular authorities are some continuous group of 
people with the common and goal of the 
mormons do you honestly believe that the main reason for using utah for 
nuclear etc .  .  . was to get them mormons and what about the 
majority of 's who are n't mormons you seem to be searching for enemy 

 ( correction the majority of 's are mormon  ( 60 70 i believe , up to a 
100 in many cities and throughout the western states . ) . 

 . it is to believe that everything that you 
must have been done primarily for that purpose. 

what i mean is that secular authorities are to be watched , as we believe 
that satan has been given some power and dominion over the earth to 
truth , judgment , and justice. in addition , we believe that the adversary 
has power to influence the unjust and  ( greed for money would be 
a good example) in order to bring about persecution , war , oppression , and 
evil combinations .  . as an intelligent being , do n't you suppose that the 
would his influence foremost on those with political power 

as far as utah is concerned , what i pointed out were some horrible examples 
of environmental imposed upon by secular authorities , which have 
brought death , disease , (i . e .  . the ) and environmental 
nation .  . i am hardly , i am just not expecting too much from a 
secular government that may not share our values and faith , and which indeed 
 ( as gov .  . et al . ) . may be out to harm and destroy us. as a matter of 
fact , prophecies in my church indicate that in future years ,  ( global ) 
persecution against mormons will so increase in and , that 
 ( paraphrasing ) all those who wish to escape persecution and murder must 
flee to zion .  . zion  ( the pure in heart ) will be re established in those 
days , and it t our current secular authorities who will rule over it .  .  .  . 

... david koresh did not pose a great 
threat to the federal authorities or the security of this nation , and with 
john , i too wonder who or what 's next .  .  .  . 

i personally feel that we should try to stop anyone who is a threat to the 
life of even one person. sure , he did not pose a threat to the security of 
this nation .  . but he did pose a threat to the lives of his followers. that 
much is definite .  . 

hmmm .  . definite by whom until such has been established beyond reason 
able doubt , this alleged threat may have been less than the threat 
imposed upon him and his followers by the and fbi .  .  .  . 

who killed who what constitutional right did the atf officers have to 
invade upon private land and to force themselves into the compound 
what really caused the murder of the little children could it be that 
the atf fbi presence has any bearing upon the events how would you 
interpret the mt. events blame the jews  ( what the heck did 
the romans do there anyway what business did the atf fbi has in , 
texas ) the branch never posed any threat to society. 

this is like asking who really caused the deaths of the israeli 
team in in that case , the police the job as well. but to 
a burden on them than the would be a terrible 
mistake. i think the same sort of reasoning applies in this case. 
certainly , if david koresh chose any peaceful option , the atf and fbi 
would have  . the responsibility is more his than the authorities .  . 

come now , at issue is in how much the authorities an otherwise 
peaceful stand off let 's get it over with , and force david koresh to 
come out by gassing them were they naive , or what they played 
right into the hands of an thinking individual  ( he had prepared 
his people for this for years ) , and not one or plan 
was in place to deal with this scenario i feel that the authorities 
had some responsibility to protect their own citizens , even if they were 
religious , and guilty of ... not paying a 200 gun license 
 ( has the become an extension of the local tax ) 

david koresh , no doubt , will be described as the evil guy  ( by the 
executioners ) , while the actions of all those and officers 

the atf fbi as is and unfair .  . in 
order to be an , the least one must have done is have the intent 
to kill .  . 

que into private property with semi 's , loaded with life 
ammunition , is n't that intent  ( or at least prepared ) to kill 
i ask you , would the warrant stand up in a civil court of justice 
i do not mind if criminals  ( such as dangerous drug lords ) are brought to 
justice , but events to the point of allowing to , if not 
city with , the destruction of a people 


isaac 
how lucky you english are to find the toilet so amusing .  . o 
for us , it is a mundane and functional item. for you , ( ( 
the basis of an entire culture ! von 


c. 
young university 
computer facilities 

from  ( kent sandvik ) 
subject re and compassion 
organization tourist bureau 
lines 27 

in article , 
 ( ken arromdee ) wrote 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
so we have this highly christian religious order that put fire 
on their house , killing most of the people inside. 

we have no way to know that the burned the house it could have been 
the and fbi .  . we only have the government 's word for it , after all , and 
people who started it by a no knock search with are hardly 
observers .  . 

well , looking at the it seems that this fire started in various 
places at the same time , which would indicate that this was a 
action. i'm sure fbi and did n't deliberately start a possible 
fire , having a kill would have been a far easier 
method. looking at the careful operation , and use of tear gas 
that as i know do n't start , it is less likely that this 
was the case. 

sorry , but my are on people to start 
theirs .  . 

cheers , 
kent 

alink private activities on the net. 

from  ( kalki dasa ) 
subject 2 . 45 . 
organization 's bbs , aiken , , usa 
lines 62 

text 45 






to the three modes of material nature 
on the subject matter 
transcendental to the three modes of material nature 
be o without 
in a pure state of spiritual existence 
free from ideas of gain and protection 
van established in the self .  . 

translation 

the deal mainly with the subject of the three modes of material 
nature. o , become transcendental to these three modes .  . be free 
from all and from all for gain and safety , and be 
established in the self .  . 



all material activities involve actions and reactions in the three 
modes of material nature. they are meant for results , which 
cause in the material world. the deal mostly with 
activities to gradually the general public from the field of 
sense to a position on the transcendental plane .  . , 
as a student and friend of lord , is advised to raise himself to 
the transcendental position of philosophy where , in the 
beginning , there is , or questions on the supreme 
 . all the living entities who are in the material world are 
very hard for existence .  . for them the lord , after creation of 
the material world , gave the wisdom how to live and get 
rid of the material  . when the activities for sense 
, namely the chapter , are finished , then the 
chance for spiritual is offered in the form of the 
, which are part of different , as the is a 
part of the , namely the  . the mark the 
beginning of transcendental life. 

as long as the material body exists , there are actions and reactions in 
the material modes .  . one has to learn tolerance in the face of 
such as happiness and , or cold and , and by 
such become free from regarding gain and loss. this 
transcendental position is achieved in full consciousness when one 
is fully dependent on the good will of  . 

as it is 
books of a . c .  . 



do n't forget to 

krishna krishna , krishna krishna 
, 

's bbs aiken , south , usa 



from  ( kevin darcy ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization who , me 
lines 15 

in article at1 59 . rice . edu .  ( peter walker ) writes 
in article ,  ( kevin 
darcy ) wrote 
the , for one , considered to be the 
primary stuff from which all other ontology was built 
perceptions , consciousness , thoughts , etc. frank is by no means alone in 
seeing  ( or values , as he puts it) underlying all human 
experience , even the so called objective experiences , such as 
measurements of the natural world , or the output of your des chip .  . 

and others of us see it as intellectual  . 

i 'll defer to your greater knowledge in such matters. 

kevin 

from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject the of matthew was the jewish with jesus 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
lines 

in article 
 ( bill carlson ) writes 
since everywhere i look , is suggested as being a probable 
of daniel suppose you prove he was n't .  . 

encyclopedia of religion , 



later still , and were a meeting 
ground for iranian and christian religions , as can be seen in the famous 
of , a work whose iranian roots are undeniable and which 
most likely dates from the beginning of the christian era , probably the 
second century ce  ( widengren ,  . the doctrine of the savior of 
the future  ( saoshyant ) was the basis for the story of the coming of the 
to bethlehem in the gospel of matthew  ( 2 1  . 

the old word , in greek by , is of 
 . it may originally have meant member of the tribe , as in the 
compound ( hostile to a member of the tribe ) .  . this meaning 
would have been further , among the , to member of the priestly 
tribe and perhaps to priest  ( benveniste , 1938 ,  . the term is 
probably of origin , given that mentions the as one of 
the tribes of the  . 
for a variety of reasons we can consider the to have been members of a 
priestly tribe of origin in western iran .  . among the , they were 
responsible for functions , as well as for maintaining their 
knowledge of the holy and the  . most likely , the of the 
priesthood in western iran became established during the time of the 
that dominated the from the end of the century 
through the first half of the sixth century bce until the of the 
great  ( 550  . the were to the for their political 
and civil as well. even if have been advanced 
concerning the existence of of origin in the period 
 ( boyce , 1982 ) , we must still maintain that they were of origin .  . this is 
demonstrated by the of the of the , mentioned by 
i  ( 522 bce ) in the at  ( iran ) , as well as by 
greek sources. indeed , insists on the idea of the power of 
the against the through the conspiracy of the  . 
the fact that the may have been members of a tribe that handed down the 
arts in a fashion naturally did not exclude the 
possibility that some of them secular  . this seems to be 
by the tablets at  . 
there is a theses , put forth by , that denies that the 
are members of an ethnic group by suggesting that they are simply members of 
the priesthood a priesthood of purely origin .  . this thesis is 
on the other hand , the hypothesis that their name is related to the 
term , derived from the  ( vedic , , gift ) , is 
not without foundation  ( mole ,  . the meaning of can probably be found , 
in with the tradition , within the context of the concept of 
, or separation of the mixture of the two opposed principles of spirit 
and matter. the , which has been interpreted as , from 
the root , which is said to mean the magic song  ( nyberg , 1966 ) and 
has been simply by an like , seems to be an 
condition that the mind to spiritual vision .  . in any case , though 
there may be a relation between the old term and the terms 
and , we must maintain a clear distinction between the and the 
priesthood .  . the the or old term , despite 
a recent hypothesis proposed by h . w .  . old ignore 
the term for priest ,  ( vedic , athravan ) , even if this is 
perhaps present in an setting in the tablets of 
 ( gershevitch ,  . 
the term has been present in throughout its history the 
terms and represent its  . the latter in 
particular from an older form , ( head of the ) .  . during 
the period  ( third to seventh centuries ce ) , which saw the formation of 
a organized church , the title ( the high priest of 
high priests ) came to be used to designate the summit of the ecclesiastical 
 . 
the practiced marriage , or  .  . , 
 . they also performed a characteristic funeral the exposure of 
the to animals and to remove the flesh and thereby it. 
the was not supposed to , lest it be by the demons 
of  . this practice later became typical of the entire 
community and led to the rise of a complex funeral ritual in iran and among the 
in india .  . , known as , were built especially for this 
 . during the time of the practice of exposure of the was 
in only among the the generally the with 
, then buried it. the practice was widespread , however , among the peoples 
of central asia .  . 
the were the of and on worship it was impossible to 
offer sacrifices without the presence of a  . during the of a 
ritual sacrifice , the of the  ( the were possibly the 
of a tradition of sacred , but we know nothing about the 
relationship of this tradition to the various parts of the avesta ) and was 
called upon to interpret dreams and to divine the future. the were also 
known for the practice of killing harmful , or , animals  ( khrafstra ) 
such as snakes and ants .  . they dressed in the style , wearing pants , 
, and with sleeves. they a characteristic head covering of 
felt  . tiara ) with on the sides that could be used to cover the nose 
and mouth during rituals to avoid objects with their 
 ( boyce ,  . the color of these caps , in with a tradition 
that is probably of european origin , according to , was 
that of the priesthood white. 
in all likelihood , during the period the were not in 
of a well defined body of doctrine , and it is probable that they 
gradually they were most likely a clergy consisting of 
priests who were not to a but were naturally 
inclined to and  . nonetheless , they must have been 
guardians of the of traditions .  . by virtue of this 
they were the of the  . the of them was responsible 
for teaching the prince the magic of , son of and thus 
the cult of the gods .  . who in other virtues were with 
the education of the prince so that he would learn to be just , , and 
master of himself. 
during the period the a position of great 
influence , although they were certainly to the  . despite 
several events such as the massacre they suffered after the death of 
the in which , according to  ( who calls himself 
smerdis ) , the killed a large number of to the 
the nevertheless managed to maintain their influence at court in media , 
in , and in the various regions of the empire where they were 
as a consequence of the civilian and military  . 
no priesthood of antiquity was more famous than that of the  . they were 
as followers of  ( zoroaster ) as the teachers of some of 
the greatest greek  ( pythagoras , , plato ) as the wise men 
who arrived , by a star , at the of the savior in 
bethlehem and as the of a cult of the sun in india .  . but they were 
also known as the , the priesthood of , known for its 
this was perhaps the reason that the term had a sense in greek , 
like goes , expert in the magic arts  ( bidez and ,  . indeed , the 
were in all types of arts , especially astrology , and 
had a reputation for wisdom as well as knowledge. 
to understand the reasons for such various and sometimes views , it 
is necessary to distinguish between the of iran proper and the so called 
western , who were later  . in the period both must 
have been at least in part , but the western  ( those of the 
iranian in asia minor , syria , , and armenia ) , who came in 
contact with religious traditions , must have , sooner or later and in 
degrees , been by concepts .  . 
the greeks were familiar with both kinds of and , depending on their 
concerns , would one or the other aspect of them. classical 
and , including and , document their 
, while the philosophers above all on their doctrines , 
belief in the , and , and their theology 
and  . those sources most interested in the doctrines of the 
even speak of as a  . in doing so they are repeating what the 
themselves said from the and periods , when they 
 . at that time they as one of their own and 
placed themselves under his name. 
had already several profound in the 
eastern community by the time of the and was already adapting those 
elements of the religion that refused to die. it has been said quite 
often , in an attempt to characterize the precise role of the in the 
tradition , that the  ( from data , the law 
) , part of the , should be attributed to them.  ( this collection of 
texts from various periods is primarily concerned with rules and 
practices . ) . nonetheless , the hypothesis is hardly plausible , since the first 
chapter of the a list of lands created by , the 
supreme god of , but by an attack by  . 
, mainyu ) , the other supreme god and the ultimate source of 
all evil and suffering does not mention western iran , , or media  ( the 
land of mentioned in the text cannot be  . furthermore , it 
has been noted  ( gershevitch , 1964 ) that if the authors had been the 
absence of any reference to western iranian , including their own 
priesthood , would be very strange. 
the were above all the means by which the tradition and the 
of the have been to us , from the second half of the 
first bce on. this has been their principal merit .  . we can attribute 
directly to the the new that iranian assumed , known to 
us especially from greek sources and , in part , from the literature of 
the ninth and tenth centuries ce .  . according to this , the two poles 
of the are no longer , as in the , ( 
spirit ) and ( hostile spirit ) but himself and 
 ( gershevitch ,  . see and  . this 
formation was of consequence for the historical development of 
and was most likely determined by the contact of the with the 
religious world. in this new which was that later known 
to the greeks  ( aristotle , of , , and others ) we can 
see the affirmation of a new current of thought within , to which 
we give the name  . see  . 
thanks to their adherence to , the played an 
important role in the of 's , as well as in 
the definition of the new forms that these would assume historically .  . their 
natural to and also helped the of 
ideas in the communities of the iranian  . the greeks began 
to study their doctrines and to take an interest in them  ( xanthus of , 
, aristotle , , , dinon ) , even writing treatises 
on the religion , of which only the titles and a few fragments have 
survived .  . in the period , the were seen as a secular school of 
wisdom , and writings on magic , astrology , and were the authority 
of such names as , , and , forming an 
literature .  .  ( bidez and ,  . 
later still , and were a meeting 
ground for iranian and christian religions , as can be seen in the famous 
of , a work whose iranian roots are undeniable and which 
most likely dates from the beginning of the christian era , probably the 
second century ce  ( widengren ,  . the doctrine of the savior of 
the future  ( saoshyant ) was the basis for the story of the coming of the 
to bethlehem in the gospel of matthew  ( 2 1  . see  . 
the period saw the once again play a determining role in the 
religious history of iran .  . concerned to win back the western  ( de , 
1956 ) , and eager to as the national religion of 
iran , the priests of iranian in media and were able to 
establish a true state church , strongly and with an 
based on the formation of a of scriptures .  . the 
in the development of a state religion and of were 
and , the of in the third century. 


the term ( future  . , soshans ) designates 
the savior of the world , who will arrive at a future time to humankind .  . 
the concept of the future savior is one of the fundamental notions of 
, together with that of it appears as early as in the  . 
 ( zoroaster ) , as the prophet of the religion , is himself a 
, one who performs his works for the , the end of the present 
state of the world , when existence will be and made  . 
see 
later doctrine developed this notion into a true 
myth and expanded the number of from one to three. all the saviors 
are born from the seed of , which is preserved through the ages in 
 ( identified with present day , in , iran ) , 
protected by , , or guardian  . the greatest of the awaited 
, the victorious ( he who truth ) , the son of 
the ( she who all ) , is the third , who will make 
existence he appears in 19 .  . upon his humankind will 
no longer be subject to old age , death , or corruption , and will be granted 
unlimited power. at that time the dead will be resurrected , and the living will 
be immortal and  . the weapon with which he kills the 
powerful enemies of the world of truth  ( that is , the world of the spirit , and 
of asha ) , will look upon the whole of corporeal existence and 
render it  . he and his will engage in a great battle with 
the forces of evil , which will be  . 
the name is clearly the result of theological speculation 
 ( kellens , 1974 ) , as are those of his two brothers , , he who makes 
truth grow , and , he who makes grow the names of the 
three  ( yashts 13 ) who are impregnated with the seed of 
when they in and give birth to the , are equally 
 . each of these will arrive at the beginning of a 
, a new age and a new cycle of existence will 
appear in the third and final to save mankind .  . 
the doctrine of the future savior had already taken shape in the 
period  ( sixth to fourth century  . it was not , perhaps the principal element 
in the formation of the messianic idea , but it was certainly a determining 
factor , one that great success in the period beyond the 
confines of the iranian world. a similar concept , that of the future buddha , 
, was most likely to it , and christian can trace 
its roots to the same source. 

organization city university of new york 
from 
subject re , mithras and 
distribution world 

1 . edu . 

lines 38 


what an thread  ( finally ! ) 

is for friend , as such he started out as an of lord 
mentioned first in the  . later he seems to have risen to chief 
worshipped by the  . associated with the sun but not the sun , he is 
the lord of contract honor and obedience , therefore naturally worshipped by 
soldiers .  . he was ordered by the sun to the bull of heaven and he 
agreed because of his  .  . the . blood of that bull and 
grew all earth life .  .  . then . and the sun sat down to eat .  . 

worship of lord ended in with the of the  . 

hundreds of years later he was and thrown into the official roman 
 ( tm ) for some semi tricky reason , i forget why. but all references of 
him ended abruptly when he was stricken from same , so apparently his worship 
was some sort of for in the , like membership 
in the communist party was in the soviet bloc .  . the of religion in 
ancient times is fascinating ! 

oh , his b day was 25 dec .  . ahem .  . 

i am not sure if the mystery cult really lasted after his was from the 
roman imperial god or what. it contained mostly soldiers , with 7 levels 
of  . they worshipped in in  . the bull horns 
in those temples were for away or evil , i'm not sure 
that they had significance or not. 

i do n't know that the ritual was of a nature as is the 
christian masses .  . but eating goes way back to old kingdom egypt .  . 

someone mentioned  . did sacrifice bulls i forget .  . more 
likely , for a religious source , might be the shower of bull 's blood 
by the worshippers of on the day of blood worship extended all 
throughout even up to france  . 

charles hope 
government by reporters .  .  . media .  . 

from  ( walter smith ) 
subject re part 1 and part 2  ( re homosexuality ) 
organization it center 
lines 23 
nntp posting host cs . itc . com . 

 ( paul jr ) writes 
in article writes 

why do n't we just stick to the positive and find ways to bring people 
to jesus of taking and driving them away 

certainly we should not use a to drive people from jesus .  . 
but we should n't water down the gospel to draw people in. 

very well put .  . and , in the case of someone who calls himself a christian 
brother yet continues in his sin  ( and claims that his sin is not a sin at 
all , but perfectly acceptable ) , what should be done should christians 
just ignore a sinful lifestyle in order to not offend the person by 
that the lifestyle is sinful according to the bible , are 
they using a to drive people from jesus 

frankly , i find the of a homosexual christian attempting to 
pass himself off as a  straight  christian in order to have other 
christians accept his better a lot more serious than 
people that the bible teaches homosexuality is a sin .  . 

walter 


from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 70 


in article ,  ( rob lanphier ) writes 
wrote in reference to 21 9 
and deuteronomy 22 20 25 
these laws written for the israelites , god 's chosen people whom god had 
set apart from the rest of the world. the israelites were a 
direct witness to god 's existence .  . to disobey god after knowing that god 
is real would be an outright denial of god and therefore immediately punishable .  . 
remember , these laws were written for a different time and applied only to 
god 's chosen people. but jesus has changed all of that. we are living in the 
age of  . sin is no longer immediately punishable by death. there is 
and there is salvation through our lord jesus christ .  . and not just 
for a few chosen people. salvation is available to everyone , jew and gentile 
alike. 

hmm , for a book that only applied to the israelites  ( deuteronomy ) , jesus sure 
quoted it a lot  ( mt 4 4 , 7 ,  . in addition , he to it in several 
other places  ( mt 19 7 8 mk 10 3 5 jn 5 46  . and , just in case it is n't 
clear jesus thought the old testament is n't , i 'll repeat the 
verse in matthew which gets quoted on this group a lot 

do not think that i have come to the law or the prophets i have 
not come to them but to fulfill them. i tell you the truth , until 
heaven and earth disappear , not the smallest letter , not the least 
of a pen , will by any means disappear from the law until everything is 
accomplished .  . anyone who breaks one of the least of these commandments 
and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of 
heaven , but whoever practices and teaches these commands will be called 
great in the kingdom of heaven. for i tell you that unless your 
that of the pharisees and the teachers of the law , 
you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven.  ( mt 5 17 20 , in 
pretty red letters , so that you know it 's jesus talking ) 

this causes a serious dilemma for christians who think the old testament 
does n't apply to them. i think that 's why paul likes quoting it so 
much ) .  . 

rob 


i will clarify my earlier quote. god 's laws were originally written for 
the israelites .  . jesus changed that fact by now making the law applicable to 
all people , not just the jews .  . gentiles could be part of the kingdom of 
heaven through the saving of god. i never said that the law was made 
by jesus .  . 

if anything , he clarified the law such as in that quote you made. in the 
following verses , jesus takes several portions of the law and upon 
the law giving clearer meaning to what god intended .  . if you 'll notice , he 
also into the pharisees for up the law with their own contrived 
interpretations .  . they knew every letter of the law and followed it with their 
heads but not their hearts .  . that is why he points out that our 
must that of the pharisees in order to be accepted into the kingdom 
of heaven. people such as the pharisees are those who really go out of their 
way to debate about the number of angels that can dance on the head of a pin .  . 
they had become , rule makers religious lawyers who practiced the 
letter of the law but never really believed in it. 

i think you will agree with me that there are in today 's world , a lot of 
modern day pharisees who know the bible from end to end but do not believe 
in it. what good is head knowledge if there is nothing in the heart 

christianity is not just a set of rules it 's a lifestyle that changes one 's 
perspectives and personal conduct .  . and it demands obedience to god 's will. 
some people can live by it , but many others cannot or will not. that is their 
choice and i have to respect it because god respects it too. 

god be with you , 

) 

from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 32 


in article ,  ( rob lanphier ) writes 
wrote 
what bothers me most is why people who have no religious 
continue to jews why this hatred of jews the majority of 
people who jews are not christians (i ca n't speak for all 
christians and there are bound to be a few who are on the anti semitism 
) . 

do you even have evidence to back this up the most 
persecution of the jews in history was of course done by the nazis before 
and during world war ii , a predominately lutheran crowd. sure , many 
muslims in the middle east consider the israelites to be a thorn in their 
side , but the most of the modern persecution of jews has been at the hands 
of christians  ( at least as far as i'm  . 

rob 


do you consider nazis and white to be christian i 'd hardly 
them as christian .  . do they follow the teachings of christ love 
one another. love your as yourself. love your enemies .  . is jesus 
christ their lord and saviour by the persecution of jews , they are violating 
all the of what christ died for. they are in direct violation of 
the teachings of christ .  . even jesus who was crucified by the jewish leaders 
of that time , loved his enemies by asking the father for forgiveness of their 
sins .  . i am a christian and i bear no towards jews or any one else. 
the enemy is satan , not our fellow man. 

god be with you , 

) 

from ) . 
subject re , the number of the , 
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque 
lines 7 
nntp posting host unm . edu . 

in article  ( alex gottschalk ) writes 
well , i will do the math , and i get  ( 6 6 ) 6 2 , , , 
this mean anything to anyone ) 
5 1 5 thus fitting in with something else. 

of course , 2 1 8 9 7 3 9 3 3 6 51 , which , quite obviously is 23 23 5 .  .  .  . 
r. 

from  ( thyagi nagasiva ) 
subject san jose  ( merc news article ) 
organization the portal system  ( tm ) 
distribution world 
lines 


san jose , ca , usa 
monday april 5 , 1993 
san jose news , page 1 
without permission 

3 , 700 year tradition still 
 in u.s. threatens ancient religion' 

by , news writer 

high on a above san jose , flames leap up 24 hours a day from a 
in a temple one of only four in the united states 
dedicated to one of the world 's most ancient religions .  . 

with the flames go the prayers of about 1 , 200 bay area that 
their faith will survive this land. 

there is a fear a real fear , too , said of  . 
we have one generation to do it or to die. 

many groups struggle to maintain an identity in a strange land. 
but for , it is an especially concern. 

their religion has been around for perhaps 3 , 700 years , a so deep 
it seems in a state where historical sites are 
sometimes less than 100 years old .  . it was the religion of the great 
empire under kings and  . and tradition says that when christ 
was born about years later , he was by a visit from three 
priests , the  . scholars say many key beliefs of christians , 
jews and muslims can be to the teachings of , the 
prophet .  . 

yet , with only about 150 , 000 in the entire world , they are 
a minority in every country in which they live. survival as a 
people is very much on their minds .  . 

, local fear that the almost unlimited tolerance 
of the united states may do what hundreds of years of persecution followed 
by nearly 1 , 000 years of benign religious could not do cause 
their young people to stop thinking of themselves as  . 

do not believe theirs is the only right religion , and they 
actually the notion of trying to win converts .  . so if their children 
become totally , they say , it 's their children rather than 
the world at large who will be the  . 

it 's important to have an identity , said of san jose , 
a leader among who came here from india .  . it 's important 
for everybody irish , , americans .  . it gives meaning to life. 
you do n't have to depend on the majority community to give you respect. 
you can fall back on your own identity .  . 

for , there 's much to be proud of. 

their prophet , , seeking to make sense of a culture in which 
animal sacrifice to multiple gods was common , preached that there was 
only one god , a good one. call their god , which 
translates as lord of wisdom and light. 

good vs. evil 

saw life as a constant struggle between good and evil , with 
the good eventually  . men and women could join in the battle for 
good , he said , and he warned that they would inevitably suffer consequences 
such as and if they did wrong. he preached honesty , charity , 
kindness to animals , respect for the environment , hard work , equality of 
men and women basic virtues preached by prophets of many religions .  . 

but was perhaps unusual in that he told his followers not to 
follow him blindly .  . he demanded they think for themselves. in fact , 
joseph campbell , the famous scholar of the history and meaning of myths , 
the western emphasis on individual thought to the  . 

have many words for thought. their motto , into a 
glass over the sacred fire at the temple on the of 
mount , is good thoughts , good words , good deeds .  . 

so it 's not surprising that value education highly .  . in india , 
where a of arrived in the ninth century to escape 
persecution by muslims in iran , claim 100 percent 
the overall statistic in india is just 60 percent .  . 

about half of the bay area community came here from india 
and pakistan , mostly to study at universities .  . the other half from 
iran after the revolution made that a fundamentalist islamic state 
where others had no rights. 

local point with pride to ways their emphasis on good 
deeds has improved life in every country they  . in san jose , 
the recent of the came about because 
, a san francisco based , passed the up 
on his way to and from the temple .  . at the temple 's 
, the chief of honor was the mother of , the 
of the new york  . 

the temple exists because of another good deed the decision by an 
iranian , the late , to buy land for temples 
in north america .  . besides the 10 site off road on mount 
, he paid for land in los , chicago , new york , , 
and vancouver .  . until his , there were no temples on 
this continent .  . 

local raised money to build the actual temple , and the 
property already had a large house that they have converted to a 
community center .  . 

the temple , dedicated a year ago on the birthday of the prophet 
, is a simple structure with white walls , 
and oak , covered with huge oriental  . 

its central feature is the fire , set in the middle of a partly 
in area at the center of the building .  . although are 
sometimes called fire worshippers , they actually consider fire just 
a symbol of god. it helps us concentrate , just like christians use the 
cross and muslims use the holy book , said. 

the biggest of the years occurs in early spring .  . for all 
, including , the new year begins on the first day of 
the because of its as the start of new life. with 
's birthday just days later , the combination of religious 
and secular creates something on par with what most of the 
united states between christmas and jan .  . 1. 

for this year 's of the prophet 's birthday , about people 
came to worship and revel .  . 

the good things in life are not forbidden , , 
a leader of the iranian members , had said , and what followed 
proved him right. 

inside the temple , filled every chair and sat or stood 
around the edges of the room as about a half dozen priests chanted 
prayers around a table with of 
, of milk and water , and a with dried fruit 
and nuts .  . 

kids crowded around , grabbing of the treats .  . people eat the 
fruit , said. it 's a way to participate in the  . 

santa claus , sort of 

the even had a santa claus , iranian style .  . with white 
hair and a of for the children , this green 
of spring ) and red. 

he was in by a sort of spring clown , , who and 
played a  . 

the from india were  . this is all new for us , too , 
one told a who asked what was going on. 

a , john a. of , said he became with 
the religion years ago while on business trips to iran .  . have 
no procedure for accepting converts a result , some say , of their 
centuries of persecution in iran followed by their promise to the hindu 
king who allowed them into india that they would not interfere with his 
people 's religion. 

but that does not stop from in the at the 
san jose temple whenever he can. 

when i first heard about this religion , he said , i thought , my god , 
this is what a religion should be. they think for themselves and do good. 

people who do n't have a tradition , something to on , what 's the 
difference with the lower animals 

end of article 

from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject  ( order(s ) ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 22 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


kent 

you say that 

there are about 4 10 competing orders existing today , 

most of them are spin from and other competing organizations 
from the century france germany .  . maybe i should write an article 
please do n't ! 
about all this , i spent some time investigating these organizations 
and their world view systems. 

name just three really competing orders .  . i have 
probably spent more time than you doing the same. 

none of them are spin from o . t . o .  . the opposite may be the 
case. 

study harder , 

tony 

from  ( anthony g rose ) 
subject re and compassion 
reply to  ( anthony g rose ) 
organization corporation , ca 
lines 31 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com .  ( kent sandvik ) writes 
so we have this highly christian religious order that put fire 
on their house , killing most of the people inside. 

i'm not that about the adults , they knew supposedly what 
they were doing , and it 's their own actions .  . 

what i mostly are angry about is the fact that the people inside , 
including , let the children suffer and die during awful 
conditions .  . 

if this is considered religious following to the end , i'm proud 
that i do n't follow such and non compassionate religions .  . 

you might want to die for whatever purpose , but please spare 
the innocent young ones that has nothing to do with this all. 

i have a hard time just now understanding that christianity 
knows about the word compassion .  . christians , do you think 
the actions today would produce a good picture of your 
religion 


kent 


alink private activities on the net. 


surely you are not equating david koresh with christianity the two are 
not comparable .  . 

from  ( eric rescorla ) 
subject re after 2000 years , can we say that christian morality is 
organization 
lines 88 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( eric rescorla ) writes 
in article  ( frank o'dwyer ) writes 
in article  ( eric rescorla ) writes 
if almost all people agree that the sun exists  ( in the usual , sense ) , 
and almost all people agree that a deal is bad , it 's a reasonable 
conclusion that the sun really does exist , and that the deal really is bad. 
i disagree completely. until rather recently , most people did not 
believe in evolution or the possibility of the atom bomb .  . popular 
opinion is notoriously wrong about matters of fact. 
true , but nevertheless the basis of all matters of fact is overwhelming 
popular opinion , and some overwhelming popular opinion is fact ( the 
sun shines ) .  . if it were not so , physics would be a personal matter , 
assumed to be different for each of us. there would be and 
and no to encompass them and 
both. 
this is simply complete nonsense. the basis for  matters of fact  is , 
if any class of opinion , the majority of informed popular opinion 
for some value of informed .  . i would really hate to base my knowledge 
of , for instance , qm on what the overwhelming popular opinion is. 
the basis , eric , is people at the world and saying what 
they see. i'm talking about facts observations .  . people 
do those .  . agreement on some observations is a for a theory 
that is more than personal .  . 
yes , that 's true , but you have to be clear exactly what is 
an observation .  . it 's pretty low level stuff. 
 the sun shines  is already a lot higher level than that. we 
can agree that  i perceive  perhaps. 

now i take an experience of good evil to be every bit as raw a fact as an 
experience of pain , or vision .  . 
that might seem like a good first pass guess , but it turns out to 
be a pretty way to look at things , because we all seem to 
have rather different opinions  ( experiences ) about what is good 
and evil , while we seem to be able to agree on what the says .  . 
you 're not comparing apples with apples .  . if we all look at the same , 
we 'll agree. if we 're all in the same situation , that 's when we 'll 
agree on fundamental values , if at all. people who say that nobody agrees on 
values to the same extent that they agree on trivial observations seem 
to be of the extent of agreement on either. 
huh what do you mean  all in the same situation ' let 's take me 
and as examples .  . we 're in pretty different situations , 
but i think we can agree as to whether it 's day or night. i do n't 
think we can agree as to whether or not abortion is morally 
acceptable .  . yet we are certainly in the same difference of 
situations with respect to each other. looks like words 
to me , frank .  . 

i do n't see that it 's any evidence at all. 
as i point out above , i'm really not interested very much in 
what the popular opinion is. i'm prepared to trust to some extent 
the popular opinion about direct matters of physical observation 
because by and large they with my own. however , if everyone 
else said the read 1 . 5 . and it looked like a 3 to me , i would 
hope that i would believe myself. i.e. believing other people about 
these matters seems to have a reasonable probability of 
what i would believe if i observed myself , but the possibility exists 
that it is not. since i know from observation that others disagree 
with me about what is good , i believe i can discount popular opinion 
about  good  from the beginning as a of my opinion. 
i would say that the fact that it seems almost impossible to get 
people to agree on what is good in a really large number of situations 
is probably the best evidence that objective morality is bogus , actually. 
firstly , if everyone else said the was 1 . 5 . and i saw 3 , i 'd check 
my prescription .  . 
that 's up to you , i guess. 

secondly , your observation that people 
disagree shows nothing people may be looking at different things , 
by virtue of being in different situations .  . if i look at an , i 'll 
see an  . that does n't imply that you will see an if you 
look at an  . 
this  different situations  stuff is pretty confusing , frank .  . how 
do we decide if we are in the same situation you mind explaining 

, i question your assumption that when 
people disagree about how to achieve fundamental or secondary goals , that 
they therefore do not have the same fundamental goals  ( that seems to be the 
disagreement you refer to) .  . 
huh i do n't think so. i think that people disagree about 
fundamental goals. 




eric 
would you buy used code from this man 


from  ( brian kendig ) 
subject re the list of biblical contradictions 
organization san francisco 
lines 30 

 ( david joslin ) writes 

i'm curious to know what purpose people think these lists serve .  . 
lists like this seem to value quantity over quality , an argument 
from article length .  . and the list you have here is of poorer 
quality than most. 

i agree , which is why i 've asked for help with it. 

the reason i'm working on this list is because i 've recently had one 
too many christians tell me the bible contains no contradictions 
whatsoever. they believe that it 's true , and that it describes 
reality perfectly , and even history before it happens. 

before i can carry on any sort of meaningful conversation with these 
people , i 've got to show them , with concrete evidence , that the bible 
is not nearly as as they thought. i hope to do that with 
this list. 

specifically when i bring up the fact that genesis contains two 
contradictory creation stories , i usually get or flat 
denials .  . i 've never had a fundamentalist acknowledge that there are 
indeed two different accounts of creation. 


brian kendig 
de que j ai j 
n de existent .  . 
the meaning of life , au  . 
is that it ends. 

from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject goes to paradise goes off 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 65 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 


quoted from a few sources and then wrote something. 
i will attempt to construct a of what was previously said , and 
then address 's offering .  . 

john originally wrote .  .  .  . 

jr i learned that a man cannot justice by on his 
jr death because is more than a feeling of  . it 
jr requires faith in christ proven by following him , by keeping his 
jr commandments .  . such cannot be accomplished on ones  . 

tom responded .  .  .  . 

so jesus must have lied to the on the cross .  . 

john wrote back that .  .  .  . 

jr paradise and salvation are not the same thing. salvation is better. 
jr refer to john 14 2. 

i responded to john that .  .  .  . 

i do n't see the effort to equate salvation with paradise .  . 

rather , i see implied the fact that only those who are saved 
may enter paradise .  . 

to which wrote .  .  .  . 

incomplete reference 

see also the discussion did jesus go into hell in the group 
for the arguments that paradise and  ( hell(sheol ) are places after death 
the discussion  ( no were involved as far as i could see ) argued using 
standard christian argument from the bible that pretty much support the 
position. 

christ went to after his death and  . 

he taught the prisoners and freed them from  . 

when he was resurrected , he had not yet to his father .  . 

the arguement around what was or was n't the proper biblical 
terms for those places. 

i respond .  . 

the question that was raised was not if jesus went to paradise 
before entering into heaven. no one has made a point for or against 
that issue , nor have they compared the position against orthodox 
belief .  . the paradise is held to be abraham 's  ( luke 16 ) , 
the place of the righteous dead in sheol  ( equivalent to  . 

the point that was raised by john was that someone could not 
on their death bed. tom pointed to a biblical example that was 
contradictory to what john 's position put forward .  . the on the 
cross was promised by christ to be with him in paradise , the of 
the righteous dead. john 's position possibly needs to be  . 
needs to address the topic at hand. 


robert 


from  ( james meritt ) 
subject see ( was re apology to jim  ( was silence is concurance ) 
nntp posting host org . 
organization corporation , va 
distribution usa 
lines 45 

in article  ( david joslin ) writes 
 ( james meritt ) writes 
so stop the question. what is about my 
criticizing bad arguments , given that i do this both when i agree 
with the conclusion and when i disagree with the conclusion 

you are the one who has claimed to the of , 
telepathy , and  . divine it yourself. 

another dodge .  . oh well. i'm no match for your amazing 
of red and  . 

you asked for an apology .  . i'm not going to apologize for pointing out 
that your straw man argument was a straw man argument. nor for saying 
that your list of bible contradictions shows such low standards of 
that it should be an embarrassment to anti , 
just as should be an embarrassment to the fundies .  . nor 
for objecting various times to your taking quotes out of context. nor 
for pointing out that they do it too is not an excuse. nor for calling 
your red and what they are. 

how about the following , accusations 
in 
jim has been threatening 
but no threat produced 
once he realized that 
display of telepathy 
threatening to quote me 
in spite of no threat produced , nor ever happening  ( precognition ) 
responding jim 's threat to quote me 
in spite of claimed threat never being given 
jim , to .  .  .  . 
in spite of it never happening. telepathy or 
jim again , still 
and untrue .  . more telepathy or maybe 
jim , still 
again. seems to be a habit .  .  .  . 

having more trouble with reality , it appears .  . why get bothered with the facts when 
you appear to have the products of methods 






from  ( gregg skinner ) 
subject re language and agreement 
reply to g 
organization center for research and development 
lines 16 

 ( james meritt ) writes 

mr. , please state explicitly the inductive argument which leads 
you to conclude mr. thinks it ok to take biblical quotes out of 
context in some other t . r . m .  . articles .  . 

also , please explain why you rely on inductive reasoning  ( with its 
uncertainty ) in determining mr. 's opinions when the man 
is himself clearly available for questioning .  . 

finally , please indicate whether you agree  ( yes or no ) with the 
following statement 

the word agree and the phrase not disagree are identical in 
meaning. 


from  ( michael siemon ) 
subject re catholic right robertson 
organization public access unix , 
lines 18 

in writes 

l. , a philadelphia business 
wrote separation of church and state is a false premise 
that must finally be cast aside and replaced by the true meaning of 
our constitution .  . 

 . that ole  time inquisition ... 

oh yes , the organization 's national is 
catholic john j. o'connor of new york .  . 

it , does n't it 

michael l. we must know the truth , and we must 
love the truth we know , and we must 
or act according to the measure of our love. 
thomas 

from  ( malcolm lee ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! ! 
organization roads military college , , b.c. 
lines 38 


in article , writes 
21 9 
and the daughter of any priest , if she herself by playing the 
, she her father she shall be with fire .  . 

deuteronomy 22 20 21 
 .  .  . and . the of be not found for the then they shall 
bring out the to the door of her father 's house , and the men of the 
city shall her with stones that she die .  .  .  . 

deuteronomy 22 22 
if a man be found lying with a woman married to a husband , then they shall 
both of them die .  .  .  . 

deuteronomy 22 23 24 
if a that is a virgin be unto a husband , and a man find her 
in the city , and lie with her then shall bring them both out unto the 
gate of that city , and shall them with stones that they die .  .  .  . 

deuteronomy 22 25 
but if a man find a in the field , and the man force her , 
and lie with her then the man only that with her shall die. 

these laws written for the israelites , god 's chosen people whom god had 
set apart from the rest of the world. the israelites were a 
direct witness to god 's existence .  . to disobey god after knowing that god 
is real would be an outright denial of god and therefore immediately punishable .  . 
remember , these laws were written for a different time and applied only to 
god 's chosen people. but jesus has changed all of that. we are living in the 
age of  . sin is no longer immediately punishable by death. there is 
and there is salvation through our lord jesus christ .  . and not just 
for a few chosen people. salvation is available to everyone , jew and gentile 
alike. 

god be with you , 

) 

from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re mark of the need info 
organization itc community access unix internet project 
lines 15 

on a slightly different note 

there are two buildings in ny state with big numbers on the 
roof ) 

one in manhattan and one near garden city. the garden city one 
is a nice black building .  .  .  . 



join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the reform church bbs at . . . . 


from  ( tony alicea ) 
subject re  ( order(s ) ! 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 13 
reply to  ( tony alicea ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( kent sandvik ) says 

well , it depends how you look at it. if you are interested i might 
find out what the latest status is in this legal battle .  . 
kent 

please do ! and if you do n't want to post it here , email to me 
) i do n't know how this discussion is here. i hate 
 invading  newsgroups with of limited interest ) 

tony 


from  ( joshua geller ) 
subject re , mithras and 
organization institute for the study of ancient science 
lines 30 
distribution world 

1 . edu . 
nntp posting host washington . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 20 apr 1993 18 43 14 gmt 


in article 1 . edu . 
 ( pegasus ) writes 

in article , 
 ( joshua geller ) wrote 

in article 4 . edu . 
 ( laurieewbrandt ) writes 

lets add to those 13 15 for the 
brought to the group by paul who was a high  . on 
the development of mysteries , see  . 
to the study of greek religion. cambridge u press  . and you can 
draw your own conclusions .  . 

perhaps you can quote just a bit of her argument 

love to , but i must do it a bit later my copy of in , but the 
last chapter as best as i can deals with mysteries and their 
views of women though she does not come out and say it it is strongly 
that the christian view was drawn from the and other 
major cults of the time. 

i would really appreciate if when someone brought something like 
this up they did n't back out when someone asked for details. 

have a day , 



from  ( robert weiss ) 
subject 16 apr 93 god 's promise in psalm 32 8 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 6 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 


i will thee and teach thee 
in the way which thou shalt go 
i will guide thee with mine eye. 

psalm 32 8 

from  ( paul harvey ) 
subject re a kind and loving god ! !  ( not ! ) 
organization the pond public unix 1 408 , log in as  . 
sandvik kent . apple . com . 

sandvik kent . apple . com . 
lines 28 

in article sandvik kent . apple . com . 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes 
in article , 
 ( malcolm lee ) wrote 
this brings up another question i still have to ponder why is there so 
much anti semitism why do people hate jews i do n't hate jews .  . i consider 
them to be like anyone else , sinners we all are. 
i do n't know , i do n't care about ethnical rights and wrongs myself , 
but it 's evident that christians consider jews no longer to be the 
sole group of god 's people while jews consider this to 
be the case. 

christian anti semitism comes from the obvious fact that the jews should 
know the hebrew scriptures better than anyone else , yet they did not 
convert to christianity en mass , thus rejecting christian love. 

no wonder this caused anti semitism .  . one might even 
wonder that if christianity did n't do this separation , would anti semitism 
have even started 

i do n't see why not. where are the rest of the people what 
happened to the tribes of the culture is seen as different and 
undesirable in the west , particular in the us with its failed 
pot concept .  . most tribes have been hunted to , the hebrew 
tribe is one of the few from the  . of course it 
becomes difficult at times to separate christianity from the western 
experience , so perhaps you are right , perhaps it would have been a better 
world if the cultural experiment in christianity never happened. 

from  ( roy crabtree ) 
subject re a message for you mr. president how do you know what happened 
organization red data center 
lines 49 

in article writes 
... 
on you missed the point entirely , they are protesting the lack of 
water because it deprived koresh of his constitutional right to prove 
his divinity by walking on it. 

you can tell , folks , when the man has run out of reason 
attack the man 's beliefs  ( in legal terminology , argument 
ad hominem attack the man , not what he did that has yet to 
be proven illegal ) 



and the fbi atf go blasting holes into the and firing gas  . 

they used a to knock a hole in the , and they released 
non , non tear gas into the building .  . 

you can tell that the gas did not burn because dispite the fact that 


 . remember the fire movie a couple of years ago 
the in the with gas 
coming out of and all over the , 
with a 750 degree flame front 

note that it did not all at once 

and burn  . 
 ( like tear gas ) mix and distribute  . 
and  . 

you are not a fire  . you tell. 
 ( nb neither am i. and i cannot tell 
nor is the fbi spokesman 
nor is 
maybe we all should shut up and get a 
analysis first. 

the building was full of it there was no of gas flame .  . 

yes , . there was a in one room , just full of it. , 




baker 


