from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
summary more on failed governments 
organization failed libertarian opportunities , inc. 
lines 24 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  . grinch ) writes 
in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 

it would seem that a society with a failed government would be an ideal 
setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented .  . now why do you suppose 
that never seems to occur ... 


i fail to see why you should feel this way in the first place. constant 
combat is n't particularly conducive to intellectual theorizing .  . also , 
they tend to get invaded before they can come to anything like a stable 
society anyway. 

and the reason that the soviet union could n't achieve the ideal of pure 
communism was the hostility of surrounding capitalist nations .  .  . uh . huh .  . 
somehow , this all sounds familiar. once again , dreams are 
by the real world .  .  .  . 


mr. 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re v. wade 
distribution na 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 56 

in article ,  ( david chase ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
i remain pro choice , but when pro compare abortion in a 
clinic to a religious ritual in a church , you have to start wondering 
a bit if the pro life criticism of abortion as modern human sacrifice 
does n't have a grain of truth to it. 

in article ,  ( david chase ) writes 

ah , clayton , so i see that you have found someone new to  . tell 
me , how many pro have compared abortion in a clinic to a 
religious ritual in a church i 'll bet that you 've seen overwhelming 
support for this opinion in some newsgroup or another. 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
no , but i 've seen the comparison drawn by pro in ca . politics .  . 
it is to me. but not to you 

1. i 've been reading ca . politics . for a while now , and i do n't recall 
seeing such a comparison .  . 

you do n't read my postings very carefully i'm not surprised .  . it 
was pretty , and is part of why my sympathy  ( though not 
agreement ) with the pro is increasing .  . 

2. a of lunatic opinions expressed in ca . politics . does not 
make me think that the opinion is widely held .  . 

when did i say that it was 

clayton , i wish i knew what made you  . your math , and you 
take single instances of fringe opinions and proclaim the existence of 
a trend .  . there 's about a billion people living in 
this country some small number of them are almost guaranteed to 
hold opinions that you  ( and i ) find  . as long as 
the small number is truly a small number , and as long as they 're not 
my neighbor  ( highly likely) , i'm not worried about it. 

when they hold high public office , you should worry .  . 

by the way , when you cite , remember that and paul 
sp are , too. if i 've never heard of your , 
i 'll consider the source  ( you , a man who is clearly unable to master 
elementary statistics and uses of statistical inference ) and ignore 
them. 

david 

you mean , i do n't come to the conclusions that your emotional 
state requires .  . 




clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject robertson says ... 
keywords homosexuality 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 25 


in response to a report by news ken about a 
meeting between slick and homosexual 

but clinton will not be a by homosexuals in 
washington later this month .  . he will instead be out of town , on a 
with senate  . 

robertson yeah , he 'd better  . laughter , followed by 


later , in a report by on the 
boycott by homosexuals against 

resorts have seen record this year 
despite a call by homosexual for boycott of the state ... 
there have been record in the mountains this year , and the 
have been coming in ... 

robertson and god said , let it ... more 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re formal to the of jurisdiction 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 13 

in article  ( ted frank ) writes 

... you 're not clean air provided by government 
, ... 

if this does n't all i ever heard ! the above certainly says a 
about the of frank , and also of 
everywhere. 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

from  ( radford neal ) 
subject re government mandated energy is unnecessary and , study finds 
organization department of computer science , university of 
lines 24 

in article  ( ed ipser ) writes 

government mandated energy is unnecessary and , 
study finds 

while i agree with much of this post , one point seems mis directed .  .  .  . 

when standards of living , population , and industrial 
structures are controlled for , the united states is no less energy 
efficient than japan and more energy efficient than many of the group 
of seven nations .  . 

and when controlled for usage of oil , gas , etc. energy in 
all countries turns out to be identical ) 

to take population as an example , one way to reduce energy 
used in transportation is surely to concentrate the population in 
areas  ( though this might , of course , have other 
, possibly even to energy  . the fact that 
japan is forced to do this by the nature of the country , while the us 
is not , does not mean that people in the us would be unable to do this 
if given sufficient motive to energy .  . 



from  ( daniel r. , to be ) 
subject re bill 's letter to a . j .  . 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of 
lines 46 
nntp posting host edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , 
(a . j .  . teel ) writes .  .  .  . 
again , the main point. 

no human being not yet born can be bound to any contract .  . 

wrong. it 's possible to inherit a debt .  . 

further , no third party can be bound to any contract that 
they are not a party to. 

see above. 

the constitution for the united states is just such a contract .  . 
no third party can be bound to it. further , no human who is not specifically 
mentioned in article 6 and has not taken an oath or made an affirmation 
to uphold said can be bound to uphold or obey it. 

the constitution is not a contract .  . it is a  . please , 
mr. , or anyone , show me one case where the u.s. 
constitution , or any state constitution , is considered a 
contract .  . 

the is designed to limit the powers of government , not to 
bind the people. 

it is also designed to the powers of the u.s. 
government. 

this argument will be presented in great detail in the next post. 

i ca n't wait. 

daniel 

how not to write a deed 

one case involved the construction of a to , as 
in common , with equal rights and interest in said land , and to the 
thereof , in fee simple. . . . to have and to hold the same unto the 
said parties , equally , , as in common , with equal rights 
and interest for the period or term of their lives , and to the thereof 
at the death of the other. 

the court held that the indicated an intent to create a 
 . v. ,  . , so .  . 

from  ( william december starr ) 
subject re special hate crimes laws 
organization law , class of  93 
lines 61 
nntp posting host 1 . mit . edu . 
in reply to 


in article , 
said 

this sort of separate treatment by the law has no place in an 
equal society the solution to the fact that some classes are more 
vulnerable to attack or discrimination is to do what has always 
been done in response to in criminal activity and 
citizen protection to law enforcement resources to 
more and effectively deal with the problems , not to 
rewrite the law itself. 

so how do you feel about increased penalties for killing a 
a federal or to use both 's and 's example , 
increased penalties for threatening the president  ( i'm assuming 
that , like all good people , you oppose the marital for rape , 
so i wo n't bring that up . ) . 

in order of your questions , i oppose it , i oppose it , i oppose it and 
 ( huh where did that topic come from and what 's it got to do 
with the discussion at hand ) 

when i was discussing the concept of different criminal laws for crimes 
against different classes of people  ( and yes , i do consider laws which 
allow enhanced penalties following conviction based upon the 
convict 's attitudes towards the class membership of the victim to fit 
into that category ) , the category of classes i had in mind was that of 
the standard civil rights discussion classes based upon race , , 
, religion , sexual orientation , etc. having you ask about 
classes based upon one 's profession rather than one 's personal 
characteristics caught me off guard , and i had to think out the question 
from  . 

what i finally decided was that the law should not recognize such 
classes because to do so would be to formally and declare 
some people to be of more worth than others , and that would be 
to the underlying american concept of equal treatment under the law. 

last year , when a federal crime bill was under consideration which would 
have expanded the federal death penalty to an additional fifty plus 
crimes , including the murder of various federal officers not 
protected by that of , pointed out the 
absurdity of having laws which made the death penalty available for the 
murder of a federal but not for murder of a 
civilian teacher , when the latter arguably provided a much more 
service and therefore would be the greater loss to society. 
this was an emotionally compelling argument , but even the of 
that viewpoint appeared to assume that the state should judge 
some lives as being more valuable than others on the basis of their 
to society. i view that doctrine as being both  ( a ) 
personally and  ( b ) to the equal protection clause of 
the amendment .  . 

, i believe that there should be no laws which give any 
profession based class of people special protection  ( via the mechanism 
of stronger of crimes against members of 
that class ) , not even police officers , federal officers or high 
members of the branch of the federal government. 

william december 


from  ( not a boomer ) 
subject clinton in reduces jobs bill 
organization acme products 
lines 11 

clinton has backed off from the 16 billion jobs bill. 

word is he 's it down to the core benefits , money for 
creating full time jobs  ( ie , no summer jobs money) .  . 

one up for holding the line on spending .  . 

brett 

there 's nothing so as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . o in the white plague by frank  . 

from  ( paul collacchi ) 
subject re supply side economic policy  ( was re david ) 
reply to  ( paul collacchi ) 
distribution na 
organization pyramid , mt. view , california .  . 
lines 43 

in article , 
 ( ashish arora ) writes 
excerpts from netnews . sci . 5 apr 93 re supply side economic po .  .  . 
by not a 
... 

the deficits declined from 9 , a low of 2 . 9 . of before 
the tax and spending of 1990 reversed the trend .  . 

brett 
is this true some more details would be appreciated. 

cheers 

actually not. brett himself has actually posted the data previously .  . 
what declined from to 89 , as i remember it , was percent 
increase in growth , i.e. the rate of growth of the 
 ( 2nd of total with respect of to time)  . 
brett apparently has himself into thinking that the 
declined .  . if you keep spending more than you , the keeps 
growing .  . if you keep borrowing at a lesser rate than you borrowed 
previously , the increases .  . you only deficits when your 
spending and you use the difference to pay off  . 

's book the real data , , in detail. each 
president , essentially up twice as much total debt , in half the time. 
reagan congress was simply awful .  . bush congress was  . 

as a really rigorous aside to this thread .  .  .  .  .  . 

during pledge night the other night on the public channel , there was an 
who gave an hour or so  . his data was 
and based largely on population data .  . i do n't know his name , but his 
arguments were  . he confirmed , with data , what many of us know 
with common sense the of the 80 's has nothing to do with government 
policy , particularly supply side policy , since taxes do not cause 
economic activities. people cause economic activity. more can be 
explained by watching population roll through the years and 
create  . he has made models and predictions for years well into 
the middle of next century. it will be neat to see how accurate he 
is. 

paul 

from  ( paul elliott ) 
subject re a subject 
summary why the quote marks , roy 
organization access products 
lines 33 

in article  ( roy radow ) writes 
anyone with any degree of or awareness has to be 
concerned about the amount of child abuse that 
exists in this country. ... 

the critical factor here is whether the sexual activity is forced ... 

when a child is forced there is often damage , on the other hand , 
relationships are often found to be positive experiences 
for all concerned. ... 

roy  .  .  . ! cmcl2 ! ! roy 
north american man boy love association for a packet containing a 

why all the quote marks , roy i can see that they might be appropriate where 
there is a legitimate concern that the words are being by context , 
or that they have been appropriated newspeak style , but , reading your comments above , 
one might be if they assumed that you were claiming that child abuse , 
forced sexual activity , and damage caused by this is non existant or 
greatly  . 

positive experiences , indeed ! 

paul 
 ( member in good standing of the mafia ) 




paul , ca usa 
uunet , pyramid , ! ! or 
i used to think i was , but now i'm not so sure. 


from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re lincoln slavery  ( was re top ten  .  . ) . 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 53 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

 ( judy mcmillin ) writes 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

can you provide some evidence that the slave states regarded slaves as 
not humans they were outside our society and similar phrases that 
basically meant that they did n't have to recognized as having the same 
rights as a free person , but they were never considered not human to 
my knowledge. 

is n't the fact that slaves were purchased as opposed to 
enough evidence that they were not thought as humans 
did n't the bill of rights provide basic freedoms to humans 
that were not available to slaves 

not necessarily .  . distinctions were made between citizens and 
persons throughout the u.s. and various state constitutions .  . 
for example , free blacks had some rights of citizens , but not all 
the rights of citizens .  . i'm curious if there was an additional 
level of distinction made by the slave states to their 
treatment of slaves , or if they just ignored the 
problems of slave ownership .  . 

the bill of rights , as far as i can see , does not once refer to citizens , 
but it makes several references to people . for example , article 
the right of the people to be secure in their persons , houses , papers , 
and effects , against unreasonable searches and , shall not be 
violated article v no person shall be held to answer for a capital , 
or otherwise infamous crime , unless on a or indictment by 
a grand jury ... nor shall any person ... be deprived of life , liberty , 
or property , without due process of law article excessive 
shall not be required , nor excessive fines imposed , nor cruel and unusual 
punishments inflicted . 

now i 've never heard that constitutional rights apply only to citizens 
are n't they meant to apply equally to all persons living in the u.s. 
whether slaves were considered not human i do n't know , but it seems 
that a case could be made that they were n't treated as people as defined 
in the bill of rights. and since the nation is nominally based on the 
declaration of independence which states that all men are created equal , 
that they are by their creator with certain rights , 
that among these are life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness , 
it would also seem that slaves would not follow under this definition 
of humanity .  . 


eric smith 


, 


from  ( walter rolandi ) 
subject re will be the next to fall 
organization usc department of computer science 
lines 13 

 ( jeff hagen ) writes 


a good two party system will bring efficient , accountable government. 

yeah , just like we have here in the us. 




walter g. 
usenet 
internet 

organization city university of new york 
from 
subject model united nations 
lines 3 

just observed at the national model united nations here in  . 
just one word on it  . 
peace , matt 

from  ( fletcher p adams ) 
subject ( c 17 c 5 was  ( re selective service ) 
state university 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization state university 
lines 30 

 ( marc mueller ) writes 
 ( fletcher p adams ) writes 

eliminate the c 17 transport .  . 

wrong. we need its capability .  . sure it has its problems ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

if you read week , the c 5 line can be and the c 
would be a year earlier and cost a billion less for the 
program .  . politically , though , the c 17 is popular  . 

i do read week and do n't remember this. could you supply the date 
of the magazine as for c 17 vs. c 5 , the c 17 ca n't carry as much 
but has more capability ( read can land at smaller of which 
there are more of ) than the c 5. now is the c 17 it depends 
on whether your job relies on it or not. ) in california right now , 
i would say that it is not since due to peace dividend so many 
people are out of work. 

the question is whether and clinton will be able to face down 
a happy congress .  . 



huh should n't that read the question is whether a social happy 
and clinton will be able to face down a jobs happy 
congress .  . 




from  ( not a boomer ) 
subject re the state of justice 
organization acme products 
lines 46 

in article ,  ( tim smith ) writes 
 ( not a boomer ) writes 
a judge denied 's new trial motion , even though says it has two 
new witnesses that said the of the was dead from the impact , not 
from the fire .  . 

thoughts 

how can a witness tell that someone in a burning is dead rather than 


their testimony would be a contradiction of the 's charge  ( and 
witness ) that the moved after the impact , indicating he was alive and 
trying to get out  ( and provoking all sorts of  gross , burned alive  
 . 

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start 
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led 
to the previous ruling appear .  . 

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed 
should n't that be up to a jury 

what kind of witnesses if we are talking about witnesses who were at 
the accident , or were otherwise directly involved (e . g .  . , , 
emergency room doctors , etc . ) . , then they should have been used at the 
first trial .  . you do n't get a new trial because you up and 
forgot to call all of your witnesses .  . 

they are two witnesses who did n't come forth until after the first 
trial .  . while it would be tough luck for if they new about these witnesses 
, imo this constitutes new evidence . 

if we are talking about new expert witnesses who will offer new 
interpretations of the data , note that the can always find 
such witnesses .  . if this were grounds for a new trial , then the 
could always get a new trial , and keep doing so until the 
becomes a winner  ( and then the other side would come up with new 
expert  . 

no , i support rulings that deny new trials on those grounds .  . 

brett 

there 's nothing so as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . o in the white plague by frank  . 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 46 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . it 's a that we do n't have a for 
straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 


is n't is funny how someone who seems to know nothing about homosexuality 
uses a very flawed  ( imho ) source of information to pass on all 
homosexual and bisexual men. 

only the most comprehensive survey on sexuality in 50 years. 

it would seem more logical to say that since 
the heterosexual group of men is larger then the chances of promiscuity 
larger as well. in my opinion , orientation has nothing to do with it. 


chance and size have nothing in common on the number scale we are 
talking about. 


men are men and they all like sex. i am a gay male .  . i have had sex three 
times in my life , all with the same man. before that , i was a virgin .  . 

so .  .  .  . whose 


nobody said that you were. chill .  . 

just because someone is gay does n't mean they have no morals .  . just because 
someone is heterosexual does n't mean they do. look at the world .  .  .  .  . 

well said. 

statistics alone prove that most criminals are by default  .  .  . 


actually , the report in  ( 1947(or 48 ) used a high percentage of 
prisoners so .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 


ryan 

from  ( red herring ) 
subject re clinton 's program 
nntp posting host com . 
organization company , , ma 
lines 22 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( jeffrey s linder ) writes 
in article 
 ( mark wilson ) writes 
on the news last night clinton was the for 
his so called  . 
it seems that one small item within this was going to pay for free 
for poor kids .  . 

for children in this country are already free if you care to 
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the parents 
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done. 

in case you have n't noticed , are pushing a universal health 
care access program .  . access here means that folks who do not give 
a damn about their children will have health care services 
to their  . 




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 


from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re and homosexuals 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

,  ( eric smith ) writes 

de .  ( gene w. smith ) writes 

are you saying that 

(1) people voted for hitler , and he became reich chancellor , in good 
part because he used to attack communists , 

hitler did not become become reich chancellor because people voted for 
him. i'm not sure if you meant to imply that or not , but i just thought 
i 'd bring that up. 

hitler became chancellor because people voted for his political 
party. that 's not a huge difference in a system. 

your statement is a common misconception , but it just is n't true. in the 
german system , the chancellor was not necessarily the leader of the 
largest party the chancellor was by the president and 
generally was the leader of a of parties who could form an effective 
majority in the  . beyond that , the implication that hitler rose to 
the because a majority of germans wanted nazi rule is false 
as well. before president hitler chancellor in 
1933 , the german people did not show a particular desire to be led either by 
hitler or by the nazi party. these are the results of the march election 
for president , the hitler ever came to direct election 
49 . 6 . , hitler 30 . 1 . , 13 . 2 . , 6 . 8 . . in the election 
in april the results were 53 , hitler 36 . 8 . , 10 . 2 . . 
so we can see that hitler personally was supported by only about a third of 
german voters .  . 

similarly , the nazi party never received more than 37 of the vote in 
elections .  . that occurred in  . in the election 
the nazis lost two million votes and 34 , down from 230 to out of 
the in the  . , the had and the 
communists 100 .  . the communists had gained 11 , and the german national 
party , which had supported the previous government , had picked up a million 
of the nazis  lost votes to gain 15  ( up to  . i think the other large 
party was the catholic center party (i do n't know how many they had but 
i think they were declining ) , and there were numerous other small parties .  . 
thus the nazi vote was on the decline at the time hitler was 
chancellor .  . 

what brought hitler to power was not the demand of the german people for 
hitler or the nazis to run things , but the inability of the other parties to 
put their differences behind them in favor of forming an effective government 
for the country. germany did not have an democratic tradition , and 
their system effective center parties that the 
interests of the majority of the population .  . instead what they had was a 
number of small parties who were unable to put aside their own specific 
objectives in order to against the nazis , who were out to end the 
democratic process. in fact , part of the problem was that some of the other 
parties with substantial representation , like the communists , were also 
out to end the democratic process , but with different results in mind , and 
generally did n't mind seeing democracy go under .  . 

germany had already had a non nazi chancellor with a majority 
for five months while the nazis had been the largest party , and 
there certainly was no danger of a revolution in favor of the nazis .  . 
if anything the nazis were starting to get because they had failed 
to get enough support to make hitler president and their popular vote had 
begun to decline .  . 

hitler was not 's first choice to be chancellor , not even his 
second choice. first , von had been chancellor since june  . after 
the election when the nazis lost , first 
on von to remain as chancellor .  . but there were behind his back 
and support for him was lacking .  . so then turned to von , 
who became chancellor for two months. eventually he too was unable to hold 
together a working of parties to oppose the nazis , who refused to 
participate in any government that was not led by a nazi chancellor .  . some of 
the nazi leadership , particularly who was the 2 man in the 
party at the time , wanted to participate in a government. but others , 
knowing the party 's support was , that their best hope to gain 
power in the democratic process. nevertheless , the country 
was governed for seven months by who were not nazis , even though 
the nazis were the largest party. the failure of these men to 
achieve a working was due to the inability of their 
parties to work together. 

here 's how william puts it in the rise and fall of the third reich 

the error of the germans who opposed nazism was their 
failure to unite against it. at the of their popular strength , 
in , the national had but 37 percent of 
the vote .  . but the 63 percent of the german people who expressed their 
opposition to hitler were much too divided and to 
against a common danger which they must have known would 
them unless they united , however temporarily , to stamp it out. 

true , the german people supported hitler after he became chancellor .  . but 
that does n't change the fact that there was not overwhelming support for him 
before he was in power. the german people were not out for hitler to 
take over , no matter how bad economic conditions were. the parties 
 ( socialists communists ) probably had more support in total than the nazis .  . 
hitler used the fact that others were or actively willing to see 
the government as a means to taking it over. 


eric smith 


, 


from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 20 

in article ,  ( chris bertholf ) writes 
 ( martina cartwright ) writes 
the official and legal term for rape is the crime of forcing a female 
to submit to sexual intercourse .  . 

please , supply me with some references .  . i was not aware that all states 
had the word female in the rape  . i am sure others are surprised 
as well. i know how it works in practice  ( nice n fair , not ! ! ) , but 
was that it was in the as applying to only , 
throughout the u.s. 

chris 

there may be some confusion here. the uniform crime reports program 
run by the fbi defines rape as a female victim only crime even 
though some states have the laws de  . i suspect that this causes 
male victims of rape to be left out of the data .  . 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re the role of the national news media in 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 44 

in article ,  ( greg hennessy ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
but what came out , 
in much lower reporting , was that the victim was a 
prostitute , and the man had not paid her hence the false 
accusation .  . 

there was no evidence the woman in question was a prostitute , the 
defense merely that she was. even clayton knows the 
difference. err , perhaps clayton does n't know the difference. 

evidence given for her prostitute status , besides the admittedly 
questionable claim of the man on trial included 

1. prior employment in a number of , with women who 
claimed that she worked as a prostitute 

2. walking around a stop at 4 00 am wearing a , 
a top , and no of any sort 

3. not having a purse or other i.d. with her. 

not enough to convict her , but enough to create reasonable doubt 
whether a rape actually took place , or theft of services .  . 

are you just ignorant , or lying again 

the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the 
were engaged in self defense .  . 

no , the judge found that the prosecution did not carry out the 
on proof. a small from , under fair use 

new district court judge ruled in 
the that the state failed to carry its burden in proving the 
acted to cause injury .  . 

the accounts on the evening news indicated that they claimed self 
defense , and the judge agreed that they were so operating .  . 

greg , university of virginia 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( julie kangas ) 
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
organization , pasadena , ca 
lines 12 

in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 
with a of the hat to david for making the top ten format 
so popular 

top ten reasons that do n't want to aid russia 

looking around who where 
do n't look at me. i want to send aid to russia .  . many other 
do as well. 


disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else 

from  ( xavier gallagher ) 
subject re so why does clayton on children 
organization systems ltd public access news , london , uk 
lines 32 

in article writes 
from  ( clayton cramer ) 

2. the homosexuals have gotten a law passed in california that 
makes it illegal to discriminate against a person in employment 
based on their sexual orientation and not defined sexual 
orientation .  . is a sexual orientation .  . 







got him ! is now claiming that is a sexual orientation 
rather than a homosexual condition. this changes the whole 
argument in as much that is is a sexual orientation all 
of its own cannot be called homosexual .  . are who 
may have a preference as to the sex of the child they  ( though 
most do not have a preference ) but that is a subset of their basic 
nature. 

has as much as admitted that and gay men are different 
 . all we need now is to get him to admit that 
the apparent similarities he keeps on about are just  . 



play 
cheap part time dark by 
world wide uucp of the universe email 
e mail advanced 

from  ( tim smith ) 
subject re why is tax evasion not considered unpatriotic 
organization university of washington school of law , class of  
lines 7 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

 ( ed ipser ) writes 
there is a deeper reason. taxes , by their very nature , are un american .  . 
one need only look at the birth and history of the us to see this fact. 

so that 's why the 13 independent states all had tax systems .  .  .  . 

tim smith 

from  ( ted frank ) 
subject k. on rodney king 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
distribution usa 
lines 12 

in article  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit 

i'm curious why you think that particular is important. 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from  ( charles kincy ) 
subject re national sales tax , the movie 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of missouri , , 
lines 

in article 2 . pa . dec . com .  ( broward l. horne ) writes 

babble deleted 

well , some form of guaranteed health care is n't a bad idea , but , 
, i'm a bit worried of a run myself. i 'd much 
rather have something like canada has and i 'll belt anyone 
who tells me to move to canada ) , but since people will 
and no ! ! ! not one like canada has ! ! ! , we 're 
probably all  . 

predicted 

1 , 000 per middle class in new taxes 

a national sales tax 


impressive. 

let the great make a couple predictions , if you 
will 

1. the sun will rise tomorrow .  . 
2. rush will clinton on his next show. 
3. i will turn out to be clinton 's love child. 

chances are , i 'll get at least one of those right , if i'm lucky .  . 
i may even get two .  . 

now , for more predictions ! 

i ) the will be raised from 3 to 5 by  . 
 . they already did it. 

okay , then. the will be raised from 5 to 7 by  . 


ca n't argue with you there. once the has its hands in 
, they just ca n't help but feel around a bit .  .  .  .  . 


ii ) will rise ! 


oh , no ! you mean , our economy will collapse in 
the face of all this tax and spending , and everyone will 
be in the line you 're a genius ! ! 


iii ) tax will decline .  . will increase ! 
we 'll get another by ! 
everyone will dance and ! 


 . spending cuts via fee increases 


to paraphrase clinton i will not raise taxes on 
the middle class to pay for my programs 

to paraphrase bill clinton i will not raise taxes on 
the middle class to pay for my programs 

no , any first year major will tell you that the 
never raises taxes .  . congress does it. 

all those who voted the clinton get to wear this new 
label .  .  .  .  .  . 


! 

made in usa 


, line , and ! chuckle 



it 's been 80 days. do you know where your is 

slick 's already got his hand in my  . i'm just afraid 
of what he might hold of. 

from  ( dale cook ) 
subject re why is tax evasion not considered unpatriotic 
organization 
lines 32 

in article  ( ed ipser ) writes 
in article  ( dale cook ) writes 
in article  ( loren i. petrich ) writes 

the title is self isaac asimov once pointed out 
that curious fact. 

well , since tax evasion is illegal , one generally would not bother to 
consider whether it was unpatriotic or not. how often does one think 
of murder as being unpatriotic 

perhaps a more appropriate question would be why is tax not 
considered unpatriotic . the answer to this is simple. tax 
is simply defined as paying the minimum tax you are legally obligated to 
pay .  . 

there is a deeper reason. taxes , by their very nature , are un american .  . 
one need only look at the birth and history of the us to see this fact. 

was n't the beef with the english over without representation , 
not itself 

from my admittedly dim recollection of us history , most of the problems 
we americans have had with taxes have been with unfair unjust 
, not with taxes themselves. it 's pretty hard to run a government 
without any means of support .  . 


 .  .  . any town having more churches than has a serious 
social problem. edward 
the opinions are mine only (i . e .  . , they are not my employer 's ) 


from () 
subject re the evidence 
organization santa 
lines 59 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( hot young star ) writes 
in article writes 
if homosexuals did keep themselves in the of their own home , this 
would n't be a problem. however , there are various   (sp ) that 
do n't .  . they want to present the argument that it is just as moral and 
right as  . 

you know , i'm offended by newspapers publicly  . 
should keep their out of the public eyes. they 
should be from wearing  . from having legal recognition 
of marriage. 

anything that 's public and sexual do n't mix .  . 

the difference , of course , is that we are right , and you are wrong. 
if you are a minority that wants freedom , it helps to not be 
obnoxious about it. it does not surprise me that as groups like 

translation you minorities stay in areas .  . we the majority 
are  right  , anything you do is  wrong  , since might makes right , and 
the majority always rules. 

nation become in their public 
, that violence against homosexuals  . anything 
that reminds the crazies who like to up homosexuals of their 
presence is going to things. 


oh crime at its best. well let 's extrapolate this , maybe if 
you did n't display all of your private property , then those nasty 
would n't go after it. and do n't carry any money , that way those 
wo n't bother you. 


and you still do n't realize that either way it is , says that homosexuals 
are very dangerous to children. 


so tell me what 's immoral about homosexuality 

the promiscuity and that it. the sexual 
component that the pursuit of ass and 
in the words of , the typical homosexual .  . 

oh i did not know that is a typical homosexual .  . 

stop making statements about something you know nothing about , that is 
gay people. you make your sweeping with no 
in reality. 


what i hope is not true that you are a typical heterosexual .  . anyone want 
to comment on this 

and if you are typical then i can start a lot of interesting 
about  . 



from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization bunker , an company 
lines 38 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( paul schmidt ) writes 
com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article  ( paul schmidt ) writes 

it is a failure of if the ideology does not provide any 
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than dreams .  . 

 .  .  . society . would collapse if most people were evil most of the time. 
david 
agreed. 

if people are basically evil , the last thing you 'd want is a big 
government by those evil folks exercising control over you. 
david 
agreed. 

freedom seems to have the creative of the people and 
leads to ever higher levels of and social progress. u . n .  . report 

agreed. 

the argument is not between those who want limited government and those 
who want unlimited government. it is between those who believe 
government in a capitalist economy serves worthwhile ends and 
those who believe such is neither desirable on empirical 
grounds nor on ideological grounds .  . 

good summary .  .  .  . selling your labor or so that you can eat 
and buy a house is essential so that you can excercise your 
personal freedoms .  . 

paul advocates for self government , davy chapter president 

and this demonstrates , i assume , that you 're a liberal .  . ) .  . 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

organization city university of new york 
from 
subject re on bosnia peace plan 
lines 2 

what does anyone think that judge would do if was 
on trial before him  ( nevah happen , but just a thought .  .  . ) . 

from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re k. on rodney king 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
distribution usa 
lines 31 

in article  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 
 ( ted frank ) writes 
in article  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit 

i'm curious why you think that particular is important. 

black is a descriptive that describes mr. king .  . from many 
of the newspaper , radio , and tv news reports i have seen , this 
is commonly in front of his name. i have never seen anyone complain about 
the use of this when used in a benign manner. i did not say that 
mr. king was a no good black ! i do not know mr. king and would not make this 
without some evidence to this effect. i used it purely as a 
descriptive in the same manner than many ( most ) news people have 
used it in the past. 

no one is questioning whether mr. king is black .  . the question 
whether king 's race should make police officers afraid as hell. your 
statement seems to imply that cops should have a different standard for 
large black guys than for just large guys in general. 

that two posts later you do n't understand why anyone pointed out your use 
of the is almost as as your original use. 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 17 

in article 
 ( greg hennessy ) writes 
clayton writes 
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . 

did you ever consider the selection effect that those who are willing 
to admit to being a member sexual minority  ( homosexuality ) are more 
willing to admit to being a member of another sexual minority  ( highly 
promiscious ) 


oh yeah , and men just to about how many woman they 've had. 

ryan 

from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 33 

in state . edu . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 


1 ) so what 

so there are less gays , then the gays claim .  . 

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners .  .  .  .  . 


i was wondering why i was n't getting laid .  . 

your bad english  ( see quote above . ) . 


actually , i bet you more gay men are as not as as gay men , 
because more of them could have the option of living a straight life , and 
with social , probably would at least try. 

you 'd lose that wager , if the supporting argument were part of it. 

did you know that is is a fact that homosexuality was high in 
hitler 's storm  ( sa ) before he came to power. i wonder if they got to 
put the on themselves .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

did you know that hitler himself was a devout christian and heterosexual 



andrew d. ! 


words were n't made for happy 

from  ( bill riggs ) 
subject  ( was re stop putting down white het males . ) . 
keywords racism , sexism , 
organization corporation , , md 
lines 
nntp posting host descartes . army . 

in article  ( tree of schnopia ) writes 
in  ( michael rivero ) writes 


i do n't know what you as a white male did. i do know what white males , 
as a class , have done. 

they 've invented the light , the automobile , the , printing with 
type , , computers , the electric guitar .  . , rocket 
space , the computer , , the telephone , tv , motion 
pictures ,  ( penecillin(sp ) , , , and the x ray machine .  . 

two errors here. first , white males do n't do anything as a class .  . 
individual white males invented those things , which means nothing to white 
males as a whole .  . second , you to mention charles manson , hitler , 
, jack the , , and a whole of individuals who 
have done horrible , evil things. if white males can take the credit for 
our fellow white males  , we must also take the blame for our 
  . i claim we neither credit nor blame for these 
things. 


we are told , by u.s. , that we are biologically 
incapable of compassion .  . 

she 's full of shit. 

we are told by that we 're all rapists and that 's all 
we are. 

she 's full of shit. 

we 're told by that a false rape charge is actually good 
for us. 

she 's full of shit. 

we are told by the lawyers that we are not to be trusted with 
children. 

they 're full of shit. 

we are told , by newsweek magazine , that we are poor sports if we complain. 

newsweek is full of shit. 

the point , and michael is not entirely correct in his theory 
that because members of our race and made great advances , the race 
and as a whole more respect than they receive .  . white males 
do to be treated better than they are being treated , but not for 
that reason. and the male he quoted are hate , no 
better than the they despise .  . so no one 's right , as usual .  . 

white males need to wake up and realize that they 're being unfair , yes. but 
everyone else needs to wake up and realize that being unfair right back is 
disgusting , racist and sexist .  . 

why ca n't we learn to treat everyone fairly , without what 
stupidity gene makes this so difficult i 'd like to buy the world a 
clue .  .  .  . 


the word that is missing in this whole discourse is not the b 
word , or the h word , or even the n or w words. it is the l word 
! ! 

that 's right. when we all the crap out of this argument , it 
is all about and , and nothing else. let me explain. 

remember the no excuses .  . nobody who can handle a mail 
can claim they are too young to remember ronald reagan yet. 
the were about how america learned to win once again . then 
 ( would n't you know) , we won so well that there was nothing left to win .  . 
no cold war to  . no nuclear  . no more worlds to conquer 
 ( we forgot about outer space long  . the kind of overwhelming , no 
holds success that killed the great .  . yes , there were a 
few little problems along the way stock market here , an 
s l there , a few and crazy middle eastern dictators to 
with , but as would tell  , the god never had 
it so good. 

in the meantime , there is guilt for , maybe a fear that one 
does n't one 's bounty or success. so there is a kinder and 
type of these days , bill clinton , action , and lots of 
discourse about people who do n't get it . for those of us in the 
business , this kind of talk is mildly , but there is still no 
suggestion of  . 

but what do we find now to put it , the stereotype of our 
white male non winner is in the rose bowl , out 
when those california and nuts steal another one 
with a mary pass in the fourth  .  ( the whole idea behind  three 
and a cloud of  is to wear your opponent down until he collapses 
in the final period ) but just used his seem to be the 
weapon of choice these days. 

who is d , anyway the answer is as plain as the on 
your face. the guy is michael douglas , as a  . this 
is known as casting .  . but that short white 
sure does look natural on mike does n't it. gordon will never look the 
same.  ( though always dressed that way . ) . did we really expect to 
take it easy and enjoy that kind of , without putting up a fuss 

what we are starting to lose sight of is , that d is 
the same game as that poor african american that 
used to blow away all the time. as that  ( male gender ) george c. scott 
, americans traditionally love to win .  . they love a winner , and will 
not tolerate a  . and so on. 

the political implications are simple. if , as many and 
do , you consider society a finite to a in some 
way , then you have to worry about who is a winner and who is a 
to tell whose side you are on. that could be black women today , 
homosexuals , and yes indeed , white men some yet to be determined 
day when the of the has finally against that  ( 39 ) 
minority .  . 

or you can just blow the whole thing off and say as do most 
and all the and act is if you did n't care 
who 's and who 's  . in some cases , you might say something 
about make sure the game is fair  ( equality of opportunity , not of  . 
in the latter case , you might be able to identify yourself as a 
or a depending on how much you want to limit 
the pot .  . 

either way you go , the way of the winner is no longer the way to be 
popular at least after you graduate from high school  ( but you 'll still 
be popular at high school  . but it beats being a , as i 
would imagine michael douglas would now agree , and in the long run , it 
is the only way to go.  ( even in hollywood , which treats worse than any 
other place in america except for new york and washington , d . c .  . and even in 
, ohio , which produced , but no teams in 
the and the first of the nineties ) i 'd like to 
see more in this society , regardless of race , , religious 
preference , and sexual orientation .  . maybe we should even let a few more of 
them be white men ! !  ( we should definitely let the win the rose bowl 
someday ) 



bill r. 



the only in the senate that i my opinions do not represent 
have seen fit to mention are particularly those of my employer or 
or particularly ones. any government agency .  . 
it seems to me that the historian 's foremost bill 
duty is to ensure that virtue is , 
and to deter evil words and deeds with the 
fear of 's damnation .  . 
, iii .  . 65 

from  ( bob rahe ) 
subject re top ten comments in the secret service 
organization technical community college 
lines 18 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article writes 

in article ,  ( bob rahe ) writes 


in the uk there is a tradition of old who bore the 
with their descriptions of old  . ed is clearly one 
of this type of people who fails to see when a joke is spent .  . 

you are hereby not to laugh. by special of 
her  . this offer where by law , consumer must 
pay applicable sales tax .  .  .  .  .  . 


bob , tech college aids , drugs , abortion 
internet do n't just kill you 
, bob . save and kill babies 


from new liberation news service 
subject with a friendly face 
id n 000 
from uucp . ! apr 14 20 42 00 1993 
lines 


from new liberation news service 
subject with a friendly face 

written 8 33 apr 14 , 1993 by in news . 
packet 3 . 11 . 4 14 93 

with a friendly face does rush you of 
anyone 
, the madison 

the main difference between adolf hitler and rush is that 
hitler was original and showed  . 
on the tom radio show , abc radio network , 
october 27 , 1992 .  . 

 ( nlns ) believe it or not , i was planning this comparative review of 
mein kampf and 's rant , the way things ought to 
be before issued his comparative review .  . as usual , 's was 
independent and as a  . 
my effort can only dream of comparing to 's .  . at 
least it has a fairly popular premise everyone i 'd mention the 
idea to thought it was either divinely inspired or at least past due for 
 . 
those reactions are based on that should be obvious to the 
most observer of the acts of those false prophets .  . both are 
noted for their , which they both used with 
passion to generate a political cult of massive  ( in 
fact , claims to have an audience of just over 12 million , almost 
identical to the number of votes cast for hitler in the april german 
 . both used a social perspective to build the cult , and 
enthusiastically facts from the record to their 
ideological  . 
the last point is documented by passages in the 
pages of both books. hitler 's example is when , on page 5 , he claims the 
german terrorist  ( he bombed part of a 
line between and , being caught in the act , in 1923 ) 
was betrayed to france by a representative of his government when 
there has never been any factual foundation for such a statement. 
in fact , the governments of both the reich and , as well as 
the vatican , actively intervened to save him from execution , and almost 
succeeded .  . follows suit by making the 
claim in his introduction that in a school or during a 
or many other public places .  .  .  . god is  . of 
course , it 's not god but the official of particular concepts of 
god against an individual 's will that 's  . but is 
too in his talent for to want you to know that. 
of course , one would assume that , by comparing the two books , 
my main point would be that the way things ought to be is the modern 
american mein kampf .  . not really. at the time of the first german version 
of mein kampf , hitler was just four months out of prison  ( june , 1925 ) , 
and trying to the nazis .  . he used the book to build his dozen 
million followers. , on the other hand , came up with his book 
after building his dozen million .  . twelve million went a longer way in 
germany that it does in the united states. 
thus , the more accurate would be that 's daily 
three hour radio show is the american mein kampf , the primary 
propoganda tool used to up the angry volume and that the way 
things ought to be is actually the american of the will , a 
translation of the same message into a different medium .  . also , the 
printed word was the more important medium in germany , since 
radio was still being thought of by germans as a medium of 
in  . today , on the other hand , americans are more likely to 
spend a few seconds to tune a radio at no charge than drop 
22 for pages of of the same words. 
but , as also observed on the radio the other night , some 
of the radical right wants to be a point of 
their propoganda .  .  ( and remember , is an al conservative these 
days . ) . 
might not know exactly who rush 's equivalent of 
is  ( the book itself suggests ed , the former president of 
abc radio and now 's in media , the radio 
program 's company) .  . but himself is a of the talk 
show , having them in new york , washington and los  . he 
knows what evil in the hearts of major market media men. he knows 
that could not have his audience had not the 
opportunity been placed on a silver and handed to him. 
his money just as honestly as al did it 's almost worthy of a 
indictment .  . 
on questions of social issues , there is an of 
material in the book that seems to hitler 's venom .  . for 
example 

on their own to control society 
hitler out of the host of sometimes millions of people , who 
individually more or less clearly and guess the truth , partly 
perhaps understand it , one man author 's emphasis must step forward in 
order to form , with force , out of the world of 
imagination of the great masses , principles , and to take up the fight 
for their sole correctness , until out of the playing of a free world of 
thought a of uniform combination of form and will 
 ( page  . 
who needs the media when they 've got me ... the 
show is devoted exclusively to what i think ... the phrase with half my 
brain behind my back to make it even denotes the of mental 
i require to engage and demolish and others who disagree 
with me ... it might take four or five years , but i'm convinced the media 
will and reluctantly come around to my way of thinking , kicking 
and screaming all the way.  ( pages , 21 , and 273 , respectively . ) . 

on religion as the basis of a nation 
hitler in this world human culture and civilization are 
bound up with the existence of the  . his dying off or his 
decline would again lower upon this earth the dark of a time without 
culture ... he who to hand upon the highest image of the lord 
sins against the benevolent creator of this miracle and helps in the 
from paradise .  .  ( page ) . 
america was founded as a christian country ... 
but our intellectual and political are often either hostile or 
religion ... people for whom belief in god is at best a 
have managed to ban prayer from the public schools 
for the last thirty years. is it only a coincidence that the quality of 
american education has declined ever since  ( pages 274 5 . ) . 

on popular culture as a reason for social collapse 
hitler the fight against the poisoning of the soul has to set in ... 
one has only to look at the of our movie houses , and 
and one can hardly deny that this is not the right kind of food ... 
theatre , art , literature , , the press , and 
must be cleaned of the symptoms of a world and put into the 
service of a moral idea of state and culture .  .  ( pages 346 and ) . 
today , hollywood is in trouble .  . the reason is that 
hollywood has forgotten who its audience is ... they make fun of people 
who believe in god. they the traditional family , 
and  . they american heroes .  .  ( page ) . 

on the news 
hitler the activity of the so called liberal press was the work of 
for the german people and the german reich .  . one can pass 
by in silence the marxist papers of lies ... it 's task is only to break the 
people 's folkish and national , in order to make it ripe for the yoke of 
slavery of international capital and its masters , the jews .  .  ( page ) . 
elements of the media have on the 
of causes .  . the cynical of the past has been 
replaced in many cases by an enthusiastic for causes ... during 
the gulf war , bernard shaw said is a 
network. we ca n't take sides. take sides ! ... if they do n't 
realize that their freedom lies in the united states of america and that 
therefore they should defend this nation , they are misguided 
and , may i suggest , with megalomania .  .  ( pages and ) . 



to continue these comparative excerpts is certainly possible , but 
ultimately too depressing to take in one reading. 
after putting these books down , there is one undeniable fact that 
me. in the , adolf hitler fed depressed and frightened 
germans the of hatred of those around them in turn , it allowed 
germans to hand their collective national power to the nazis .  . in the , 
rush is doing the very same thing hatred to 
depressed and frightened americans in turn , it is helping the american 
radical right to maintain its power base as the 12 year of the 
reagan bush era comes to an end , to it into their hopes for 
the states of america .  . 
and if is not as a hitler , it is only because the 
radical right as its own gateway  . one can only 
wonder what the ultimate drug is they plan to america on. 

the madison can be reached at po box , madison , wi 53701 
(608)  . 

30 



from  ( david veal ) 
subject re re 
organization university of division of continuing education 
lines 

in article  ( phill baker ) writes 

in article ,  ( david veal ) writes 

come to that under the original plan there was n't meant to be anything 
much for the federal government to do except keep the british out. 

that 's also untrue , but at least we 're a little closer 
reality. that the articles of apart is enough 
proof it was there for just a bit more. 

well yes and no. the papers are propaganda and it is therefore 
difficult to determine precisely what etc were up to from them. 

there are a couple of ways to look at them. one is , we want 
you to support this constitution , so we 'll say anything that we think 
will appeal to you , or the more straightforward , this is why we think 
what we 've suggested in this constitution is a good idea. 

you clearly consider the former to be the primary situation. 

they 
certainly a limited role for the federal government but this 
was not necessarily their true position. 

well , i know was a in the , and 
probably the extreme to jefferson 's democratic  . 
but what would you suggest as a means of determining their opinions 
on the government if we do n't consider what they wrote about the 
government 

and is writing in support of something automatically propoganda 
to the point we must assume it is untrue or that they are saying what 
they do n't believe 

and like the house of which it is copied from it was given pretty 
wide powers .  . unfortunately they started to use them and thus the 
set in. 

i was n't aware the house of had wide powers .  . i was under the 
impression is was pretty powerless compared to the house of , and 
certainly did n't have almost equal their powers .  .  ( the senate is restricted 
only that it may not introduce to ) . 

the senate was less powerful than the house of in the period in 
question. 

if the senate was less powerful than the house of , than 
we 'd almost have to state that the house of representatives was also. 
 ( in fact , they both were , because the british government had much 
greater power than did the american  . 

my reading of the constitution and other writings gives me absolutely 
no reason to believe the senate was n't intended to make use of their 
law making powers .  . in fact , lock appears to have been designed 
into the system , with the senate being a more body to act 
as a check on the more often elected house. 

the system is meant to be slow to react , the problem is that it ended up 
a bit too slow .  . 

i disagree. the system is not too slow , it was simply designed to 
handle less than it has demanded that it handle .  . as somebody in washington 
put it  ( whose name i forget ) , congress has become everybody 's city 
council .  . 

congress is more than capable of quick action , and has more than 
enough power and time on its hands , if it confined itself to what its 
original was and allowed more local  . 

it is not a case of the system of government they created failing , 
but that it is operating under a set of conditions they specifically 
wanted to avoid .  . namely , a concentration of power. it would seem 
then that the proper thing to do is not to reduce the power of either 
house in some attempt to the  . all you 'll get then is 
a system which quicker to do stupid things. it would make more 
sense to make more decisions at a local level. 

on what basis do you suggest that the senate was supposed to be 
some sort of stamp for the house you 'll note that while the 
president 's may be over ridden , the house ca n't do anything about 
a by the senate .  . 

the n't was meant to be entirely separate .  . until bush it 
in a quite extraordinary manner it was used more in with the intent 
of being a check on unreasonable legislation .  . 

please explain to me how bush the in an extraordinary 
manner. 

the was clearly regarded 
as a completely last measure its use was meant to be restricted to 
preventing the interfering with the actions of the  . 

i fail to see where any restrictions , implied or otherwise , were 
placed on the  . it could just as easily have been read as a means 
to put a check on democratically popular but  ( in the 's 
opinion ) policies .  . 

there is no limit in the constitution to the president 's power 
regarding what a bill is for. previous have used the 
for any number of reasons , most usually having something to do with their 
 . i am really curious how you single bush out as the president 
who  . 

the senate is not meant to be exactly a stamp body , it is meant as 
a check on legislation .  . that is the extra measure built into 
the constitution in favour of the status quo , 60 of the representatives 
of the states is not a reasonable  . 

why is it not a reasonable because 51 
is the magic holy number upon which laws must be based if 41 
feel safe enough with their state to stand up and 
is n't that enough to indicate there 's a sufficient question 
as to whether a law is a good idea or not to re it 

why one earth should 51 be sufficient to a law which 
covers 250 million people in very , very places and living 
in different conditions why should n't a super majority 
be required 

any system in which the simple majority is given absolute power 
to ignore the minority then the minority will be ignored .  . i do not 
see this as a positive thing. and for all that i'm sure the 
are looking for as much as the , they 've got some legitimate 
objections to the legislation in question. 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( not a boomer ) 
subject re clinton in reduces jobs bill 
summary too good to be true , evidently .  . 
organization acme products 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( not a boomer ) writes 
clinton has backed off from the 16 billion jobs bill. 

word is he 's it down to the core benefits , money for 
creating full time jobs  ( ie , no summer jobs money) .  . 

one up for holding the line on spending .  . 

it seems radio reports were overly  . all clinton wants to 
cut is 2.5 billion for community block grants , keeping in summer jobs .  . 

hmmm , well , looks like we need to keep up the pressure on our 
 . 

brett 

there 's nothing so as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . o in the white plague by frank  . 

from  ( larry margolis ) 
subject re i thought was not allowed 
distribution na 
news software ibm 2  ( nr 2 ) by o .  . and r. 
lines 35 
reply to  ( larry margolis ) 
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm .  . 
nntp posting host watson . ibm . com . 
organization the 

in  ( matt x8043 ) writes 
in article in talk . politics . misc . , 
 ( larry margolis ) writes 

i would suggest that legal precedent defines a human being (i . e .  . , a person 
whose rights are protected by the constitution and the law ) as someone with 
a brain .  . 

no , if you want to use legal precedent , you should take a look at the 
model code , on which many states base their criminal code 

my apologies if i was i was not trying to start a 
debate , since there are many  ( in some cases conflicting ) on 
the books. i was merely suggesting a paradigm that might make sense 
for a pro imho .  . 

and i was pointing out that legal precedent defines a human being as 
referring only to the born , so your suggestion was incorrect .  . 

if at some point an child is a human being , the parents clearly 
have the same her as any other parents have 
their children. 

and no parent can be forced to supply bodily resources their children , 
even if necessary to save the child 's life. 

there is a confusion here between action and a parent does not have 
to run out in front of a to save their child 's life either , but a parent 
is required to feed his children. 

there is a confusion here about what bodily resources constitutes .  . blood 
transfusions and involve bodily resources your examples 
do not. 

larry ,  ( bitnet ) ,  ( internet ) 

from  ( russ anderson ) 
subject re the state of justice 
originator 
lines 36 
nntp posting host 
organization the 1991 world minnesota ! 


in article ,  ( not a boomer ) writes 
a judge denied 's new trial motion , even though says it has two 
new witnesses that said the of the was dead from the impact , not 
from the fire .  . 

thoughts 

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start 
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led 
to the previous ruling appear .  . 

welcome to the conservative  . 

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed 
should n't that be up to a jury 

i think 's point was that you get one chance. if new information 
comes out later , tough. if the want justice , they have to hope 
the is feeling  . 

there 's a guy on death row in texas that was denied a new trial , dispite 
evidence of his  . 

and what about members of the previous jury through the talk 
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against should n't that be enough for 
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial 

whatever happened to jurors having to be objective 

it got swept away in the reagan revolution .  .  .  . 


disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 
upon my employer or anyone else.  ( c ) 1993 
ex  jack , 10 , 0 runs  ( world series ! ) 

from 
subject re  ( was re stop putting down white het males . ) . 
summary just my  . 02 . 
news software vax vms 1.4 
keywords racism , sexism , 
organization ask computer systems , product division 
lines 

in article ,  ( bill riggs ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( tree of schnopia ) writes 
in  ( michael rivero ) writes 
i do n't know what you as a white male did. i do know what white males , 
as a class , have done. 
they 've invented the light , the automobile , the , printing with 
type , , computers , the electric guitar .  . , rocket 
space , the computer , , the telephone , tv , motion 
pictures ,  ( penecillin(sp ) , , , and the x ray machine .  . 

two errors here. first , white males do n't do anything as a class .  . 
individual white males invented those things , which means nothing to white 
males as a whole .  . second , you to mention charles manson , hitler , 
, jack the , , and a whole of individuals who 
have done horrible , evil things. if white males can take the credit for 
our fellow white males  , we must also take the blame for our 
  . i claim we neither credit nor blame for these 
things. 

white males need to wake up and realize that they 're being unfair , yes. but 
everyone else needs to wake up and realize that being unfair right back is 
disgusting , racist and sexist .  . 
why ca n't we learn to treat everyone fairly , without what 
stupidity gene makes this so difficult i 'd like to buy the world a 
clue .  .  .  . 

the word that is missing in this whole discourse is not the b 
word , or the h word , or even the n or w words. it is the l word 
! ! 

that 's right. when we all the crap out of this argument , it 
is all about and , and nothing else. let me explain. 
in the meantime , there is guilt for , maybe a fear that one 
does n't one 's bounty or success. so there is a kinder and 
type of these days , bill clinton , action , and lots of 
discourse about people who do n't get it . for those of us in the 
business , this kind of talk is mildly , but there is still no 
suggestion of  . 
who is d , anyway the answer is as plain as the on 
your face. the guy is michael douglas , as a  . this 
is known as casting .  . but that short white 
sure does look natural on mike does n't it. gordon will never look the 
same.  ( though always dressed that way . ) . did we really expect to 
take it easy and enjoy that kind of , without putting up a fuss 
what we are starting to lose sight of is , that d is 
the same game as that poor african american that 
used to blow away all the time. as that  ( male gender ) george c. scott 
, americans traditionally love to win .  . they love a winner , and will 
not tolerate a  . and so on. 

since we are talking in theory and opinion , then i 'll put in my  . 02 .  . 
first , a  . personally , i love under dogs .  . unlike 
, i teams when they start  . people that 
for just because they are are people who are 
afraid to be associated with something negative .  . 

the political implications are simple. if , as many and 
do , you consider society a finite to a in some 
way , then you have to worry about who is a winner and who is a 
to tell whose side you are on. that could be black women today , 
homosexuals , and yes indeed , white men some yet to be determined 
day when the of the has finally against that  ( 39 ) 
minority .  . 

on this one point , i agree. the reason that people 's is 
because they have been on top for a long time. whoever is on top is 
going to oppress whoever is below them so that they can stay on top .  . 
if had pushed on to rome after his victory at we might 
all be the blacks for oppressing us peacefull white people 
for all these centuries .  . i seriously doubt that if the blacks had 
conquered the world that they would have treated their any 
better worse than the did. 
the white race did some things to the other races of 
the world. but they only did what any other conquering race would have done 
 .  . the real question is , should we carry over that blame to the 
present generation who did n't participate in the crimes would it do 
any good has it done bosnia any good they are fighting wars that stopped 
hundreds , even thousands , of years ago. 
my opinion is , if there are now , then let 's change 
them. but do n't blame me for what my ancestors did. it would n't 
anything anyway. 

either way you go , the way of the winner is no longer the way to be 
popular at least after you graduate from high school  ( but you 'll still 
be popular at high school  . but it beats being a , as i 
would imagine michael douglas would now agree , and in the long run , it 
is the only way to go. 

that 's where you are dead wrong. you do n't join up on a side just because 
they are  . that makes you  . , in high school and 
after high school , is still the best way to be popular , but it does n't make 
you right. all the best causes in history were causes  ( with only 
a couple  . only makes a difference to other people , not 
to yourself. and what good is the opinions of other people if they only care 
how you appear  . a  . 

if you ca n't them , fight them every of the way. 

bill r. 


at that moment the bottom out of 's mind. johnson 
his eyes turned inside out. his feet began to leak out 
of the top of his head. the room flat around him , 
around , out of existence and left him 
into his own  . douglas adams 


from  ( the sky already  . now what ) 
subject bush 's wi  ( was clinton 's 
summary bush s 
news software vax vms 1.4 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , product division 
lines 29 

in article 2 . pa . dec . com . ,  ( broward l. horne ) writes .  .  .  . 
if you look through this newsgroup , you should be 
able to find clinton 's proposed 
for our computer and telephone systems. 

this  has been up before congress for at least 
the past 6 months , in the of the fbi 
bill. 

i guess your strength is n't in math .  . clinton has n't been president for 
6 months. in other words , it 's bush s  . 

i strongly urge you to begin considering your future. 
i strongly urge you to get your application for a 
in the mail soon. 

i strongly urge you to consider moving any savings you 
have , into protected bank accounts , while 
you are still able .  . 

have you 



who said anything about snapped  . johnson 
this is still just culture  . you wait till i 've 
into the situation and found my  . 
then i 'll start ! douglas adams 


from  ( bill anderson ) 
subject re selective service 
organization university , , 
lines 29 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 

writes 
in article , edu .  ( dave borden ) writes 
the selective service should be abolished .  . to start with , the 
draft is immoral .  . whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now , 
and military agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior 
with a army than with  . finally , the government has us 
on many lists in many computers  ( the , social security and 
to name a few ) and it can find us if it needs to. 
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time. 
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the a little bit. 


dave 



you selfish little bastard. afraid you might have to sacrafice 
for your country. what someone not approve a lone for you to bad. 
what is immoral is people like you and the current president who do n't 
have any idea why this country still exists after 200 years. 

this country still exists after 200 years 
because the 
people have to be forced by the government to 
fight in foreign wars 
i do n't think so .  .  .  . 

bill 
. 

from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re the could win the  .  .  . clinton . 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization in the hall 
lines 41 

baker writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes 
 ( charles m kozierok ) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes 

secondly , any canadian who has worked and in the 
 ( it 's a negative option , you have to explicitly decline 
it) knows that the is ... 

yes , and some americans actually have a problem with having more 
of their money taken from them to pay for others  health care .  .  .  . 

but note again , the canadian and german health is 
voluntary 

not true. i am required to have by law. the method of 
collection effectively makes it a tax .  . 

could it be because you 're british , , and living in germany 
while the ec working rules are more liberal than what we have in 
the 1989 us canada , there 's probably a law about that  ( having 
health is a condition of my being down here , 
for example) .  . 

you have mentioned this once before , yet both the ny times on 
the german sickness funds  ( late jan . ) . and that my 
gives to her language students from the german both say that 
it is voluntary  ( okay , there were quotation marks ( ) and that only 
90 of the population is covered by the sickness funds  ( analogous to 
our health , but not divided by  . 

another guy in health care policy says that the turkish workers 
are n't covered ... he 's written to me a couple of times  ( he 's not a 
post  . i 'll ask him ... 



me 
l. dare 
go go ! ! ! 


from  ( tim smith ) 
subject re sick and tired  ( was re bill  ( et al ) 's letter ) 
article i.d. 
distribution na 
organization university of washington school of law , class of  
lines 19 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

in article  ( rich wales ) writes 
why ca n't you just cite us a case in which joe , a regular 
regular wages from a regular company , refuses to pay 
his tax , gets into court , is convicted of tax 
, and then has his conviction by the us supreme court 
with a 7 2 majority ruling that tax is indeed totally 
voluntary what , you say no such case exists hmmm , i wonder why 
not why have n't you 

unless i 've got my notes up , f . comes close to this. 
regular guy. blue at a regular company .  . into 
court. convicted .  . appeals to 7th  . makes all the right 
arguments  ( his brief is cited by mr. as an example of a 
 . shot down , 3 zip by the 7th  . appeals to 
the supreme court. and .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . denied .  . goes to jail .  . oh well. 

tim smith 

from  ( jacob galley ) 
subject clinton 's sister , 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 22 


last night i heard something about bill clinton 's sister being 
involved in a marijuana , and the news being suppressed .  . i also 
heard something about her being an ex con . this source is not 
reliable , though.  ( it was a a local ) . 

can anyone on the net verify this or provide more details i'm 
surprised i have n't seen anything about this in this newsgroup .  . 

also , does anyone know what happened to the charges that was a 
regular pot when she was in college this accusation 
was reported on news the day she was , then i 
never heard anything about it again. 

it 's almost enough to make me want to start an act up type campaign 
to invade the of closet !  ( if only this type of 
did n't violate people 's rights. . .  . ) . 

 . 

what 's so about studying lower levels of thought process 


from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re lincoln slavery  ( re top ten you can play on the american voter ) 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( chris brewster ) writes 
craig writes 

the fact that the south had a number of slave owners is true , but 
relatively small numbers  ( around 1200 ) had more than a few hundred slaves .  . 
(i have to get references that i do not have here for 
exact numbers . ) . 

if it has any bearing on this discussion , i saw a figure for the total 
number of slave owners as , 000 .  . does anyone have a figure for how 
many slaves there were how many without slaves 

chris e mail address 

in 

total population free blacks slaves 
u.s. 32 , , , 1 . 5 . 3 , , 12 . 3 . 
9 , 103 , , 1 . 5 . 3 , , 110 38 . 7 . 
union slave states 3 , 212 , 128 , 4 . 0 . , 13.5 
all union states 23 , 124 , , 310 1 . 5 . , 1 . 9 . 
union free states 19 , , 226 , 1.1 122 0 . 0 . 



clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( erich schwarz ) 
subject re top ten reasons hillary and do n't like men in uniform 
organization caltech ,  . of biology 
lines 20 
distribution world 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

in article ,  ( ed 
ipser ) wrote 
top ten reasons hillary and do n't like men in uniform 

... 

6. they keep and stuff. its  . 

... 
 ( c ) edward a. , jr. , 1993 



ed 

before you the intelligence of other people , learn to  . 
your errors are , indeed , to those of us who 
read alt . politics . libertarian . for its allegedly superior ideas and writing. 



from  ( dale cook ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization 
lines 41 

in article  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
in article  ( michael a. thomas ) writes 
in article ,  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
think about it should n't all drugs then be , it would lower 
the cost and definitely make them safer to use. 

yes. 

i do n't think we want to start using these criterion to determine 
 . 

why not 

where do they get these people ! i really do n't want to waste time in 
here to do battle about the of drugs .  . if you really want to , we 
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is ! 

you asked a question , and now you do n't want people to answer i believe 
a legitimate question was asked. why should n't cost and safety be used 
 ( at least in part ) to determine 

i 'd like to see you prove that drug is an idiotic idea. 
seems to me the evidence from great britain is pretty convincing that 
drug is a good idea. even such a noted conservative as 
william f. supports it. 

my point was that it is pretty stupid to justify something just 
because it will be safer and  . 

a few more ideas to hold to these criterion prostitution the killing of all 
funny farm , aids victims , , , , etc. 
this would surely make my taxes  . 

your examples  ( except for prostitution ) fail miserably to meet both 
 ( safer and  . obviously , killing people is not safe . as for 
prostitution , why should n't it be legal 

 .  .  . any town having more churches than has a serious 
social problem. edward 
the opinions are mine only (i . e .  . , they are not my employer 's ) 


from edu .  ( dave borden ) 
subject selective service 
organization , cambridge , ma , usa 
lines 12 

the selective service should be abolished .  . to start with , the 
draft is immoral .  . whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now , 
and military agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior 
with a army than with  . finally , the government has us 
on many lists in many computers  ( the , social security and 
to name a few ) and it can find us if it needs to. 
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time. 
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the a little bit. 


dave 


from  ( uncle fester ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 23 

in article 
 . edu .  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 

join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 

call the reform church bbs at . . . . 

the above of bigotry .  . 

really what if it said eating or eating , 
what then 
and i suppose accept 10 is anti bigotry 
, how pc can you get ! 




what god wants god wants 
god gets god wants 
god help us all god wants politics 
god wants a good laugh 

from  ( jeffry r beach ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
lines 25 

in article  ( steve thomas ) writes 
boy , it looks like the is working really good to stop people from 
being up in the head , given that example ! 

 ( issue your friend got his drugs legal or not legal , he 'll continue to 
get them. issue 2 why should i , as somebody who does not use illegal 
drugs and who is not up have to pay for this idiot 's problems he 's 
not doing anybody any harm except himself. the , on the other hand , is an 
immediate threat to my life and  . tell me why i should sacrafice 
this to that ! ) .  . 

, is there anybody in there you think you have to pay for this idiot 's 
problem now , who 's going to pay for the number of addicts and 
all of the associated problems with them. i do n't even want to think about 
it with hillary in the white house and an that our 
pain . 

no harm but to himself what about when he drives his school full 
of kids into a train .  . when he gets and drives up on a 
and kills 5 people. when he lives off me on welfare for the rest of his 
life. 

the problem with the is that it has no  . sending the slimy 
to the chair for selling drugs to kids , now there 's some bit. 


from  ( charles kincy ) 
subject re pro abortion leader trashing of free speech rights 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of missouri , , 
lines 9 

do the words chilling effect within that 
small collection of neurons you call a brain 



it 's been 80 days. do you know where your is 

slick 's already got his hand in my  . i'm just afraid 
of what he might hold of. 

from  ( russ anderson ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
originator 
lines 33 
nntp posting host 
organization the 1991 world minnesota ! 


in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

from the santa rosa ) . press , april 15 , 1993 , p. 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new study on male sexual behavior , the most 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

actually , what the study shows is that 2 percent of the men 
said they engaged in homosexual sex and 1 percent said they 
considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

the point being that what people say and what they acutally do 
may be different. 

it is interesting that this clip from the newspaper did not 
mention that difference. maybe it is conservative media bias .  . ) 

the on homosexuality in the study released 
by the institute are lower than 
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional 
wisdom since it was published in the report. 



disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 
upon my employer or anyone else.  ( c ) 1993 
ex  jack , 10 , 0 runs  ( world series ! ) 

from state . edu . 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay in nc ) verdict 
organization the ohio state university , department of physics 
lines 48 

in article ,  ( jeff bowles ) writes 
 ( thomas farrell ) writes 
questions like what kind of sexual do you participate in 
and you think he made a good case the said the 
told him they did it on purpose and hoped the victim would die , 
and you think the defense made a good case no wonder we 're ! 
we 're not trying to win ! 

the clip i saw was even worse than that. the defense was asking 
something like what have you done to serve your country , as compared to 
these fine examples of patriotism 

i did n't see the response i do n't think it was shown on tv. i wish the 
response had been i vote .  . i pay taxes .  . i pay my  . i support the bill 
of rights , unlike you ,  . 

in my dreams ( 

now , the real question is , could this be a federal civil rights case , since 
the state case was a  ( sound like a well known los trial ) probably 
not and are n't protected  ( for being and dykes ) under civil 
rights laws .  . 


i would doubt any civil rights case would be in order for the point that you 
mentioned. even if it were possible , i think it is a bad idea since it 
real strongly of double  . a civil case for is fine since that 
is a trial that would proceed regardless of the first. i think a bad precedent 
has already been set in the king trial in l . a .  . and something like this would 
make it worse. regardless of how bad anybody about this decision , it 
must stand that charges of assault were not not proven against the three 
and that 's how it should stand. 

frank  ( who is still mad , but now somewhat sane ) 




frank r. 
state . edu . 
department of physics the ohio state university 
 ( not just any ohio state university ) 

there is only one hard and fast rule about the place to have a party 
somebody else 's place. 
p . j .  . o 



from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re and homosexuals 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( eric smith ) writes 
de .  ( gene w. smith ) writes 

are you saying that 

(1) people voted for hitler , and he became reich chancellor , in good 
part because he used to attack communists , 

hitler did not become become reich chancellor because people voted for 
him. i'm not sure if you meant to imply that or not , but i just thought 
i 'd bring that up. 

eric smith 

hitler became chancellor because people voted for his political 
party. that 's not a huge difference in a system. 



clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( roger collins ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
reply to 
organization computer corporation 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 62 

com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
let me try to this discussion back to the original issues. as 
i 've noted before , i'm not necessarily the benefits of 
anti legislation with regard to , 
, etc. one need not , however , swallow the entire libertarian 
to this end. just because one grants the benefits of 
allowing anyone who wishes to cut hair to sell his her services without 
does not mean that the same should be 
free to people as a medical service without government intervention .  . 
 ( as some many would argue . ) . 

on a case by case basis , the cost benefit ratio of government 
is obviously worthwhile .  . the libertarian , however , does not call 
for this  . it assumes that the costs of  ( of any 
kind ) always its benefits. this approach avoids all sorts of 
difficult analysis , but it strikes many of the rest of us as dogmatic , 
to say the least. 

i have no objection to an analysis of medical care , education , 
national defense or local police that suggests a free market can provide 
a more effective , efficient means of social objectives 
than is provided through approaches .  . with some 
exceptions , however , i do not see such nitty gritty , worthwhile 
analysis being carried out by self  . 

put ! 

even as a libertarian , i have to admit government does do some things i 
like. there is a beautiful arts complex in  . 
that was built with tax dollars (i do n't know how much was 
private and how much was stolen , i mean public ) but it is beautiful and 
i enjoy it.  ( keep in mind , though , most of the people in the city will 
never a single there , so they might feel differently 
about having to help pay for it . ) . 

however , i have to disagree about it being or efficient to 
give government intervention power on a case by case basis. in fact , 
we have a lot better luck maintaining our freedom of speech precisely 
because it is not decided on a case by case basis as much as other 
issues. judges decide whether political speech is allowed on the 
in front of the post office. they do not try to decide just 
whether pro nazi , pro choice , pro life , or pro tax political speech 
should be allowed on the in front of the post office. you can 
imagine the result if right to free speech was decided by the majority 
on a case by case basis. 

not so with economic issues. government does tell drivers exactly 
what they can charge , but not the lines or the lawyers .  . 

just as it is not to decide rights of free speech on a 
case by case basis , we should not decide rights to free on a 
case by case basis. 

there is hope that a government can be restricted from with 
free  . but there is no hope , in my opinion , of having a 
government that with free in an efficient 
manner i call it political market failure .  . 

thus , if you value freedom and the abundance it produces , you have to 
swallow the whole libertarian  . 

roger 

from  ( nick nussbaum ) 
subject re special hate crimes laws  ( was how many homosexuals .  .  . ) . 
organization north  ( 206 ) com . 
lines 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( william december starr ) writes 

if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault 
and  . why must we add gay to the list is n't this a 
sort of double or am i just being a again 
douglas 

assuming the questions are not rhetorical , the answers are 

() to deter an of gay that has not been by 
assault laws .  . 
() no , it is not double  . a single act may lead to multiple 
charges and multiple crimes .  . 
() yes. 

let 's leave aside the personal insult potential that doug created by 
asking his last question and just concentrate on the legal political 
debate .  .  .  . last point first yes , a single act may lead to multiple , 
independent charges .  . however , as a side note , i think that the 
on double that the suspect be tried on all 
those charges at the same time , in the same trial .  .  ( unless , of course , 
the government can pull the separate crock that they 're 
using on those four cops who rodney king , i.e. trying a 
person who 's already been in state court on federal charges 
arising from the same act .  .  .  . i think that this is double but 
apparently the courts do n't agree with me . ) . 

note that the laws that do n't agree with you were passed to protect 
a class of people who could n't get justice from the state courts 
specifically civil rights workers in in the 60 's .  . the 
federal protection of individual rights supersedes the non 
of the state. something similar has long been traditional ( well 
he 's so i him up .  .  . ) . for gays 



you your money and you takes your pick .  .  .  . me , i strongly 
towards the against argument. i know that having the law treat 
everyone as equals , regardless of realities , will not in and of itself 
lead to true equality , and in fact may lead , at times , towards greater 
 . nonetheless , i believe that true equality is at least 
possible when the laws treat people as being equal , while true 
equality is , by definition , impossible when the laws themselves 
treatment of classes of people by the state. 

william december 

as france said the law in its forbids the 
rich as well as the poor from sleeping under  . 

equality of law can be construed in any number of ways. for example 
the fact that all property , regardless of value , are not 
punished equally is an which those who have 
a lot of money from having it stolen .  . you could easily define 
equality to regard the property in terms of it 's significance 
for the owner. this would a form of equality that would be skewed 
poorer people. 

in fact , most anti gay laws are constructed to offer equal 
protection. they make it an offense to damage people based on a 
motivation of hatred for sexual orientation .  . thus the law in its 
as well as gays from being  . 
i'm sure that 's a great relief to douglas  . 




po seattle , 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 43 

in article ( 
anderson ) writes 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

from the santa rosa ) . press , april 15 , 1993 , p. 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new study on male sexual behavior , the most 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

actually , what the study shows is that 2 percent of the men 
said they engaged in homosexual sex and 1 percent said they 
considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 


yes , and of course the report taken 50 years ago in much more liberal 
times regarding homosexuality .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

the point being that what people say and what they acutally do 
may be different. 

it is interesting that this clip from the newspaper did not 
mention that difference. maybe it is conservative media bias .  . ) 


or smart enough to realize that that argument would have to apply to every 
survey regarding homosexuality .  . therefore , they would look stupid.  ( actually , 
see bring that point up. hee ,  . 



the on homosexuality in the study released 
by the institute are lower than 
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional 
wisdom since it was published in the report. 


ryan 

from  ( mike quigley ) 
subject re bill targets funds for liberation 
organization tektronix , inc. , , or. 
lines 6 

excerpts from insight magazine , march 15 , 1993 


paranoia part deleted. 

is n't insight magazine published by the 

from  ( william edward woody ) 
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of on avenue 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 93 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

in article  ( amar chaudhary ) writes 

6. hey , i think the add a 60 's touch ! 

! run ! run for your lives ! 


5. look , canada , europe , and japan to provide health care for their 
citizens  ( and , yes , basic health is a human right which people are 
entitled to) .  . if these nations are n't capitalist enough for you , then 
i guess we 've found something better than capitalism ! there is nothing 
sacred about the capitalist system , and if something , be it socialism 
or anything else , works better , then i say let capitalism die. 

then why are they in the process of systematically some of 
their health care systems through of key components 

4. make love , not war ! 

if i hold a gun to your wife , would you respond the same way i do n't 
think so. while the age of may have hit the white house , the 
age of peace love and harmony has n't hit in south central la nor has it 
hit in former yugoslavia .  . and as long as there are people in the world 
who would rather see me dead than thrive , i want the protection of a 
police force who will keep the peace so i can make love without being 
shot .  . 

3. contrary to popular belief , it is possible to be a male and a 
at the same time. to discriminate against or to deny equal opportunity 
to a majority of the population is just plain wrong , and trying to force 
them into some sort of tradition role is even worse. women certainly 
have as much to offer this world as men , and the day that 
discrimination is finally broken it going to make all the of 
the past few centuries seem like reform  . i look forward to it. 

the ultimate statement for equal rights  ( something many of the 
have forgotten ) is i do not care if you are either a man or a woman , 
i do not care if you are black or white , i do not care if you are gay 
or straight .  . once you can say i do not care about color , 
race , or or sexual preference , then we will truly be on the 
right track .  . 

keep differences in my face and then expect us all to get along 
get real ! so long as you try to make me care if you are black , female , 
or whatever , i am going to continue to  . it 's natural human behaviour .  . 

but the moment searching for employees , banks looking to lend 
money , and looking for can 
say i do not care about your color , race , , or sexual preferences 
i instead to treat you as a human being , crap like last year 's 
riots will continue to happen. 

1. hey man , rules ! ! 

barf .  . 

you mean the same economic who say things like for the sake 
of convenience in mathematical modeling we will first assume there is 
no wealth creation now get a crack at their thesis in 
real life 

go back to your textbooks on theory. look in the first chapter 
of that book , introducing the field of theory. right there 
in chapter 1 , section 1 , is a statement like the following 

as it is difficult to and model wealth creation , 
especially in an economy where wealth creation is inherently 
the of individuals who create new and 
discover new ideas , we will assume for the rest of this 
book that there is no wealth creation. 

we do not assume the lack of creation in the real world , 
however the mathematical modeling of such an inherently 
subject is impossible. even though we assume 
no wealth creation , we do believe that for most mathematical 
economic modeling such an assumption is reasonably valid 
as it allows us to make predictions which then can be tested .  . 

so the guys who are running the for clinton and company are now 
assuming that wealth creation does not exists. they are  ( borrowing an 
idea from the 's guide ) too advanced to think of these simple 
things. 

to be , i would rather have an engineer with years of experience 
building design the next , rather than a 
with a minted and no experience do the same job. 

bill 

normally i do n't post  ( or even read most of the postings ) in this newsgroup .  . 
if you would like to reply to this message and want me to see the reply , 
then i guess you will just have to reply directly to me. 


from  ( jack schmidling ) 
subject the league 
organization , chicago , il 
lines 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 


the following was posted and no doubt by and considering 
the importance of the issue and the almost total except in 
california , i am to other groups. 



from la times , friday , april 9 , 1993 .  . p.  . 

evidence of operation by police 

by richard c. , times writer 

san francisco police on thursday served search warrants on the 
anti league here and in los , evidence of a 
intelligence network accused of keeping files on more than 
political groups , newspapers and labor and as many as 
12 , 000 people. 

describing the operation in great detail , san francisco 
authorities simultaneously released documents telling how 
operatives of the anti league searched through trash and 
organizations to gather intelligence on arab american , 
right and what they called organizations .  . 

representatives of the anti league , a well known 
organization in the u.s. jewish community dedicated to fighting 
anti semitism , declined detailed comment thursday but denied breaking 
any laws .  . 

police that the organization undercover operatives to 
gather political intelligence in at least seven cities , including los 
and san francisco .  . 

groups that were the focus of the operation the political 
spectrum , including such groups as the ku klux klan , the white 
resistance , operation rescue , , the national  . for the 
of people , the united farm workers and the jewish 
defense league .  . also on the list were college , the board of 
of san francisco public television station and the san 
francisco bay guardian newspaper .  . 

people who were subjects of the operation included former 
republican  . , political h. 
and los times foreign scott , who 
is based in south africa .  . 

authorities said much of the material by the groups was 
information obtained from law enforcement 
 . they also alleged that data on some individuals and 
organizations was sold to the south african government. 

in addition to allegations of obtaining information from 
police , the anti league could face a total of 48 
for not properly reporting the employment of its chief west 
coast , roy , according to the filed to justify 
the search warrant .  . 

the anti league disguised to for more than 
25 years by a week to bruce i. 
, who then paid , according to the documents released in 
san francisco .  . , a former president of the jewish 
council of greater los and one of the state 's tax 
, will be out of the city until late next week and could not 
be reached for comment , his office said. 

until 1990 , , a former u.s. , also was a member of a 
by then  . to secretly make initial 
on new federal judges in california .  . is a 
former regional president of the anti league .  . 

the league , which initially with police , has denied 
repeatedly that its intelligence operation broke any laws .  . 
league will not or deny whether was an 
and have said they simply information with police 
about people who might be involved in hate crimes .  . 

but in an filed to obtain warrants for thursday 's searches , 
san francisco police alleged that employees were apparently less 
than in providing information during an earlier search 
conducted without a warrant .  . 

david lehrer , director of the los office , said 
the organization has not violated the law. there is nothing 
about how we operate or what we have done , he said. our 
record speaks for itself. 

the police that lehrer had sole control of a secret 
used to pay for fact finding  . lehrer , according to 
the documents , signed from the account under the name l. 
 . 

an official said the account was used to pay for to 
a wide variety of that might at sending 
them directly to the anti league .  . 

, , who has been intelligence for the for 
nearly 40 years , defended his efforts during a lengthy with 
san francisco police .  . he said that he gathered names from many 
sources and entered them into his computer under headings such as 
and , but that did not necessarily mean that they were 
under surveillance .  . 

i might never see or call up on of them again , said. 
and it does n't mean anything that they 're in the files. it 's not a 
threat to anyone 's civil rights that a name appears in my files under , 
say , ' . 

in recent years , worked closely with san francisco police 
tom , who to the last fall after he 
was questioned by the fbi in the case. 

a former , with criminal records 
and department of information such as home addresses , 
, physical characteristics and drivers license 
 . 

using files gathered for the anti league , and 
also provided information to the south african government , 
receiving 16 , 000 over four years , the documents show. 

the file on times writer , which was apparently sold to the 
south african government , provides some insight into the hit and miss 
nature of the operation. 

the file notes that 's articles appear frequently in the times 
and are well researched and written , but little else about the file 
is accurate. the brief entry the times  with another 
scott and provides the south african government with the wrong 
's physical description , and other personal 
information. 

nevertheless , the documents provide details of how 
for decades all manner of organizations , from 
to left , searching regularly through the trash 
of target groups. using anti league funds , he also his 
own paid under code names such as scott and  . 

he worked closely with police officers up and down the coast , 
information with the fbi and worked with federal , 
including the bureau of , and  . 

it was 's work as a paid for the fbi while 
on behalf of the anti league and the south african 
government that proved his  . the fbi learned that he was an 
of a foreign government and began investigating , to the 
of the anti league 's intelligence network. the 
anti league employed undercover operatives to gather 
information in los , san francisco , new york , washington , 
chicago , st. and , according to the and 
 . san francisco police in searching league 
offices and a los bank were from the office of 
san francisco  .  . smith and the state tax 
board. the los police department , which earlier refused to 
with the investigation , was informed of the searches in los 
but not invited to participate .  . suspect that 
some information in the anti league files may 
have come from los police officers .  . 



from los times , saturday , april 10 , 1993 .  . p.  . 

to with investigation 

by richard c. , times writer. 

san francisco the anti league defended its record as a 
civil rights group friday and said it will with authorities 
who are investigating whether the organization 
police information on citizens and groups. 

but san francisco  .  . smith said that anti 
league employees involved in intelligence could face many 
of receiving files , , tax 
and conspiracy .  . 

police have accused the anti league of not being 
about its , which information on more than 
12 , 000 individuals and political groups across the political 
spectrum .  . 

hundreds of pages of documents released by thursday show 
that the a intelligence network and kept 
files on political  . 

even so , smith suggested that if the anti league shut down 
its operation , would take that into account when 
what charges to file. 

in a statement released in washington , national director abraham h. 
described the as a jewish defense agency which has fought 
to protect all minorities from bigotry and discrimination for 80 
years. 

said the organization is regarded as a credible source on 
groups and has a tradition of routinely providing 
information to police , journalists , , government 
and the public. it has never been the policy of the to obtain 
information , he said. 

like other journalists , in order to protect the and 
physical safety of its sources , will not comment on the nature or 
identity of any source of information , said. 

the anti league refused to acknowledge that one of its 
employees , roy , was anything more than a private 
individual who is alleged to be an ' . 

among the documents released by were detailed statements 
showing how the weekly to through 
bruce i.  . 

roy would organizations and needed this arrangement to be 
from , told a san francisco police  . 
could not be reached friday at his home or office for comment. 

despite the anti league 's assertion that it will 
with authorities , san francisco police said the group did not turn 
over all pertinent documents during a voluntary search of the group 's 
offices in los and san francisco last fall .  . 

a second round of searches thursday , this time with search warrants , 
produced a vast quantity of records , primarily dealing with financial 
, smith said. further searches may be necessary and it 
will be at least a month before any charges are filed , he said. 

the investigation , of course , will go wherever the facts lead us , 
the district said. 


usc tv made me do it ! 




from  ( kennedy james scot ) 
subject drug use up at age 
organization state university , computer science , 
keywords drugs 
lines 62 


the article that follows was taken from the , april 14 , 
1993 issue of usa today ( drug use up at age by mike 
, p.  . 

drug use is on the rise among kids as young as 
usually 13 and they 're using more and like glue 
and air , says a new survey .  . 

the national high school survey on drug abuse finds 
statistically significant increases in  use of 
many drugs , including marijuana , cocaine , crack , and  . 

we may be in danger of some ... hard won ground  ( in reducing 
drug use ) as a new , more naive generation of youngsters enters 
, says lloyd , university of michigan , chief 
on the study sponsored by the department of health and 
human services .  . 

but drug use among high school is continuing a long 
decline .  . 

the study of 50 , 000 students shows the percentage who tried the 
following in the 30 days before they were 

26 16 marijuana 4 
cocaine 0 . 7 . . 

40 22 marijuana 8 
cocaine 0 . 7 . . 

51 28 marijuana 12 
cocaine 1 . 3 . . 

among , use of marijuana , cocaine and 
declined over the year before. not so with  . 

2 of have tried in the last year , up 24 
over 1991. 

use of among is at its highest point since 6 
tried it in the last year .  . 

reducing drug use among students requires a different kind of 
strategy that health says will be part 
of an overall plan .  . 

the survey shows drugs are easier to get and 
of them. 

it 's scary , says .  . are focusing on , more 
vulnerable kids .  . 


scott , and 

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets 
the bible through the of a gun .  .  .  . atf spokesman 
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets 
the constitution through the of a gun .  .  .  . me 



from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject re from the 's 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 21 

in article writes 
i see you are a total ignorant as well. 
it 's the sign of a small mind to use 
language when he ca n't his point. 

oh , no , not in this case. i 've noticed that you conveniently edited out your 
stupid comment that the prc stands for  . when we 're arguing the 
vietnam war and about , and you toss in a like that  ( along 
with your other boners ) , you are an ignorant asshole. 

oh , and even the agree that they did far more damage to 
than we ever did. 





there are actually people that still believe love was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from  ( hot young star ) 
subject re mr. 's 'evidence' 
organization astronomy department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 36 

in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 

in article de . 
de .  ( gene w. smith ) writes 

when are going to draw a clear line between 
themselves and by your own statements , you were once 
a member of an organization which you knew supported 
exactly what supports , namely the age of 
consent .  . i 've never supported any such organization .  . you 
have. 

while both organizations may , on paper , support the of the age 
of consent , there the resemblance stops .  . 

one supports the removal of a law , the other a paper 
to sexual relations with children. 

what 's the difference , in practice 

it to your saying , it 's disgusting but should be legal , 

or 

someone else saying , let 's allow the parties involved to decide what is 
disgusting .  . 

or , if you 're like me , you think that it t a law , because 
some children ca n't make informed consent .  . 

brian 

,  . edu .  ( hot young star ) astronomy dept , boston university , 
boston , ma  . true personal salvation is achieved by absolute faith in 
ones true self .  . 


from  ( robert s. helfman ) 
subject re clinton 's 
organization the corporation , , ca 
lines 22 
nntp posting host org . 

in article 2 . pa . dec . com .  ( broward l. horne ) writes 

if you look through this newsgroup , you should be 
able to find clinton 's proposed 

for our computer and telephone systems. 

this  has been up before congress for at least 
the past 6 months , in the of the fbi 

bill. 

what kind of posted the above garbage would they be 
so kind as to explain how this is clinton 's , when it 
has been before congress for at least the past 6 months 

, the next thing you know , they 'll be blaming the on the 
poor guy. they 'll be blaming world war ii on him. they 'll be blaming 
the civil war on him. maybe the thirty years war 




from  ( daniel r. , to be ) 
subject re the state of justice 
organization university of 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
summary 's quest for justice 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , 
 ( not a boomer ) writes .  .  .  . 
a judge denied 's new trial motion , even though says it has two 
new witnesses that said the of the was dead from the impact , not 
from the fire .  . 

thoughts 

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start 
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led 
to the previous ruling appear .  . 

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed 
should n't that be up to a jury 

and what about members of the previous jury through the talk 
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against should n't that be enough for 
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial 

whatever happened to jurors having to be objective 

first , people should be aware that brett 's  ( no last name listed ) 
posts on bit . politics . indicate that he has been 
hostile 's policies and to the verdict 
when it came out. equal opportunity disagreement , i guess. ) 

my guess , without seeing the judge 's opinion , is that 's motion 
was denied on due grounds .  . otherwise , a party to a 
case could always keep one or two semi credible witnesses in 
reserve to spring if they lose .  . not exactly a way to promote 
 . 

daniel 

the uniform code the innocent , but it is not a 
for the , the blindly naive , or the gullible .  . 
corp .  . v. , 54 misc .  . , 172 , n . y . s . 400 , 
y .  . city  . ct .  .  . 

from  ( malcolm lynn ) 
subject re sexual proposition sexual harassment 
lines 2 
nntp posting host no . 
organization university of 
lines 3 


this is a 
s 

from  ( broward l. horne ) 
subject only 17 month ! 
x received by usenet . pa . dec . com . id fri , 16 apr 93 07 52 11 
x received by 2 . pa . dec . com . id fri , 16 apr 93 07 51 10 
x received by edu . 
6 . 16 . id thu , 15 apr 93 10 11 24 0600 
x to talk . politics . misc . usenet . 
x cc alt . politics . clinton . usenet . 
x mailer revision 66 . 25 . 
lines 



ahhh , remember the days of yesterday when we were only 
going to pay 17 month 

when only 1.2 of the population would pay extra taxes 

remember when a few of us predicted that it was n't true ) 
remember the dancing and singing ! liberation 
at last ! 

well , figure this out 

5 , to raise 60 100 billion per year ( on ) 
work it out ,  .  .  . 

60 , 000 , 000 , 000 , 000 , 000 year 

but , you , i 'll get free health care ! 
but , i , no , you wo n't ! 

this is only for that poor 37 million who have none. not for 
you ,  . ) that comes later. 

add in the estimates of the energy tax costs year 

plus , all that extra and rich taxes that will 
down , and what do you have 

1 , 000 year , just like i said two months ago. 

and , the best part you do n't get anything for it. 

is still to rise at same rate it 's been 
at , by clinton s own estimates .  . and this assumes that 
his plan will work ! 

i mean , come on , it does n't take a rocket scientist to see 
that in another 2 or 3 years , we 're getting another 
tax increase , because the will still be growing 
than the economy .  . 

all clinton is doing , is moving us to a higher board. 

face it. clinton is bush x 2. in four more years , our 
country will be completely bankrupt , and your children 's 
future , so oft mentioned by bill , will be gone. 

and those of you still yourselves will be 
with the guilt .  . 

well , at watch , gotta go. i want to be out of 
here by noon .  . got an at the  . no tax 
there , yet. 

) 



from  ( jack schmidling ) 
subject re news you may have missed , 3 23 
article i.d. genesis . 
organization , chicago , il 
lines 23 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( fogbound child ) writes 
 ( jack schmidling ) writes 

in article  ( scott babb ) writes 
jack wrote 
 ( jonathan a. ) writes 


... 

why do you restrict your condemnation of racial strife to israel 
do the situations in bosnia , tibet , china , etc. not merit your comment 

as far as i am aware , we have not sent close to 100 billion dollars to 

let 's not  . 


i notice you did not offer an alternative number .  . try this one on for 
size .  .  .  .  .  . by the year 2000 , american will have given israel 
one dollar for every star in the way  . 

i will let you look up the number .  . 

from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
summary but how do restrain unpleasant 
organization free the , inc. 
lines 46 
nntp posting host com . 

in article writes 
in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

in article b . writes 

... the point is that this law no one but the 
established car or people with enough money to start a 
fairly big operation all at once. protecting these folks from 
competition the rest of us from low and high 
quality .  . 

an excellent point. but you seem to be missing a more subtle 
point. it is not the government that should be the 
of your , but the established business interests 
that influence and direct government action in this case. 

it is the government that is preventing entry to the market .  . the 
desire of those running established to prevent or 
restrict the entry of is an understandable , though 
generally unpleasant , human failing .  . but without a means to act 
on this desire , without a government with sufficient power to 
restrict the options of the potential , the 
anti desire remains just an unpleasant wish. the 
government is the , so we seek to it so we 
do n't get the  . 

once again , mark , you do n't the means through which the government 
is to be prevented from becoming the tool of business interests .  . as a 
left , big government , conventional liberal , i'm just as willing as 
you are to vote against anti that favor 
 . 

but what i hear from is a desire to limit  terms , 
to government by its power to enforce laws , 
and a desire to eliminate 's pay .  . each strikes me as a 
particularly ineffective way to that and other special 
interests cannot influence public policy. in fact , they seem clearly 
designed to the opposite .  . 



mark 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re eight myths about national health  ( pt ii ) 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization in the hall 
lines 

progressive . co moderator ) writes 
f o health eight myths about national health  ( pt ii ) 

an office visit that 's 52 in seattle is 18 in vancouver 
 . that 's because , among other things , they 've given their 
government power to bargain with doctors and hospitals over  . 

the difference in the environment is in the  . 

lack of medicine and near absence of is really 
why we spend less using the most expensive approach of pure 
in canada  ( along with france and germany ) without 's the 
has admitted that are an order of magnitude 
lower in canada but doctors take home pay is almost equal to american 
doctors also , minimal  cos the system is so o o simple 
 ( early  . 

part of the deal for using the all approach like the french 
and germans do  ( hey , why do n't they criticize france and germany is 
it because too many people take french and german in college to make 
the accusations stick ( ) was to preserve the doctors  . 
since the wings of the are the ones that go to when 
the fee are presented , the politically doctors 
were just when they realized the would grow in strength 
rather than , especially when unlike in 
medicine approaches like britain 's national health service .  . 

've got to remember , you 've got a waiting list as well , but it 's 
not as obvious. if you 're poor and you do n't have , you do n't 
go to a surgeon .  . in the states you by ability to pay . ' . 

for non life threatening things , market arguments adequately cover why 
certain are in demand .  . i have md friends who ca n't 
make a living as back in not due to the 
but because they wo n't get enough the medical 
monopoly 's grip on doctors  ( as in the us ) aside so they 
must move to larger places. however , this does not refute debunking 
of waiting lines for and care , as has been done in the 
u.s. by reports , health policy studies cited by  . 
e. on usenet , , , etc. 

doug has posted a article from 3 weeks ago about canada 's 
health approach , on talk . politics . medicine .  . there is one 
small error in the article not all of our hospitals are private .  . 

t national health mean that americans who are now 
fully might have to for less 

in canada , covers all health costs except 
care , , prescription drugs , service , and private 
hospital , so many do end up buying some private 
 . a policy to cover all of these things runs about 40 to 40 
a month .  . 

of course , the one thing to note is that in the canada france germany 
case , private the basic to the public 
 . they realized they were keeping low risk high profit extra 
for things like private semi private  . ward 
accomodation ) , , , etc. for or personal 
benefits , they 'll have nothing to do with you if you want to be 
covered for basic care. 

at that point , they would n't even consider a approach 
to the universal and sell policies to make up 
the difference in the federal and market stuff. 



t free care encourage people to run to the doctor for every 
and pain 

people who get free treatment do go to the doctor and hospital about 
a third more often than those who have to pay a share of their medical 
 . 

still , who pay nothing at the doctor 's have a lower 
per person health bill than we do. 

it is free in that there are no nor  ( two 
things which i advocate to make the canadian look more like 
real health which actually it is) .  . i know that when 
working in , ontario and quebec , i was aware that i was paying 
for health e.g. , in , were listed on my 
pay did not at time , but only 
at tax time  ( built into the tax  . only 
will proclaim that it 's free , along with the canadian left for 
that is part of their brainwashing  . 

the french do have , though. france magazine 's summer 
1992 edition has a of their basic 
, including a of  . for 
1 30 days , you 're covered for 80 of the public hospital rate , 100 
 . with extra private , you can get into a private 
hospital and be covered for any differences beyond the public hospital 
rate .  . the public covers 100 beyond 30 days , or the same 
cash amount for a private hospital and the difference is paid 
out of or according to your private  . 
over 2 of french have some form of extra private  . so , 
the other 30 of health costs in europe are out of private funds , not 
gleaned from other taxes .  . the are combined public and 
private for total using the same methods that 
the 13 14 figure for the u.s. 

t the private health industry just too big 
and powerful to kill 

the health segment of our industry would be 
politically , in the quiet words of one advocate for a 
national plan .  . some 1 , 200 now sell more than billion in 
health  . they 'd put up a hard fight. not only has the industry 
grown since canada shut down its own health , but 
our government leaves politicians more open to than does 
canada 's system. 

health does exist in canada and in western europe , its 
just that it does n't cover basic care. you can opt out in canada 
and germany , but you 'll have to go as a result because 
there are too few other people that do so i.e. , no market .  . 

when private realized how much money they 'd make without the 
risks involved in basic (e . g .  . , neurosurgery ) versus deluxe 
(e . g .  . , having to call tv to replace a set on 
the in someone 's private hospital room ) , they started to 
themselves on the back for their social responsibility .  . in quebec 
last spring , a of private publicly warned against 
any thoughts of , low cost parts of that 's 
public health plan .  . 



me 
l. dare 
go go ! ! ! 


from  ( michael a. thomas ) 
subject the verdict is in  ( rodney king ) 
organization , ca 
lines 19 

the federal civil rights trial against the four la police 
officers accused of violating rodney king 's civil rights is 
now history 

lawrence guilty 
guilty 
theodore innocent 
timothy wind innocent 

for mid august , appeals expected .  . 

so far , all is calm in la .  .  .  . 


michael thomas 
i do n't think eyes will get you that flame  .  .  . 
to 
santa heights , ca , 
 ( 714 )  ( 714 )  ( fax ) 

from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re the candidate 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization in the hall 
lines 32 

 ( steven smith ) writes 
 ( brian ross ) writes 

in the world of the future , bill clinton will appoint to 
all american  ( starting with the american health 
care  . we will be benevolent canadian dictators .  . 

with yet another tax being by the clinton to 
pay for new   social programs , i 've really begun to suspect 
that the , long of their place in the american 
, an american draft who to canada some 
time between and , him in the ways of canadian 
socialism , awarded him with marijuana when he got 
the correct answers , then returned him to the states  ( under the 
control of the wife to his case ) to high 
public office and destroy the evil and free market 
forces in america , thus america in the canadian image. 


and not only that , made a second from the same tissue 
after that of said wife , to run at the of the 
more pro business party under of more free trade ... and 
she did , many times , to ... 

( ( ( 



me 
l. dare 
go go ! ! ! 


from  ( pat ) 
subject re license plates 
organization express access communications usa 
lines 21 
distribution va 
nntp posting host access . net . 

in article  ( james meritt ) writes 

belonging to associated with the embassies from various 
nations have diplomatic license plates .  . they are red , white , and blue and 
read where l is a letter and the 's are numbers. the d means 
diplomatic and the l s indicate which country. a few years ago the 

actually , teh d means the has diplomatic  . 
that means they can do as they damn well please on the roads , and you 
have only god as your protection. 

the state department issues plates for who work 
at the embassies but have n't been granted  . most embassies 
have restricted for street side. 

the s plates allow them to use those areas as well as the 
restricted lots at national and state dept , without a lot of crap. 





from  ( marc ries ) 
subject re only 17 month ! 
nntp posting host com . 
organization 
lines 25 


a 4 14 93 orange titled a case for 
the tax got my attention .  . 

some quotes 

... a tax on , because of the definition of that 
concept , invites the government to into every and 
of our lives. encouraging people to on one another 
and report against the almighty state , which most 
americans in nazi or communist  .  .  . 

... although most americans paid no tax at all 50 years ago 
began only during world war ii , as a temporary 
, and in the family federal tax was 9 .  .  .  . 

last year the federal government got only 37 percent of its 
from taxes .  .  .  . how long ago was it that the federal government 
somehow managed to along on 63 percent of its 1992 
... would you believe five ... 

... the tax has converted a free people into a society of 
the and the  .  .  . 



from  ( lefty ) 
subject re voter 
organization our of heavy 
lines 13 

in article , 
 ( theodore a. kaldis ) wrote 

when i entered 1st grade , was president and john f. 
was just a relatively obscure from new england .  . so how old do 
you think i am now 

ask me whether i'm surprised that you have n't managed to out of 
college after all this time. 



c  . m .  . c . . , d  . o .  . d . . 

from  ( dan epstein ) 
subject re foreign media reaction april 1 12 , part 1 of 3 
nntp posting host cup . com . 
organization 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 2 . 
lines 19 

baker wrote 

first off they could recognise 's responsibility in the 
iran iraq war. providing technical assistance to iran to get it 's oil 
back up to capacity would also be a smart move , at the moment 
iran is above it 's  . if they had extra capacity they would 
use it and bring down the price further which is in our interests .  . 

i agree with most of what says , except the point about it being in 
our interests to bring down the oil price .  . consider that both the u.s. 
and great britain have domestic sources to partly 
their energy needs. oil both germany , 
japan and many other industrial more than these two .  . 
in addition , the proceeds from the sale  ( especially by saudi arabia , kuwait 
u . a . e .  . etc ) are in the u.s. and g . b .  . , 
up these and further providing an incentive 
to keep from falling too low. 

dan 

from  ( david matthew deane ) 
subject re public on ballot access , vote fraud and other issues 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 11 

hmmm .  .  .  ( and long) message , but twice well , i do n't care for 
, but that is a disagreement , not a tactical 
one. reform of existing laws would be an awfully good idea. you would n't 
believe some of the outrageous things the guardians of our two party 
system do to shut out  . 

david matthew 

when the words open , 
it means the death of doors 
even sense the danger .  .  ( amon liner ) 

from  ( carlos carrion ) 
subject re the role of the national news media in 
organization , pasadena , ca 
lines 20 
distribution ca 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
i'm sick of it. this effort to the 
of americans by playing every trial as completely sexist , racist , 
or gay , when the realities are seldom this simple. this 
is what happens when a society becomes up in ideologies .  . 

i have come to the conclusion that the tv here in la 
want a to happen when the verdict comes in. 

in a not so subtle way they are their audience for the 
worst and even going so far as to want something to happen for 
their with all their and their we are ready 
for anything so watch us messages .  .  .  . 

 . 


i as much as any other man am in favor of having the superior position 
to the white race abraham lincoln 
 .  .  . ames . ! elroy ! jpl ! ! 

from  ( ted frank ) 
subject hate crimes laws 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 40 

in article  ( douglas meier ) writes 
in article com . com . 
 ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article 
 ( douglas meier ) writes 
... 
if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault and 
 . why must we add gay to the list is n't this a sort of 
double or am i just being a again 

() to deter an of gay that has not been by 
assault laws .  . 

so we ought to make beating up a homosexual more illegal than beating up a 
straight 

and who 's advocating that hate crimes laws are aimed at the motivations 
of the acts .  . just like is treated stricter than 
of passion  . 

() no , it is not double  . a single act may lead to multiple 
charges and multiple crimes .  . 

i think what you meant to say here was , with the current mutation of the us 
constitution under the current police state , someone may be charged multiple 
times for one act if the victim in question is of the right  . a single 
act should never merit more than on charge .  . 

so if i set off a bomb in the world trade center , i can only be charged with 
more than one murder , and not the other five deaths and extensive property 
damage after all , the bomb was a single act. 

douglas c. you ca n't play electro magnetic 



frank however should have mentioned that though 
his advice is legally sound , if you follow it 
the u of c law school you will probably wind up in jail .  . 
standard disclaimers james , in misc . legal . 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 23 

in article  ( steve thomas ) 



just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you ! 


a friend of mine who pot every day and last tuesday took 5 of acid 
is still having trouble for the bowl when he takes a dump .  . do n't as 
me how , i just have seen the results. 

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people up in 
the head. 





steve thomas 



ryan 

from 
subject re media horrified at investigating bush ! 

organization california state polytechnic university , 
lines 29 
nntp posting host 
nntp posting user 

 ( lance visser ) writes 
i ca n't find my source. 
but .  . if you state that you will retract your claim , i 'll go dig one up 
at the library. fair enough 

are you serious i'm not talking about retracting anything until 
you have produced something. 

if you were not just talking off the top of your head , i would 
assume that you have some memory of what your source is. 

put up now without conditions ! 


yes , very serious. i claim that i can substantiate my statement that 
says he does n't believe was investigating him. you claim 
was investigating him. if you will state that you were in error 
on this point , provided i produce the source , i 'll go dig it up. 

now give me one reason why i should go to the trouble if you wo n't 
agree to this it is simple enough you know. but i do n't have time 
to waste if you 'll just blow it off with more of the tripe you usually 
post. 




michael 
email 

from 
subject re 
summary 
news software vax vms 1.4 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , product division 
lines 24 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 
in article ,  ( david veal ) writes 
and like the house of which it is copied from it was given pretty 
wide powers .  . unfortunately they started to use them and thus the 
set in. 

i was n't aware the house of had wide powers .  . i was under the 
impression is was pretty powerless compared to the house of , and 
certainly did n't have almost equal their powers .  .  ( the senate is restricted 
only that it may not introduce to ) . 

the senate was less powerful than the house of in the period in question. 
the of the powers of the house of did not occur until 
and david george 's  . even despite this the house of has 
power even today and is far from a body. 

just how much power does the house of have now 


who said anything about snapped  . johnson 
this is still just culture  . you wait till i 've 
into the situation and found my  . 
then i 'll start ! douglas adams 


from  . grinch ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization 
lines 52 
distribution world 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 
summary limited governments versus failed governments 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 

of course , one again faces the question of how one government 
power  ( and keeps it circumscribed ) in a complex society when it is in the 
interest of neither nor to from using 
government power for their own ends. but apart from that little 
 .  .  . 

without having a complete answer to this question , i should think 
it obvious that the first step should be to convince people this would be 
a desirable result. there are still quite a lot of people who feel that 
the command of eastern europe failed due to corruption rather than 
essential weaknesses of , and you still have a majority 
in this nation that favors keeping and laws on 
the books in order to send a signal . 


it would seem that a society with a failed government would be an ideal 
setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented .  . now why do you suppose 
that never seems to occur ... 


i fail to see why you should feel this way in the first place. constant 
combat is n't particularly conducive to intellectual theorizing .  . also , 
they tend to get invaded before they can come to anything like a stable 
society anyway. 


... is such a word .  .  .  . 

i would n't call it vague .  . i 'd call it  . all is 
not necessarily the same. by all government , some 
treat every system from a command economy to those that 
relatively free as identical .  . that 's one reason 
many of the rest of us find their analysis to be simplistic .  . 


umm , is there any distinction between vague and in this 
context aside from one having a more positive connotation than the other 

at any rate , we 've been through all this before. 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 


, this is a libertarian newsgroup , you can get away with 
saying , bullshit here. you 're welcome , 


mr. 

from  ( paolo gardinali ) 
subject re new bullshit study out on gay percentage 
lines 48 

in  ( clayton cramer ) writes 


from the santa rosa ) . press , april 15 , 1993 , p. 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new study on male sexual behavior , the most 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

etc. etc .  .  .  .  .  . 


the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 


sure ! ! ! and what 's  . 3 . of a woman any hypothesis 

how can you trust a report from people that have no idea 
of what a is 

the same bullshit article reported that 22 , 5 of all the men have 
sex 10 times or more a week  ( elf , how many times did you fill 
one of those ) and had other statistics that took 
in no consideration different class , marital status 
etc. no information on were given. 

compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . it 's a that we do n't have a for 

do you think you can compare so lightly secondary data from 2 very 
different  ( and discutible ) 

straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 

it just shows how ignorant are press release writers and 
most that read them .  .  .  .  .  . 





from  ( david veal ) 
subject re clinton 's program 
organization university of division of continuing education 
lines 29 

in article  ( red herring ) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( jeffrey s linder ) writes 
in article 
 ( mark wilson ) writes 
on the news last night clinton was the for 
his so called  . 
it seems that one small item within this was going to pay for free 
for poor kids .  . 

for children in this country are already free if you care to 
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the parents 
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done. 

in case you have n't noticed , are pushing a universal health 
care access program .  . access here means that folks who do not give 
a damn about their children will have health care services 
to their  . 

i 've read about more than a few of these programs that into 
problems in convincing parents to get their children even 
when they were to their  . (i do n't know , maybe 
that they have to be informed of about possible risks , side 
effects , and bad reactions them . ) . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( brent irvine ) 
subject re stop the former my beloved damn 's be taken over 
organization university of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 31 

in article  ( pete ) writes 
in article , 
 ( brent irvine ) writes .  .  .  . 
` 
` 54 40 or fight was about a dispute with 
` british canada , again old stuff. 

uh , not quite .  . the 54 40  dispute is still , 
and canadian and us coast guard regularly if 
each other 's fish in the disputed off 
 . the only reason you do n't hear more about it is that 
it 's in neither country 's interest to the quarrel .  . 
that does n't mean that either country is prepared to back down , 
especially the local political representatives whose 
are all  . 

rights are disputed .  . between 2 nations , no matter how 
friendly , there is always  . 

what i was getting at was the 54 40  or fight slogan is old stuff 
dealing with the land dispute .  . no one is saying 54 40  or fight 
about rights. the dispute about the 
territory  ( we called it) is long  . 

rights .  .  . small .  . 



personal opinions why , 
yes. what did you think 
they were  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re ca 's laws 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 91 

in article ,  ( jamie r. mccarthy ) writes 
 ( clayton cramer ) writes 
unfortunately , homosexuals do n't believe in this concept of freedom .  . 
they believe that they have a right to force people to them , 
to them , and do business with them , regardless of the feelings 
or beliefs of the other person. 

allow me to point out that clayton is once again an 
entire class of people , as if they all have one will. having completely 
into the of believing that there are no in the world 
who think differently from the child advocating minority on 
soc . motss . , he does n't even notice that he 's starting a sentence with 
they believe when the of that they is millions of people. 
 .  .  . so . few as to be irrelevant .  .  .  . 

if you do n't want to be together as a group , stop 
on being treated as a member of a group. 

 ( daniel r. , to be ) writes 
force people to no. require people to give them a fair 
look yes. 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 
you give them a fair look. you decide that you do n't want to 
the guy wearing the t  . he files a lawsuit .  . you lose .  . 
yes , such laws force you to homosexuals .  . 

, as well 

sexual orientation is not defined by the anti discrimination law 
that was passed last year .  . is n't a sexual orientation 

and , , let me describe how you 'd have it , and see if this is 
accurate. i apply for a job at a computer company .  . they see i'm 
wearing some article of homosexual , i , maybe a 
silence death pin or something. they turn me down because of 
that. i ca n't do a thing and have to go look somewhere else. 
am i correct in assuming that you approve of the 
company 's actions , or at least that you support their 
right to take that action 

i support their right to take this action. i would n't 
do it myself , unless it was something like the t  . 

how about a black man applies for a job at a bank. the bank decides , 
based on statistics , a black person would be more likely to steal 
money , and denies the man the job. would you support the bank 's right 
to this freedom if not , explain how this differs .  . 

i support their right to do so  ( just like i support your right to 
engage in with adults ) , but i think they are doing 
something wrong. i would n't do business with such a bank. 

clayton has repeatedly said that california 's 
as a sexual orientation , and that on the 
basis of sexual orientation is illegal .  . 

if true , i'm frankly amazed .  . but i do n't trust clayton to give me 
the whole story. would someone clarify for me whether this is true , 
what sort of discrimination clayton 's talking about  ( jobs housing 
hate crimes ) , and whether the effect of the law is really that 
a has to an admitted  . 

internet j . 

here 's the law that was passed and signed by the 

the people of the state of california do as follows 

1 section 1. the purpose of this act is to 
2 existing case law as determined in gay law students v. 
3 telephone and , 24 cal .  . 3d 458  ( 1979 ) 
4 and v. corp .  . , cal .  .  . 3d 
5  ( 1991 ) prohibiting discrimination based on sexual 
6 orientation .  . 
7  . 2. section  . is added to the labor code , to 
8 read 
9 1 .  .  ( a ) sections and 
10 discrimination or treatment in any of the terms 
11 and conditions of employment based on actual or 
12 perceived sexual orientation .  . 


13  ( b ) this section shall not apply to a religious 
14 association or corporation not organized for private 
15 profit , whether incorporated as a religious or public 
16 benefit corporation .  . 


clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( dale cook ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization 
lines 45 

in article  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
in article  ( michael a. thomas ) writes 
i really do n't want to waste time in 
here to do battle about the of drugs .  . if you really want to , we 
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is ! 

read i do not know what the fuck i'm talking about , and am 
not eager to make a fool of myself. 

oh , you foolish person. i do know what the fuck i'm talking about 
and will demonstrate for such as yourself if you 
wish. 

the of drugs will provide few if any of the benefits 
so highly by its safer , drugs along 
with from taxes on those drugs reduced crime and reduced 
organized crime specifically etc , etc 

ahhh , the classic truth by blatant assertion  . too bad it 's 
so false .  . take a look at great britain sometime for a 
nice history on drug  . the evidence there shows that 
during periods of time when drugs  ( such as heroin ) were illegal , crime 
went up and people did die from bad drugs .  . during times when drugs 
were , those trends were reversed .  . 


if you would like to prove how you are , we can get into 
why again a lot of posts that i do n't think this group 
was intended for and something easily solved by you doing a little 
research .  . 

now this is a great example of an proof. gosh , i'm convinced .  . 
( for the humor  . first , assert something for which you 
have no evidence , then dodge requests for proof by claiming to know 
what this group was intended for. as to research , if you 'd done any 
at all , you 'd realize that there is plenty of reason to believe that 
drugs will have many benefits to society. there are some 
plausible arguments against it , too , but they are n't enough to convince 
me that of drugs is the answer. i'm willing to be 
convinced i'm wrong , but i seriously doubt the likes of you can do it. 

 .  .  . any town having more churches than has a serious 
social problem. edward 
the opinions are mine only (i . e .  . , they are not my employer 's ) 


from  ( charles m kozierok ) 
subject re the could win the  .  .  . clinton . 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 41 

 ( oh boy .  . it 's the in famous baker . ) . 

in article writes 

in article ,  ( gary l dare ) writes 

 ( charles m kozierok ) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes 
... but like basic plus , you have to tell them that you do n't 
want it ... for example , in western canada are not 
part of it  ( mennon and were fundamentalist protestants from 
germany whose followers left for the new world ... are a 
very lot while are to the  . the 
american idea being today gives you no option but to live 
off the land ... 

the selfish that they are. unfortunately , that number has 
recently , but once president gets through 
with us , i hope for a of trend .  . 

well here we have the right for more selfish  . pity they 
do n't look at what 12 years of the bush selfish bastard 
has done to the country. 

how about what 25 years of tax and spend , big government , 
, and out of control good intentions at others  expense has 
done to the country 

elect a selfish bastard government and they will run the country for themselves , 
why they are selfish  . bush and gave tax breaks for the 
rich and paid for them by borrowing against the of the middle 
class .  . 

yeah , right. and clinton is any different please. 
he is just a better  .  .  . i mean ,  . 

you think slick and his of will lead 
us to the promised land do n't hold your  . 


charles 

from  ( the sky already  . now what ) 
subject recent news 
news software vax vms 1.4 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , product division 
lines 35 

in the hopes of adding a little life to , what seems to be , the 
same old , i would like to add a few bits of info and ask for 
comments .  . 

1 ) a couple days ago the were with stories of proof 
that the north had held u.s. after the war ended .  . 
way back in today 's newspaper  ( page of san francisco chronicle ) 
there is an article about the document that held the proof. 
used without permission 

the document , which was discovered in the archives of the soviet 
communist party in , is a translation of what is described 
as a september report prepared for the vietnam by general 
van , who is identified as the chief of of the 
north army .  . 
later on in the article after it talks about the claim of 1 , 
americans in north 
said the easiest way to prove that the document is a 
is to review 's career. in , he said , was 
not chief of he was the army in military 4 
in central vietnam .  . 

2 ) i heard on the radio that the church of scientology has filed for 
becuase the employees of , owned by cos , filed a 
class action suit against them for requiring the employees to pay 
to become members of the church. anyone heard more about this 

3) micheal went into business with micheal  . no lie. 


who said anything about snapped  . johnson 
this is still just culture  . you wait till i 've 
into the situation and found my  . 
then i 'll start ! douglas adams 


from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re swimming pool defense 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 17 

in article  ( david smith ) writes 
granted , the simple fact of holding down a job will improve these kids  chances 
of getting another job in the future , but what inner city kid would want to hold 
down just one more minimum job when there is so much more money to be made 
dealing drugs 

what kid would want to hold down a minimum job when there is so 
much more money to be made dealing drugs 

yet , somehow , kids do hold down minimum jobs .  . so do inner 
city kids , when give the chance. any reason you think that inner city kids 
are incapable of doing legitimate work 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from  ( bearpaw ) 
subject re 
organization the world public access unix , , ma 
lines 33 

 ( steve pope ) writes 

any thoughts on who is going to count all of the bodies at 
the the press the white house the most 
the king of the motss 

just curious as to whose bias we are going to see when the numbers 
get brought out. 

probably , law enforcement people  ( park service police and d . c .  . cops ) , 
who will use and extrapolate based on the 
of the in small regions .  . 

these sort of techniques derive from army intelligence and 
methods of strength , and tend to be 
skewed to always come up with numbers , 
so as to justify bigger  . 

judging from past experience  ( the '87 march , a peace and justice march the 
same year , and 3 different pro marches ) , the park service will come out 
with an estimate that is approximately 1 2 the estimate that will 
come up with though the last choice march i went to had a sign in system , 
and the numbers ended up closer .  . and then you 've got the media types in their 
, dice .  . 

i believe the plans and handing out some sort of , and 
basing their count on those .  . i see two problems with this. one , can they 
get everybody to take one  ( and only one) two , they could n't possibly have 
been able to choose a color design that wo n't with somebody 's ! 





from  ( xavier gallagher ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
organization systems ltd public access news , london , uk 
lines 

in article  ( richard walz ) writes 
in article  ( xavier gallagher ) writes 
in article  ( harry benjamin gibson ) writes 
there is something that bothers me about this whole arguement .  . 


5 ) could someone please explain why homosexuality is such a great sin 
without giving the standard just because god so . almost all of 



thanks for your posting , i it. 

the reason homosexuality is a sin is because the jews were a 
group of people trying hard to survive and between 
themselves and their oppressors .  . this led to several things. 

1. worshipping one god. all their foes were  . 

2. all sex was put in to a moral context. all their foes were 
and their seed  . 

it 's just as easy to seed or spread it thin , why then 
the specific on homosexuals , especially since the answer to 
everything back then was stoning to death , does n't help population growth 
much. also to just say that their foes were begs the question , 

the key word is  . if was anywhere where there 
was a chance of procreation it was ok. if it was on the ground or 
in to a man it was a big sin , with animals .  . the jews said sex pro 
creation. 

homosexuals did n't , there they are evil and should be 
to death. 



3. all sex was directed towards breeding .  . the jews were few in number 
and their foes many. to survive everything had to go into  . 

like i said , stoning to death does n't help population much. it sounds more 
like a set of that already existed and were blown into a religion 
to the differences of jewish culture and some pretty 


stoning non breeding population was fine. only the were 
considered to be worth much. 

1 jesus , 70 judaism , 29 original  ( prejudiced ) bullshit .  . 

i 'll buy the bullshit .  . he was a profound as well. he might have 
been bitterly gay himself. no record of marriage. 


ben gibson 




richard  ( 408 ) 1200 




play 
cheap part time dark by 
world wide uucp of the universe email 
e mail advanced 

from com .  ( brett atwood ) 
subject re i thought was not allowed 
nntp posting host harris . com . 
distribution world 
reply to 
organization harris  ( government communications system division ) 
lines 4 

debate deleted 

i guess it is allowed .  . 


from 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
summary my  . 02 . 
news software vax vms 1.4 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , product division 
lines 59 

in article ,  ( ian sutherland ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article com . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article  ( paul schmidt ) writes 
com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
... 
it is a failure of if the ideology does not provide any 
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than dreams .  . 

you seem to be saying that a limited government will provide more 
opportunities for private interests to use it to pursue their own 
, and asking to prove that this will not happen. 
while i ca n't offer such a proof , it seems pretty damn plausible that 
if the government does not a particular area , it cannot become 
a tool of private interests to pursue their own in that area. 
i rather suspect that it 's the sort of government we have now that is 
more likely to become such a tool , and that it is such a tool in many 
instances .  . 

pardon me for , but why does n't anyone ever bring up other 
possibilities besides more government , less government , or no government 
and stop there it seems to me that the problems with society go much 
deeper than government. democracies seem to of the majority 
of society , both the good and the bad. if you take away the government , 
you still have the flaws in society , except this time , with 
no  . yes no 
why does n't anybody ever discuss communal society , like a 
i never studied it on depth , but from what i 've heard , the 
in was very successful .  . it is also very close to what aristotle 
and socrates believed was the best. 
sorry to from the discussion. 

just 
as fails to how pure communism is to be achieved and 
the state is to away , frequently fail to show how 
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human 
condition. 

i suspect that this is because improvement in the human condition as 
you define it is not the primary goal of , and would not 
be the primary goal of a libertarian government. my impression of 
is that its primary goal is the elimination of 
government coercion except in a very limited cases. 

but what good is change if there is no improvement in the human 
condition who would ever support the change if you tell them it wo n't 
improve their lives i know that there are , and will be , 
who will jump in now and say that it will improve our lives. i can deal 
with that. all i'm saying is that improving the human condition must 
be the primary goal of any organization .  . 





who said anything about snapped  . johnson 
this is still just culture  . you wait till i 've 
into the situation and found my  . 
then i 'll start ! douglas adams 


from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 25 

in article ,  ( radagast ) writes 
 ( clayton cramer ) writes 
unfortunately , homosexuals do n't believe in this concept of freedom .  . 
they believe that they have a right to force people to them , 
to them , and do business with them , regardless of the feelings 
or beliefs of the other person. 

ha ha ha , oh , clayton , you 're so good , so consistent , so , 
yup , that 's right , they , these homosexual people want to force you to 
ignore what 's none of your fucking business. ie .  . i will explain 
their sexual orientation should be irrelevant , as irrelevant as their 
, , religious , attitude to hand gun ownership , 
etc. they want to force you to the best person for the job , the 
to the person who will look after it , do business with whoever 
will make you money .  .  . 

yet , when a law was proposed for virginia that extended this 
philosophy to  ( so that people who away 
from the work could n't be against by employers ) , 
the liberal gov .  . it. which shows that do n't 
give a damn about best person for the job , it 's just a power 
play .  . 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( john cobarruvias ) 
subject re newsweek reports clinton approval  .  .  . 
organization nasa 
distribution usa 
lines 28 

in article  ( paul s galvanek ) 
writes 
when i heard the latest approval reported for clinton , i 
laughed so hard i forgot the exact numbers. maybe one of the 
can my memory .  .  .  . 

has his dropped to 48 or 49 percent ha ha ha ha ha ! 

oh my either way , it 's still the lowest any president 
has ever in his first 100 days , since these started being 
taken .  . 

, i guess this has some significance as opposed to having an incredible 
drop during the last days in office. having a loss in the 
during the last days of office usually means no re election .  . ask 
george .  . 


he was finished before he started ! 

good one ,  . hard to top .  . 


the 





from  ( fletcher p adams ) 
subject re selective service 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
organization state university 
lines 35 

 ( kenneth c. mitchell ) writes 
dave  ( borden@head wrote 
the selective service should be abolished .  . to start with , the 
draft is immoral .  . whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now , 
and military agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior 
with a army than with  . finally , the government has us 
on many lists in many computers  ( the , social security and 
to name a few ) and it can find us if it needs to. 
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time. 
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the a little bit. 

i'm really surprised clinton has n't already tried to do this. he seems 
to want to other irrelevant issues first , so why not this one as well. 

let me say this about that , as a navy 

i agree. cut it. but let 's not stop there. 

eliminate the c 17 transport .  . 

wrong. we need its capability .  . sure it has its problems , very few 
have n't , but getting rid of something we need is not the 
answer. what do you want to do , start over a a new 
from it 'll have its problems as well and there will be calls 
again , for it to be  . the other option is to try to extend 
the life of the c and c that are getting extremely old .  . 

the 21 nuclear  . 
ground the b 2 stealth bomber .  . 

it 'll cost jobs , but i'm for it. we especially do n't need a b 2. the 
21 , i know about. 




from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians 
summary constitutional basis of foreign aid 
organization historical accuracy , inc. 
lines 22 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( roger collins ) writes 
... 
i ask myself , what law could we pass to prevent government from doing 
stupid , things with our money then i think , the constitution 
was supposed to do that. could someone please tell me what legitimate 
constitutional power the federal government is using when it takes money 
from my and gives it to countries seriously. 

roger 


since you asked , article i section 1. article i section 8. article i 
section 10. article ii section 2. article  . amendment .  . 

with this as a guide , try reading it yourself. 




steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

subject re why not concentrate on child 
from 
distribution world 
organization city council , public access. 
nntp posting host govt . 
lines 18 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

you mean , if a large part of the population supports discrimination 
against homosexuals , they will be injured .  . but if a large part of the 
population supports such discrimination , how did that law get passed 

an addition to anti discrimination laws which includes and bisexuality 
one would assume it would be because politicians were listening to the people 
coming up with rational arguments rather than variations on bigotry .  . logic 
sometimes  . 
btw , glad to see that you 've admitted sexual attraction to children is a 
sexual orientation .  . did n't think you had that much honesty .  . 


tony , , new  . 
usenet is like a herd of elephants with massive , 
difficult to , , entertaining , and a source of mind 
of when you least expect it. gene , 1992 

from  ( tony c ) 
subject guilty  .  .  . or not guilty .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . fault law ) 
article i.d. mentor . 
organization university computing center 
lines 6 

thanks to everyone who sent replies regarding this case. a few of them were 
very and helped very much. 


once again. 
thanks ! t . c .  . 

from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
organization university of virginia 
lines 13 

in article  ( mark walsh ) writes 
there is a big difference between running one 's business 
affairs , and actively people off. 

and charging homosexuals more becuase people think that aids is a gay 
disease is actively people off. 



greg , university of virginia 
mail astronomy department , , va 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from  ( roger collins ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
reply to 
organization computer corporation 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 46 

in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article writes 
it is the government that is preventing entry to the market .  . the 
desire of those running established to prevent or 
restrict the entry of is an understandable , though 
generally unpleasant , human failing .  . but without a means to act 
on this desire , without a government with sufficient power to 
restrict the options of the potential , the 
anti desire remains just an unpleasant wish. the 
government is the , so we seek to it so we 
do n't get the  . 

once again , mark , you do n't the means through which the government 
is to be prevented from becoming the tool of business interests .  . as a 
left , big government , conventional liberal , i'm just as willing as 
you are to vote against anti that favor 
 . 

but what i hear from is a desire to limit  terms , 
to government by its power to enforce laws , 
and a desire to eliminate 's pay .  . each strikes me as a 
particularly ineffective way to that and other special 
interests cannot influence public policy. in fact , they seem clearly 
designed to the opposite .  . 

this is similar to my saying that clinton 's summit does little to 
fix the health care problem. look at the whole picture , not just 
randomly picked libertarian positions .  . if government is not allowed to 
use non initiated force to achieve its goals , than no special interest 
can influence the government to use non initiated force on their behalf .  . 

the means to such a restricted government is another topic 
which i 'll address  . it certainly wo n't happen until 
is the dominate philosophy .  . what means do we have to 
make the dominate philosophy run the education 
monopoly , so we have to be creative .  . the advocates for self government 
reports 85 of their 1 participants embrace  . 
that 's the best means i 've seen yet. we should lobby for compulsory 
1  . ) in ! 

roger 

it 's amazing to me that governments around the world will try every 
aspect of government control before , as a final last resort after 
everything else fails , they will try individual liberty .  . 
, libertarian candidate for president  

from (dean . kaflowitz) . 
subject re i thought was not allowed 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 65 

in article ,  ( matt x8043 ) writes 


in article in talk . politics . misc . , 
 ( larry margolis ) writes 

i would suggest that legal precedent defines a human being (i . e .  . , a person 
whose rights are protected by the constitution and the law ) as someone with 
a brain .  . 

no , if you want to use legal precedent , you should take a look at the 
model code , on which many states base their criminal code 

my apologies if i was i was not trying to start a 
debate , since there are many  ( in some cases conflicting ) on 
the books. i was merely suggesting a paradigm that might make sense 
for a pro imho .  . 

cite one of these  . you keep making 
these assertions , but you have n't supported any of them yet. 
i am speaking of that conflict with the definition 
larry posted. 

why did you delete the code that larry posted 

also , the model code made perfect sense to me. were you , 
perhaps , confused by it 

also , i am still looking for your definition .  . the one you used 
clearly indicates that a fetus is not a human being. 

this is not likely to please either pro or 
pro , but it is pretty clear from the legal medical concept of 
brain death . 
brain death is a method of when a  ( known ) person is legally 
dead there 's no analogous concept of brain birth . 
i have just coined it. you may object to the paradigm , but it would 
make our treatment of human life consistent .  . 

circular arguments are usually very consistent .  . 

3) if a parent has the right to choose to not take responsibility 
for their own child , why are there laws and penalties against 
child 
this last question is irrelevant and something of a non sequitur .  . 
can you establish some relevance or even some sense for it 
if at some point an child is a human being , the parents clearly 
have the same her as any other parents have 
their children. 
and no parent can be forced to supply bodily resources their children , 
even if necessary to save the child 's life. 
there is a confusion here between action and a parent does not have 
to run out in front of a to save their child 's life either , but a parent 
is required to feed his children. 


again , your desire for consistency when it does not suit 
your needs. the principle of protecting life is abandoned based 
on action versus  . not much of a principle .  . suddenly 
you recognize that the claim on bodily resources is dependent 
on circumstances other than this principle of life. that 's 
a very principle you have there , matt .  . 

dean kaflowitz 


from  ( dale cook ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization 
lines 25 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 
in article  ( steve thomas ) 


just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you ! 

a friend of mine who pot every day and last tuesday took 5 of acid 
is still having trouble for the bowl when he takes a dump .  . do n't as 
me how , i just have seen the results. 

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people up in 
the head. 

i'm sorry about your friend. really. but this anecdote does nothing to 
justify the war on drugs . if anything , it demonstrates that the war 
is a miserable failure .  . what it demonstrates is that people will take 
drugs if they want to , legal or not. perhaps if your friend were taking 
legal , drugs under a doctors he might not be in the 
position he 's in now. 


 .  .  . any town having more churches than has a serious 
social problem. edward 
the opinions are mine only (i . e .  . , they are not my employer 's ) 


from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re just what is in the jobs bill 
summary answer local communities decide what to do with block grants 
distribution usa 
organization just a , inc. 
lines 73 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( mark wilson ) writes 
this was in wed .  .  . 

start 
the white house , seeking to mount public pressure on gop , 
news in some 's home states with news warning that 
certain may not be funded if the bill is n't 
passed .  . 

none of the mentioned are actually in the bill , rather they are 
part of a wish list that may be funded from the 2 . 56 . billion in 
community development block grants .  . 

... 

end 

i could have i heard a bunch of going on and on , raving 
about how dishonest it was that the were taking items from this 
wish list in order to this bill. now that clinton is using that 
same list in order to support for the bill , are you guys going to 
do the honorable thing and say that clinton is being dishonest .  . 

as one of the cited above , i 'll try to clarify since this 
is not a case of clinton 's dishonesty .  . (i wo n't necessarily defend him 
on other issues . ) . 

there were never any specific included in the community 
development block grant portion of the president 's proposal .  . congressional 
, in an effort to discredit the , what 
they felt were silly sounding from a wish list of potential 
prepared by the us  conference before the 
was ever proposed .  .  ( the document in question was designed to pressure the 
white house to increase the size of the block grant proposal 
to congress .  . it did n't work . ) . 

the 2 . ) billion proposed in the came nowhere close 
to covering the total cost of the original wish list. if it 
were passed , communities would have to select which to and 
at what level. 

in the case of ,  . , tom 's home district , no one ever 
expected to be able to a local swimming pool  ( one of the 
 examples ) from the funds available in the 
since the cost of doing so the total 
amount of block grant funds the city would receive from the 
for all  . 

the plan , instead , was to use the money on public housing construction 
and to with a severe housing  .  ( yup , there are 
places where that is true . ) . the swimming pool were near the 
bottom of a long list of prepared by the city. the 3 million 
or so to be received would cover only a few of the most 
 . 

if the block grants are cut from the , it is these 
that will be affected by the lack of funds .  . and that is why the clinton 
has been publicizing the issue. 

a final point. one may or may not like community block grants .  . it is 
worth , however , that congressional  opposition to them 
is new. since the nixon , have generally 
supported such grants as an alternative to targeted federal spending , 
arguing that local governments are far better able to determine spending 
than washington  . 

is it clear now or is this all too complicated to understand 



steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of virginia 
lines 10 

in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 
tells you something about the politics being practiced .... 

ah , ending discrimination is now  . 


greg , university of virginia 
mail astronomy department , , va 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton press by george 4 . 5 . 93 . 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 






the white house 

office of the press 


for immediate release april 5 , 1993 


press 
by george 


the room 


10 10 a . m .  . edt 

mr. as you know , the president is soon 
to be on his way , on to  . he 'll be throwing out 
the first pitch .  . 

q it 's , the maryland area transit , it 's not 
 . 

mr. oh , it 's not well , he 's 
going from union station , you 're right. excuse me. 

q george , what exactly are you prepared to do to 
break the with senate 

mr. well , as you know , there are 
discussions between and this morning , 
and i think that the president is going to continue to make the point 
that he believes that our investment , our jobs needs 
to be passed as quickly as possible. we need this investment for 
summer jobs , for , for construction , for the 
important programs that will put people back to work right away this 
summer .  . and the president continues to believe his program should be 
passed .  . 

q will he compromise , that 's the question 

mr. well , as you know , the discussions 
are going on this morning in the senate and 
, let 's see what they come up with. but the president 
believes his jobs program should go forward .  . 

q george , would the president be willing to accept 8 
billion for one year , which apparently appears to be the compromise 
being offered by 

mr. well , i do n't know what is being 
offered by either side. the senate discussions are going on right 
now , let 's see what happens today. 

q would he go that far no matter what the 
have offered so far , would he go that far , 8 billion per 
year 

mr. the president believes that his 
program should be passed at this time. clearly , we 're going to be 
willing to listen to what the might or might not be able to 
come up with , but i'm not going to get into right now. let 's 
see what happens. 

q it 's reasonable to assume , is n't it , from what has 
happened so far that a compromise is going to be necessary in order 
to get a vote 

mr. well , the seem more 
in stopping progress on the president 's jobs bill , than in 
doing something to create mr. well , the 
seem more interested in stopping progress on the 
president 's jobs bill than in doing something to create real action , 
real jobs this summer for the american people. i think there 's no 
question about that. there 's been some of 
activity over the last few days. 

q so , you 'll need to compromise to get your 
through 

mr. we 'll see what happens with the 
between and this morning. 

q prepared to compromise 

mr. the president 's prepared to listen 
to what has to say this morning after his meeting 
with  . 

q does he feel that he has been in his 

mr. not in the least. in fact , he 's 
been very successful so far in the beginning of his term .  . 

q how 

mr. he passed his in record 
time , in weeks , and it 's a which reduces the by 
billion over five years. and it 's a which provides for 
important in our future. right now we 've also had strong 
passage of his jobs program through the house. simply because a 
minority of in the senate choose to perpetuate 
and hold up action on the president 's jobs program is not a sign that 
he is not overall .  . 

q he ca n't this , can he 

q the fact is they can do that 

mr. well , the can stop 
action. there 's no question about that. 

q what are you going to do about it 

q george , what do you know about these alleged notes 
taken by during one of the meetings in which it appears 
that the president told not to trust the japanese that 
when they say yes they mean no 

mr. i think that 's a complete 
of what happened at the meeting. the context of the 
conversation was that president clinton was actually 
president at the time about his with prime 
over the islands and the prime 's 
belief that japan would play a constructive role in the g 7 process. 
i mean this was a casual comment about japanese courtesy and 
etiquette but overall it was in the context of a conversation where 
he was president that he believed the japanese 
were serious about their commitment to the g 7 process. 

q are you saying that the president said that when 
the japanese say yes they mean no 

mr. that 's not i do n't know the 
exact words and there was a much longer discussion about he did say 
something along the lines that he believes that on this issue prime 
intends to really go forward with the g 7 process. 

q have there been any attempts to explain this to the 
japanese because apparently the japanese press has picked this up and 
there appears to be 

mr. i 've seen the reports in the 
japanese press and it actually does put the situation in context. it 
does talk about the japanese understanding the japanese points of 
view. i do n't think it 's going to be a problem. i believe that 
there may have been some diplomatic context just to clear things up 
but i'm not positive .  . 

q george , was the specific comment that was made 
specific to the island situation or was it a general 
observation on japanese etiquette 

mr. the discussion was about 

q the specific comment is what i'm asking about that 
has alleged to have been translated from the notes , when the 
japanese say yes they mean no. 

mr. well , it was a combination. i mean 
i do n't think that 's the whole sentence. i think that the specific 
comment was a broad , general observation followed up by a specific 
finish to the sentence where he said in this case he believes that 
prime means to keep the commitment .  . 

q was he saying it first 

mr. i think it was just a casual 
observation .  . 

q and then you say diplomatic contacts were made to 
clear it up. has the president sent a message 

mr. no , i do n't think the president 
spoke i believe that has made some calls but 
i'm not sure exactly how many. 

q well , this obviously is a bigger deal than you 're 
making it out to be if has had to make some calls .  . 

mr. no , no. it was just that we got 
the reports in vancouver and the wanted to make sure that 
it was understood and make sure there was absolutely no 
mr. reports in vancouver , and the 
wanted to make sure that it was understood , and make sure 
there is absolutely no misunderstanding , and i do n't believe there is 
on. 

q what is our position about the japanese that they 
may have to say one thing , but mean another 

mr. no. the position on the japanese 
is as the president stated to president throughout the two 
days. he said that he had had a good conversation with prime 
prior to the summit .  . he the u.s. 
position , the long standing support for the japanese position on the 
islands , but also prime 's 
commitment to move forward on the g 7 process and to play a 
constructive role .  . and i think president was very glad to 
hear that. 

q after listening to on iraq 
for the last few days , i'm a little confused .  . what is the u.s. 
policy do you want to see saddam hussein 

mr. it 's the same policy that 
has , and all of the u . s . have 
 . we expect full and complete and 
with all u . n .  .  . right now we do not have that  . 

q throwing it out further that if iraq , 
saddam ca n't stay in office 

mr. right. i think that that 's our 
judgment is that it is not possible for saddam hussein to comply with 
the and stay in power. but the important point is that 
we expect by iraq with all u . n .  . , and we will 
continue to demand it. 

q and are you concerned the iran will become the 
dominant power in the area 

mr. has also 
spoken to iran over the last several days , and he says we also expect 
full iranian with all international norms , and stopping 
support of terrorism .  . 

q that 's a very statement that he wo n't stay in 
power if he with u . n .  .  . on what logic do you 
base that 

mr. right now saddam hussein is not 
with the u . n .  . at all. he is not respecting the 
rights of his people , as is required by the u . n .  . resolution .  . he is 
not fully with all the regarding  . 
he is not fully with all the regarding 
 . 

q well , when do you think that if he did comply he 
would be out of power 

mr. well , right now his power rests on 
the of his people. if he stopped doing that it would make 
it more difficult for him to stay in power. 

q george , back on the , why is it 
that you and the president accuse the of playing pure 
politics and why is it that what evidence 
do you have that they just do n't have a genuine 
difference with you that 's in good faith 

mr. well , the fact that several times 
in the past the , many of the ones who are now the 
fight for the , have supported the very funding they now 
seek to stop , most especially , the funding .  . 

q george , in regards to that , some of the moderate 
said that the white house by not being more open to 
them during the while the plan was put together , that they had 
one , sort of , meeting between the white house and the senate 
, and that was it. does the look back and 
thinks perhaps it could have done a better job of working with some 


mr. well , i'm not sure that it 's true 
that there was only one meeting. i mean , the president met with the 
republican leadership on at least two before the 
introduction of his  . he met with the entire senate 
republican also for lunch , and went up there. we are 
continually in contact with as many as we can find who 
have an interest in the president 's  . we are interested in 
what they have to say , as well. but we believe that this program is 
important , and we 're going to continue to fight for it. 

q your all or nothing , do it with the 
alone strategy , did you maybe the ability to get it 
through 

mr. well , i mean , i think that there is 
no question that under the senate rules a determined minority can 
activity. i mean , there is just no question about that. 
you only need 40 plus one to keep going .  . 40 plus one to keep going 
and to stop any action , and that 's what the are doing. 

q going to the way you attempt to get 
other things passed as you go through this process for the rest of 
the summer 

q work with and try to some 
into your camp 

mr. i think we 're going to continue to 
look for the support of whenever we can get it on the 
president 's 

q but on this one how are you going to do it 
differently than you did it on this one because on this one you 
really did the from the beginning and made it clear 
that it was a democratic majority that would get this through and 
could get it through and you really did n't need republican votes 
are you going to take a different when you have to go for 
particular votes when you have to go through 

mr. i ca n't see into the future and 
understand every possible turn in the road. clearly the 
president 's going to continue to reach out when he can. 

q you do n't have any then about the way you 
have it up to now and you do n't plan any changes in your 
approach in dealing with the in congress based on this 
experience 

mr. obviously the president would like 
his passed as quickly as possible and he 's going to continue 
to press for that. we will continue to reach out to , 
there 's not question about that. and we 'll continue to reason with 
them and try and find appropriate for  . in this 
case the have chosen to around a , around 
a plan to action not a plan to move forward .  . 

q they 're being denied any other means of 
putting their forward .  . 

mr. i think they 're being 

q any ideas. 

mr. i think their are being 
i do n't know that they 're being denied .  . 

q to present them. 

mr. that 's not exactly true. i mean 
they get the votes 

q that theirs can be passed though by the 
rules under which they 're playing .  . 

mr. unless they get a majority in 
support all the way around , no , that 's not exactly true. 

q george , one more on iraq .  . is the 
backing any of the iraqi opposition any new leadership 

q backing any of the iraqi leadership 

mr. oh , i again , we 're for 
iraqi  . i do n't know if we can get into the business of 
leadership .  . i believe there have been some contacts , at 
some levels , with iraqi opposition groups. i do n't know about 
anything recently. 

q , who , of course , is not the 
president 's best friend , has , however , been told that there is to be 
some kind of town meeting , or some kind of involvement by the 
president , pre the ball game los  . will he consider 
something like that , or any other kind of intervention there 

mr. well , as you know , the president 
commerce ron brown , about 10 days ago , to be a 
special to california , and activities around 
the california economic situation , including the situation in los 
 . 

i believe there will also be out to los 
by the education or have been by the education , 
mr.  . i believe that transportation and 
are also going out. and there may be other 
by over the next several days and weeks. i 
would n't rule out the possibility of a visit by president clinton to 
california .  . obviously , he is following the situation closely , and is 
concerned about making sure that we make the right long term policy 
decisions that will help create the kind of economic opportunities 
which help prevent  . but we 're going to continue to 
watch it. 

q george , as a follow up , is also 
supposed to be outside the ball park today , in baltimore , with a 
group of protesting the lack of minorities in baseball 
 . does the president have a position on that 

mr. the president has received 
correspondence from  . i know that 
has also spoken with the white house chief of ,  . 
he clearly raises serious questions. there has been some progress in 
baseball over the last several years , but still not enough. but the 
president intends to continue to go to the ball game. 

q is he going to say anything about it today , or see 
while he 's out there 

mr. i do n't know if he is going to see 
them , but as i said , the president believes that has 
raised some serious questions , and it 's something that , as i said , 
even though there has been progress , it 's clearly not enough. 

q did ask him not to go to the ball 
game 

mr. i'm not sure about that. i believe 
the characterization the is talking about is an 
 . i do n't know that he asked him not to go to 
the ball game , but he sent a long , detailed , formal letter 
his concerns with the situation in major league baseball and the 
president read it. 

q george , the are playing the , the 
managing of the is george w. bush .  . is he going to be 
there , and is he going to meet with the president 

mr. i do n't know. 

q what is the 

mr. i know that president is 
coming tomorrow morning for a working meeting , they will have a 
lunch , and i believe that he is having with vice 
president  . 

q and statements tomorrow 

mr. i believe so , yes. at the end , 
yes. 

q is there evidence , george , that the egyptians did 
warn the u.s. about a potential terrorist bombing terrorist 
activities 

mr. as reported in the new york times , 
i mean , i think that president did say that there has been 
general with the egyptians , as there have been for a 
long period of time. we do have general intelligence , i 
mean. but president was very careful to point out that there 
was no specific information on this visit that was passed forward .  . 
the president will continue to investigate the situation , but he also 
his belief that we cannot tolerate terrorism of any kind. 

q george , he did make specific or the egyptians , 
apparently , did issue specific warnings about this individual who , 
forgive me this individual who , forgive me the name escapes me at 
the moment , and said the egyptians were more or less in 
their attempts to get some kind of action. 

mr. again , i do n't know if i would 
agree with your characterization of the  . he did 
say that they gave general warnings about the possibility of a 
network in the united states and upon which we took appropriate 
action. but there was no specific information on this specific 
operation at all. 

q so , the white house does n't feel that any of the 
law enforcement whether it be the or fbi who would have 
received this kind of information was or in its duty in 
not some kind of 

mr. no , not at all. 

q what 's next with it got only a passing 
mention in the news conference yesterday 

mr. you did n't get to ask your 
question. 

q yes , exactly. was there any agreement on concerted 
action between the two countries and even if there was n't , what 
does the u.s. do next 

mr. i think the u.s. is clearly going 
to move forward in the u . n .  . today continuing discussions with our 
allies on a sanctions resolution and we 'll continue to look for ways 
to press the to come to the table and sign an 
agreement .  . 

q george , why do you think sanctions is still an 
option i mean the make it clear that at least the 
leadership is surviving just fine and they feel like they can wait 
you out and even the we had in the other day 
said there 's no evidence that they 're going to have an effect any 
time soon. the bosnian serbs have said no to the peace plan .  . when 
does no mean no and you have to do something different 

mr. well , i mean we are doing something 
different. we 're moving forward on further sanctions through the 
u . n .  . and those discussions will continue. we 're going to continue to 
try and the on , and i think that every 
opportunity we have to do that will have an effect over time. 

q are we looking again at lifting the 
mr. the president has said that this is something 
that is under consideration .  . 

q george , do you have any more on 's 
condition , how he 's doing 

mr. as far as i know nothing 's changed. 

q george , week after mr. 

mr. it 's a little  . i think 
we 'll be able to get you more either or tomorrow morning 
after the visit .  . 

q is he going somewhere for easter 

mr. not that i know of. 

q what more can you tell us about the additional aid 
to russia that the president plans to ask congress about 

mr. he 's going to be with 
the congress and with our g 7 partners over the next couple of weeks. 
i know that he spoke last evening with and their 
before the the congressional with the 
russians this week and those will continue over the 
next several weeks. 

q do you expect that to be of the magnitude 
of the one sunday 

mr. i'm not going to discuss the 
magnitude .  . 

q how about the list of cold war restrictions , where 
do you stand on that 

mr. as the president said yesterday , 
he 's going to be looking for that list from the congress this week 
and it. he believes he 's going to try and get it this 
week and he 's going to review the list , and we 're going to take a 
hard look at it. 

q but they 're making it up i mean it 's no white 
house involvement , congress is this list 

mr. i think he 's going to talk to the 
congressional leaders about the list but i'm certain we 'll 
be able to get our own working as well. 

q george , is n't lifting the more of a 
probability than a possibility 

mr. it 's something that 's under 
discussion. 

q has said that it 's a matter 
of time and for months before that happens. 

mr. again , all i can say is that it 's 
something that the president is  . right now we 're working 
with our allies in the u . n . on a sanctions resolution , and we 'll 
continue to review other matters. 

q george , can you tell us anything about the 
this week any travel 

mr. they just asked about that. i 
do n't have anything more beyond tomorrow 's visit with right 
now. 

q are there , george , with any jewish 
american organizations concerning 

mr. as you know the national conference 
of soviet has a list of , i believe , 
mr. as you know , the national 
conference of soviet has a list of , i believe , 200  . 
we 'll certainly take a look at that and continue appropriate 
discussions .  . 

thanks. 






from  ( hot young star ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
organization astronomy department , boston university , boston , ma , usa 
lines 24 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

in article ,  ( hot young star ) writes 

when are you going to admit that the data you presented show 
just this that only about 3 of child are gay , and thus are 
not with respect to the general of homosexuality 

when someone can show something besides a article. 

correct me if i'm wrong , but is n't this irrelevant 

either the data shows something , or it does n't .  . regardless of what other 
studies show. 

admit it. what you showed to us does n't prove that gay men are more likely 
to be  . 

brian 

,  . edu .  ( hot young star ) astronomy dept , boston university , 
boston , ma  . true personal salvation is achieved by absolute faith in 
ones true self .  . 


from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
summary questions about non initiated force 
organization free the , inc. 
lines 
nntp posting host com . 

in article writes 
in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
 .  .  . you . do n't the means through which the government 
is to be prevented from becoming the tool of business interests .  . as a 
left , big government , conventional liberal , i'm just as willing as 
you are to vote against anti that favor 
 . 

but what i hear from is a desire to limit  terms , 
to government by its power to enforce laws , 
and a desire to eliminate 's pay .  . each strikes me as a 
particularly ineffective way to that and other special 
interests cannot influence public policy. in fact , they seem clearly 
designed to the opposite .  . 

 .  .  . if . government is not allowed to 
use non initiated force to achieve its goals , than no special interest 
can influence the government to use non initiated force on their behalf .  . 

fine. and anarchists are not alone in being uncomfortable 
with the use of state sponsored coercion .  . the notion that coercion can 
be virtually eliminated in a society  ( or more properly that once it is 
eliminated on the part of the state it is no longer worth serious 
consideration ) is a view that is peculiar to and anarchists .  . 

for example , does non initiated force  ( coercion ) include tax collection 
does it include the minimal level of of commerce 
by adam smith since coercion can be by other than the 
state , how is the state to deal with it exclusively through after the 
fact legal compulsion 


the means to such a restricted government is another topic 
which i 'll address  . it certainly wo n't happen until 
is the dominate philosophy .  . what means do we have to 
make the dominate philosophy run the education 
monopoly , so we have to be creative .  . the advocates for self government 
reports 85 of their 1 participants embrace  . 
that 's the best means i 've seen yet. we should lobby for compulsory 
1  . ) in ! 

well , i must admit that the picture of as participants 
is somewhat more than the idea of them trying to a 
complex , , industrial society. i 'd venture to point out , 
however , that if could n't convince at least 85 of a group 
of participants to embrace their philosophy , their 
propaganda need to be  . 

frankly , however , it is no great trick to create a government for a 
society in which  ( almost ) everyone is assumed to agree about what is a proper 
government policy. once that is assumed , all sorts of 
can be with , elections , police , etc. and as mr. said , 
the state will just away. 

on the way there , however , would you like to explain how 
virtually all policies that restrain private coercion in the 
current society will help us to live lives or is it like 
socialism just some short term pain that we 'll have to bear until 
everyone has had the benefit of re education through regular 
training 




roger 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re the evidence 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( hot young star ) writes 

so tell me what 's immoral about homosexuality 

cc 
the promiscuity and that it. 

hmmm .  . 

i 've told you more than once that i 've been for almost 4 years 
now , and that i really do n't get into fetishes .  . 

then you are nearly the only homosexual who is. i do n't believe you. 
you 've changed your story before. 

yet you maintain my homosexual activity is still immoral .  . 

care to elaborate 

for that matter , explain why fetishes are immoral 

,  . edu .  ( hot young star ) astronomy dept , boston university , 

the fact that your is more important than who you are making 
love to.  ( actually , in your case , having sex with. ) 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from () 
subject a of nonsense talk and what about all the other lies 
organization santa 
lines 33 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

homosexuals have been lying about the 10 number for so long that 
the politicians are running scared of them. of course , homosexuals 
lying should be no surprise .  . 


how can you lie about something that no one knows for sure. i am the first 
to state that the 10 figure may be too high but it may just be too low , 
depending on what you are talking about. 

keep in mind that there are  practicing  that are actually 
gay. these people chose to take a road that avoids being harassed and 
they wanted to  fit in  with everyone other  normal  person. 

but let 's get off of this irrational behavior of calling everyone a liar , 
you cannot even start to support such claims .  . 

also , the corrupt , criminal and lying nature of 's work , which 
provides much of the justification for homosexual rights in the modern 
era , should make people step back for a moment and question the rest 
of the crap that they have been force fed by the news media. 

this sure sounds definitive .  . how do you label 's work like this , 
from that factually based and scientific journal 


relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

this is an interesting statement. do you realize how many things you do 
your life that are not based on  consent  and that it may be 
required on that all parties may not be mutually 
this 

from  ( marc anderson ) 
subject response 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 

fucking news reader .  .  .  . i do n't think this got posted .  .  .  . if it did , ignore 
it this time. 

(a response to korey ) 

begin my response 
in article  ( korey j. kruse ) writes 
writes 
... 

well , i just did a quick and came up with the following article 
by that the literature , i 'd probably start here .  .  .  . 

document 13 
an  .  . 
au d p. 
in department of medicine , university of california , school of medicine , 
los  . 
of substance abuse .  . 
review article 61  . 
... 
why is n't this information in the faq on marijuana if we expect 
people to think we are telling them the truth about drugs , why does 
this group constantly refute every negative thing about almost all 
drugs .  . 

maybe because the claims refute the above abstract lists various 
possible links to use  ( unfiltered almost guaranteed ) and 
problems. someone may get overly when they see that article , but 
without actually up the study and seeing how the studies gathered 
their data it really does n't tell you shit. i'm going to track down that 
study  . 

... 

i never claimed pot was more or less than 
 .  .  .  .  . i . was just trying to keep ourselves honest .  . if we are 
going to kids .  .  . and . adults .  .  . and . tell them the truth about drugs 
do n't you think a much better approach would be to list the pro 's and 
con 's of each type of drug .  . 

what the truth about drugs research what sort of 
research data can help establish a theory , but it does not 
prove anything. 

how can you expect someone to make a 
decision when the on one hand says that all drugs are absolutely 
bad bad bad .  .  .  .  . and . this newsgroup refuses to admit that 
drugs like heroin even have negative side effects .  . 

heroin is a relatively safe drug .  . what makes it are 
and shit like  . there are side effects , like , but they 
effect people differently. 

i 've seen numerous 
posts claiming heroin has lower that , which 
might be true , but it is very , because heroin is much more 
harmful drug to be to than  . heroin addicts are 
far more prone to end up in the and destroy their family and 
friends than people to just  . 

statement. i know people who use heroin and that 
function just fine in society. 

this group does 
provide some very good information to people , but i am worried that 
the pro pro movement is being hurt when 
it refuses to admit that any some drugs are very harmful .  .  .  .  . 

name some of these drugs so we can debate about them more specifically .  . 

... 
i'm all for of most drugs , but when someone asks me 
about relative risks of certain drugs or possible bad side effects , i 
would like to know them .  .  .  . and . not be given the run around by this 
group .  .  .  . which . recently tried to tell me that pot was not harmful in 
any manner to people 's  . 

no , no , no.  ( or at least i have n't been arguing this) .  . there is not enough 
data to form a scientific conclusion .  . that does n't mean that 
is benign to users   . we can form all the theories we want , but they 
are only theories .  . some theories are supported by more evidence than others , 
and that makes them stronger .  . 

i think it 's time y all re examined 
your positions and try to understand that you cannot fight the 
by calling them a bunch of liars .  .  .  .  . 

the hell i ca n't ! they state un justified conclusions as fact as 
a political strategy to stop drug use. 

... 

in general , i somewhat see what you 're saying. and people like jack 
contribute to this. this has been quite a big mind fuck for me recently , 
and i 've pretty came to the conclusion that you ca n't trust anybody by 
word of mouth alone my attitude about the general population has 
 . 

gotta run to class .  .  . 






) ) ( ` 
( . ) 






from  ( stephen tice ) 
subject re us government sanctions 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host utarlg . uta . edu . 
organization the university of texas at arlington 
lines 

william december writes .  .  .  . 

in a typical lawyer fashion , as usual .  . 

 ( all the while ignoring every principle of the ) . 

good to see your still out there  . surely we 've 
been around the enough by now , that you know 
you ca n't spin me up with  . 

let 's see if there 's anything left worth responding to .  .  .  . 

 heart ad until either koresh or 
the rest of the state of texas is totally  .  .  . ) 

e for effort .  . heard about the folks who live around and 


erect an cross , or a star of david broken , out in 
front of the to them. or out islamic prayers .  . 
or worse. what temple would you destroy what books would you burn 
will you kill clergy will you mock the spirit of god before the 
innocent 

sure i would. why not 

seems right in character to me creature of the state. 
btw , are you still happy with your 

if you in government have no respect for other 's faith , and no respect 
for the lives and well being of those innocent children caught in this 
hell you 've created why should anyone respect your of 
rule of law 

what does rule of law have to do with respect for anyone 's religious 
faith 

see the part about the children following the and in the first line 
above. 

as to a connection , your cult is faith in rules . 

no matter who the criminals are , or what they 've done  ( and it looks 
like there are criminals on both sides of the matter ) their 
conviction is not worth the abuse you 're causing .  . 

what abuse please be specific .  . 

sure. my concern is the well being of the children. 

if you are willing to ignore the children , or abuse , insult , and 
on the children inside the house then god 
you. best you learn directly from the lord the corruption you 're 
committing .  . in god 's good time and way , the lord judge you i can 
not. for truth be told i would send you all straight to hell and 
god would be right in sending me right along with you. 

oh , fuck you and the god you in on , stephen .  . if you can show the 
legitimacy of god 's claim of over man , please do so. 
otherwise stop and raving about him already. 

william december 

interesting that you would respond emotionally in defense of the 
government. maybe there is a beating heart there. 

for the record though , the biggest on earth claims 
the most over man. best i can tell god allows anyone to 
go to hell who wants to. logically determines that allowing 
and sending mean the same thing.  ( mere human concepts of course . ) . 

so come on  . why bother to try some of logic .  . 
proves it 's not needed the that government can walk 
over it 's own rules in the name of justice has been made. no problem 
by me. noted and for the record .  . just giving the 
it 's due , and getting back to more worthwhile non government 
concerns .  . 


j 

stephen 

from p . ida . org .  ( bob mcgwier ) 
subject re celebrate liberty ! 1993 
organization ida center for communications research 
lines 19 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host p . ida . org . 
in reply to 's message of mon , 5 apr 93 20 12 35 gmt 



rich posts some about the libertarian party 

august 30 , 31 ,  . 1 everything you always wanted to 
know about elections , but 
did n't know where to ask ! 


what pray tell do the know about elections 

bob 




robert w. mcgwier p . ida . org . 
center for communications research interests amateur radio , astronomy , 
princeton , n . j .  . , 

from  ( cutter ) 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay in nc ) verdict 
distribution world 
organization , , 
lines 23 

(j .  . e. shum ) writes 

in article ,  . wo 
a sad day for civil rights. but typical of nc ) . 

if it is typical for the principle of reasonable doubt to be upheld in 
north , then i would count that in the state 's favor. 

reasonable doubt dates back to human rights. we are now in the time of 
civil rights. civil rights are issued by the state with whatever 
attached they choose as the of said rights. and if that means that 
are determined by the needs of the state rather than by guilt or 
innocence in a traditional sense , so be it. being subjective rather than 
objective may make it harder to what is right , and you may be 
sacrificed for being wrong once in a while , but that really is a 
small price to pay for the common good do n't you think 



 ( chris ) all jobs are easy 
to the person who 
does n't have to do them. 
's law 

from  ( nadja adolf ) 
subject re or terrorist threat 
organization corporation , ca 
lines 16 

in article writes 
in article , () writes 
i'm prepared to individuals in the proper use and 
handling of  . 

as a desert storm with years in the national guard , i have a 
great deal of experience in handling weapons and tactical training .  . 


ps anyone up for a discussion of counter 
security , your friend the counter terrorist operation .  .  .  .  .  . 


if promises to train them in and weapons , i doubt 
any of them will last long enough to become  . look for a sudden 
rise in accidents among the of the fetus , though. 

from  ( the pinhead ) 
subject re 50 , 000 reward ! 



organization california state university , 
lines 51 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 05 apr 1993 12 49 00 

in article  ( daniel r. , to be ) writes 
in article (a . j .  . teel ) writes .  .  .  . 
no , the definition of resident is very specific .  . it is the 
same thing as alien . look it up. remember that the common usage of 
the words are not always their legal meaning. 

this i gotta see some authority for. 

from black 's law dictionary , revised 4th ed .  . , page 

 . a factual place of  . living in a particular 
 . v. , 179 misc .  . , 40 n . y . s . , 
, or. , p . ,  . it requires only bodily 
presence as an inhabitant of a place. in re campbell 's , 
216  . , 11 n . w . ,  . 

as   and   are usually in the same place , 
they are frequently used as if they had the same meaning , but they are 
not identical terms , for a person may have two places of , as 
in the city and country , but only one  . means 
living in a particular , but means living in that 
with intent to make it a fixed and permanent home. 
simply requires bodily presence as an inhabitant in a given place , 
while requires bodily presence in that place and also an 
intention to make it one 's  . in re 's will , n . y . s .  . 
, misc .  .  .   demands less intimate local ties 
than , '' but   allows absence for 
period if intent to return remains .  . immigration act ,  . 3 , 8 
u . s . c . a .  .  . (e ,  . v. , 
c . c . a . n . y .  . , 74 f . , 733 .  . but see , ward v. ward , 115 , w . va . , 
s . e .  . , lines v. craig ,  . 
, 80 p , holding that and are 
terms.   has a meaning dependent on context 
and purpose of  . in re jones , pa .  . , 19 a . ,  . 
words   and   may have an identical or 
meaning depending on subject matter and context of  . v. 
, 16 n . y . s . 26 , 34 , 172 misc .  .  . 

legal  . see legal .  . 

resident .  . one who has his in a place. see  . 

also a , who was to reside on his lord 's land , and 
not to depart from the same called , also , et 
, '' and in , '' . 


ronald e mail 
software engineer phone 1 
international 
the bill of rights where by law 

from  ( charles kincy ) 
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of on avenue 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of missouri , , 
lines 

in article  ( amar chaudhary ) writes 

here 's my own top ten response to mr. 's list 

8. it just so happens that that it takes money to make this country work , 
to provide the services that people need , and to help solve the problems 
that need to be solved .  . granted , some things can probably be done more 
for less money , and should be. but some things are going to 
cost more money and i'm sick and tired of hearing everyone about 
taxes all the time. you want to live in my country , you pay your fair 
share ! 

some people pay shares that are more fair than others , and will continue 
to do so , even with the presence of president clinton .  . until the rich 
hurt from taxes and shower me with their blood from the 
wound of the tax , i will and  . because , taxes are 
killing the poor and middle class , and i'm tired of the getting 
a free ride in this country. sure , they pay a lot of taxes , but i want 
them to share my pain ! ! 

and , not even slick is that fair , is he , seeing that he and his 
wife qualify as one of those people i was talking about they 're 
on the lower end of , but they are. 

7. i ca n't believe what hypocrites people are when they ask people to give 
up their lives for their country and then complain about taxes .  . if you 're 
willing to send me off to die for some stupid with fighting an 
enemy which at best does n't affect us and at worst really should be our 
friend , then you have no right to tell me you should n't pay taxes ! 

, i think the draft for vietnam was a of shit. but , do we get 
to pick and choose which laws we obey , mr. if so , shall we 
set up a you follow the laws you like , and i 'll follow the laws i 
like arrangement 

6. hey , i think the add a 60 's touch ! 

i never thought much of  . 

now covers , on the other hand .  .  .  .  . 

5. health care is a human right deleted 

i did n't think i was going to respond to this , but i changed my mind. 

tell me , why do you think health care is a human right 

this is n't a flame or anything , i just wonder .  . next thing you know , 
free public transportation will be a human right. maybe membership 
at health 

sorry to the hill on there .  .  .  .  . 

4. make love , not war ! 

be sure and that when you go  that free love stuff 
around.  ( or , after the gets its out of its ass , use that neat 
new reality condom . ) . 

3. contrary to popular belief , it is possible to be a male and a 
at the same time. to discriminate against or to deny equal opportunity 
to a majority of the population is just plain wrong , and trying to force 
them into some sort of tradition role is even worse. women certainly 
have as much to offer this world as men , and the day that 
discrimination is finally broken it going to make all the of 
the past few centuries seem like reform  . i look forward to it. 

so do i. amen .  . and all that. 

1. hey man , rules ! ! 

what the hell is an anyway is that like a 



it 's been 80 days. do you know where your is 

slick 's already got his hand in my  . i'm just afraid 
of what he might hold of. 

from  ( don wiggins ) 
subject re top ten responses to ed 's top ten lists 
organization us army corps of construction engineering research labs 
lines 16 

 ( scott w roby ) writes 

the real question should the feds out steve jobs next (a la chrysler ) 
so that important manufacturing jobs would n't be lost 

 .  .  . a . la okay kids , to the thousand , how many 
dollars did the government spend to out more than zero 
you say 

 . wrong answer. 


, german irish american success is getting what you want. 
lead scout for the baby happiness is wanting what you get .  . 
internet brother dave 


subject re news you may have missed , 3 23 
from  ( fogbound child ) 

organization university of southern california , los , ca 
nntp posting host usc . edu . 
lines 47 

 ( jack schmidling ) writes 

in article  ( fogbound child ) writes 
 ( jack schmidling ) writes 

in article  ( scott babb ) writes 
jack wrote 
 ( jonathan a. ) writes 


... 

why do you restrict your condemnation of racial strife to israel 
do the situations in bosnia , tibet , china , etc. not merit your comment 

as far as i am aware , we have not sent close to 100 billion dollars to 

let 's not  . 


i notice you did not offer an alternative number .  . try this one on for 
size .  .  .  .  .  . by the year 2000 , american will have given israel 
one dollar for every star in the way  . 

i will let you look up the number .  . 

ok , i admit i have no hard data on this. why do n't you help me with this 
if you would a commented list of all grants , un loans  ( if any) , 
and direct aid , i 'd be very interested to see it. if you could give me 
references from , for example , congressional , 
i could look them up here and i 'd be happy to post a of your 
data .  . 

otherwise , i 'll try my hand at this , but unfortunately i wo n't have sufficient 
time available until the end of this month , so the results would be  . 

let me know if you 're interested in doing this. 


special 
media and mind control division 
los offices 

safe  . signature . ! prevent dangerous signature ! 
our names in a certain dawn ... a message ... a 
summons ... there must have been a moment , at the beginning , 
where we could have said no. but somehow we missed it. 

from  ( michael friedman ) 
subject re from the 's 
nntp posting host us . oracle . com . 
organization oracle corporation , ca 
distribution usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by an user 
at oracle corporation .  . the opinions expressed are those 
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle .  . 
lines 34 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( phil ronzone ) writes .  .  .  . 

correct. jfk was quite disgusting in that way. the reports of the women that 
he via power of the office are now in the  . today , we  d 
call for immediate for that kind of behaviour .  . 

i guess women into having sex is much worse than , breaking 
and entering , national elections , starting secret wars that kill 
hundreds of thousands , and using the powers of your office for personal 
gain like nixon did. not ! 

, you are a really pathetic liar .  . 

some of your charges are arguable , but most of them are obvious lies .  . 

i challenge you to present us with any evidence that nixon stole , 
a national election , never mind elections , or used the powers 
of his office for personal gain .  . 

you ca n't because there is absolutely no evidence that any of these 
events occurred .  . 

along with relations with the prc .  . 

relations with you must be  . we sponsored 
the of the government. after repeated failed attempts 
of course. 

your sad level of historical and political is probably best 
by the fact that you think prc stands for instead 
of red china .  . 



from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
summary considered 
organization free the , inc. 
lines 72 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  . grinch ) writes 
in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 


on a case by case basis , the cost benefit ratio of government 
is obviously worthwhile .  . the libertarian , however , does not call 
for this  . it assumes that the costs of  ( of any 
kind ) always its benefits. this approach avoids all sorts of 
difficult analysis , but it strikes many of the rest of us as dogmatic , 
to say the least. 


i assume you mean that analyzing the cost benefit ratio of government 
on a case by case basis is worthwhile .  . let me suggest that 
this is not an option. , it 's what they do. 

i'm not sure why you do n't consider it an option. no one suggests that 
such analysis should be left to  . in fact , the re 
government movement provides just such a cost benefit approach to the 
analysis of public spending .  . would do well to learn more 
about it. 


it might be possible to pass an amendment which would prevent 
any laws from being valid , assuming you could convince people that 
it would overall be a good idea. the laws which 
serve no good purpose  ( the vast majority of them) while maintaining the 
worthwhile ones  ( assuming there are any) is not  . 

sorry , but it strikes me that it is the only approach. what is 
not is a wholesale attack on all government and 
that treats cutting hair and practicing medicine as equivalent 
 . 


i have no objection to an analysis of medical care , education , 
national defense or local police that suggests a free market can provide 
a more effective , efficient means of social objectives 
than is provided through approaches .  . with some 
exceptions , however , i do not see such nitty gritty , worthwhile 
analysis being carried out by self  . 



i note that the above examples tend to be among the few government areas 
likely to win some approval among anyway. 

actually , the only areas of public spending above that strike me as 
substantial support among are police and defense .  . 
 ( it is an interesting aside that as committed as claim to 
be to a principle of non coercion , the only areas of public spending 
that they frequently support involve people with guns .  .  .  . hmmm .  .  . ) . 

the most government are , which 
also are the biggest .  . certain individuals will suggest that these should be 
considered defense on the grounds that they are a sort of to 
would be , but i personally do n't feel we have much to fear 
from an alliance of and  . maybe i 've led too 
a life. 

perhaps you have. may i suggest that you consider that 
frequently generate support by acting as of , 
and children. governments that ignore such people on the grounds 
that we do n't have much to fear from them do so at their own peril .  . 



mr. 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re california federal legislation to protect from 
distribution usa 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 

in article ,  ( gadfly ) writes 
in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
and now those other options do n't exist. we probably agree on this 
more than you think welfare was invented to solve a problem of the 
30 's , but the poverty is now so much worse , and our economic 
structure has been so , that it just ca n't keep up any more. 

you mean , since your philosophy took over , the economy has almost 
collapsed .  . 

excuse me , my philosophy you do n't have any idea what my philosophy 
is. the american economy has had its and through a number of 
prevailing economic  . but then , economics is hardly a science. 

in my lifetime , your philosophy socialism as a liberal 
welfare state has been in  . 

no , i mean exactly what i wrote the welfare system of the new deal is 
wholly to with the current state of affairs .  . 

absolutely .  . so the response of is take us even further 
into socialism .  . 

(2) whether or not the fathers work 
is not to single  . 

very true. but the of casual sexuality is something that 
plays a part in the single mother problem. 

i 'll buy that and there 's lots of reasons for it , extremely far down on 
the list being the in the media attention a bunch of middle 
class got for their philosophy and  . 

in the no , your has utterly dominated the 
tv and movie for two decades now. 

my my , we 're getting personal .  . the only i see 
the tv and movie is money . if you 'll buy it , 
they 'll sell it. and as recent movements to boycott tv have 
shown , they 're very sensitive about what  . whatever happened to 
personal responsibility , anyway or am i personally responsible for 
the decline in that , too 

to the extent that people have been encouraged to not be responsible 
for themselves , yes. 

come on. you and i both know that the major problem of this society 
today is n't a lack of employment , it 's a lack of people willing to work. 

huh tell that to the single mother i know who was laid off from 
her 10 hour job at a hospital and now works 2 full time minimum 
jobs to barely be able to support herself and her kid .  . barely .  . 
hey , she 's too proud to go on public assistance , but the only jobs 
she can find are and with no benefits. and no career path 
either they find excuses to people off and new ones rather 
than give raises and  . and why not it 's a lot  . 

enough , all the or people i know 
to find employment almost immediately .  . maybe she needs to move to a 
part of the country , where jobs are , and the cost 
of living is lower .  . 

the west side of chicago is about as cheap as it gets city. 
tell me about all these places where it 's cheap to live and jobs are 
i 'll pass them on. 

 . 

you live in a strange and place , sir .  . housing , 

not exactly cheap , but not los , either. 

lots of employment , and utterly by  . well , i suppose 
that 's the sort of environment that would attract , or at least 
not them. 

no , it 's that areas with a lot of all the 
spoiled rich kids , feeling guilty about their wealth .  . but not guilty 
enough to give it away they just look for politicians to take my 
more limited wealth away. 

i see a lot of people willing , eager to work. what i do n't see 
is a system that makes it at all to do so. it 's not just 
welfare , which nobody enjoys , but there just are n't the jobs any more. 
when the us was expanding industrial capacity there was always a mill 
to go work in to learn , a future. now there 's only  . 

odd. not the experience of anyone i know. just the opposite .  . 

in california 

yup .  . 

mr. , i was there was a very low operation. 
our drugs were cheap .  . 

the money i was referring to was aid to families with 
 . 

well , i doubt that much of this goes to drugs there is n't much left after 
buying food , and there is very little in the first place. sure , you read 
about such cases now and then , but that 's what makes them news. show me 
your statistics about abuse .  . 

i can tell you that relatives i have known , the drugs came first , the 
food was secondary .  . 

ken 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re lincoln slavery  ( re top ten you can play on the american voter ) 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 36 

in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article  ( kenneth c. mitchell ) writes 
slavery makes economic sense  ( it never makes moral sense ) when human 
power is an economically valuable  . slavery might 
have lasted right up to the first , but no 
further are than slaves , and do n't have to be fed during 
the  . 

this argument makes a several fundamental errors. first 
slavery was not limited to of  . in the american south 
slave labor was used to grow , sugar , and rice , all 
of which remained labor well into the 20th century. 

and of course , in states like and virginia , not well suited to 
large scale , slave labor was used to make one of the most 
valuable products of all more slaves .  . in some ways , this 
treatment of humans beings as breeding is the most 
aspect of american slavery .  . 

second , although of could be expected to 
reduce the demands for labor eventually , it was only in the 's 
the of in the south largely eliminated 
the labor character of the operation , long after the first 
was invented .  . 

this is an interesting question. 's of wrath 
 ( published in the 1930s ) , uses of 
in as the cause of the family being 
from the land. how many years were involved in the of 
when did this first appear 

ken the powers not to the united states by the 
steve domain com . 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( virginia 's gentleman ) 
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of on avenue 
organization university of virginia 
lines 11 

in regard to 's post , i thought i would him of something in 
the midst of his against 
as a member of the generation likely to pay for the crap reagan and his started with the according to the curve  ( not ! ) i 
think we need to look with open minds upon any ideas which will allow us 
to directly address the problems of the federal and debt and 
continue to allow our economy to expand and i do n't remember and co .  . 
complaining about while implemented his policy , 
approved it while being fully aware the numbers not adding up , and reagan 
the largest con job of the century which my generation and i will now have to pay for. 



from  ( jason austin ) 
subject  ( was re top ten excuses for slick 's record setting rati ) 
organization nasa research center , , va 
lines 37 
reply to jason c. austin 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
in reply to 's message of 14 apr 93 20 31 09 gmt 

in article  ( bill anderson ) writes 
according to a   to key reason for clinton 's low 
approval is people are angry about him not moving fast enough 
on gays in the military .  . i just out laughing when i heard this 
what planet do these people live on anyway 

jason c. austin 


, man .  .  .  . that sounds pretty damned unlikely to me , too , 
although it 's certainly one of the reasons i'm off at him. 
maybe the was taken entirely from my fellow of the 
cultural 

jason , can you quote some of these questions 

thanks , 
bill 
v 

i 've never seen give out the questions on the air. 
if you sent them a letter asking for them , you might get them. here 's 
my guess of how part of a might look 

question do you approve of clinton 's 
answer no 
questions do you due to the gays in the military issue 
answer yes 

conclusion clinton has a low approval because he 's not moving 
fast enough on gays in the military .  . 


i think any group truly dedicated to reporting the news would 
not use news like  . 

jason 

from  ( william december starr ) 
subject re law and economics 
organization law , class of  93 
lines 
nntp posting host 1 . mit . edu . 
in reply to 


note directed followups to misc . legal . only .  . while i 
respect his right to do so , my own opinions are that (1) followup to 
fields are mere suggestions , not mandatory commands and (2) this issue 
is of sufficient  ( a ) general political relevance and  ( b ) civil liberties 
interest to warrant keeping it active in t . p . m . and a . s . c . l as well , at 
least for this round. 

in article , 
said 

uh , no. that 's not what happened in . what happened in 
was that the judge did n't allow the to blackmail 
the plant by demanding a million dollar plant to be shut 
down over , 000 in , and required the plant to pay the 
the , 000 to make them whole .  . the plant would never 
have been shut down the 's lawyers would have just 
a , because the would prefer 
an amount greater than to having the plant shut down , while the 
plant would prefer any amount less than the value of the plant to have 
the plant continue in operation. everyone 's property rights were 
protected the were made whole unnecessary 
costs were avoided .  . 

okay , now here 's my interpretation of , based on the facts as 
presented in the new york court of appeals holding ( v. 

note the new york court of appeals is the highest court in new york 
state. while the united states and 48 of the fifty states call their 
highest court supreme court , supreme judicial court or supreme 
court of appeals , maryland and new york call theirs simply the 
court of appeals .  . to make matters worse , new york also calls its 
second highest court the supreme court , division ... 

atlantic co .  . , 26 n . y . , n . e .  ( 1970 ) 

h. , et al. , owned land near the atlantic company 's 
plant near , n . y .  .  ( the fact pattern gives no information as to 
which came first , the 's of the land or he 
's start of at their plant . ) . in the course 
of its regular , the plant did injury to the 
 property via , and from the 
plant .  . the sought relief that is , they asked 
the court to order atlantic to stop damaging their property .  . 

 ( commentary this seems entirely reasonable to me. at al owned 
their property and , presumably , a right to quiet enjoyment of it. 
atlantic 's actions were et al of that right . ) . 

instead of the  request for an , the court 
ordered them to accept the damage being done to their property , provided 
that atlantic paid them , 000 in  . in 
other words , the court granted atlantic co .  . , a private party , the 
power and authority to take the rights to quiet enjoyment 
of their property by domain .  . a taking by domain is 
always even when it 's done by the state allowing a 
private firm to do it is , in my opinion , totally wrong. 

 ( yes , i know , the court did n't call it domain .  . but if 
it walks like domain and like domain and 
like domain .  .  . ) . 

let me take issue with the way you 've presented the case .  .  .  . you say that 
what happened in was that the judge did n't allow the 
to blackmail the plant by demanding a million 
dollar plant to be shut down over , 000 in  . blackmail 

 ( pulls out black 's law dictionary , edition .  .  .  .  . 
blackmail demand of money or property under threat to 
do bodily harm , to property , to accuse of crime , or to 
 . this crime is commonly included under 
 . ) 

how do you define as blackmail one party 's act of demanding the right 
to set its own sale price for a unique piece of property which it owns 
and which another party has expressed an interest in buying or of 
demanding the right not to sell that property at any price as i see 
it , et al , having found themselves in the fortunate position of 
something which atlantic had to if it wanted to 
stay in business , had every right in the world to set whatever price 
they wanted .  . there is n't , or at least should n't be , any law that says 
that you have to be a nice guy in your private business dealings .  . 

you go on to say the plant would never have been shut down the 
's lawyers would have just a , 
because the would prefer an amount greater than to 
having the plant shut down , while the plant would prefer any amount less 
than the value of the plant to have the plant continue in operation. 

if so , so what since when are the courts supposed to be in the 
business of preventing parties from from 
other parties when those arise from wrongful acts by those 
other parties if atlantic did n't want to have to face a choice 
between paying a or going out of business , well , 
should n't atlantic have thought of that before going into 
business (i note that as far as the facts show et al were not 
the parties responsible for bringing about this situation that was 
atlantic 's own fault for choosing to build and operate the type 
of plant they did where and when they did . ) . 

and then you say everyone 's property rights were protected the 
were made whole unnecessary costs were avoided .  . 
as above , i dispute your claim that the were made whole .  . 
they were , in fact , by court action deprived of their rights as owners 
of property to choose to sell or not sell that property at a price 
acceptable to them. and for that they were not made 
whole .  . and again i ask since when are the courts supposed to be in the 
business of that unnecessary costs are avoided 
 ( if so , i 've been i always thought that the courts were 
supposed to be in the business of that justice is done . ) . 

is really being taught as infamous that 's really sad if 
it is , because i fail to see how it 's less than completely sensible .  . 
you should read the law and economics stuff first hand instead of 
filtered through teachers who clearly do n't like it , for whatever 
reasons. 

(1) is not being taught as infamous , at least not at my 
school. 

 ( aside law usually does a very good job of for 
their first year , mandatory classes  ( such as , where i first 
encountered ) who , regardless of their personal 
opinions , can and do teach the law  . when the students get 
into their second and third years , in which the students  ( a ) can pick 
and choose which to take  ( except for the mandatory 
responsibility , of course) and  ( b ) are to be a bit more worldly 
and self confident , less likely to be or sub 
by law school and able to learn from openly 
biased rather than be by them , the 
tend to be more open in expressing their own opinions. this is 
especially true of part time who , in real life , are 
practicing or sitting judges .  .  .  . this can be very 
, sometimes far more so than being taught by a somewhat 
scholar .  . end of aside . ) . 

i called it infamous because that 's my opinion of it. for the reasons 
i 've stated above , i believe it to be a of something that i can 
only call economic correctness over justice. 

(2) it is completely sensible only if you believe that the alleged 
right of the owners of atlantic to stay in business and avoid 
a lot of their own money due to their own wrongful act , and 
the alleged right of several hundred atlantic employees to 
not have their jobs disappear , should the rights of people who 
own property which was by atlantic 's wrongful acts .  . 
 ( and if you believe that it is correct for the courts  ( or any other 
branch of government ) to grant to private parties the right to take 
other people 's property by domain . ) . 

you 'd like , bill. he 's a libertarian .  . 

really i did n't know that .  .  .  . what , if anything , has he had to say 
about cases like 

of course , he has too much of a paper trail to ever be by a 
president ,  ( wo n't like his stance ) or republican 
 ( wo n't like his support of gay marriage ) , and if bright law students 
at what they do n't understand , it 's easy to imagine how the 
press will play it up as baby selling .  . (i 've seen mike claim 
that asserts that law and economics is applicable to everything 
and is the end all and be all , when says precisely the 
opposite . ) . so it goes. 

i 've admitted that my understanding of the field generally referred to 
as law and economics is weak. if it advocates the use of economical 
analysis as one of many tie factors which courts may use to 
help them reach decisions in cases in which the dispute , as measured by 
the scale of justice , is balanced , fine. but as illustrated by 
, it is not fine when the courts start the economics 
of a case as being more important than the justice of a case. 

william december 


from  ( david veal ) 
subject re my gun is like my american express car 
lines 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article  ( richard wojcik ) writes 

in article ,  ( john r. moore ) writes 
 ( paul prescod ) writes 

i'm not. i'm in canada .  . we have far like this. we have 
had , i believe , one mass murder in the last twenty years. 

i'm not going to say we do n't have our gun problems. but we do have the 
world 's largest with one of the most gun happy countries 
in the world. i think canada that gun control does have an 
effect. in fact , it 's suprising that there is any difference considering 
how easy it is to a gun from the u.s. 

yes , it 's amazing , is n't it. in fact , it should tell you that gun control 
is not the reason your crime rate is low , since any idiot can guns 
into canada from the us at any time. 

i think paul was trying to make the point that any idiot does n't .  . there are 
surely some idiots who do guns , but paul seems to feel that the 
of stricter gun control laws has had a deterrent effect. 

this seems a strange argument to make considering that canada 's 
violent crime rate in general is far lower than that of the u.s.  ( our 
non gun crime rate is greater than their entire crime  . it 
would seem strange to suggest that it , to , were the result of gun 
control laws .  . 

i think if we looked we 'd find very specific  ( cultural and 
enforcement ) reasons why the non gun rate is low as well , and then 
that reasons could be applied to the with gun as easily. 

given that most 
used guns are either legally purchased or stolen from those who 
them legally , having more restrictions on legal does 
seem to have the effect of reducing gun related crimes .  . 

aside from the fact that i find the idea of being punished 
because somebody might steal something from me and go and commit a 
crime with it a silly solution , it still does n't address the 
question of canada .  .  ( which is now , by the way , blaming their 
gun crime rate on the u.s. strange that the border used to magically 
keep the guns out , but now is n't . ) . 

it certainly makes 
sense that it would.  ( well , it makes sense to some of us , anyway. ) 

the other side of the coin , of course , is that far illegal drugs 
are legally or stolen from people who them legally .  . 
i 've still not been convinced that guns , a which criminals 
have shown their perfectly willing to pay for from illegal sources 
 ( stolen either from police , military , or civilian ) we would n't simply 
see south american sources from which drugs come start guns as 
well , since there 's a gun manufacturing industry down there. 

if you would just look a little closer at the crime statistics , you would 
realize that 
our non gun crime rate is also very high , so guns per are not the issue 

directly contradicted by the study that compared crime in seattle and 
vancouver , b.c. the non gun were roughly the same for both cities .  . the 
difference in violent crime was almost totally gun related .  . 

and as was not pointed out in the study , but in critiques 
of it ,  ( two articles by james and david come 
to mind ) it was pointed out that the difference was also almost 
entirely minority related .  . that is , the gun crime rate 
for poor minorities  ( blacks and primarily ) while when you 
compared the white majority they were identical .  . 

the problem with the study was they compared minority vs. 
non minority but failed to take into account the relative 
conditions of those minorities .  . that there was an percentage of 
was about as far as they went .  . they failed to take into 
account that the non in either city were not living in the 
same conditions .  . 

if the situation was entirely based on of guns , 
then we 'd expect that the white , the two groups which are 
arguably fairly comparative in the two cities , would have a far 
higher rate in seattle .  . yet the majority in seattle is not only 
not higher when the minorities are excluded , but slightly 
lower .  . 

violent crime is highly in the inner city 

surprise .  . pick the area with the highest of poverty , drug use , disease , 
etc. since are lower in , us middle class folks can ignore the 
problem. 


the point is , of course , that many of the u.s. inner city 
problems are not in canada .  . as such if there is a condition 
which is different in canada from the u.s. , and violent 
crime is highly correlated to that area , suggesting that gun control 
is the source of canada 's low rate is highly questionable .  .  ( as one 
canadian pointed out on talk . politics . guns . , canada 's major gun control 
in did not result in either a or a slowing of an increase 
in violent crime , which have been steadily since. apparently 
they did n't even the u . s . s . very large drop of violent crime in 
the early  . 

most violent crime occurs in areas with strict gun control already 

post hoc ergo propter hoc .  . those areas implemented gun control because of 
the high rates. 

true only to a certain extent .  . take washington d . c .  . , where 
gun control was instituted while it had crime problems true , but that 
crime proceeded to explode afterwards. similarly for new york .  . 

the question is not simply a point in time where crime was high 
or low. did the gun control and impact 
violent crime .  . since it 's gone up in those areas , often than it 
was going up before , you ca n't simply dismiss the high crime rate by 
saying gun control was caused by it. yes , gun control may be instituted 
to deal with high crime .  . but if the crime is not , you 
ca n't continually say that that crime rate was entirely a cause of 
that gun control , since much of that crime rate increased after gun control 
was implemented , just as happened in canada .  . 

similar or worse exist in cities with poor gun control. 

as would be expected if violent crime was generally independent 
of gun control. 

and the jury is still out on the question of whether recent tough laws in 
washington d . c .  . may have violence and suicide there. 

would this be the laws which made liable for what 
others did with their guns , and suddenly the police found nobody would 
sell to them 

david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from ( joe cipale ) 
subject re clayton need not retract 
organization semi , beaverton or 
lines 13 

in article  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
civilized society. the only way a homosexual can maintain even a 
of is by remaining in the closet .  . 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

once again , it appears that the one eyed man has appeared in the land of the 
and for some strange has himself the ruler and supreme power. 

joe 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton president 's radio in pittsburgh 4 . 17 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 212 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 





the white house 

office of the press 
 ( pittsburgh , pennsylvania ) 

for immediate release april 17 , 1993 


of the president 
by michael of 
am radio , pittsburgh 

pittsburgh international airport 
pittsburgh , 



10 40 a . m .  . edt 


q for everyone listening on radio , i'm mike 
, radio news. we 're here at the pittsburgh 
international airport and with me is the president of the united 
states bill clinton .  . 

and i 'd like to welcome you to the area and to  . 

the president thank you , mike .  . glad to be here. 

q there are a lot of things we 'd like to talk 
about in the brief amount of time we have , but some news is just 
breaking from los  . i guess the entire country has been 
kind of holding their , wondering what 's going to happen in 
the trial of the four los police officers .  . we just heard 
that two of those officers , the , and 
have been found guilty , and two officers have been 
found not guilty .  . 

it 's a situation that 's been building for over a 
year since the first trial and now this trial and this verdict .  . 
and i wonder what your thoughts are this morning on how you see 
the situation in los in connection with your 
and what you 're trying to do. 

the president well , first of all , i think the 
american people should know that this trial , in my judgment , is a 
to the work and judgment of the jury , as well as to the 
efforts of the federal government in developing the case. 

the law under which the officers were tried is a 
complex one the standards of proof are complicated .  . the jury 
decided that they would convict the who was responsible 
for the officers and the who on the film did 
most of the beating .  . the jury an who kicked 
rodney king , but also plainly tried to him from some 
, and another who was a  . 

no one knows exactly why they did what they did , but 
it appears that they really tried to do justice here. they 
acknowledged that his civil rights were violated .  . and i think 
that the american people should take a lot of pride in that. but 
i hope now we can begin to look ahead and focus on three things 
first of all , the importance of trying to bring this country 
together and not violate the civil rights of any american 
secondly , the importance of our fight against crime .  . 

i think it 's important to recognize that in the 
areas of los and many other cities in this 
country , people may be worried about police abuse , but they 're 
even more worried about crime .  . it 's time that we our 
efforts to go to community put 100 , 000 more police 
officers on the street pass the bill that would require a 
waiting period before people could buy a , and do some 
other things to reduce the of our people to 
violence and drugs .  . 

and the last point i 'd like to make is it seems to 
me that we have got to ourselves to the economic 
of our cities and other economically 
areas .  . if you just think about it if everybody in los 
who wanted a job had one , i do n't think we 'd have quite as many 
problems as we do. 

and i laid out a very program in the 
campaign to try to bring private investment and public investment 
to bear in our cities .  . i have the commerce , 
ron brown , to california to try to come up with some 
for that state , because it 's our biggest state with our highest 
rate which could then be applied around the 
country. i want to talk to him and to the general , to 
the new head of the , to , and to several 
other people , and then i 'll decide where to go from here with 
regard to los and the other cities of the country. 

q let 's talk about what brings you to the 
pittsburgh area today. there have been i guess there 's been a 
lot of discussion on capitol hill about your  . 
you 've been locked in a battle with the gop .  . yesterday , as you 
said earlier in your radio address , you made some to break 
that  . what brings you to pittsburgh , in particular to 
allegheny , in particular to , with that 
battle 

the president well , there are two reasons. first 
of all , pittsburgh , allegheny and supported 
me in the last election because they wanted a new direction in 
economic policy. we have passed our overall economic plan it 
gives the country a very different for the next five years 
than we 've had in the previous 12. we reduced the and , 
at the same time , increased investment in jobs and education and 
health care , in the things that will make us a stronger country. 

but in addition to that , i asked the congress in the 
short run to spend a little more money , a amount of money 
to create another half million jobs in the next year and a half 
to try to cut the rate by a half a percent but also 
to try to spark job creation in the private more. the 
plan passed the house. it has the support of a majority of the 
senate .  . at the present time , all the republican as a 
bloc are the bill. that is , they wo n't let it come 
to a vote .  . 

i believe that would like to vote 
for the bill. and i believe that , the republican 
leader , has put a lot of pressure on a lot of the to 
stay  . and they 're all saying that this bill increases 
the  . it does n't .  . this bill is well below the spending 
targets that congress approved , including the , for 
this year .  . this bill is paid for by cuts in the next five 
years. this bill is designed to give a jump start to the 
economy .  . and i must say , a lot of the republican that 
are holding it up , when mr. bush was president , voted for 
billions of dollars of emergency spending of just this kind 
much of it was totally unrelated to creating jobs .  . 

so what i'm trying to do is to break this  . 
i 've held out an branch , i 've offered a compromise .  . but i 
think that we ought to try to put some more americans to work 
right now to show that we 're changing the direction of the 
country. and that 's the purpose of the bill. 

q have you been in touch with or 
his office lately 

the president well , we 've been trying to talk 
regularly to through my white house congressional 
operation to the that we think are open to this 
, d from new york , 
from , from , and five or 
others whom we believe know we need more jobs in this economy and 
know that we are paying for this with cuts over the life 
of the i presented .  . 

you know , it has a lot of appeal to say , well , we 've 
got a big , we should n't increase it more. but the truth 
is that we are paying for this with cuts in the whole life 
of the over the next few years. and more importantly , we 
have this program well below the spending targets that congress 
has already approved for this year .  . and they 've done this for 
years , with the voting for it many 
voting for it for things that were n't nearly as important as 
putting the american people back to work. 

so i just hope that this does n't become a political 
issue. it ought to just be about the people of this country and 
the need for jobs .  . 

q i have some questions from people who supported 
you , and some people who are skeptical about your  . 
it has to do with their hopes , and also with their  . a lot 
of people who supported you and voted for you in i 
think some of them are now saying , we 're glad we got him in the 
white house , but now look at this incredible process he has to go 
through. look at these problems. look at this  . and 
they 're beginning to wonder , is this going to work can you pull 
it off and , of course , your skeptics are saying , well , i knew 
it was going to be like this. 

the president well , what i would i 'd ask 
people , first of all , to remember that we are , frankly , moving 
very fast .  . the resolution that the congress passed is the 
they have ever passed a resolution ever in 
history , setting out the next five year targets .  . so we 
are moving really rapidly .  . and we 've got them working on 
political reform , welfare reform , health care reform , a whole 
wide range of things. 

but it 's a big operation. you ca n't expect to turn 
it around overnight .  . it took 12 years to produce the conditions 
which led to the victory i received from the people in , 
and we ca n't turn it around in 90 days. but i think we 're making 
real , real progress. 

i would urge the people not to get discouraged .  . 
we 're not going to win every battle , and not everything is going 
to happen overnight .  . but we are definitely moving and changing 
things. 

q thank you very much. 

the president of the united states , bill clinton , 
here live at pittsburgh international airport .  . i'm mike , 
news. 

31 a . m .  . edt 




from  ( bill anderson ) 
subject re formal to the of jurisdiction 
organization university , , 
lines 17 
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl3 

 ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
in article  ( ted frank ) writes 

... you 're not clean air provided by government 
, ... 

if this does n't all i ever heard ! the above certainly says a 
about the of frank , and also of 
everywhere. 


yes , there 's certainly no need to argue with him , or address the 
substance of what he says he 's a , after all. probably 
politically correct , too .  .  .  . 

bill 


from  ( david veal ) 
subject re national sales tax , the movie 
lines 27 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article  ( roger colin shouse ) writes 

speaking of did anyone see 's report yesterday  ( 4 15 ) it 
was quite  ( no pun  . they down how a percent tax 
was added at each stage of manufacturing , a stack of 
being added at each wholesale stage .  . when they got to the final 
stage  ( the actual sale ) the small stack of added to the 
large stack already there was said to be the amount paid by  . 
in other words , they ignored the fact that at each stage the 
tax would of course be passed on to the next with the consumer 
paying the full load .  . 

these are not journalists they 're dogs .  . 

one of the commentators on one of the big three news programs 
described the  ( which ai n't a sales tax ) as a tax government 's love. 
i was even surprised he got the reason right it effectively hides the 
majority of the tax the consumer has to pay from the consumer .  . it 's 
kind of like they do with cars .  . you pay far more for automobile taxes than 
most people realize because it 's contained in two dozen different taxes , 
everything from your license to your to your  . 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( john mccarthy ) 
subject re new environmental group  . 
in reply to 's message of sun , 4 apr 93 23 02 33 gmt 
reply to 
organization computer science department , stanford university 
lines 17 


o creature with feet from uk , 
a fool , posts 

with the force of a world wide youth movement , it ought to 
be possible to establish a program to 
the strategic goal of completely the 
internal engine over , say , a twenty year period. 

evidently there are no open questions , either scientific or about 
how people prefer to live. 


john , computer science department , stanford , ca 94305 

he who refuses to do arithmetic is doomed to talk nonsense. 


from  ( riyadh al hajmoosa ) 
subject re how many homosexuals are there 
organization san diego state university computing services 
lines 16 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host edu . 

 ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study 
 ( discrediting kinsey ) says so. 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

my understanding from my classes is that the percentage is 
more like 10 12 world wide. i would really like to know your source 
for the 1 2 figure .  . 

 . 
chemistry .  . 


from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re the candidate 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 12 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( steven smith ) says 

with yet another tax being by the clinton to 
pay for new   social programs , i 've really begun to suspect 
that the , long of their place in the american 
, an american draft who to canada some 


hey , he has been talking with a lot , huh 



from  ( douglas young ) 
subject re to be , or not to be a disaster 
distribution na 
organization california state university , 
lines 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 
in article  ( russ ) writes 
in article  ( phil 
ronzone ) writes 

not at all. you are apparently just another member of the 
religious left. 

not at all. i am not a member of the religious left , right , 
or even center .  . in fact i do n't consider myself very 
religious at all this will probably result in flames now ) 
. in fact , you should leave religion out of it. it just 
the issue. 

the religous left worships trees , , the planet , and hates people. 

and the religious right worships , , , 
and hates people. 

what does this name calling have to do with anything you are claiming about 
the truth of environmental disaster nothing that i have read in this 
thread , nor heard from anyone i have talked to , would suggest to me that 
people fit the definition you give of the religious left. come off it ,  . 
a prime motivation for protecting our environment is so that we , 
people , can continue to live in it  . we just disagree on what 
is necessary to maintaining a healthy environment for people. 

show me all these environmental . most of them 
are n't .  . and the natural we have had individually 
far the man made ones. 

's response deleted to save space 

i guess you missed the newspaper articles this week about presenting 
 ( through the astm ) on the issue of the incident .  . seems 
that is mostly , despite the religious left 's cries of 

hundreds of years . 

what ! they have already that old ! ! ! wow ! ! ! ) 

i suppose you mean the that were by the 
accident i have n't seen the articles .  . what do they say exactly 
has mostly all the and life returned the are mostly 
as clean as they were before the samples are mostly back to 
a normal the fish and have mostly returned what 

then again , the left claimed it would take 20 to put out 
the kuwait oil  .  .  . 
... 
you should face the facts .  . love 
was not , and is not , an environmental disaster , nor even a problem. 

nor is times beach and and acid rain killing trees and .... 

not a problem would you move to three island i would imagine 
there is some cheap property available ! 

the naturally events that destroy 
property  ( ie , , earthquakes ) do not usually leave 
that prevent people from re building their lives there. 
the man made  ( oil , dumping , waste 
dispersions ) cause death and make an area far beyond the 
initial event. 


there are actually people that still believe love was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 



) ( 
douglas young 
i do n't know why , but i seem to expect a serious discussion on the net. 
) ( 

from  ( philip h. stromer ) 
subject re frank wanted for killing  .  .  . 
article i.d. 1993apr6 . 
organization network equipment , city 
lines 31 
nntp posting host 

if the heading is true , mr. frank should be of himself. 

nothing makes me gag more than people who do n't respect the 
rights of others to voice their opinions. my bruce 
once commented about that time magazine when they 
advocated censorship of his material. time actually 
with the cops  and their of bruce at his shows , 
whereby he routinely would say , then the cops 
would rush the stage to arrest him. my , how the times have n't 
changed .  .  .  . 

i ca n't help but think of how would be received in today 's 
politically correct  . heck , i even support the right of 
nazis to speak their opinions and march down the streets. 

and before mr. frank or anyone else makes any about 
anti semitism .  .  . i'm . jewish , a member of and the , 
and have contributed over 1000 to these fine groups. i'm 
a regular to every pro israel group i can find , but i 
still support the right of people like to speak up and 
his propaganda .  . 

i want to know just who these people are ! ! ! 

i'm basing all this on the assumption that mr. frank did indeed 
write to some sysadmin requesting mr. to be  . if 
this is not the case , i hereby retract these directed 
him. if not , i stand against mr. frank and his trashing 
of the first amendment .  . 

philip 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re or terrorist threat 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 22 

in  ( nadja adolf ) writes 

in article writes 
in article , () writes 
i'm prepared to individuals in the proper use and 
handling of  . 

as a desert storm with years in the national guard , i have a 
great deal of experience in handling weapons and tactical training .  . 


ps anyone up for a discussion of counter 
security , your friend the counter terrorist operation .  .  .  .  .  . 


if promises to train them in and weapons , i doubt 
any of them will last long enough to become  . look for a sudden 
rise in accidents among the of the fetus , though. 

bless you , , we needed a name for these attack  . friends 
of the fetus , or for short .  . ) 


from  ( mel walker ) 
subject re top ten ways slick could improve his standing with americans 
nntp posting host com . 
organization , 
lines 23 

in article ,  ( ed 
ipser ) wrote 


top ten ways slick could improve his standing with americans 


deleted for a very good reason which i'm sure you can guess 


0. a law that people without a sense of humor from 
posting allegedly items. if he did this , i think 
his approval would go through the roof ! 

 ( c ) edward a. , jr. , 1993 

this means we ca n't quote ed without his permission .  . no using these lists 
in your  . , folks ! 


mel walker 
all opinions expressed are of the author. 
, inc. is not responsible for the content of this article. 

from  ( douglas meier ) 
subject re hate crimes laws 
article i.d. news . 1993apr6 . 
organization university , illinois .  . 
lines 25 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article writes 
in article  ( douglas meier ) writes 

i think what you meant to say here was , with the current mutation of the us 
constitution under the current police state , someone may be charged multiple 
times for one act if the victim in question is of the right  . a single 
act should never merit more than on charge .  . 

so if i set off a bomb in the world trade center , i can only be charged with 
more than one murder , and not the other five deaths and extensive property 
damage after all , the bomb was a single act. 

frank however should have mentioned that though 

again , mr. frank has come to the rescue with his cool headed reason. how 
about , one charge per victim of course i 'll think about it in a few days 
and find a case where this does n't apply either. 

what the heck , i do n't study law , i just hate lawyers .  . ) 


douglas c. you ca n't play electro magnetic 
university , according to the rules of 
this university is too  . huxley , new world 
to have these views. 

from  ( red herring ) 
subject re clinton 's program 
nntp posting host com . 
organization company , , ma 
lines 52 

in article  ( drevik , steve ) writes 
in article ,  ( red herring ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( jeffrey s linder ) writes 
in article 
 ( mark wilson ) writes 
on the news last night clinton was the for 
his so called  . 
it seems that one small item within this was going to pay for free 
for poor kids .  . 

for children in this country are already free if you care to 
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the parents 
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done. 

i do n't know where you live , but this is not the case  . 
perhaps your state or has put together the funds to 
do so , but in my area and most areas where i know people , 
cost . 

, the rate among is about 50 , but 
it is as low as 10 in some inner city  . 
i bet more than 10 kids living in such are already 
covered by  . 

here in , we have had a universal program , 
the kind of clinton seems to be proposing , for many years  ( two decades ) .  . 
mass  rate is 65 . what about the other 35 i guess 
some parents are indeed too ignorant or too lazy , or simply do not 
care. 


sorry to your  . 




in case you have n't noticed , are pushing a universal health 
care access program .  . access here means that folks who do not give 
a damn about their children will have health care services 
to their  . 




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 





disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 


from  ( doug holtsinger ) 
subject re pro abortion leader trashing of free speech rights 
organization 
lines 

in article 
 ( gordon fitch ) writes 
 ( doug holtsinger ) writes 

51 for defying judge 's order at abortion 
the miami , april 11 , 1993 

judge robert 's order prohibits anti abortion 
within 36 feet of the property line of aware woman center for choice. 
even across the street , they may not display pictures of dead 
or or loud enough to be heard by inside the clinic .  . 

several years ago , justice william o .  . douglas , who was 
about as libertarian as you can get about free speech 
and similar issues , wrote a majority opinion in which 
the supreme court turned down an appeal by a group of 
people who had been from demonstrating in 
front of their landlord 's home. 

do you have a cite for the case you do n't give enough 
information to be able to compare the two situations .  . 
if the demonstrators had been loud music 
into the landlord 's home all day and night , then i could 
see how the opinion would be justified .  . but this court 
order had abortion from 
pictures of dead , which does n't the 
of anyone inside the clinic .  . 

he pointed out that 
people have a right to be free from speech , 

perhaps in the of their homes , but not on public 
property .  . did the owner in new york 
city have a right to be free from the speech of the 
outside his inside the could hear the 
asking them to re consider shopping there how 
is that different from the abortion asking women 
to re consider getting an abortion at a clinic 

harassment goes beyond 
to direct attack on particular persons , 
in this case the workers and at a clinic .  . 
its purpose is clearly not to convey information or 
express an opinion , but to intimidate and do harm to 
other others. 

even if the  speech could be considered 
harassment  ( which it is not ) , hate speech laws have 
generally been down by the courts .  . i do n't see 
how the words n't kill your baby   or is 
murder   could be considered harassment .  . 

anti have lost the battle for public 
opinion , and the more among them have 
turned to harassment , , bombing and murder to 
carry on their war. there is no reason not to 
restrain them to protect the ordinary civil rights 
of everyone else. 

some of the were for simply praying 
on a public  . yeah , i could see how 
that might be equivalent to bombing and murder . 
uh huh .  . let us know when you get a grip on reality. 


) ( gordon ) ( ) ( 
(  .  .  . , ny ny 273 . ) 


doug 


from  ( elf sternberg ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization ,  . 
lines 35 
distribution world 
nntp posting host com . 
comments 
originator 

in article state . edu . 
state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 

actually , i bet you more gay men are as not as as gay men , 
because more of them could have the option of living a straight life , and 
with social , probably would at least try. 

, where have you been , ryan i proposed this theory months 
ago. let 's take it one step further , even .  . if , as the show , 
up to 33 of all men have had a homosexual , then there must 
be an even larger percentage of people who have had homosexual 
fantasies .  . but if less than 10 of the population is gay , what can we 
say about these people who do n't identify as gay but have demonstrated 
gay potential. obviously , a large of these people chose  ( or , 
more accurately , were forced to choose by force of religion and social 
sanction ) to put those feelings aside , to be heterosexual .  . 

obviously , and fall into this category .  . 

these people are the ones who are so up on choice. 
obviously , since they chose , everyone must have , and homosexuals are 
just their perversion by choosing not to go along with what 
society has  . 

of course , i'm that most awful of  . i chose , i 
admit that i was heterosexual until i met the right man and chose to 
indulge in my potential. take that ! 

! ! ! 

 ( elf sternberg ) 

the purpose of writing is to weak ideas , obscure pure 
reasoning , and clarity .  . with a little , writing can be 
an intimidating and fog ! bill 's  . 

from  ( nils nieuwejaar ) 
subject re we 're the war on drugs .  . not ! 
keywords drugs 
organization college , , nh 
lines 42 

 ( kennedy james scot ) writes 

the that follows was taken from the , april 14 , 1993 
issue of usa today ( drug use up among u.s. by mike 
, p.  . 

adolescents  choices 

drugs used by in the last month 
, per 100 students 
1991 1992  .  . 
25 . 1 . 26 . 1 . 4 
14 . 3 . 15 . 5 . 8 
marijuana 3 . 2 . 3 . 7 . 16 
2 . 6 . 3 . 3 . 27 
0 . 6 . 0 . 9 . 50 
cocaine 0 . 5 . 0 . 7 . 40 
crack 0 . 3 . 0 . 5 . 67 

source university of michigan institute for social research , 
1993 report 

we are not the war on drugs . i think you can see that one 
of the that the employs to give people the impression that 
the war on drugs is being won is to quote statistics 
only statistics that support their contention that drug use has gone 
down. the from time magazine that i included in this post is 
an excellent example of how organizations like the attempt to 
the public. 

unfortunately , there 's not much we can learn from the statistics presented 
here either. due to , the 1991  . for could be anywhere 
from  . to  . and the 1992  . could be anywhere from  . to  .  . 
this means that the actual change  ( if you believe these statistics in the 
first place ) was anywhere from 31 to 73 . similarly the increase in 
cocaine use could be anywhere from 18 to 66 and the increase of 
crack use could be anywhere from 29 to 120 . this does n't even 
take into account the margin of error which is n't provided here. 

this does not mean that the rest of the argument you present is unfounded , 
but it does mean that usa today has  ( not surprisingly ) provided us 
with virtually no information. 

from  ( ott edward d ) 
subject email 
keywords e mail clinton 
organization univ .  . of la .  . , 
distribution usa 
lines 5 

does anyone have  . e mail address. 
thanks a lot 




from  ( daniel r. , to be ) 
subject re traffic case 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of 
lines 20 
nntp posting host edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , 
(a . j .  . teel ) writes .  .  .  . 
the case was dismissed in the interests of justice 

on whose authority do you have this and on what grounds was it 
dismissed 

daniel 

how not to write a deed 

one case involved the construction of a to , as 
in common , with equal rights and interest in said land , and to the 
thereof , in fee simple. . . . to have and to hold the same unto the 
said parties , equally , , as in common , with equal rights 
and interest for the period or term of their lives , and to the thereof 
at the death of the other. 

the court held that the indicated an intent to create a 
 . v. ,  . , so .  . 

organization arizona state university 
from 
subject re celebrate liberty ! 1993 
lines 5 

, ,  . . . 



c . b .  . 

from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re rodney king trial , civil rights , double 
organization engineering and manufacturing , 
lines 37 

in  ( david spanagel ) writes 

recently it 's occured to me that i 've never heard of any person ever being 
tried in federal court for violating someone 's civil rights. of course 
there have been cases before the supreme court in which it was decided 
that someone 's civil rights had been violated (e . g .  . , , , 
etc . ) . , but were , de facto , the , not individuals .  . am i 
mistaken have there been similar cases against individuals in the past 

i know it was used several times in the south , to prosecute the murders of 
blacks , after all white juries had cleared the  . 

furthermore , what are the specific charges against the four officers 
which civil rights or laws are they accused of violating 

i believe it is a general charge , that is no specific right is mentioned. 

what about double has there been any concern that a verdict 
against , et al. might be upon appeal because they 're being tried 
again for the same actions (i thought i heard something on the news about 
this . ) . 

the has previously ruled that since the governments were in 
essence , then double does not apply. 

 ( if this is true , then could also be tried under city and 
governments ) 

this mornings paper said that the has decided to reinstate its 
opposition to this kind of thing. they had earlier their 
opposition while they examined the king case. there might be hope 
for the after all. 

rule is n't any merely because the calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related .  . 


from (c .  . d. tavares ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization stratus computer , inc. 
lines 23 
distribution world 
nntp posting host rocket . sw . stratus . com . 

in article ,  ( roger collins ) writes 

look at the whole picture , not just 
randomly picked libertarian positions .  . if government is not allowed to 
use non initiated force to achieve its goals , than no special interest 
can influence the government to use non initiated force on their behalf .  . 

either the government has force available to it , or it does n't .  . the 
libertarian position is that the government can use force only when someone 
else uses force first even when that first force is not directed 
against the government , but one of its citizens .  . that all being true , 
what do we have against the government claiming that some 
of force on its part is really a response  ( like the burning 
of the , the gulf incident , or the assault on ) 

i ask this not to argue , but to understand. 

 ( followups to alt . politics . libertarian . only . ) . 


if you believe that i speak for my company , 
or write today for my special  packet .  .  .  . 


from  ( dave kohr ) 
subject re foreign media reaction april 1 12 , part 1 of 3 
organization cs dept. , univ .  . of illinois at urbana champaign 
lines 19 

in article writes 
the usa could go quite far to the with iran .  . the people 
there are rather off because the usa first supported the who 
they and then supported saddam when he mounted an unprovoked 
attack .  . hardly after the crisis but iran is 
meant to be the country run by unreasonable bigots not the usa so if there 
is to be movement it would be easier for the usa to move. 

baker 

it is also widely stated  ( in non mainstream sources ) that the had a 
large part in the of the popular  ( and elected ) 
left in  . is this widely recognized outside 
the u.s. (i have never seen it mentioned at all in mainstream u.s. 
media . ) . how about within iran 

dave cs graduate student univ .  . of illinois at urbana champaign 
work ,  ( 217)333 ) home  ( 217)359 ) e mail 
one either has none or not enough. 

from  ( john f carr ) 
subject re the state of justice 
organization institute of technology 
lines 13 
nntp posting host mit . edu . 

in article 
 ( russ anderson ) writes 

there 's a guy on death row in texas that was denied a new trial , dispite 
evidence of his  . 

i recommend the book adams v texas , the story of a man  ( adams ) who 
was sentenced to death for a crime he did n't commit .  . most of the book 
is the story of the long appeals process , and the problems and 
caused by not being able to introduce new evidence in certain courts .  . 


john 

from  ( merth eric william ) 
subject re red army  ( raf ) 
nntp posting host cs . ca . 
organization university of , canada 
lines 19 


in article ,  ( christopher morton ) writes 

as quoted from by  ( phill baker ) 

is n't it the way people can make the sadistic and 
murder of the sound like 

gee , i 'd remember where you are and that these people are the 

net. i 'd also remember that they have about as much sense of humor as ed 


damn .  . it is n't big brother after all and all this time i thought that all 
those , while blowing things up and killing the odd 
innocent person in the process , really did love all us  .  ( 'cause 
everybody knows that will save you even 
if it has to get you killed first ) .  . 
what a fool i 've been. 

from  ( jason austin ) 
subject re from the 's 
organization nasa research center , , va 
lines 45 
distribution usa 

reply to jason c. austin 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 6 apr 1993 00 24 14 gmt 

in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 
in article  ( gadfly ) writes 
now let me get this straight .  . after a nice , long rant about 
how people need to take personal responsibility for their 
economic and social lives , all of a sudden 's 
 ( such as me , i guess) are responsible for poor people 's 
tell me how that works or do you think that poor 
people are just too to think for themselves 

there are many reasons for the of the family 
and support systems in general among this nation 's poor. 
somehow i do n't think brown or is at 
the top of any sane person 's list. 

you want to go after my generation 's cultural 
revolution for a lasting change for the worse , try so called 
relevant or values education. hey , it seemed like a good 
idea at the time. how were we to know you needed a real 
education first i mean , we took that for granted .  . 

the 's generation were the most spoiled and  . 

the depression had create and fathers that were determined that their 
kids would not want for anything going overboard and creating a nation of 
 . 

consider the between two famous events in of  . 

11 and  . 

which group had large numbers of people that could not feed themselves and 
to the cultural level of  ( defecation in public etc . ) .  . 

and which group assembled , took care of itself , and with no damage , 
no deaths , no large numbers of drug problems .... 


was n't also called the biggest lot in 
history they rejected society and went back to nature in their 
parent 's cars .  . 

jason c. austin 




from  ( tim smith ) 
subject re the state of justice 
organization university of washington school of law , class of  
lines 31 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

 ( not a boomer ) writes 
a judge denied 's new trial motion , even though says it has two 
new witnesses that said the of the was dead from the impact , not 
from the fire .  . 

thoughts 

how can a witness tell that someone in a burning is dead rather than 


it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start 
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led 
to the previous ruling appear .  . 

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed 
should n't that be up to a jury 

what kind of witnesses if we are talking about witnesses who were at 
the accident , or were otherwise directly involved (e . g .  . , , 
emergency room doctors , etc . ) . , then they should have been used at the 
first trial .  . you do n't get a new trial because you up and 
forgot to call all of your witnesses .  . 

if we are talking about new expert witnesses who will offer new 
interpretations of the data , note that the can always find 
such witnesses .  . if this were grounds for a new trial , then the 
could always get a new trial , and keep doing so until the 
becomes a winner  ( and then the other side would come up with new 
expert  . 

tim smith 

from  ( ott edward d ) 
subject e mail 
organization univ .  . of la .  . , 
distribution usa 
lines 7 



does anyone have the e mail address for the white house. if so please send it to 
me thanks a lot. 




from  ( jeff hagen ) 
subject re will be the next to fall 
organization wake university 
lines 51 
nntp posting host ac . edu . 

 ( note cross posted to alt . politics . and talk . politics . misc . 
this is a reply to an article by ed which also appeared in 
alt . politics . usa . misc . and alt . politics . libertarian . , but no longer belongs ) 


i hate to defend ed  ( the article was very poorly written ) but here goes 

 ( phill baker ) writes 
ed should take a look at the and bush created together 
before he starts to make claims about europe based on the 
deficits here. none of them are serious on the usa scale. 

's per debt is much higher than usa 's .  . 


we do not want our countries to be run by a narrow of rich lawyers 
for the benefit of the super  . 

this is exactly what the public in france perceive to be the 
problem thus the french election and italian  . 


regarding the post 
what looks likely to happen is the fringe parties are going to do much 
better in the next election .  . most of the are going 
to get replaced and the parties are going to be forced to look to people 
who are free of any hint of corruption .  . look out for a of 
's and stars .  . 

wrong. this is true perhaps only for the  . 
the sunday is expected to establish a british american style 
first past the post system in the senate .  . if implemented , it would 
encourage a two  ( or perhaps three ) party system in  . 
most likely the and will not be these parties rather there will 
be a of the entire party structure from which 2 new parties 
will emerge to dominate .  . will be one of these who knows. 

 ( the camera  ( lower house ) will likely remain with 
proportional representation for a while , but there is talk of switching a 
portion of that house , too. maybe as much as 40 first past the post ) 

overall , the reform in is a welcome change .  . 
are tired of having government. stars , 's and 
wo n't gain because is dead. a good two party 
system will bring efficient , accountable government. 

it 's about time. 

jeff 



from  ( brian keith michalk ) 
subject re high speed is bad 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 16 
distribution tx 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( david mcgaughey ) writes 

the question , i think , then becomes do we , the general public , need the train 

i certainly do not , nor will i ever , need this train in , texas .  . with 
the air travel provided between and houston , i do n't think 
people in or houston need it either. 

i totally agree. really , the only people this is going to benefit , are 
those who live in the cities where the train stops .  . who wants to drive 
to the train station from x  ( lubbock for example) it 's probably 
to drive to the train station than it is to the national airport .  . 

i really ca n't see spending 5.7 billion on a system that only three cities 
will benefit from. 


from  ( franklin jordan ) 
subject re how many homosexuals are there 
organization state free net 
lines 28 
nntp posting host edu . 


i am so tired about all this debate on how many gays there 
are ! such arguments are basically worthless , imho .  . would it 
really matter if it were millions of people who are regularly 
denied access to housing , employment , and personal security or 
even only one 
as for death threats , i happen to know from personal 
experience that gay people are far more likely to receive 
them based on political or even personal 
related to the issue of sexual orientation than are 
 . not a week goes by that i personally or one of my friends 
is not physically or for even to 
be gay. 
everyone is certain rights under 
our current form of government in theory , yet every day 
gay people are victimized by their local governments , by 
the police force , and by  ( for the most part ) an uninformed 
and ignorant public. is this democracy i do n't think so. 
a society 's sense of justice is judged on the basis of 
the treatment of the people who make up that society. 
all of those people. and yes , that includes gays , lesbians , 
and whose crimes have no victims , and who 
are as and as the society of they are 
a part. 

frank 
gay arab unite ! ! ! 


from  ( paul havemann ) 
subject re clinton president to for nuclear security post 
organization 
lines 28 

in article , clinton  ( clinton '92 ) writes 

the white house 
office of the president 
for immediate release april 13 , 1993 

president to for nuclear security 

no , no , no ! bill , please , do n't anyone who it 
q ! jimmy always used to drive everyone nuts when he did that ! 
and do n't let anywhere near ! and .  .  .  . 

 ( washington , dc ) the president today that he intends 
to , the director of 's center for 
science and international affairs , to be assistant of 
defense for nuclear security and counter  . 

voice 

 .  .  . never . mind. 



paul  ( internet 

they 're not just opinions they 're for the brain ! 
 ( up to 50 per cynical observation . ) . 
recommended minimum daily requirement 1 , 000  . keep reading. 

from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re national sales tax , the movie 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization in the hall 
lines 36 

 ( aaron t boyken ) writes 

here 's a question what if , instead of a true , the federal 
government imposed a sales tax of say 2 3 the tax would only 
be paid on sales  ( thus not building up at all levels of 
costs that are just passed on to anyway ) , 
and would only go to reducing the  . (i know that this 
would never happen , but it seems a lot more than 
a  . 

canada 's is as a sales tax and is considered a  . 
, the previous hidden wholesale tax that it was 
never referred to as a tax  ( or , people never paid mind to it , 
thus the when it was brought up front as the 
one party has actually on hiding the tax  . 

the stated intent of the was to use the to write down 
our  . unfortunately , their legislation did n't include any 
mechanism for the funds in such a manner and 
the money is now sitting in  . i do n't know what is involved 
in the funds , but one is that the are not 
themselves though while and spending , 
they 've made to apply the breaks to a by 
the end of this time the end of their second term ( 9  . 
while they do have chances of getting a third term , catching up 
in the to their more moderate slightly pro business 
, the  ( as in uk ) , the  apparent 
for the leaders  has been a of hillary 
clinton ... 



me 
l. dare 
go go ! ! ! 


from  ( rob dobson ) 
subject re voter 
organization university of virginia 
lines 12 


 ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
when i entered 1st grade , was president and john f. 
was just a relatively obscure from new england .  . so how old do 
you think i am now 

and we all hope , , that you will graduate from the first grade 
while clinton is president .  . keep trying .  . 



disclaimer 

subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians 
from  ( roger collins ) 
organization computer corporation 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 35 

 ( julie kangas ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 
with a of the hat to david for making the top ten format 
so popular 

top ten reasons that do n't want to aid russia 

looking around who where 
do n't look at me. i want to send aid to russia .  . many other 
do as well. 


disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else 

yes , it was nixon who was most vocal about giving money to russia .  . it 
makes me proud to be a libertarian .  . it appears both and 
prefer to cold war until you win , then the enemy back to 
health for another go around. 

it 's like the countries  ( japan , germany , etc . ) . with 
free defense , and then trade with them because of the economic 
competition .  . it 's like while paying 
to people not to  . 

i ask myself , what law could we pass to prevent government from doing 
stupid , things with our money then i think , the constitution 
was supposed to do that. could someone please tell me what legitimate 
constitutional power the federal government is using when it takes money 
from my and gives it to countries seriously. 

roger 

if we were directed from washington when to and when to , 
we would soon want bread .  . 
thomas jefferson 

from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject re mr. 's 'evidence' 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random .  . 
lines 43 

in article de . de .  ( gene w. smith ) writes 
in article  ( phil 
ronzone ) writes 

want the state out of our lives. 

members want to fuck little boys. 

now do you get it 

i see ! want to have the right to fuck little 
children of either sex , and want to make sure everyone else 
has this right too. just wants to have the right to 
fuck little boys. 

or are you just a secret member of 

you 're the one who suddenly seems to be defending the right 
to fuck children. how many little girls have you today , 


if wanting to the age of consent is not , 
it is not respectable for anyone. 

hmm , you still do n't get it. then again , i'm not posting from a university 
where the and cry was raised against jewish physics . 

tell me , committed any anti semitic acts today what kind of do you 
wear 

and still want the state out of their lives. parents are very 
capable of protecting their children against the of , 
which , btw , you still have n't yourself from. 

are you , or are you not , a member of 




there are actually people that still believe love was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from  ( tim smith ) 
subject re tax case ! 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of washington school of law , class of  
lines 27 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

 ( daniel r. , to be ) writes 
which makes it legally  . if i were mr. , 
i 'd try a approach if i could find one , or recommend 
he plea bargain .  . he 's setting himself up to be in hot water .  . 

indeed. reading the cases of people who 've tried the various things 
mr. suggests show that fall into two classes (1) those 
who win on grounds or some grounds not related to their 
claim , and (2) those who lose .  . 

consider newman v. , f .  ( 8th , which i 've seen 
cited by tax other than mr. as a win for mr.  . 
mr. offered 100 , 000 on tv to anyone who would call in the 
show and cite any section of the internal code that says that 
an individual has to file a return. 

mr. newman took him up on it. mr. newman had seen the show in a rebroadcast 
the next morning. mr. claimed that the offer only extended to 
people who actually say the original , and so there was no offer 
for mr. newman to accept , and so no contract was formed , and 
so mr. did not have to pay 100 , 000 .  . 

mr. was correct , and so won .  . so , yes , mr. won against a 
claim on the 100 , 000 reward .  . however , his win had nothing to do with 
the tax code. 

tim smith 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 

in article  ( steve thomas ) 

in article  ( jeffry r beach ) 
writes 
in article  ( steve thomas ) w 

boy , it looks like the is working really good to stop people from 
being up in the head , given that example ! 

 ( issue your friend got his drugs legal or not legal , he 'll continue to 
get them. issue 2 why should i , as somebody who does not use illegal 
drugs and who is not up have to pay for this idiot 's problems he 
's 
not doing anybody any harm except himself. the , on the other hand , is a 
n 
immediate threat to my life and  . tell me why i should sacrafice 
this to that ! ) .  . 

, is there anybody in there you think you have to pay for this idiot 's 
problem now , who 's going to pay for the number of addicts and 
all of the associated problems with them. i do n't even want to think about 
it with hillary in the white house and an that our 
pain . 

look , if you were truly for lower and less government , you would not 
be advocating the  . ever wonder why the is a issue 


no harm but to himself what about when he drives his school full 
of kids into a train .  . when he gets and drives up on a 
and kills 5 people. when he lives off me on welfare for the rest of his 
life. 

ridiculous .  . i ca n't imagine anyone this stupid. forgive me for flaming , 
but this is obvious ! 

tell me why any of the above cases cannot be caused be a legal drug ,  . 
, or are you for having a war on that , too 

now i 'll tell you more people are killed by related accidents 
than all other drugs combined .  . by far. 


probably because more people have access to  . it is legal you know. 



the problem with the is that it has no  . sending the slimy 
to the chair for selling drugs to kids , now there 's some bit. 


yeah , that 's it , send a kid from the inner city , who has no other viable 
means to make money and turns to selling drugs , to an over crowded federal 
prison where he learns to do real crime .  . 


of course , this kid would be much better off selling crack to his neighborhood 
and helping in its  . 

without drug money being into these from the  ( affluent ) 
outside , there would be no crime  ( who would they steal from , each other ) .  . 
drugs bring money into the community just like any other business would , 
except that , since drugs are illegal , the economy is an one. 

and if those drugs were legal , the neighborhood could legally go to hell. 

a self economy can only by a constant 
willful of money from the outside .  . if you take away drug laws , 
you put an end to the economy , and therefore to large scale 
crime .  . 


and if we made murder legal , we would put an end to murder as a crime .  . 

kids in the inner cities are with a very tough life growing up 
there , or selling drugs and having everything at their  . 
many kids choose selling drugs .  . they sell products to people who want to 
buy them. they make money off of rich white kids from the  . then 
they go to prison .  . then they become criminals , and learn that 
you 're much better off car in the because all 
the police forces are spending all their money in the inner city saving 
people from themselves. 

what 


you can bring up all the examples you want about crack babies and  . 
the solution never has anything to do with the laws  ( crack is  . 


so you are saying crack babies who are that way legally are okay 

no social problem , however great , is worth destroying the freedom in america .  . 
the destruction of freedom is never an answer to any social problem. 

you ca n't even walk down the street at night alone in america because of drugs .  . 
freedom my ass. 

ryan 

from  ( dr zippy ) 
subject re sexual proposition sexual harassment 
nntp posting host cc 
organization dr 
lines 13 

in article  ( malcolm lynn ) writes 

this is a 
s 

of your , eh 

dr  . 


dr , proof that is n't a women only title 



from will 
subject re hill .  .  . giving . out ! oh please ! prove it ! ! 
x to theodore a. 
organization the zoo of 
lines 100 

 ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( will s 
eeves ) writes 

j. 

we are wondering why the clinton is having so much 
trouble finding a suitable nominee for the post of general , 
when there is an obviously superior candidate ... 

we refer , of course , to  . hill .  . 

michael 

probably because if they pick her the will investigate 
the that she sometimes returned papers to her students with 
a couple of inserted between the pages. 

while i'm hardly one of  . hill 's biggest , i find this hard 
to believe. 

could you please supply  ( with a post , preferably ) some proof of this , 
ie .  . , newspaper articles such allegations , etc. 

well , your ignorance about this is , given you 're a 
canadian .  . and i'm at a complete loss at to why you should be so 
interested in this , given that it is an american issue which should 
properly be of absolutely no concern to you at all. 

actually , my interest in issues is not limited to international 
 . indeed , i often exchange information with americans about 
issues which concern us , in both countries. 


in any event , in 
answer to your question , the following is taken from david 's 
article , the real hill , published in the march 1992 issue of 
the american . this is taken from page 27 .  . 


ah .  .  . someone . had mentioned this journal , but gave no further information. 


but the most bizarre incident is alleged to have happened in the 
school year at oral university , according to a 
, dated october 13 , 1991 , and filed with the senate 
, in which lawrence , now a lawyer in 
, the following 

shortly after the class had begun , professor hill gave us a 
written which i and turned in. when 
this was passed out to the class after having been 
by the professor , sitting next to me were fellow 
students jeffrey and mark  . upon the 
and our grades and comments made by 
hill , i found ten to twelve short black in the pages 
of my  . i over at jeff 's 
and saw similar in his work. at the time i made the 
statement to that either she had a low opinion of our 
work or she had our in the bathroom .  . mark 
the conversation and said that he had similar 
in his also. this became the standing 
joke among many students for the remainder of the year in 
classes .  . 

other students in that class confirmed the story. says 
he could n't be certain that the were , but he said he 
thought it was unlikely that they could have come from hill 's head , 
since they were short , , and , and hill had had the hair 
on her head  . another student who saw the hair , but 
did not want to be identified , said of its origins you just know 
when you see it. 

does this you , 

yes , thank you , though i am really curious as to why this never came out 
 ( at least not in what i saw , up here in canada , or on , which is sent 
up here ) during the thomas  . surely , one would think 
that her claim to having been harassed , would have a great deal 
less credibility if it could be shown that she had herself been guilty of it. 


or do you regard statements given to a 
u.s. senate as equivalent to toilet paper 

 .  .  .  . it depends .  . ) 

 ( for instance , if it were the statements at the warren , 
then yes , i would say that the statements were no better than toilet 
paper , used at that ) , but in most cases , the answer would be no ) .  . 


will , neil is 
bbs , , ontario the zoo of rule 
 ( 416 ) 

solve , 
peter j. , b . a .  .  ( upei ) 

2 . 1a . scott me up ,  . 

from  ( michael a. thomas ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization , ca 
lines 60 

in article ,  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
in article  ( michael a. thomas ) writes 
in article ,  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
think about it should n't all drugs then be , it would lower 
the cost and definitely make them safer to use. 

yes. 

i do n't think we want to start using these criterion to determine 
 . 

why not 


where do they get these people ! 

what , pray tell , does this mean just who exactly is they 
you mean they as in people who do not blindly swallow every 
piece of propoganda they are given or they as in  ( not 
our kind ,  . or they as in an appeal to some audience 
that is supposed to implicitly know and understand 

i really do n't want to waste time in 
here to do battle about the of drugs .  . if you really want to , we 
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is ! 

read i do not know what the fuck i'm talking about , and am 
not eager to make a fool of myself. 

my point was that it is pretty stupid to justify something just 
because it will be safer and  . 

from a pragmatic standpoint , there certainly is some justification 
if it is a vice people will commit anyway. shall we 
again if the re for were done from 
anything other than the pragmatic standpoint , i 'd be happy to hear 
about it. the fact is that it was n't .  . 

a few more ideas to hold to these criterion prostitution the killing of all 
funny farm , aids victims , , , , etc. 
this would surely make my taxes  . 

only the first one make any sense. there is nothing to legalize 
about all the rest. just in case you have n't made the connection 
 ( which i expect you have n't ) the connecting theme in this thread is 
a persons over their life and body. vice serve 
only to make it more expensive for the rich and more dangerous 
for the poor , as tim so eloquently put it. people will , however , 
take over their lives , regardless of what the government 
says .  . 
and why , pray tell , is aids victim in quotes are you of 
the sort that thinks there is no such thing as the aids 
or do they just it 


michael thomas 
i do n't think eyes will get you that flame  .  .  . 
to 
santa heights , ca , 
 ( 714 )  ( 714 )  ( fax ) 

from  ( erich schwarz ) 
subject re century capitalism 
organization caltech ,  . of biology 
lines 38 
distribution world 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

in article ,  ( chris 
struble ) wrote 
christian writes 

some people are not very good at getting the best deal for their 
effort , and others are unwilling to put forth much effort , even in 
the face of economic  . there will always be some people 
who are stupid or lazy , relative to the ability or effort of most 
others. the question is what do you do with them there are three 
options 
... 
2 ) kill those who are not as a upon society . 
this is the communist ( all who do not shall not eat 
lenin ) or approach. 
... 

you 're being too generous to the communists , i think. in practice , 
communism has solved the problem by killing off anybody who is too 
, and who therefore raises embarrassing questions about why the 
rest of the group is a bunch of  . the mass of 
in the ussr is a good instance of this. 
a poor second best is to have a capitalist country to which 
people of politically incorrect and ambition flee .  . i often wonder 
just what would have done if the cubans presently in miami would 
have been forced to remain in  . would they have and killed 
him off , or been killed 
best of all is to build a locking the citizens of your country in , 
load it up so with attack dogs , wire , and land that 
most people fleeing over it die , and then give everyone the choice of 
obedience , prison , or  . this would be a bad science fiction novel , 
if the east germans had n't actually done it. the last person to die 
the , as i recall , was an unarmed woman who was shot in the 
back .  . was going to go on trial for that , but he to 
in chile .  . 
it 's good to be kind to one 's intellectual opponents , but sometimes 
it 's a waste of time. 



from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject just what is in the jobs bill 
organization engineering and manufacturing , 
distribution usa 
lines 26 

this was in wed .  .  . 

start 
the white house , seeking to mount public pressure on gop , 
news in some 's home states with news warning that 
certain may not be funded if the bill is n't 
passed .  . 

none of the mentioned are actually in the bill , rather they are 
part of a wish list that may be funded from the 2 . 56 . billion in 
community development block grants .  . 

... 

end 

i could have i heard a bunch of going on and on , raving 
about how dishonest it was that the were taking items from this 
wish list in order to this bill. now that clinton is using that 
same list in order to support for the bill , are you guys going to 
do the thing and say that clinton is being dishonest .  . 

rule is n't any merely because the calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related .  . 


from  ( jamie r. mccarthy ) 
subject re ca 's laws 
organization college 
lines 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 
 ( jamie r. mccarthy ) writes 

having completely 
into the of believing that there are no in the world 
who think differently from the child advocating minority on 
soc . motss . , he does n't even notice that he 's starting a sentence with 
they believe when the of that they is millions of people. 
 .  .  . so . few as to be irrelevant .  .  .  . 

if you do n't want to be together as a group , stop 
on being treated as a member of a group. 

please point out where i have said i even was a member of that group , 
much less asked to be treated as such , much less insisted upon it. 

sexual orientation is not defined by the anti discrimination law 
that was passed last year .  . is n't a sexual orientation 

wait a minute. you 've been claiming for quite a while now that 
, according to ca state law , is a sexual orientation .  . now 
your position is that the law does n't specifically exclude it 

you know damn well what 's going to happen. some guy in a 
t 's going to apply at a day care , they 're going to turn him down , 
he 's going to take it to court , and the court 's going to rule that 
sexual orientation is defined as homosexuality , , or 
bisexuality .  . 

unless and until that court decides that is a sexual 
orientation , you have no business saying so. 

silence death pin or something. they turn me down because of 
that. 

i support their right to take this action. i would n't 
do it myself , unless it was something like the t  . 

despite the fact that all homosexuals are lying 

how about a black man applies for a job at a bank. the bank decides , 
based on statistics , a black person would be more likely to steal 
money , and denies the man the job. would you support the bank 's right 
to this freedom 

i support their right to do so but 

ah .  . 

so , for example , you are opposed to the civil rights act of 

here 's the law that was passed and signed by the 

the people of the state of california do as follows 

1 section 1. the purpose of this act is to 
2 existing case law as determined in gay law students v. 
3 telephone and , 24 cal .  . 3d 458  ( 1979 ) 
4 and v. corp .  . , cal .  .  . 3d 
5  ( 1991 ) prohibiting discrimination based on sexual 
6 orientation .  . 
7  . 2. section  . is added to the labor code , to 
8 read 
9 1 .  .  ( a ) sections and 
10 discrimination or treatment in any of the terms 
11 and conditions of employment based on actual or 
12 perceived sexual orientation .  . 


13  ( b ) this section shall not apply to a religious 
14 association or corporation not organized for private 
15 profit , whether incorporated as a religious or public 
16 benefit corporation .  . 

there 's no for purposes of this act , the term  sexual orientation  will 
be defined as section no definitions anywhere did they run this 
through the state congress on an or something 

internet j . 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re the could win the  .  .  . clinton . 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 48 

in article writes 

in article , 
edu  ( gary l dare ) writes 

 ( charles m kozierok ) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes 

secondly , any canadian who has worked and in the 
 ( it 's a negative option , you have to explicitly decline 
it) knows that the is ... 

yes , and some americans actually have a problem with having more 
of their money taken from them to pay for others  health care .  .  .  . 

but note again , the canadian and german health is voluntary 

not true. i am required to have by law. the method of collection 
effectively makes it a tax .  . 



the selfish that they are. unfortunately , that number has 
recently , but once president gets through 
with us , i hope for a of trend .  . 

well here we have the right for more selfish  . pity they 
do n't look at what 12 years of the bush selfish bastard 
has done to the country. 

elect a selfish bastard government and they will run the country for 
s , 
why they are selfish  . bush and gave tax breaks for the 
rich and paid for them by borrowing against the of the middle 
class .  . 


this country is hardly  . in fact , it is compared to after the 
election .  . 

this whole usa has gone to hell and reagan bush caused it , is not only , 
pathetic , and old .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . it 's wrong. 

under reagan bush the economy grew by 1.1 dollars .  . this is more than 
the entire economy of germany , a kind , gentle country , in many peoples  
books. what a joke. 

ryan 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton president 's remarks at summer jobs conference 4 . 14 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 





the white house 

office of the press 

for immediate release april 14 , 1993 


remarks by the president 
at summer jobs conference 



city , virginia 


11 22 a . m .  . edt 


the president thank you very much. the speech that 
gave says more than anything i will be able to say today 
about why it 's important to give all of our young people a chance to 
get a work experience and to continue to learn , to the nature 
of learning and work why it 's important to honor the efforts of 
people like jerry and and and all of 
those who are here. 

i want to thank the of labor and education 
and all the people who work with them for this and my 
good friend , , for being here and for speaking and 
all of the business and local community leaders from the city and 
and state level from around america who are here. 

this has been a pretty fun day. ) . i loved 
hearing the young people  . it was music to my ears because it is 
their future that we are really about. ) . a 
year and a half ago i began the quest to seek the because 
i was concerned about their future. because i believe that our 
country , which had always been a of hope for the young , had 
too little opportunity , was too divided among ourselves across lines 
of and race and and other ways , without a vision to 
take us into the future. 

i entered with the hope that together we could create 
more opportunity and insist on much more responsibility from all of 
our people. but in the process we might the best of 
america 's community , knowing that together we could always to more 
than we could individually and that we might secure our future. 

all of you here today are committed to that. the 1 , 000 
jobs that jerry has committed time to is of the 
made by many of the private people who are here , 
and those who are around the country. the work that 
does , and the of all the young people like those on this 
stage , and especially the eloquent statement all 
those things show that together we know what we need to do , and we 're 
on the right track .  . 

last when i was across america 's 
in my , i visited high school in 
,  . and there i met young people and business 
people who were in the education and 
employment  . i saw what talked about today. 
i saw how the young people were making an extra effort to succeed 
both in school and at work. i saw , as i have seen many times in my 
own state , the principle illustrated that has talked about 
that for millions of american young people it is really an 
to both their learning and their ability to be good 
workers to draw a line between what is work and what 
is learning. 

in the world in which we are living , the average young 
person will change the nature of work seven or eight times in a 
lifetime. we must learn to the work world and the learning 
world much better. and we must determine that all of our young 
people see the opportunities that some of them have had 
here today. 

whether you 're in business or in government or in 
education , you know that we have a big job to do when it comes to 
building a future that really , honestly includes opportunity for all 
of our people. there are still a lot of people who say , well , things 
are pretty good here in washington and everything 's fine the best 
thing we can do about this whole thing is nothing. they all have 
jobs .  . ) . all the people who say that. ) . 

they all have health  . they all have a pretty 
good education. and they all have a pretty secure knowledge that 
they 'll be okay no matter what happens. i say that not to be either 
political or unduly critical , but to point out that one of the great 
challenges of this age for every advanced nation everyone is to 
fully develop the of all of its people , and then find work 
for them to do. 

all the european countries have higher 
than we do , but also stronger support systems for the 
 . the japanese rate has been going up. 
they 're going to adopt a that , even if you count it in its 
most rigorous terms , is three or four times bigger than the one that 
i have proposed to create jobs .  . 

in west germany alone , the rate is now 
about as high as ours. this is a big problem for advanced nations .  . 
it costs a lot of money to add an extra , with a lot of 
pressure from low in other countries that are growing 
their own and trying to provide new opportunity for their 
people. 

but it is especially important for america for two 
reasons one is , we have a whole lot of folks who , unless we move 
, will not have the education and we need to be 
and in a nation like this. the second is , 
even if we them all , if there are n't jobs they will be robbed 
of the of their labors .  . people need to be able to 
work in this country. ) . 

we have always had some and , indeed , some 
of it is normal .  . you 've always got some people leaving jobs and 
moving around the country and doing first one thing and another. we 
have now , at this moment in our history , the necessity for all big 
organizations , including the government , to the way they 
are organized and who ask whether there are too many people working 
at some kinds of jobs .  . but in the whole , we must still be able to 
create jobs in a country like america , to provide people with the 
chance to work. 

it 's going to be difficult for me to make the welfare 
reform that i will make to congress in the next couple of 
months it 's going to be hard for me to make those work if , at the 
end of all this work , to get off welfare there is n't a job. 
) . 

so we have two  . one is to develop the capacity of 
the american people to perform without regard to race or or 
the circumstances of their birth. the other is to make sure that 
there are some opportunities for them to bring to bear for their 
talent and to be rewarded with a  . it is a great challenge. 
i do not pretend that all of the answers are simple. but i know if 
you want to ask the american people , all of them , to be more 
responsible , if you want to a sense of community in this 
country that the lines of race and and , you 
have got to have opportunity in that mix .  . 

a part of our vision for america has to be a future for 
every young person in this country who 's willing to play by the rules 
and work hard and for the end of the rainbow .  . there has to be 
something at the end of that rainbow .  . and that is what we are 
basically here to talk about today what can we all do as partners , 
recognizing none of us can do it alone , to develop the of 
our people to succeed wherever they live and whatever their 
background .  . and then , what can we do to make sure that there 's 
something there for them to do 

the summer jobs program we 're discussing today is an 
integral part of that plan , because it will promote the values of 
work and opportunity and fairness , community. it will put the people 
first , and it does have a between the public and private 
 . 

i said when i addressed the united states congress in 
february on this program that i would seek to create about 700 , 000 
extra summer jobs from government sources and then challenge the 
american business community to meet that target so that we can create 
more than a million new summer jobs over and above what had been 
created before. 

many , many people have responded to that challenge. and 
jerry is just a shining example of that which has been in 
this room and around the country people who are going to do more 
than they otherwise would in the private to give young people 
a work experience. and it is terribly important. 

i want to that this summer jobs program is 
part of an overall commitment to increase the capacity of the 
american people from defense workers who lose their 
jobs and other adults who need to acquire new to improving 
the from school to work for young people who do n't go to 
college but do need at least two years of post high school training 
either on the job or in a community college or a setting , 
so that they can be workers , making it possible for more 
people to go on to college who do want to go. 

all these things are part and of a comprehensive 
plan .  . it 's also important , as i said , that we create more jobs .  . the 
emergency jobs program that i asked the congress to adopt would 
create a half a million extra jobs over the next year and a half , and 
that would reduce the rate by a half a percent .  . it 
would also us to absorb more young people coming into the work 
force in jobs that otherwise will not be created. 

it also will help a lot of cities and to 
in things that need to be done at the grass roots level 
long , water , , park , 
new and particularly in small and medium size communities 
a whole range of things that will improve the economy and improve 
the environment. 

the summer jobs program is an important part of that 
because we have tried for the first time , through the work of the 
labor department and the education department and through 
out to people like you , to make this more than just a one shot summer 
jobs program to it with private efforts to 
replicate it in each coming summer to move these young 
people into further opportunities and to further job 
opportunities and to have a strong , meaningful education component 
to these summer jobs something that the united states government 
has never fully emphasized before. 

a lot of these young people , as you well know , because 
they come from difficult , because they go to school in 
difficult and challenging circumstances , need extra help in building 
their basic in math and language , reasoning and in other 
areas .  . and a lot of studies show that young people who 
have difficulty in school often forget as much as 30 percent of what 
they learn over the summer and then that has to be repeated the next 
year .  . 

what we are trying to do here is to give people the 
opportunity to learn good work and to their learning 
and to put them together and then , , over the next 
couple of years , if our entire program passes , to give every school 
in this country the opportunity to have a good work and learning 
environment. 

there will be more applied , more opportunities 
for people to learn and work during the school year , so that this 
will not simply be an isolated moment for these young folks , but will 
be a part of building a whole new experience , a whole new 
work experience , and moving on a to a better future. 

the summer jobs programs are not designed to be make 
work jobs .  . they 're designed to make a future for the people holding 
the job. and that 's what they will do. in the process , they 'll help 
to build local communities , to local , to solve 
local problems. real jobs housing , public 
buildings , doing clerical work , providing assistance in 
hospitals , and training children at child care , 
and learning all the way. challenging young people to learn while 
they , but letting them  . 

you know , it 's very difficult to make a case to people 
who have never seen opportunity on their own street that they should 
do this , that , or the other thing if there 's no evidence of the 
opportunity that 's at the end of the effort .  . i have not been 
in going for the last year and a half into places where it is n't 
exactly popular to say it , and say i wanted to reform the welfare 
system i wanted to child support i wanted to require people 
to work i was sick and tired of people being in the 
use of guns on the streets , and i wanted to change all that. but if 
you 're going to people to greater responsibility , you have to 
reward them when they do the right thing with opportunity .  . 
) . 

the young people we propose to put to work under our 
program will spend 90 hours learning basic , such as math , 
reading , writing either on the job in the  . they will 
stretch their minds as well as work up a  . they will have a 
sense of accomplishment .  . it will literally be a summer challenge , 
but a challenge that will take them into a different life. 

so i want to ask all of you to support this effort even 
as i , as your president , support your effort .  . at the end of the 
summer we will all the young people who participate .  . we 'll 
see whether they , instead of falling behind over the summer 
as too many young people do , they stayed even or moved 
ahead. i suspect that they will. 

this summer , reich and and i 
will be many of your communities .  . we 'll really try to learn 
from you which of these efforts are working , what we should do next 
summer , how we can build it in to what goes on during the school 
year , how we can build in our job training efforts and the works that 
we do with your to make sense of this whole thing so 
that we the impact of the dollar and your private 
as well. 

we want to honor the and the communities , the 
business leaders and the young people who do the very best jobs this 
summer .  . and , again , i want to say to all of you in private business 
who have our effort , i thank you. and to all of you who 
have n't , and those across the country who may listen or learn about 
this event today , i want to other private to 
stretch a little bit to give other young people a chance to work this 
summer .  . i'm telling you , we cannot go through another 10 years when 
we do n't give these children anything to say yes to. if we 
them to do right , we 've got to be able to reward them. ) . 

when the other speakers were talking , i was sitting up 
here on the , listening and  . and they got talking 
about work , and i got to thinking about all the different things i 've 
done to make a living in my life. when i was 13 , i made a very 
foolish short term business investment i set up a book stand 
and sold two full of books. made more money than i had 
ever had in my life. but if i had saved those , they 'd be 
worth 100 , 000 today. ) . 

that does not mean young people should not be 
 . it just means that you ca n't a generation 
ahead. i have and cleared land and built houses and 
worked in body and the parts of a car  . 
and i 've done a lot of different things for a living. some 
people say i got into politics to escape work. ) . 

i learned something from every job i ever had. but i 
grew up in a generation where i literally did not know a living soul 
without regard to race or who wanted to work who did n't have a 
job. i grew up in a generation when all you had to really say to 
people is , get an education and you 'll be all right. you 'll get a 
job and you 'll make more money next year than you did this year .  . now 
i live in a generation full of people , most of whom do n't make any 
more money in real dollars than they did 10 years ago and they 're 
working longer hours and they 're paying more for the basics of life. 
and we are now wondering whether we can create the jobs that these 
young people want. 

now , i want to close by these two things 
it does n't matter what kind of economic policies this 
, or how much increases there are in the private 
, if young americans do n't get a good education , do n't learn 
how to work and ca n't be , those jobs will not be created 
in this country. machines will do the work or the work will be done 
off by people who have the same levels and can work for a 
third or a fourth or a the wages .  . so nothing we can do 
economically will matter unless we build the and of 
america 's work force. and anybody that otherwise is just 
kidding. 

on the other hand , we need to be honest .  . every 
country in the world , including the united states , is having 
difficulty creating jobs .  . if i knew everything that needs to be done 
i 'd be glad to tell you and we could just call off the whole 
of congress and everything else. i do n't have all the 
answers. but i know this doing nothing is not the answer. 
) . 

and so the jobs program that i have presented to 
congress , with the summer jobs , with the money for the cities and the 
, through the community development program , with the 
money , is a small part of a big  . it is an 
attempt to engage in an experiment to see whether or not , with the 
economy in terms of profit , we can give a little 
boost to it , give opportunities to young people , create a half a 
million jobs and maybe get the engine going again. 

most of the jobs in this program are going to be jobs in 
the private , not government jobs , even though it 's government 
money. and the lion 's share of the work in the american 
economy obviously will come from the private  . that 's the kind 
of system we have and it works pretty well. 

but this is the challenge we have. so i ask all of you 
here today to support the summer jobs program , to ask your friends 
and to support it , to go back home and ask your 
to make a little extra effort to do what you can to help me pass the 
funds to create the 700 , 000 jobs that the united states government 
should create this summer , so that together we can have this 
 . because more than anything else , we have to give a 
future a future that our young people can believe in. 

we need to send them a message that here in america if 
you study hard and work hard , if you obey the law and contribute 
something to your community , you will be rewarded by your country. 
you can build a future from you own dreams .  . 

that has always been the promise of america .  . together 
that 's what this summer of challenge needs to be a of 
the promise of america for so many young people to whom that promise 
has been an illusion .  . we can make it a reality. 

thank you very much. ) . 

45 a . m .  . edt 




from  ( david veal ) 
subject re re 
lines 
organization university of computing center 

in article  ( phill baker ) writes 

in article ,  ( david veal ) writes 

in article  ( phill baker ) writes 

in article ,  ( david veal ) writes 

well yes and no. the papers are propaganda and it is therefore 
difficult to determine precisely what etc were up to from them. 

there are a couple of ways to look at them. one is , we want 
you to support this constitution , so we 'll say anything that we think 
will appeal to you , or the more straightforward , this is why we think 
what we 've suggested in this constitution is a good idea. 

you clearly consider the former to be the primary situation. 

the point is that they did not make pains to point out where the 
may have been the new 's interests .  . also they did not want 
to raise opposition by basing their on unpopular principles .  . 

horrors , appealing to popular principles .  . can we perhaps as the 
question of whether the constitution might have been written to appeal 
to the principles , rather than , as you appear to believe , it was written 
with something else in mind and propoganda put out by its  . 

but let 's be honest about something , here. when was the last time 
you brought up all the valid points against your own arguments 

or are they simply we ca n't know what really 
means because he 's obviously using arguments designed to convince .  . 

well , i know was a in the , and 
probably the extreme to jefferson 's democratic  . 
but what would you suggest as a means of determining their opinions 
on the government if we do n't consider what they wrote about the 
government 

i do n't propose that any means exists for determining their true opinions. 
thus their true opinions died with them and are of little help today. 

their opinions have not the slightest bearing on the matter though , only their 
arguments .  . these are true or false regardless of who said them or why. 

if they 're true or false , of why they were said , why 
on earth did you make a point of calling them that 
would seem to be irrelevent .  . 

the 
difficulty that most us posters seem to have is in considering that their 
arguments may have been flawed or no longer apply to modern societies .  . 

oh , i have no argument with questioning them. i do n't believe 
they no longer apply , but that 's because i think most of them were 
good arguments .  . i'm not entirely happy about the situation , because 
they were obviously only applied to a minority of the time , but i do n't 
think that alone is sufficient to them. 

if they were alive today the one opinion we could count upon these men to 
express is that a careful study of the mechanisms of government is necessary 
and that an improvement of the same is required. they gave their 
opinions in certain areas and have been proved right. in other areas they 
got it wrong. they that there was a mechanism to adapt and improve 
the  . this can only happen if there is a to accept that 
the problems within the us political system may require 
constitutional change as a solution .  . 

since the u.s. constitution is the basis for the u.s. political 
system , most changes in it would require constitutional change .  . in this 
particular case , however the is a matter of procedure 
and tradition .  . it only should have been made part of the constitution .  . ) 

if the senate was less powerful than the house of , than 
we 'd almost have to state that the house of representatives was also. 
 ( in fact , they both were , because the british government had much 
greater power than did the american  . 

in principle no , in practice yes. 

in principle no that they had less power of that they should have 
had less power 

the british government today is 
dependent on the will of the  . by any seeking to 
exercise that power is  . the subtly is that the prime is 
not able to identify their politics with the national interest in the same 
manner that us regularly do. 

, we 're the power of houses .  . while 
the prime is member of , he is more  ( although 
badly ) to the u.s. president .  . 

now , please explain to me how the u.s. house of representatives 
is in principle more powerful than the house of  ( or the senate ) 
but in practice is less. are you suggesting that the writers of the 
constitution really intended for them to be more powerful , but gosh 
the thing was ratified before they realized they 'd forgotten to put 
those extra restrictions on the senate in 

i disagree. the system is not too slow , it was simply designed to 
handle less than it has demanded that it handle .  . as somebody in washington 
put it  ( whose name i forget ) , congress has become everybody 's city 
council .  . 

one reason for that is that at every level the government is unable 
to come to decisions. these decisions are pushed up to the next higher level 
instead. 

not at all. as any entry level political science course will tell 
you , people who want laws implemented will always choose the level of 
government to attack which presents them with the best chance of 
getting what they want. with national interest groups it is simply 
a very rational thing to do to want the federal government to a 
law rather than the states. less people to persuade , and less 
contributions to make. 

why do those concerned about abortion primarily concentrate at 
the federal level simply because if they win that battle all the little 
state are won by extension .  . the same to , 
medicine , and most other questions. 

local government has not failed in that it has n't done what it 
should , but that it is dominated by local interests .  . thus non local 
interests who want to by their rules ca n't get their 
rules past the local government. thus , since they 've got more , 
only in the wrong place , they appeal to the next higher level because 
it can impose its will on the lower .  . 

i mean , let 's get real here. do we really need the 
of the united states that x light should be on thus 
and such pattern or that needs to be a federal as opposed 
to a local crime 

the more people want the more congress will take power to sell 
it to them for their votes .  . i do n't think the rise of special interests 
is coincidence with the increased power of congress .  . 

congress is more than capable of quick action , and has more than 
enough power and time on its hands , if it confined itself to what its 
original was and allowed more local  . 

if they were to start from a social welfare model instead of the current 
no state motto they would be better placed .  . as it is there is 
plenty of state money being handed out. the problem is that it is 
on the basis of power in congress and not on the basis of 
actual need. 

 . the higher up the the less actual 
need matters , because political power can be at higher 
levels , while people with less cloud only find themselves reduced to 
in  . 

in order to set up a school project in new york state you have to pay off the 
other 49 states with defense contracts , etc. 
or to be precise 30 of the states since you need 60 to the  . 

then why not simply leave new york 's education to new york i 
remain that there is any state in the union which is not capable 
of its own children if that 's what they want to do. and if 
you leave it to them , you only have to worry about the in that 
state. and since ca n't concentrate their political power 
and wealth , rather they must divide it among the states to try and get 
what they want , individual have more relative impact .  . 

the problem with the is not that you must buy off 
states , but that the congress has acquired too much power to sell  . 

it is not a case of the system of government they created failing , 
but that it is operating under a set of conditions they specifically 
wanted to avoid .  . namely , a concentration of power. it would seem 
then that the proper thing to do is not to reduce the power of either 
house in some attempt to the  . all you 'll get then is 
a system which quicker to do stupid things. it would make more 
sense to make more decisions at a local level. 

no , you have to break the machine free of before you can it. 

but why on earth should we want to it you said yourself 
that you have to sell to get things through congress .  . if 
has less authority to sell and its authority to 
national legislation within its granted jurisdiction , the problem 
is reduced .  . 

the current blocks on power simply congress of any responsibility 
to come to a decision. 

the current blocks essentially state that is preferable 
to action , thus it the system is against action. considering 
the government the usually the institution with the sole power to 
enforce its decisions by force , i consider bias against making those 
decisions a good thing. 

pushing the decisions lower in the pyramid wo n't 
work unless the lower levels are less corrupt .  . in most cases they are worse , 
not better. 

the difference with the lower pyramid is that a ) they have 
more legal , legitimate authority in most matters under our constitution 
than the federal government , and b ) at those lower levels power is 
harder to concentrate .  . and c ) you get the benefit of not 
new on everybody at once. you get to see them tried out 
without a national decision. congressional action usually treats the 
entire country as a whole , yet even with similar problems in different 
areas , different solutions may be called for. 

and while i often do n't agree with the decisions my local 
and state make , at least i have a better option of going to 
the city council and shooting my mouth off. i 'd much rather the 
majority of laws be made by accessible people who around and end 
up having to put up with them rather than somebody far off in 
washington with half a million or more  . 

i'm curious what you base your assumption that lower levels 
are more corrupt .  . 

i fail to see where any restrictions , implied or otherwise , were 
placed on the  . it could just as easily have been read as a means 
to put a check on democratically popular but  ( in the 's 
opinion ) policies .  . 

since we were arguing from the papers i would point to them. 

, you brought up the papers .  . we were 
arguing the and whether or not a minority of 
should be allowed to hold up a bill. you claimed the senate was 
suppose to be a far less powerful house , and i there was 
nothing in the constitution or other writings which indicated this. 
which was when you brought up that we ca n't decide what the 
wanted based on the papers .  . you argued against them , 
i never argued from them. i have primarily referred to the constitution , 
which places only very small restrictions on the senate than for 
the house. 

the 
us constitution gives almost no reasoning as to how it should work. the 
only part where a reason is given is the right to bear where 
the well justification is ambiguous .  . 

the u.s. constitution is a nuts and document .  . the 
of independence was the high reasoning .  .  ( there are a couple of other 
examples , though , such as the reasoning for the power to tax , and the 
reasoning for the power to grant , both in article i , section 8 . ) . 

that the was meant to be an exceptional measure follows from the 
fact of the senate .  . if the president was meant to legislation then 
there would be three of the , not two .  . furthermore 
the separation of powers would have been much less distinct .  . 

to a certain extend i do believe the has become something 
it was n't intended .  . however , i also believe it is inevitable considering 
the congress  own abuse of their power to make say whatever they 
want them to say. unlike most people i think we should n't be worrying 
about the , which is fine , but of the problem in congress which 
almost its abuse .  . 

there is no limit in the constitution to the president 's power 
regarding what a bill is for. previous have used the 
for any number of reasons , most usually having something to do with their 
 . i am really curious how you single bush out as the president 
who  . 

he has the record for  . 

bush , that 's absurd .  . bush had 37 , one of 
which was over ridden .  . go read up on if you think that 's 
anything a record .  . 

why is it not a reasonable because 51 
is the magic holy number upon which laws must be based if 41 
feel safe enough with their state to stand up and 
is n't that enough to indicate there 's a sufficient question 
as to whether a law is a good idea or not to re it 

up to a point , the fact is though that when the majority are opposed by 
a minority the minority should not be allowed to win by default. 

why not what is inherently wrong with the system 
against action historically action in the u.s. when 
dealing with issues with a bare minority and a large minority have 
not been successful .  . when you 're in a position of federal 
power on people , why should the federal government not have to 
got through something more than a bare majority 

why one earth should 51 be sufficient to a law which 
covers 250 million people in very , very places and living 
in different conditions why should n't a super majority 
be required 

because the bill at issue is a money bill to a short term proposal .  . 

now we 're switching from a general question of a 
to a specific bill. i do n't see how it make a difference. 

it is not a change in the law where a presupposition in favour of the 
status quo is arguable .  . 

sure it 's arguable .  . e arguing it. however , requiring 
60 to bring it to a vote that they 'll have to have a good 
argument. something that is n't based solely on party lines. 

any system in which the simple majority is given absolute power 
to ignore the minority then the minority will be ignored .  . i do not 
see this as a positive thing. and for all that i'm sure the 
are looking for as much as the , they 've got some legitimate 
objections to the legislation in question. 

so instead you consider a system under which the minority automatically win 
to be superior 

no , i am completely happy with a system which requires a minority 
for action . since u.s. history is a history of up population 
groups and piece on minorities , i feel minorities 
should have to prevent action they feel strongly enough 
about. and 41 is hardly a tiny minority .  . i do n't advocate the minority 
being capable of but i see no problem with 
the federal system against action. 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( drieux , just drieux ) 
subject history , its dangerous 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization philosopher and 
lines 43 

in article ,  ( maurice rynders ) writes 
in article  ( jon meyer ) writes 
in article  ( peter 
d. hampe ) writes 
 ( drieux , just drieux ) writes 

why is there still no call to end clinton 's illegal 
war in 

hold on there it 's not his war. everybody knows that 
its part of the  . 


yeah , sure. they created the there. they put the 
there. yep .  . sure. been by the media , have n't you 

he probably is. by the way what has reagan to do with this any way i 
bet most people had never even heard of , during the reagan 
! 

ok and girls , 

what was the  war  

the money raised in aid covered how much of 
the cost of which soviet state to replace what 
of weapon system lost in the war 

why was the joke we the world. really not that funny 

station is the for which area 
and the primary threat targets in the area were ..... 

ciao 





all hands to the big sea of ! 
all hands to the big sea of ! 
last call of the wild of the 


from  ( not a boomer ) 
subject re supply side economic policy  ( was re david ) 
article i.d. desire . 1993apr6 . 
distribution na 
organization acme products 
lines 60 

in article , writes 
excerpts from netnews . sci . 5 apr 93 re supply side economic po .  .  . 
by not a 
... 

the deficits declined from 9 , a low of 2 . 9 . of before 
the tax and spending of 1990 reversed the trend .  . 

brett 
is this true some more details would be appreciated. 

in billions of dollars ( gnp ) 
year debt admin 

1977 6 . 2 . 53 . 6 . 1 . 
6 . 458 . 7 . 59 . 2 . 4 . 
3 . 5 . 40 . 2 . 8 . 
1 . 3) . 9 . 73 . 8 . 3 . 7 . 9 . 
3 . 2 . 78 . 9 . 9 . 8 . 4 . reagan 
8 . 7 . 9 . 0 . 11 . 0 . reagan 
600 . 6 . 3 . 3) . 8 . 9 . 10 . 9 . reagan 
1984 5 . 8 . 3 . 7 . 8 . 6 . reagan 
1985 1 . 3 . 212 . 3 . 5 . 8.1 reagan 
1986 1 . 8 . 7 . 3) . 5 . 7 . 9 . reagan 
1987 1 . 1 . 0 . (3 . 3 . 7.1 reagan 
1988 0 . 1 . 3) . 1 . (3 . 6 . 6.3 reagan 
1989 8 . 8 . 0 . 1 . bush 
1990 2 . 6 . 4 . 5 . bush 
1991 3 . 0 . 7 . 0 . bush 

source statistical abstract of the us  ( 1990 version ) , american 
 ( 1993 version ) , universal  ( 1993 version ) , information please 
 ( 1991 version ) 

deficits as a of , 89 


7 

6 x 
x x 
5 x 

4 x 
x 
3 x x 
x 
2 

1 

0 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 

, bush could have frozen spending , kept his no new taxes 
pledge and balanced the  . 

brett 

there 's nothing so as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . o in the white plague by frank  . 

from  ( brian stone ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
lines 39 
organization college of arts and sciences 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . it 's a that we do n't have a for 
straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 


is n't is funny how someone who seems to know nothing about homosexuality 
uses a very flawed  ( imho ) source of information to pass on all 
homosexual and bisexual men. it would seem more logical to say that since 
the heterosexual group of men is larger then the chances of promiscuity 
larger as well. in my opinion , orientation has nothing to do with it. 

men are men and they all like sex. i am a gay male .  . i have had sex three 
times in my life , all with the same man. before that , i was a virgin .  . 

so .  .  .  . whose 

just because someone is gay does n't mean they have no morals .  . just because 
someone is heterosexual does n't mean they do. look at the world .  .  .  .  . 
statistics alone prove that most criminals are by default  .  .  . 

look closely at the person , not the group. 

all flames will be ignored .  . ) 

later , 


(  (  ) ) 
( brian  (  ) ) 
( tech .  . support  (  ) life without your touch is hard , ) 
(  (  ) but life without you in  . ) 
(  (  ) ) 
(  (  ) ) 


from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization america , south san francisco , ca 
lines 17 

in article writes 
you think that you all have it bad .  .  .  . here . at good ol' missouri 
state u. , we have 2 parties running for student body president .  . there 's the 
faces , and then there 's the president and vice 
president of  . they by handing out condoms and listing 
their as , i listen really well. it makes me sick to have 
a party established on many of the things that are this country like 
they are. i think i 'll run next year .  . ( 

well , a student body president ca n't exactly campaign on the stand 
that he 's tough on crime . their job is to listen to what people want 
and things that make sense. 

condoms and marijuana are n't exactly the worst things to have available 
either .  .  .  . 



from edu .  ( dave borden ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization , cambridge , ma , usa 
lines 39 


in article ,  ( steve thomas ) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 
in article  ( steve thomas ) 



just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you ! 


a friend of mine who pot every day and last tuesday took 5 of acid 
is still having trouble for the bowl when he takes a dump .  . do n't as 
me how , i just have seen the results. 

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people up in 
the head. 


i 'll answer you 're sarcasm with more sarcasm 

boy , it looks like the is working really good to stop people from 
being up in the head , given that example ! 

 ( issue your friend got his drugs legal or not legal , he 'll continue to 
get them. issue 2 why should i , as somebody who does not use illegal 
drugs and who is not up have to pay for this idiot 's problems he 's 
not doing anybody any harm except himself. the , on the other hand , is an 
immediate threat to my life and  . tell me why i should sacrafice 
this to that ! ) .  . 

and not only that , but if the drugs were legal we could have instead 
of selling them , and the could be obligated to not only 
the of the of drug use , but also show them how to use 
the drugs in relatively safe ways. and the of  ( responsible 
for much of the suffering that drugs cause ) would be all but eliminated .  . 


dave 


from  ( king banaian ) 
subject re swimming pool defense 
lines 24 
organization college 

in article  ( ted frank ) writes 
in article ( 
david smith ) writes granted , the simple fact of holding down a job will 
improve these kids  chances of getting another job in the future , but what 
inner city kid would want to hold down just one more minimum job when 
there is so much more money to be made dealing drugs 

what kid would want to hold down a minimum job when there is so 
much more money to be made dealing drugs 

yet , somehow , kids do hold down minimum jobs .  . so do inner 
city kids , when give the chance. any reason you think that inner city kids 
are incapable of doing legitimate work 

i suppose the correct answer is not family values 

s pose not. never mind. sorry. 

king it 's almost as though young 
white guys get up in the 
dept. of economics , college morning and have a big 
latest 1993 2 . 4 . on their face ... because , 
you know , wrote the 
. d 

from  ( tim ruckle ) 
subject who are the    ( was re about pay ) 
organization the and the damned 
summary 'em if you got 'em .  .  .  . 
keywords not me ! 
lines 



candidate clinton promised to tax the rich , and most folks thought that 
was a pretty idea. then president clinton said he wanted families 
who make more than 100 , 000 to bear 70 of the new tax burden , and many 
were quick to complain that their figure does not make them one 
of the well to do. it 's particularly ironic  ( to me ) that it 's in those 
traditionally liberal of the bay area and where the 
are so to fit themselves into the of just 
regular working class folk . 

nobody will ever admit to being rich everybody 's middle class .  . so who 
are the rich well , i 'll out some from the 1990 and 
let you be the judge .  .  .  . 

va 
 ( michael zimmers ) 
in article 
c . jpl . nasa . gov .  ( tim fogarty ) writes 
... 
that would be about 55 to 65 thousand us , and that is what 
can expect to make. for a with say 10 years experience , 
65 , 000 is a lot less than what he could be making in industry .  . 

oh as a 12 year of silicon , i 've seen precious few 
employment that call for  . and is hardly change 
it 's well above the for the state. 

bay area average is in the mid 40 , 000 range .  . national 
average is 31 ,  . the bay area has nearly twice the national average 
of figure 1 . vs 4.8 ) .  . the cost of living here 
may be high , but i do n't think it 's twice the national average .  .  .  . 

in los , home can be , 000 .  . 

a 1 , square foot house in a bay area working class neighborhood 
goes for about 250 , 000 .  . i doubt that the los market is all that 
different. it would appear that this definition of is perhaps a 
bit  .  .  . 

so what they 're no for those who are employed .  . 

in california , 65 , 000 is not middle class .  . 

it depends upon your definition it 's clearly above average .  . 

it is more than what two of california make. seems 
to me that belonging to the one third is not an unreasonable 
definition of middle class . note that if that professor 's 
spouse 35 , 000 they become one of clinton 's rich families .  . 

here 's a of national , california , and bay area 

30 50 

us 49 24 23 4 the bureau did some 
ca 41 26 26 7 here .  .  . more . like 5 
34 25 31 9 

and to add a little 

a minimum working 40 hours week makes 8 , year .  . the poverty 
line for a family of four is 15 ,  . if they make up to twice that , the 
government considers them to be working poor . say we decide to call this 
the lower middle class . then how  

30 is middle class . 50 is middle class . 
is rich . 1 , is rich . and 10 , 000 is bill . 

make sense ) 




there 's nothing , 
the rich get rich and the poor get poorer , 
in the meantime , in between time , 
ai n't we got fun. 
raymond 

from  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay in nc ) verdict 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 15 

 ( thomas farrell ) writes 
so you feel that the should have been convicted regardless of the 
evidence. now that would be a sad day for civil rights. 

i do n't know about everybody else , but to me , they should have been 
convicted because of the evidence , which in my mind was quite 
sufficient .  . 



so , you sat in the court room and to the case. after careful 
consideration , you have come to your conclusion .  . well , good for you. 




from 
subject none 
distribution usa 
organization university of kansas academic computing services 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( don pajerek ) writes 

... 

what i see is that the media is reasonably fair , but is seen as 
 liberal  by , and  conservative  by  . 

not that i think anyone cares , but this pattern  ( using other examples 
of course) was discussed 2 , 000 years ago by aristotle in 
ethics . note that you ca n't use this insight to reason 
backwards e.g. since the see the media as liberal and 
the see the media as conservative , the media are fair !  ( though 
i 've seen this reasoning implied ) 



standard disclaimers apply. 

ken 

nobody can explain everything to everybody .  . 
opinions are my own g. k. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( bil snodgrass ) writes 
in article  ( greg hennessy ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
for a while , homosexuals paid higher than , 
and with very good reason , until the government made it illegal to 
do so. 

well if we go by this philosophy how many children do you think 
we help pay for with our children who obviously 
cannot be , since the have to pay for 
all of the and  .  .  .  .  . what about the children born 
with horrible flaws who cost the system an and a to be kept alive 
we all pay because we are all part of this society and we should take 
care of one another .  .  .  .  .  . 

enough , dependent costs a bit more than for one self 
alone. but if you really believe your claims , you could make a lot 
of money starting the homosexuals health co .  . and refuse to 
 . but i shudder to think what your will be 
like. 

iii 



clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 59 

in article  ( dale 
cook ) writes 
in article state . edu . 
ohio . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 
in article  ( steve thomas ) w 



just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you ! 

a friend of mine who pot every day and last tuesday took 5 of acid 

is still having trouble for the bowl when he takes a dump .  . do n't as 

me how , i just have seen the results. 

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people up in 
the head. 

i'm sorry about your friend. really. but this anecdote does nothing to 
justify the war on drugs . if anything , it demonstrates that the war 
is a miserable failure .  . what it demonstrates is that people will take 
drugs if they want to , legal or not. perhaps if your friend were taking 
legal , drugs under a doctors he might not be in the 
position he 's in now. 


i do agree with you , in a way. the war on drugs has failed , but in my opinion , 
that does n't mean we have to give up. only change the  . 

for instance , here are how some penalties should be changed. 

dealing death 
dealing heroin death 
dealing pot death 
dealing crack death 

the list goes on and on ! ! !  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

just kidding ! ! ! 

however , on a more serious note , i do believe that we should take some money 
away from the in south america and border 
efforts .  .  ( do n't think i'm going to say , spend it to 
people , because i know plenty of  . actually , spend it on 
things like drug treatment programs. 

i saw an interesting story on 60 about how the british actually 
and his recommended , and try to him off from it , 
or cut the amount down to levels where it is acceptable . sounds good so far 
from what i heard with a in cost , lower by wiping out 
the 's , etc.  ( but that was the only thing i have heard about it . ) . 

however , it and just some drugs in gas to be 
bought like is just plain silly. plus , i have never heard of a 
recommended for drugs like crack , , and  . 
the 60 minute report said it worked with cocaine , pot and heroin .  . 

ryan 

organization students for increased access  ( siba ) 
from mark  mark  
subject re top ten excuses for slick 's record setting 

lines 49 

in article , 
 ( broward horne ) says 
in a previous article ,  ( mark  mark  sachs ) says 
in article , 
 ( broward horne ) says 
it sure does appear that way , does n't it 

the attitude that people are stupid if they do n't agree with you is not 
going to bring you great success in life. free advice , there. 

 . mark , what on earth makes you think i give a fuck 
about being a success , particularly now when i 'll just 
the hell out of me oh , this is excellent .  . 

that was hardly the point , was it i was commenting on this all too common 
republican attitude that if people disagree with us , they must be idiots , they 
must be being led around by the evil liberal media conspiracy .  . this is 
a dangerous attitude indeed. because it 's not a very big step from people 
are , they ca n't think for themselves to people are and need 
firm leadership from we , who know better ... this sort of attitude makes 
me worry about what 'll happen to the united states if the 
of the republican party ever gets back into power again. 

holy christ ! ) 

hey ! this is a government funded newsgroup ! let 's have some separation 
of church and state , damn it ! 

besides , let 's ahem examine the record , shall we 

clinton 's going to the holy fuck out of you ! 
mark no , he 's not. only 17 month 

( i still get a laugh out of this one ! ) ) 

more like 

clinton 's going to raise your taxes by over 1000 ! 
mark no , he 's not , only about  . 
 ( silence ) 

want some more free predictions 

ok , i that in the will still be bitter .  . yeah , yeah , 
i know , it 's not very impressive to things that are inevitable .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . so . i propose that we destroy the moon , that problem. 
your blood pressure just went up. mark is 
disclaimer if knew i had opinions , they 'd try to charge me for them. 

from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization itc community access unix internet project 
lines 61 

in article  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
in article  ( lawrence c. foard ) writes 

1 ) so what 

so this bolsters the contention that many homosexuals are liars .  . 

so if this study is proved wrong then it proves that 
are liars unlike the propaganda spouted by the far right the ten 
percent figure was backed up by the best study available at the time. 
its hardly certain that this new study is correct since it has n't 
even been out for enough time for any double checking to happen. 

the institute , btw , is funded by , 
so it hardly as a of , or of family 
values . 

of course if they had found 10 then it would be invalid because it 
was funded by ) 

2 ) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2 . 
gather in washington  . after all if there are only of 
us then this is an event in history .  .  .  . 

this that 2.5 million will show up on april  . 
there wo n't be anywhere near that many. go ahead make my day 
promote that number .  . that way , it will surely be a much greater 
embarrassment and in the face to homosexual when the 
are much smaller .  . 

even if its only one million the point still stands .  . even getting 
1 of a given population in one place would be  . 
if even 1 million show up in it will raise serious about 
this study , or indicate a resolve in human history. 

btw , have you noticed that even slick is n't going to be in town 
that day 

he is n't the target of the march , nor do often speak at 
civil rights  ( of course it would have been  . however 
the and conservative would do well to take 
notice. 



join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 

call the reform church bbs at . . . . 

the above of bigotry .  . 

this is quite amusing .  . obviously you know nothing about the history 
of math .  . 

join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the reform church bbs at . . . . 


organization city university of new york 
from 
subject united nations  busy 
lines 4 

chapter 7 operation in  . almost chapter 7 in and  . 
 time the un started using force to make the peace happen. 
, they will soon be doing the same with world economics .  . 


from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
organization university of virginia 
lines 17 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
yet , when a law was proposed for virginia that extended this 
philosophy to  ( so that people who away 
from the work could n't be against by employers ) , 
the liberal gov .  . it. which shows that do n't 
give a damn about best person for the job , it 's just a power 
play .  . 

of course clayton the fact that pay health 
, and for is more expensive than for 
non  . 


greg , university of virginia 
mail astronomy department , , va 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton students in for 1st kids earth summit 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 102 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 



white house 
office of the vice president 


for immediate release contact 
thursday , april 15 , 1993 




students in for first kids earth summit 
will take part in special town meeting on the environment 
saturday , april 17 , 1993 , florida 

students from across the united states 
and around the world for the first ever kids earth summit , vice 
president al will travel to , florida , on saturday 
 ( 4 17 ) and participate in a special town hall meeting , by 
for on , to hear the young 
people 's concerns and share ideas about the environment. 

the vice president will take part in the kids world 
council plan it for the planet from 2 5  ( edt ) saturday 
 ( 4 17 ) in , florida .  . he will a display of student 
environmental , then the town hall meeting 
where he will discuss with student their concerns about 
the environment and their plans for an environmentally sound 
future. 

the town hall meeting will be moderated by 
and taped for a news special , special edition plan 
it for the planet , which will air on sunday , april 18 at 8 
 . it is sponsored by and the children 's earth 
 . 

young people care about the environment because they know 
it our future. across the country and around the world , 
young people are speaking out about the environmental challenges 
we face. they are problems , thinking about 
solutions , and they are demanding action from their leaders , the 
vice president said. 

the kids world council are meeting for three days 
in to discuss how to save energy and switch to 
energy .  . they will be following the format and goals of the earth 
summit that took place last year in de  . the vice 
president led the senate to the earth summit .  . 

i look forward to hearing what young people have to say 
about the environment and their future. their insight into the 
world around us is important , the vice president said. 

 ( more ) 








for the vice president 
saturday , april 17 , 1993 


2 15  ( edt ) vice president display of student 
environmental  . 

, florida 


3 30  ( edt ) vice president takes part in town hall meeting 
with kids world council and 
 . 

, florida 


5  ( edt ) vice president from kids world council 
for washington , d . c .  . 




note press that wish to should contact 
or von in florida at  . 















from  ( jeff hagen ) 
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians 
organization wake university 
lines 4 
nntp posting host ac . edu . 


was n't it tricky dick who issued stern warnings to bush clinton 
not to  lose russia  (a la  who lost china ' ) 


from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re supply side 
organization engineering and manufacturing , 
distribution na 
lines 22 

in  ( steven e soar ) writes 

in article ,  ( ed ipser ) writes 

the result is that clinton now hopes to reduce the to a level 
above where it was when reagan left office. 

which , considering the amount bush congress added to it , would be a 
not achievement .  . 

while we 're on the subject , i also believe that the supply side claim that 
reducing taxes raised is also false , because they typically factor in 

you need to hop over to talk . politics . misc .  . have been on this gem 
for  . the challenge has been made to name a single supply who 
ever said this. for the last three weeks the challenge has gone  . 
i issue the same challenge to you. 

rule is n't any merely because the calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related .  . 


from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re damn 's be taken over 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 24 

in article  ( cz94 ) writes 

mark anthony young 

many americans have a special legal status based on a mere 
accident of birth . only people born in the us can become president 
of the us. and since could theoretically replace the queen 
with anyone they want  ( even a ) us law is in one dimension 
more than uk law as regards birth  . 

this is not just  . note how william iii was 
from holland to kick out local boy james ii , ... 

which provided the basis for the of the film which 
introduced to the world.  ( love interest was de 
, who went on to appear with in 7 more films . ) . 

exercise for non old movie what film was this 
exercise for old movie what were the 7 more films 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

from  ( jason austin ) 
subject re top ten comments in the secret service 
organization nasa research center , , va 
lines 29 
reply to jason c. austin 
nntp posting host nasa . gov . 
in reply to 's message of tue , 06 apr 93 02 29 13 gmt 

in article  ( william c. barwell ) writes 
 ( francis a. ney ) writes 

besides which , we do n't want clinton , because that would make h 
a a la jfk .  . 

it 's a much better deal to have him end his term of office in , after 
watching all his liberal friends on his run this nation down t 
toilet .  . 

assuming , of course , that the riots a from now do n't do it for him. 


he 'd have to go a far ways to run things down as bad as reagan and bush 
did. we did n't have riots but bush got out on his behind. 


we 'll see in 4 years. 


pope charles slack in our time ! 

s 

you need to stop watching tv and start reading some history. 

jason c. austin 



from  ( david william budd ) 
subject re rodney king trial , civil rights , double 
distribution us 
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa 
lines 53 

in article  ( mark wilson ) writes 
in  ( david spanagel ) writes 



furthermore , what are the specific charges against the four officers 
which civil rights or laws are they accused of violating 

i believe it is a general charge , that is no specific right is mentioned. 


i do n't think that this is accurate. i believe , and could be wrong , that 
there is a specific right allegedly to have been violated , like the 
or due process or whatever. 

what about double has there been any concern that a verdict 
against , et al. might be upon appeal because they 're being tried 
again for the same actions (i thought i heard something on the news about 
this . ) . 

the has previously ruled that since the governments were in 
essence , then double does not apply. 

 ( if this is true , then could also be tried under city and 
governments ) 

this mornings paper said that the has decided to reinstate its 
opposition to this kind of thing. they had earlier their 
opposition while they examined the king case. there might be hope 
for the after all. 


double does not apply , but not for the reasons you quote. double 
states that a person may not be tried twice on the same charge .  . 
however , the police are not on trial for the crime of excessive force 
or assault .  . they are now on trial for the different crime of violating 
mr. king 's civil rights. 

as for the city and or state trying you more than once , 
it most likely will not happen. this is because cities and states 
have separate laws governing behaviour .  . for example , in some states , 
it is an to carry marijuana , but not a city  . also , 
i think murder is against federal , but not some state laws .  . 


! 
! 1 1 
! 1 1 1 and my mind was filled with wonder , 
! 1 1 1 when the evening read 
! ! 1 1  richard went home last night , 
! ! and put a bullet through his head . ' . 
! 


from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 27 

in article  ( steve thomas ) 

in article state . edu . 
cs . ohio . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 

however , it and just some drugs in gas to be 
bought like is just plain silly. 

i do n't find this silly at all. i find it silly  ( black humor ) that we 're 
spending billions of dollars and the lives and freedoms of every 
american to save a bunch of by choice  .  .  . 

could you please tell us why you find this silly. that 's , why , letters 
w , h and y , rather than arguments like oh , thinks such and 
such is true . 

first , the only drug that could possibly be put in drug are marijuana 
or its  . every other drug that i can think of can kill you if you 
take to much.  ( by the very nature of these drugs , your decision making 
are n't up to par .  . that is how it differs from , vitamins , etc. 
we do n't even allow to be sold over the counter . ) . 

second , we already have a big enough driving and problem in 
this country. if marijuana were legal , more people would use it , 
and that is a problem. people use it , get stupid , and hurt other people. 

ryan 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re clinton 's 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 49 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( robert s. helfman ) says 

in article 2 . pa . dec . com .  ( broward l. horne ) writes 

if you look through this newsgroup , you should be 
able to find clinton 's proposed 

for our computer and telephone systems. 

this  has been up before congress for at least 
the past 6 months , in the of the fbi 

bill. 

what kind of posted the above garbage would they be 


what kind of does n't understand the difference 
between a proposed bill , in congress and an 
order , issued by clinton , and down our . 


here , let me give a course in thinking 

in order to create the appearance of low interest , 
has his debt from long term to short term  . 

in effect , has the federal into 
one giant s l , waiting to blow .  . 

short term rise interest on rise 
has to borrow more causing short term to rise .  . 

gets caught in a positive loop. his options 

i ) raise taxes a truly amount 
ii ) make truly spending cuts 

results of i ) large numbers of off citizens 
results of ii ) large numbers of off citizens 


has taken the to pre the use 
of to foster a nation wide , 
 . 




from  ( kevin podsiadlik ) 
subject re top ten excuses for slick 's record setting 
organization , ann arbor , mi 
lines 23 
nntp posting host umich . edu . 

in article  ( bill anderson ) writes 
 ( steve shapiro ) writes 

oh , and btw , its william jefferson clinton .  . 

no , it 's not and i really fail to understand the use of that name 
as an insult .  . do you feel that being implies some sort of 
moral failing 

no , it 's a sign of out of with the middle 
class .  . you ask george walker bush about that. 

and that 's not his full name what , then , is it 


even quayle had his period. it lasted a full 48 hours 
after he was chosen as bush 's running mate. 


kevin j. 
engineer 2nd class this   the president wants 
e mail us to make .  .  .  . is it tax 
compuserve , larry 

from  ( steve thomas ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization , san francisco , ca 
lines 53 

in article  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
in article  ( michael a. thomas ) writes 
in article ,  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
in article c . jpl . nasa . gov .  ( tim fogarty ) writes 
i would be upset that , although abortions would continue , they would be 
a lot more expensive for the rich , and a lot less safe for the poor. 


so now things are supposed to be legal just to keep their cost down 
and the safety factor high 

think about it should n't all drugs then be , it would lower 
the cost and definitely make them safer to use. 

yes. 

i do n't think we want to start using these criterion to determine 
 . 

why not 


where do they get these people ! i really do n't want to waste time in 
here to do battle about the of drugs .  . if you really want to , we 
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is ! 

go for it. i have yet to see anybody justify the 
on drugs and the war on drugs .  . in the world of 
 . politics . here on usenet , it is you that is crazy. anybody who gives 
the matter any thought beyond reading cannot justify this 
, this all out war on individual rights. 

just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you ! 


my point was that it is pretty stupid to justify something just 
because it will be safer and  . 


once again , in why is this stupid 


a few more ideas to hold to these criterion prostitution the killing of all 
funny farm , aids victims , , , , etc. 
this would surely make my taxes  . 

the above paragraph is that all i can make of it .  .  .  . 




steve thomas 


from  ( steven smith ) 
subject the candidate 
in reply to 's message of 10 apr 93 23 10 23 gmt 
organization lab , university 

lines 18 

 ( brian ross ) writes 

in the world of the future , bill clinton will appoint to 
all american  ( starting with the american health 
care  . we will be benevolent canadian dictators .  . 

with yet another tax being by the clinton to 
pay for new   social programs , i 've really begun to suspect 
that the , long of their place in the american 
, an american draft who to canada some 
time between and , him in the ways of canadian 
socialism , awarded him with marijuana when he got 
the correct answers , then returned him to the states  ( under the 
control of the wife to his case ) to high 
public office and destroy the evil and free market 
forces in america , thus america in the canadian image. 

smith 

from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re k. on rodney king 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
distribution usa 
lines 26 

in article  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 
 ( ted frank ) writes 
in article  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit 

i'm curious why you think that particular is important. 

i'm curious why you took a statement and cross posted it to several 
different news groups , including something along the lines of 
alt . discrimination .  . 

me i saw your original post in alt . discrimination .  . 
your post was cross posted to three groups. my followup was cross posted 
to two of those three  ( omitting soc .  . 

now , instead of engaging in meta discussion off the topic , could you answer 
the question posed if your statement is so ( ! ) , you should have no 
trouble responding to a polite  . 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from  ( broward l. horne ) 
subject clinton 's 
x received by usenet . pa . dec . com . id fri , 16 apr 93 11 05 06 
x received by 2 . pa . dec . com . id fri , 16 apr 93 11 03 42 
x received by edu . 
6 . 16 . id thu , 15 apr 93 13 23 52 0600 
x to talk . politics . misc . usenet . 
x cc alt . politics . clinton . usenet . 
x mailer revision 66 . 25 . 
lines 19 


if you look through this newsgroup , you should be 
able to find clinton 's proposed 
for our computer and telephone systems. 

this  has been up before congress for at least 
the past 6 months , in the of the fbi 
bill. 

i strongly urge you to begin considering your future. 

i strongly urge you to get your application for a 
in the mail soon. 

i strongly urge you to consider moving any savings you 
have , into protected bank accounts , while 
you are still able .  . 



from  ( mark walsh ) 
subject re age of consent child 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 40 

in article  ( roy radow ) writes 
in  ( mark walsh ) writes 

it should be noted that has not been present in the 
other 600 or so gay in the nation .  . while i view this 
as an isolated event , i am very by its  . 

i hope i'm not going to hate myself for getting involved in 
this discussion , but i felt to keep things factually 
accurate. 

last year in the pride in boston , new 
york and san francisco .  . it was not the first time we 
participated in these and it will not be the last .  . (i 
have with the in new york , every 
year , for more than a ) . 

thank you for correcting the error in my post to the net. 
this information came from a newspaper article that was 
fuzzy in my mind. i can only wonder if there have been 
similar about 's presence in the 
of new york and boston .  . 

yours in liberation from , 

mark 

north american biological laboratories association 
for a packet containing a , list 
and membership information send 1 . 00 . to .  .  .  . 

note sometimes i do the things while trying to 
my desire to flame the living out of 
somebody for their beliefs and or , especially 
if they are so  .  .  . , take it away ! ) 

mark  ( walsh@optilink ) uucp uunet ! ! 
amateur radio 
what , me worry william m. , 1992 
i'm gonna you ! the giant , 1993 

from  ( john f. ii ) 
subject re high speed is bad 
reply to  ( john f. ii ) 
organization river programming , austin tx 
distribution tx 
lines 14 

in article  ( the sky already  . now what ) writes 
i did n't see your post so i ca n't comment on it. my  . 02 . on high 
speed is , i like it. i like it alot .  . it would be too bad to 
see it tainted by corruption .  . that 's all. 

the speed limit on in the northeast is  . we 
already have something that high speed in this 
country and it requires massive government  . we do n't need 
another government  . 

john f. ii pgp 2 . 1 . ! 's ... ! cs . utexas . edu . ! ! 
ma bell (512) 17 @ 's 
look up scheme in a good dictionary it will have a picture of joe 
liberal right next to it. stop federal spending .  . cut the  . 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 19 

in article ,  ( dan s . ) . writes 
do n't forget about the culture .  . sadly , we do n't  ( as a society ) look upon 
homosexuality as normal  ( and as we are all too well aware , there are alot 
of people who condemn it) .  . as a result , the gay population is not encouraged 
to develop non relationships .  . in fact there are many 
put in the way of such committed relationships .  . it is as if the heterosexual 

such as not being able to get married is n't a to a permanent 
relationship .  . lack of a marriage does n't force a couple 
to break up. this is an excuse used by homosexuals because the 
alternative is to ask why they are so much more than 
 . 

dan 



clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re if drugs should be , how 
nntp posting host top . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 32 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( wil 
december starr ) writes 

in article state . edu . , 
state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) said 

however , it and just some drugs in gas to 
be bought like is just plain silly. ryan c 

or , the government could adopt the radical and probably unamerican 
idea that citizens are free to live their lives as they wish , and 
simply cocaine , marijuana , heroin , , etc. please 
explain why the idea of allowing drugs to be bought like 
is just plain silly. after all , it works just fine for 
 .  .  . 

yeah , is pretty cool , is n't it. 

ryan , please explain how the or lack thereof of is 
relevant to a discussion of the of currently illegal 
drugs .  . for that matter , please explain how it 's even 
relevant to a discussion of currently legal drugs such as 
 . 

you said it worked so well with  . i was being  ( fascisious(i ca n't 
worth a damn ) 

look , this is getting ridiculous , first , i think should be legal .  . 
anybody who ca n't see the difference between and marijuana has got to 
be high. 

ryan 

from  ( kennedy james scot ) 
subject we 're the war on drugs .  . not ! 
organization state university , computer science , 
keywords drugs 
lines 

the and other organizations would have the american people 
believe that we are the war on drugs . i'm going to 
the propaganda that the is putting out by showing 
you the drug war 's real status .  . to help prove my assertions 
i 've also posted two articles from usa today that clearly 
demonstrate that drug use among certain age groups is on the 
rise .  . if is working , as we 're led to believe , then drug 
abuse should have gone down by now. the reality 
is , is that it has not gone down very much. if anything , 
substance abuse is on the rise .  . i'm also going to supply a 
possible solution to this problem. 

the following text is an from an article about music 
and pot entitled again , mary which appears in the 
current issue of time magazine  ( april 19 , 1993 , p.  . 

law enforcement say pot advocates are just blowing 
when they talk about the of the  . perhaps 
because of the change of , the marijuana lobby 
is out in full force , says robert , head of the drug 
enforcement  . the fact is , they 're the 
battle .  . in 1985 more than 23 of ages 12 to 17 said 
they marijuana in 1991 that figure was 13 , and 
says it is still falling .  . also a that 
studies such marijuana health risks as destruction of 
cells in the brain and damage. 

the that follows was taken from the , april 14 , 1993 
issue of usa today ( drug use up among u.s. by mike 
, p.  . 

adolescents  choices 

drugs used by in the last month 
, per 100 students 
1991 1992  .  . 
25 . 1 . 26 . 1 . 4 
14 . 3 . 15 . 5 . 8 
marijuana 3 . 2 . 3 . 7 . 16 
2 . 6 . 3 . 3 . 27 
0 . 6 . 0 . 9 . 50 
cocaine 0 . 5 . 0 . 7 . 40 
crack 0 . 3 . 0 . 5 . 67 

source university of michigan institute for social research , 
1993 report 

we are not the war on drugs . i think you can see that one 
of the that the employs to give people the impression that 
the war on drugs is being won is to quote statistics 
only statistics that support their contention that drug use has gone 
down. the from time magazine that i included in this post is 
an excellent example of how organizations like the attempt to 
the public. 

usage of one particular drug may have gone down but at the same 
time usage of other drugs may have gone up (a . k . a .  .  . 
also , drug usage among one particular age group may have gone down 
but drug usage among another age group may have gone up . therefore , 
if one takes a look at the big picture , taking into consideration all 
the statistics , then it 's obvious that the so called war on drugs is 
being lost. perhaps the drug war is being won as far as illegal drugs 
go , but if one factors in abuse , , and use of , 
then the magnitude of the drug problem in this country can then placed 
in its true perspective. 

for those of you who do n't consider to be a drug then try 
drinking a of sometime and then come back and tell me 
that it 's not a drug .  . like the only go after illegal 
drugs .  . this is one of the reasons why the drug war is a 
attempt at preventing substance abuse people will merely switch to 
another drug if the one they were using becomes or unpopular .  . 

the solution to the drug abuse problem in this country may be to 
legalize some not all drugs whose has been shown to be 
within reasonable limits  ( you wo n't drop dead after using it a few 
times ) and then couple this with a massive drug education program .  . 
the reason why i think is part of the solution is 
because people seem to be able to easily obtain drugs despite the 
government 's efforts to the contrary the money spent on drug 
could be spent more effectively elsewhere (e . g .  . , drug 
 . , would reduce crime because 
the profit motive would be taken out of drug which often 
goes along with other kinds of crime .  . not to mention the fact that 
addicts would have less reason to prey on innocent people for their 
money and in order to support their expensive habit 
would cause the street price of drugs to fall 
so drugs would be much more affordable to addicts .  . 

imho , the way to reduce substance abuse is to do to drugs what has been 
done to make drug use socially unacceptable rather than try to 
heavy handed law enforcement and punish people by 
them. as you already know , people in the u.s. a lot less than 
they used to. this in the number of has been brought 
about by public awareness campaigns , laws where people can 
light up , warning on , on in 
order to reduce , and so on. i propose that similar methods 
be used to reduce substance abuse after has been carried 
out. they are as follows 

drugs being sold must come with clear , concise information which 
states the possible health involved with using this 
product and on how the drug should be used. 
things like levels and how long the drug should be used 
ought to the the drug is contained in. 

all drugs should be at a rate that a lot of 
but not so high as to encourage people to acquire drugs 
through illegal  . part of the from 
drug taxes should be used to drug education and law 
enforcement .  . 

make it a to sell drugs to  ( people under the age of 
 . anyone can sell drugs but they must not dodge paying the 
taxes on drugs or sell drugs with the warning information absent .  . 
failure to pay the taxes on drugs or warning 
information should also be a  . 

establish a government agency whose job is to that the 
and safety of all drugs is as high as possible. this 
agency would try to prevent people from getting a hold of bad 
drugs something that is a fairly serious problem now. 

i'm sure that many of the things i 've discussed in this article have 
been out before in this newsgroup .  . nevertheless , i thought 
it was a good idea to give my two  ( actually a and a half .  .  . ) . 
all at once so you could get a good idea of where i currently stand on 
 . go ahead and tear into my post i'm sure there is something in it 
that you may wish to take a different view on or flame .  . ) ) ) btw , 
i posted the articles from usa today to not only help prove my 
assertions but also to provide information on usage among 
something which i noticed some posters to this group were interested in. 

scott , and 

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets 
the bible through the of a gun .  .  .  . atf spokesman 
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets 
the constitution through the of a gun .  .  .  . me 


from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re the could win the  .  .  . clinton . 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 44 

in article  ( charles kincy ) w 

in article state . edu . 
ohio . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 

this country is hardly  . in fact , it is compared to after the 
election .  . 

this whole usa has gone to hell and reagan bush caused it , is not only 
, 
pathetic , and old .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . it 's wrong. 

under reagan bush the economy grew by 1.1 dollars .  . this is more tha 
n 
the entire economy of germany , a kind , gentle country , in many peoples  
books. what a joke. 

drive down to and take a look. not pretty , is it 

but drive up to cleveland and it is about 10 , 000 times better. i from 
originally  ( but that place always as as long as i 've been on the planet. 

things were much better there in  . all that growth went into 
the hands of ron and 's pals , and i t get a single 
of it ,  . and , now , i'm gonna be to death by tax 
to pay for the damage. f great .  . 

have been trying to pass a balanced amendment for the last 
ten years. 


oh , here 's another thing. seems like a lot of people in 
drive over to and make japanese cars .  .  . 

because for a while , the american n't even in their own 
country , where free trade is n't even an issue. however , even the automobile 
has back to the big 3. 

i wonder how many american owned those in 
central ohio other than ohio state university .  . ) 

oh , i do n't know. it 's probably in the tens of thousands .  . 

ryan 

subject re top ten comments in the secret service 
from mark  mark  
organization the leader school of diplomacy 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( francis 
a. ney ) says 
of who else but president of the united states william jefferson clinton .  . 
it 's a much better deal to have him end his term of office in , after 
watching all his liberal friends on his run this nation down 
the toilet .  . 

 . surely you do n't wish for the to destroy our beloved country 
just so your party can get some trivial political advantage that 's rather 
a petty way to think.  ( not that this does n't extend all the way 
to the u.s. senate , i 've noticed .  .  . ) . 

while bush was president , i kept and praying that he 'd wise up. i 
could n't stand the man , but i wish he 'd done a decent job if so , we might 
not be in the mess we are now , and that would be a small price to pay for 
suffering through another term of republican control. , you should 
be and praying that clinton does a good job. even if you 're certain 
he wo n't .  . 

 .  .  . so . i propose that we destroy the moon , that problem. 
your blood pressure just went up. mark is 
disclaimer if knew i had opinions , they 'd try to charge me for them. 

from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re the role of the national news media in 
organization university of virginia 
lines 21 

writes 
the fact that she was wearing a with no was 
presented as evidence that she was a prostitute , and the court 
apparently found this compelling .  . 

ah , i know women who wear without wearing , and 
they are not  . 

because the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the 
were engaged in self defense .  . got it , 

gee , both clayton and engaging in ad hominem arguments .  . 

i presented evidence that what you said is not what the judge ruled .  . 
provide your evidence. repeating a false claim is not evidence. 


greg , university of virginia 
mail astronomy department , , va 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from 
subject re return of the know nothing party 
summary the right to know nothing 
news software vax vms 1.4 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , product division 
lines 32 

in article , writes .  .  .  . 
in article , ece  ( david anderson ) writes 
in article  ( drieux , just drieux ) writes 
but i guess one needs to know a little about the bible , 
christianity and american history .  .  .  .  .  . 

mt. st. did n't such crap. how do you , 
, day in day out , to keep it up 

so which are you advocating 
that you know nothing about american history , 
or that you know nothing about the bible 

is this a of the know nothing party 

go easy on him  . it is the right of every american to 
know nothing about anything. 

ciao 


all hands to the big sea of ! 
all hands to the big sea of ! 
last call of the wild of the 



who said anything about snapped  . johnson 
this is still just culture  . you wait till i 've 
into the situation and found my  . 
then i 'll start ! douglas adams 


from  ( roger colin shouse ) 
subject re national sales tax , the movie 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 16 


speaking of did anyone see 's report yesterday  ( 4 15 ) it 
was quite  ( no pun  . they down how a percent tax 
was added at each stage of manufacturing , a stack of 
being added at each wholesale stage .  . when they got to the final 
stage  ( the actual sale ) the small stack of added to the 
large stack already there was said to be the amount paid by  . 
in other words , they ignored the fact that at each stage the 
tax would of course be passed on to the next with the consumer 
paying the full load .  . 

these are not journalists they 're dogs .  . 

roger shouse 
the university of chicago email 


from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re how many homosexuals are there 
distribution usa 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 7 

perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study 
 ( discrediting kinsey ) says so. 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

from  ( alexander kasacous ) 
subject re 
organization university , ottawa , canada 
lines 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( michael r conners ) writes 

plug this one in i'm a conservative , i hate 's  ( although i 
have to use one at work ) , and am a proud owner of a next station .  . 

the real question should the feds out steve jobs next (a la chrysler ) 
so that important manufacturing jobs would n't be lost 


you have just reminded me of an old tom song .  .  .  . 

i m changing my name to 
 ( tom , 1980 ) 

oh the price of gold is out of sight 
and the dollar is in sorry shape 
what the dollar used to get us 
now wo n't buy a head of 
no the economic is n't right 
but the i a shining ray 
i a new and better way 
and i 've a plan of action 
worked it down to the last 
and i'm going into action here today. 



i am changing my name to 
i am going down to washington d . c .  . 
i will tell some power 
what they did for 
will be perfectly acceptable to me. 
i am changing my name to 
i am heading for that great receiving line 
so when they hand a million grand out 
i 'll be standing with my hand out 
yes sir i 'll get mine 

when my are screaming for their 
i 'll be proud to tell them all where they can go 
they won y have to and 
they 'll all be paid to the last dollar 
where the endless of money to 
i 'll be glad to tell them all what they can do 
its just a matter of a simple form or two 
it 's not it 's a liberal education 
ai n't you kind of glad that i'm in debt to you 



since the first first out of the 
we 've been in an 
we were hardly up and walking before money started talking 
and it 's sad failure is an awful crime 
it 's been that way for a or two 
but now it seems there 's a different point of view 
if you 're a and your failure is 
down in congress there is a safety net for you. 

 .  .  . 



perhaps jobs should take 's advice and change his name to 
, or perhaps set himself up as an s l , maybe neil bush could 
give him a hand 




no eternal reward will forgive us now for wasting the dawn .  .  .  . 
j . 

the opinions expressed above are mine. like anyone else would 
admit to them. 



from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton president 's trip to 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 31 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 



the white house 


office of the press 


for immediate release april 15 , 1993 



statement by the press 



the president will travel to pittsburgh on saturday , april 
17 to talk about his job creation plan and its impact on the 
state of , where it would create as many as 3 , 
full time jobs and up to 21 , 240 summer jobs .  . he will make a 
public address at pittsburgh international airport at 9 30 am .  . 

the president will leave washington early saturday morning 
and return that afternoon. a white house press charter will 
depart andrews air force base at 7 30 .  . filing facilities will be 
available in pittsburgh .  . 






from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton background in vancouver 4 . 4 . 93 . 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 





the white house 

office of the press 
 ( vancouver , british columbia ) 



background 
by 



april 4 , 1993 

canada place 
vancouver , british 


9 40 a . m .  . 


folks , we 're about to start the background 
on the aid  . 

official good morning. the 
president president clinton and president agreed 
yesterday on a series of american to support economic 
and political reform in russia , and it 's valued at 1 . 6 . billion .  . 

before taking your questions and running through the 
basic of this , i want to make a few points. 
first , this is the that the clinton can do 
with available funds to support reform .  . all of the funds 
have been and appropriated by the congress .  . there is 
no need for the to go back to the congress to 
any of these programs. all our year  93 funds currently 
are available , so in effect , all of these programs can begin 
tomorrow .  . 

the second point is that this is designed to 
support  . all of the in the 
are directed at and for their benefit , and all have 
been worked out with prior with the 
government. 

third , the president is determined that we will 
deliver on these this year .  . the is designed 
to our ability to support reform .  . in it we 
wanted to avoid making that we could not meet , and we 
feel very confident that we can meet all of these in 
front of you. 

fourth , i 'd like to note the special importance of 
trade and investment .  . i think it 's fair to say that russia 's 
capital and technology needs throughout the next extend 
well into the hundreds of billions of dollars .  . no collection of 
governments can meet those needs only the private can do 
so. and so the president and president agreed to make 
trade and investment a major priority in the relationship .  . 

they also agreed that there would be a new 
on energy and space formed , headed on the u.s. side by 
vice president on the side by prime 
 . and the goal of this effort is to break through 
the to trade and investment on both sides and to promote 
a expanded relationship .  . 

if it would be helpful i 'd be prepared to run down 
the first page , which is a summary of u.s. assistance , and just 
give you some general background on what these programs are. 
i 'll do it quickly and then i 'll be glad to take questions. 

the first group of are food 
and medical assistance .  . this is part of our effort which has 
been for several years to provide basic 
grant food assistance so that the government can 
there 's at least a minimal amount of bread on the in the 
major cities .  . that 's million in grant that is from food 
for progress , the grant portion of food for progress. we 'll also 
be continuing our grant assistance in medicines and 
, and that 's 30 million .  . 

the second item is food sales .  . as you 
know , the united states has had a long term grain relationship 
with russia .  . it 's important to us and it 's important to russia 
that we continue that relationship .  . the president has chosen the 
food for progress program which is a loan program .  . 
the value over the next seven months is 700 million .  . these are 
terms. the exact terms have not been worked out , 
but i think it 's fair to say there will be a period on 
principal of or seven years , and 
thereafter for the life of the deal. 

the third program is a collection of private 
support .  . we think this is one of the most important things we 're 
going to do. privatization and the creation of small 
is the number one priority of the reform government in  . 
and so the president has decided to create a american 
this year at 50 million .  . and the 
goal of this is to make direct loans to small in 
russia , to take positions in those  . 

the president has also decided to create a 
privatization which would work directly with the 
government in its priority objective of trying to convert state 
from a state owned basis to a private basis. he has 
also agreed the president has also agreed to establish a 
foundation .  . this would be a private foundation led by 
prominent americans to in russia .  . 

the fourth you see there in the summary 
page is itself. i think it 's fair to say that 
this has given a new to the goal of 
in russia .  . you see that we have a total 
of 48 million in programs , various programs. the detailed 
give an indication of some of the programs that we 're 
 . 

the president is also calling for the development of 
a democracy corps , which will be an umbrella group to 
try to incorporate all of the private and public 
efforts now from the united states to support reform in 
russia .  . 

the program you see is office of 
 . this is a new created and 
by this  . this is a 
project .  . what we 'd like to do is work with the military 
to help officers returning from the 
states and other parts of the former soviet union .  . we want to 
make sure that we work out the best way to do that , whether it 's 
with labor and materials or using american 
construction. and so we 've decided to on a 
basis the construction of housing units. we 'll be working 
very closely with the military on this. and i would say 
that we have a long term commitment to this project .  . 

the sixth area is energy in the environment. they 
are two issues that the president strongly about. our 
initial efforts will be studies to look into the 
possibility of their energy , both oil and 
gas and equally important trying to cut down on the in 
the oil and gas systems , which cause so much 
environmental damage. 

i 've talked a little bit about trade and investment , 
about the new group being created that the vice president will 
chair on our side. ron brown will also be 
with prime , a business development 
, which will work in all other of the economy , 
to break down the many that currently exist and 
trade and investment .  . we are also going to appoint a full time 
investment in the american government to work on this 
problem full time. 

and the point i 'd like to make here is , trade and 
investment in the is every bit as important , to draw an 
analogy , as was in the '70s and '80s .  . and we 
just thought that in looking at this we needed to make a 
commitment within our own government to have people work on it 
people on a full time basis , because it is terribly 
important. 

you 'll notice that the united states is going to 
support russia 's membership in the  . russia has had observer 
status .  . russia has requested our support and , in fact , requested 
our advice in becoming a member of the  . we think that the 
long term goal of drawing russia into the economy is 
, a very important goal. and that is why we are 
supporting the membership in the  . we are also supporting 
their access to , the system of preferences .  . 

you 'll note that ex im has extended million in 
credit for a deal in , that has extended 
150 million in credits and loan for a oil 
project .  . i 'd like to that we are very close to an 
agreement between russia and the united states for a 2 billion 
through the ex im bank that would 
of american oil and gas equipment and services .  . 
we think this is a very important development .  . we think we 'll 
get there by april , which is the day of the tokyo 
conference , the g 7 conference .  . 

before i take any further questions , i 'd like to 
defer to my , who will review the security assistance 
objectives with you. 

official our major 
with the russians and with their 
in , and is in the area of the safe and 
secure of the nuclear on their territory 
under the terms of the start i and start ii agreements .  . 
recently we in three , i think , very important 
agreements that a significant of funding 
to three important programs. the first is the program of 130 
million for the strategic nuclear 
program .  . that is for , for and for 
bomber 130 million .  . 

the second is a 75 million of funding for 
the construction of a to nuclear materials removed 
from the as they are  . this will essentially 
contribute to the overall design and the early phases of the 
construction of that  . 

and finally , a 10 million of money to help 
in the of a system for the nuclear 
materials as they are from the weapons system. so we 
add that 215 million total to the extant assistance 
which has been about 150 million for some overall 
safety for various kinds of equipment and safety 
measures that we have been working out with the russians over the 
last couple of years. 

so this is an area where we will be going a lot more 
work with not only the russians but with the , , 
and  . , for example , has just , in the last 
couple of weeks , received up to 65 million in 93 funds for 
safety , security and programs on 
territory .  . and this was in the wake of their of 
start i , an agreement to to  . 

so we are working very hard with all the parties to 
the protocols , and will continue to work very hard with 
them. and i look upon these three recent agreements with russia 
as a very important step in that process. 

q the funds to is that for the field in 
and already signed this deal with 
 . why do you feel now it is necessary if it 's the 
same one , why do you feel it 's necessary 

official it 's not the same 
deal. signed a deal with , the oil 
field .  . this is a new investment project .  . it 's a 
oil development and project , and it 's being 
today. so it 's completely new. 

q can you tell us more about what 's involved 

official yes. , like 
other american oil has been searching for ways to do 
two things. one , to for new oil in , west 
and two , to try to get into the business of 
oil and , both oil and gas , in russia .  . 
the objective here , obviously , is to take advantage of the 
natural resources in russia , increase energy , which 
will , in turn , increase hard currency , which is what 
russia needs. 

so we think this deal is very , very good development 
for russia .  . the russians do as well , and it 's good for an 
american company .  . and the american government has played a 
role in this together through the credit 
in and through the loan  . 

q so it 's to search and also to fields 
that are already there 

official that 's right. 

q on that point , should other american 
expect to get support for such deals , or should 
they now go to the ex im and try to get the money out of the 2 
billion 

official well , as you know , 
ex im is part of the u.s. government and various parts of the 
u.s. government have been pushing , including the state department 
and the white house for this deal to be  . and we 
think it will. and if we arrive at this agreement by april , 
there will be 2 billion in available for american 
to sell their equipment and sell their services .  . 

q that should take up all of the rest of the 
deals and their wo n't be and their will or there wo n't be 
support for sort of deals such as this 

official there 's a 
amount of interest on the part of american oil and gas 
to in russia .  . we think that the ex im oil and 
gas , the 2 billion , once it is concluded , will 
up a lot of that interest .  . but i think the interest may 
even extend beyond that. and if so , the government will respond .  . 

q what 's the current year costs of that 
2 billion agreement should it go forward and is there any 
current year costs 

official i 'll have to refer 
you to ex im for that. i do n't know the details of that. 

q the food sales is there any 
current year costs to that , or is it until the years in 
which the are due 

official the 
food sales are from food for progress , which is a program .  . 
has the funds , we do n't need to go back to the congress to 
those funds .  . there will be a hit in the  . i 'd 
refer you to and for the details on that. 

q can you talk about the democracy corps 

q and the private how many folks are 
going to be involved in that 

official why do n't i start 
with the democracy corps first. i think the felt 
coming into office that there were literally thousands of 
organization , private organizations in the united states that in 
one way or another were working at the goal of trying to achieve 
in russia , helping on a to basis. 
and there were literally 10 or 15 u.s. government that 
had a variety of programs in this area. and so the 
felt the president felt it was important to try 
to draw all of these together under one group to give 
some coherence to the efforts and to give some to the 
efforts .  . and so this is a presidential  . 

it will be headed by tom who will 
soon take up his duties as the for u.s. assistance in 
the former soviet union .  . and we 're very that we might 
use this democracy corps not only to draw upon the resources of 
our own government , but the resources of the american private 
and schools and communities across the nation .  . 

q any kind of commitment yet , any kind of word 
yet on 94 , and any new money that needs to be appropriated 
besides the million the president talked about 

official the 
is requesting additional funds in 94 of 700 million .  . what 
the president has done this is to consult really 
yesterday with president about additional 
measures the united states could take in some of these areas to 
support reform .  . he 'll be with the congress .  . when he 
returns to washington , he 'll be also with the other 
ally governments , and we 'll make a decision at that time. 

q two questions about the 700 billion 
money. first of all , i thought it was the sort of 
consensus that what russia did not need was more loans for food. 
so why did you decide to do it that way secondly , could you 
explain has been stopped from making further loans 
for food because of russia 's inability to pay .  . how does this fit 
into that situation 

official as you know , the 
united states for a long time has been a major of 
and food , products to russia .  . i think 
between 1991 and  we had extended a little bit of history 
here about 5 . 5 . billion in credits , credit , through 
the credit corporation .  . that was the principal 
to ensure the sale of american grain products. on december 1 of 
last year ,  , the government stopped its on 
that program .  . they are now in to us on that program , and 
therefore , by law , the united states cannot continue that 
program .  . and so the president , working with and 
other in the , looked for other ways that we 
could promote american grain sales .  . 

and i think we have two ways to do that. we 've 
today million in grant food assistance through the 
food for progress program .  . but we do not have sufficient 
authority to spend 700 million in grant food , and so we looked 
for a loan program .  . 

i think everybody agrees that russia that a 
short term loan program for russia would not make sense now , but 
a long term loan program would. and that is what 
this program is. it will provide , once the final details are 
worked out , for a to seven year period on of 
principal .  . and then from years seven through 15 , which is the 
life of the deal , it will provide for of 
interest generally around three to four percent .  . and so we 
believe and the government believes this is a good deal 
for them because it will avoid the imperative of early 
and put them into the out years , but it will also continue this 
very important grain relationship , which is important for them , 
and it 's important for the american farm community. 

q i gather from what you say that this could make 
it explicit the russians  failure to pay the interest on 
loan does not in any way affect this kind of loan going through , 
is that right 

official let me be explicit 
about that. we are prevented under the law to from continuing 
the credit corporation short term credit program 
because of russia 's to the united states. all of you 
know about those  . they total about , i think , around 
million .  . can give you an exact figure .  . so having 
taken that into consideration and wanting to preserve american 
market share and a long term grain relationship , wanting to 
respond to a specific request from the government for 
major food assistance , knowing that we could n't take it from the 
grant programs because we do n't have sufficient authority there , 
we looked at food for progress , which is a program we 've used to 
great effect in other parts of the world. and we with 
the government and arrived at this solution .  . 

i think the russians are pleased because it provides 
them with the food , but also gives them a little bit of relief on 
the short term  . 

q where do those funds actually come from 

official they come from the 
food for progress program , which is a program under 's 
authority .  . has the authority to spend these funds .  . we do 
not need to go back to the congress for these funds .  . and i want 
to make that general point again everything in this , 
the 1 . 6 . billion , funds that have already been 
and appropriated by the congress .  . the 
can begin to spend these tomorrow .  . and it 's very 
important in our eyes that we all the funds this year , 
that we meet these  . and we are confident we 'll be 
able to do so. 

q how did you arrive at the figure of 700 
million does that out that program , or did you actually 
have a range from 0 to 

official there 's a reason 
for it. the reason was that the government told us 
that 's about the amount of grain that they needed between now and 
time. and so the idea is that we would begin the 
probably 100 million per month from now until the 
in the , at which time russia wo n't require the 
same level of food from the west .  . 

q i would imagine there 's going to be some 
and on the part of some of the other 
because of the size and the of this with russia .  . 
have you given any consideration to for 
the same kinds of with the , with , with 
some of the other 

official yes , we 're very 
conscience of the fact that we also have an interest in 
american support to the 11 other countries of the former soviet 
union .  . we have told ourselves , and we have that in the 
area of technical assistance , the grant technical assistance that 
you see , roughly 50 percent of the funding will go to russia and 
roughly 50 percent to the other countries. 

in the area of food sales , we have been active with 
, in grant food assistance with and  . we 
will continue that. and i think it 's fair to say that after this 
summit we will go back and look at all of our programs with the 
other countries to ensure that they are adequate and they are 
and they 're hard hitting .  . 

q has anything happened at the summit to lead 
american energy and other to believe that 
russia is going to be more user friendly them in terms of 
, legalities , 

official well , one of our 
primary objectives coming into this summit was to , not 
only the economic , but also trade and investment .  . and i 'd 
like to refer to the point i made at the beginning. we 're 
convinced in talking about this problem the problem of how to 
support russia long term we 're convinced that no collection of 
western governments have the financial resources over the next 
to the of reform , that only the private 
can do that. 

we look at our own society and we see 
capability in resources in the oil and gas  . it is a very 
good match with what the russians need now , which is financial 
investment in the existing oil and gas and and new 
technology and new capital to new production. 

that 's what the government has told us it 
wants to do , and so that 's why we have made such a major emphasis 
on it. that 's why trade and investment was a prominent issue on 
the first day of these talks , and in fact , 
last night in the meeting between president and president 
clinton .  . and we 're that together we might send a strong 
signal to the american business community that we support their 
efforts to in russia , that the united states , through ex 
im and and the department of commerce , will be there to 
support them. 

q my question is , is in any position to 
deliver on making russia a more 

official we think he is. i 
would note that president 's prime , mr. 
, worked for 30 years in the oil and gas 
 . he will now chair a high level with the vice 
president , vice president , to try to break through the 
that currently exist to western investment in the oil 
and gas  . we believe we have a commitment to make that 
an important  . and we 're looking forward to 
the work. 

q what type of mechanism is already in place to 
administer the private portion of the program and will 
the u.s. be directly involved in the tail end of distribution of 
the actual funds or is the money simply turned over to the 
government for distribution at their will 

official are you talking 
about the variety of programs listed here it depends on the 
program itself. in most cases , though , we are either working 
through american or american government to ensure 
that the money obviously is well spent , that the money gets to 
the intended source. that 's an we have to the 
congress to ensure the money is well spent and that we can 
account for the money. we have done that in the last couple of 
months and we will continue to do it for each of 
these programs. 

but they are all quite different. for instance , in 
the area of grant food and medical assistance , for grant food it 
is carried out through and accounts for the of 
the food. for grant medical assistance , we 've been working 
through project hope which is a private organization .  . for the 
housing for instance , the of officers , 
we 'll be working with a group of american  . on some of the 
, we 're working directly with 
private individuals and private foundations .  . we 're working with 
journalists in russia on a media project that you may have 
noticed. 

so we literally have here 30 to 40 different 
activities under all these and they 're all going to be 
carried out in slightly different ways. some directly with the 
government , some with citizens .  . 

q the restrictions that remain and 
on the restrictions that remain , can you tell us what the 
president has to do on that 

official well , as george 
noted yesterday , president raised these as in 
the relationship .  . the president has noted that. i think it 's 
fair to say we will go back now in our own government when we 
return to washington and look at both of these questions , and 
we 'll get back to the government. 

q you were not prepared for these questions when 
you got here 

official we were prepared 
for these questions. we 've looked at them. but we 're not 
prepared to make a quick decision this weekend. they require 
let me just explain , particularly on  . they require 
with the congress .  . they require with 
the american jewish community. and we 're very sensitive to those 
concerns .  . and so we 'll want to go back and talk to them before 
we take any action. 

q is this designed so that you will not 
have to go to congress for anything at this point 

official as i said at the 
beginning , the advantage of this particular is that all 
the funds have been and appropriated by the congress .  . 
so the will not have to go back to the congress to 
seek any additional authority to any of these efforts .  . in 
effect , they can all begin tomorrow , and i know that many of the 
responsible for these will begin tomorrow .  . and 
that 's the advantage of this particular  . 

q if this , as the president says , is a long term , 
long thing , and members of congress are at this moment 
heading for , why are n't you talking about going to 
congress and suggesting to the president of russia that you are 
prepared to go to congress for various things 

official i think we 've been 
clear about that. the president is discussing this with 
president some additional ideas that we have for american 
funding of additional , and ideas that he has .  . we have a 
major congressional that left last night , headed by 
representative and we 'll want to consult with that 
and other members of congress before doing anything. 
and we 'll also want to consult with our allies .  . so that 's where 
it stands now. 

q we 've been told repeatedly that a number of 
these items represent different or new ways of spending the money 
already appropriated .  . could you just off which of these 
items represents or at least spending money in ways 
that it was not previously set to be 

official i think that we 've 
said that these are all that either congress had 
money for through the freedom support act there were 
some funds that were left over from  . and this 
took office and had some new ideas about how the 
funds might be  . 

we did n't use just the freedom support act funds or 
the funds .  . we went into some of the agency 
ex im , , and and tried to look for creative ways to 
further our programs. 

and example of that is the food for progress 
loans .  . we had hit a with another type of 
funding through  . we could not go forward legally , and so we 
looked for a more creative way to ensure continued american 
market share and ensure continued grain sales , and we think we 
found it. 

q where , for example , are you getting the money 
for this 

official that 's from the 
freedom support act funds .  . 

q in other words , all of the money is being 
directly spent in new ways , so to speak 

official most of the grant 
that you see if you look at the general , the 
second , it 's broken down into grant and credits .  . and if 
you look under grants , the technical that 
total 9 . million that is almost all freedom support act 
funding .  . a little bit of it is funds from year 
 . the funds , of course , you know about the 
history of those funds .  . 

q 

official from  i 
do n't have the exact figure .  . it was not a figure .  . 

q could you tell us please , has anything happened 
here this that will break the log between and 
russia over start for start i and ii as a result of what 's 
happened here 

official both , 
president and president clinton , will be discussing this 
issue this morning. in fact , we have n't yet gotten to security 
and control related issues. that will be this morning 's 
session. i know that president clinton will be very strongly 
that this is a top priority for us. we 've been 
talking to the russians and the over the last couple 
of weeks about ways that we might help to facilitate the 
discussions between them. up to this point , this has been a very 
important that 's been going on essentially between 
and  . and we are at the point now of essentially 
discussing with them if there are ways that we could contribute 
to this discussion , help to move things forward essentially .  . 

but in terms of what is coming out of this , 
i do n't yet know. in a couple hours we 'll know. 

q just a follow up on the here. is 
any of this peter to pay since it 's all current 
year , have you taken it from that 's been 
and put it into this 

official there are and 
here , and i think it 's an important point to note. we 
could have given you a page of assistance numbers that included 
out year funding .  . we 're going to make a long term commitment to 
many of these for instance , the funds , the 
privatization effort , the housing effort .  . and we 've already 
talked to the russians about our long term commitment .  . 

we could have put in really big numbers and this 
could have been a bigger , but we wanted to make a point 
this is  . it 's funds that we have. and we 're 
going to do what we say we 're going to do. and the president 
very strongly about that. in the past there is a 
that the western governments , the combination of governments , put 
up large and for any number of reasons we 're not 
able to meet them , we 're determined , and the president is 
determined , to carry out every single program in this  . 
and we 'll do it. 

but we do have a longer term commitment , and that 's 
part of the discussions on economics this weekend. we 're looking 
for ideas on what it is we can do to most effectively 
support reform .  . and we 've told them that we do have a commitment 
on some of these programs beyond this year .  . 

q taken it way from any 

official no , we have n't .  . 
okay , the question is , have we any of these funds 
so have we taken it from other countries to pay for programs in 
russia the answer is no , we have not done so. 

q in terms of funding , there is no available 
left and you simply find a creative way to find money 
somewhere else. does n't that , in fact , support the theory 

official not at all. i 
do n't think it does. that 's a particular example , and the 
example is grain sales .  . the credit corporation credit 
program was short term loans that russia had to pay 
back within 12 to 15 months. you all know about russia 's debt 
problem , and russia was unable to meet those  . so we 
looked for a way to do two things to meet russia 's requirement 
for grain .  . they 're a net grain on a massive scale , and 
also meet our objective of making sure that the american 
have a chance to sell their products to russia .  . and we simply 
look for another way to that. and we have 
authority to do it. this program has been successful in other 
areas .  . we had not tried it before in the former soviet union , 
but we thought we should now. 

q is n't this really the bush clinton aid 
for russia , since these funds were really first derived by 
put forward by president bush 

official no , i do n't think 
that 's a fair characterization .  . a lot of these funds were 
appropriated by the u.s. congress is 1991 , in 1992 .  . this 
took office and inherited some that 
the bush had made. but we had a long to seven 
week review of this program .  . we decided to meet the 
that had been made by the previous  . 

but we have gone well beyond them in funding the 
, which was just an idea , but the idea had not 
been filled out with a program .  . there was no number attached to 
it. in together some and trying to make them 
into a whole in the privatization effort , i would say , 
is another clinton  . 

further , we to the government and 
to the military who told us that the 
of their officers was important to them for 
political and economic and social reasons. and president clinton 
has responded to that. and we are making a long term commitment 
that beyond this project we 're going to figure out 
a way to do much more in trying to those officers .  . 

i would also say that the president has given 
to all of us in the to think much more broadly 
about what it is we can do on , because there we 
have some experience and some comparative advantage that lends 
itself to the experience. and in calling for the 
creation of a democracy corps , which is another new , 
we 're that we can take the resources of the private 
as well as the american government , to achieve that 
objective .  . 

so i would not characterize it that way at all. and 
as most of you know , i am a career civil servant .  . i was in the 
last  . i'm very familiar with what the last 
did. and i would characterize this as a clinton 
assistance for russia .  . 

q there 's been a lot of criticism that aid in the 
past has not gotten to the people. is there anything in this 
outside of the , that will that this money 
will not just disappear because it 's being by the 
government 

official i think that i 
know that the president and other of our 
government are concerned that american money be spent and 
that it get to the source that it 's intended for which it 's 
intended .  . and so we 're going to take great care aid and the 
state department will take great care in making sure that the 
funds are properly and that they 're their 
source. 

i would not that this is not simply a 
of support solely to the government. some of 
these , especially in and , are 
going to be worked out directly with private individuals , 
with  . the private support is another 
example of that. 

official if i could just add 
a word on this point with regard to the related programs , one 
area that we 've been looking at very , very closely is 
consideration of actually using in 
for these kinds of programs. they would be working very closely , 
of course , with the american , who would be the prime 
 . but this is a fine example , i think , of a more of 
a imaginative and approach getting some of that 
funding down to the level , down to the ground in 
russia but at the same time that it is spent 
and for the purposes for which it was intended .  . 

q when would the democracy corps start exactly 
when do you see this happening how would get it off the ground 

official well , the president 
is today calling for the creation of a democracy corps .  . i think 
it 's fair to say that we 're going to work out its over 
the next couple of weeks. takes up his duties 
on may 1st .  . but in effect we 've already started , because over 
the last couple of weeks the has begun to reach 
out to people in the private who have come to us asking us 
to help facilitate their activities in russia .  . and we 've said 
that we will be helpful .  . we 've also tried to kind of coordinate 
in a much more effective way the activities of our own 
government. we do have 10 or 15 that are active in 
russia in one way or another. we think it makes sense to draw 
them together and to focus their efforts .  . 

q excuse me. how much of this 1 . 6 . billion will 
actually be spent in the united states by american made 

official i do n't have any 
for you now , but perhaps we could try to work something 
up in the next couple of days on that. 

q this figure is larger than the figure that has 
been in the press did this program grow yesterday as a result 
of the discussions , or have we just been that far off the mark 

official no , i think 
unfortunately the press has been a little bit off the mark , and 
i'm sorry to say that. no , this president clinton put 
us to work about seven weeks ago on this  . and he was 
on this. he contributed a lot of the 
intellectual leadership in this  . he contributed a lot of 
the ideas in the  . and i think it 's fair to say that we 
had this rough worked out about two weeks ago. we have 
been it ever since. we spent a couple of days last week 
going over it with the government , both the in 
washington and the government in through our own  . 
and so it 's been evolving .  . but this particular has been 
together for about two weeks. 

q where is 's into this then there 
was so much talk before about the president wanted to get 
's views about specifically what was needed and so forth .  . 
is that in the out years 

official no , it 's both. 
president has on several told us , for instance , 
that support for the creation of private is important 
to him that the of military officers is 
important and that first and foremost the effort to 
the state is important to them. 

and so what we did was to try to make those the 
of our technical assistance part o the  . we 
to him. on the privatization effort , we have been 
working with the government for months on this trying to 
work out all the details. so the government on most of 
these programs was involved every step of the way. 

but let me get at the other part of your question. 
the president is also using this to talk about a 
set of that we might undertake .  . and we 're looking 
for his ideas. the president has brought his own ideas to the 
table for instance , on energy and the environment and in 
housing .  . but we 're looking for ideas not. we need to 
consult with the congress and we need to consult with the other 
allied governments that are also active .  . 

q there 's essentially nothing that happened in 
the last day and a half that altered the that 
you came in with 

official this particular 
, as i said , was worked out and was ready about two weeks 
ago. we have since then with the government on 
the final stages of its development , and so this we 've 
primarily talked about future , about what more the united states 
and other western countries can do to support reform in russia , 
which is our base objective here. 

q i noticed that you that money appropriated 
to train and and officers .  . can you tell me 
what about job training for workers who are by 
privatization 

official you 're right we 
have a program to train young russians in banking and 
financial services in the united states. part of the housing 
, it 's not just to build housing units , it 's to 
officers who are into other  . 

q money for job training for workers whose 
jobs are because of privatization 

official we have not yet 
any money for that. 

q why not 

q of the 6 million is going to build 
housing units. is n't that a lot of money per given what the 
western dollar will buy in the former soviet union 

official if you want to do 
housing the right way , it 's not just the building the 
of a house , you 've got to think about all the  . you 've 
got to think about the of land. you 've got to think 
about and gas and and so forth .  . and it 's also 
 . it 's not enough to put an coming 
out of or or in a house in western russia .  . 
we think we have an to try to those officers 
as well. this is responding to a request from the 
government. 

q of the 6 million will go to 

official that 's right. 

q are you talking about apartment buildings or 
single 

official we 're talking about 
single , individual  . 

q you 're saying that only families will be 
served by this 

official what i want to i 
thought i pointed out earlier , this is a project .  . 
what we did n't want to do given the experience that the 
germans and the turks and the have had in building 
housing in western , we did not want to leap into it with 
a huge amount of money. what we want to do is work over the next 
couple of months and try to figure out with american 
organizations in the private the best way to get this job 
done. 

i noted that we have a long term commitment to that. 
and so i would expect that we would put a lot more money into 
this in the future . but we want to do it we want to 
spend the money  . 

q what is it about this program that 
you that it will protect russia 's reforms and that russia will be 
in a position to may back the money they 're supposed to pay back , 
especially considering their other debt problem 

official well , look , i think 
it 's important to note that the united states on its own does not 
have the capability to a of reform .  . 
it 's got to be a collective western effort , and we 're looking to 
our allies to do more as well. but beyond that , it 's really what 
the russians do that is going to decide the fate of reform .  . we 
can simply play a role , and we feel we have an to do 
so , which is consistent with our national interests .  . 

q did the president say that the value of the 
u.s. was that it would create security and 
for the united states so what is it about this 
program that does this 

official i think you have to 
go back to the fundamental objective of our policy russia , 
and that is we want to do everything we can to support the 
of reform .  . we are convinced that if stay 
in power , then we 'll be able to continue the of nuclear 
forces , foreign policy and economic interaction , 
which are the three benefits to the united states from reform in 
russia .  . so it 's not a simple question. you ca n't just say that 
this program is the answer. it 's a long term question and we 
have to make a long term commitment to it. 

q and then on the question of russia 's ability to 
, what you they 'll be able to pay seven to 15 
years from now 

official well , the 
government has made a commitment to , and what we 're 
is that if reform continues , and if they can continue to improve 
their oil and gas and additional hard currency 
, that russia will be in a position or seven years 
from now to pay back those loans .  . 

q substantial government to government loan 
we 've ever gotten into with the russians 

official i do n't want to 
answer on that. i do n't go back 20 or 30 years 
on this. but in the last four or five years , yes it is , because 
the previous way that we grain was really to 
just ensure private bank loans .  . this is a different type of 
effort .  . 

q government loans in any other that 
you recall i know it was n't done in 

official i think it 's fair 
to say this is a new and unique effort .  . 

25 a . m .  . pdt 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re national sales tax , the movie 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 38 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( charles kincy ) says 

let the great make a couple predictions , if you 
will 

1. the sun will rise tomorrow .  . 
2. rush will clinton on his next show. 
3. i will turn out to be clinton 's love child. 


hey , i was n't the one dancing and singing on jan .  . 20 , now 
was i i was for my predictions . 

sure they were easy .  . tell that to the other 43 of the people. ) 




! 

made in usa 


, line , and ! chuckle 


just wait until the see what clinton has for 
their funds ! ) this one does n't take much thinking 
either. needs money , bad , and funds got it. 

well , they used to have it. turns out the states have been 
state funds for the past 2 3 years. ) 

ah , it 's gonna be ! 




from  ( bill riggs ) 
subject re hard times was  ( no subject given ) 
organization corporation , , md 
lines 50 
nntp posting host descartes . army . 

in article  ( broward horne ) writes 

in a previous article ,  ( bill riggs ) says 

so much land , and in the long run , we have a zero sum game going .  . someone , 
somewhere , is going to make a killing from real 
 . the worst thing to do is panic .  . the best thing you can do is 
to ride out to the end. it , but you 're better off 
than if you sell short and donate to someone else 's  . 


sad .  . paradigm shift is coming ,  . 
ride the wave ! 

i do n't believe in the wave theory . 


there 's only so much land . oh , god , is this mike 's 
replacement ! 

my mother in law , who grew up in germany , does n't believe in 
money at all. she started out as a real , and now raises 
horses .  . she keeps telling me that inflation is coming back , and to lock 
in my fixed rate as low as possible. 


here , let me it out for you. 

can you two dollar bank 

maybe you 'd like to in some foreign currency .  . 

which one would you guess to come out on top 

 ( sigh never learn . ) . 



bill r. 



the only in the senate that i my opinions do not represent 
have seen fit to mention are particularly those of my employer or 
or particularly ones. any government agency .  . 
it seems to me that the historian 's foremost bill 
duty is to ensure that virtue is , 
and to deter evil words and deeds with the 
fear of 's damnation .  . 
, iii .  . 65 

from  ( drieux , just drieux ) 
subject return of the know nothing party 
nntp posting host com . 
reply to 
organization philosopher and 
lines 38 

in article , ece  ( david anderson ) writes 
in article  ( drieux , just drieux ) writes 

well actually its a case of resolving whether one 
supports biblical , and the of the bible , 
or whether on wished to jump on the , 
all the true christians in death camps approach 
of the northern liberal and their efforts 
to destroy the bible , corrupt the moral of american 
and lead the god fearing into the of liberal  . 

but i guess one needs to know a little about the bible , 
christianity and american history .  .  .  .  .  . 

mt. st. did n't such crap. how do you , 
, day in day out , to keep it up 

so which are you advocating 

that you know nothing about american history , 
or that you know nothing about the bible 

is this a of the know nothing party 

ciao 


ps what was the free act about , 
and what was the supreme court 's ruling on it .  .  .  . and 
more importantly , how does this the mythology 
that all blacks were slaves 



all hands to the big sea of ! 
all hands to the big sea of ! 
last call of the wild of the 


from  ( david matthew deane ) 
subject re public on ballot access , vote fraud and other issues 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 10 

ack ! sorry for the repeat posts i thought i was posting to the newsgroup 
on which this appeared .  . could n't figure out why it was n't in 
my newsgroup .  . stupid of me. my hands. bang my head against the wall. 
sorry ! bloody public  .  .  .  .  . 

david matthew 

when the words open , 
it means the death of doors 
even sense the danger .  .  ( amon liner ) 

from  ( gerald olchowy ) 
subject re national sales tax , the movie 
organization university of chemistry department 
lines 38 

in article 2 . pa . dec . com .  ( broward l. horne ) writes 
well , it seems the national sales tax has gotten its very 

own news logo ! 

cool. that means we 'll be seeing it often. 

man , i sure am glad that i quit working ( or taking this 
seriously ) in 1990. if i kept my ass , watching 
time go by , being , i 'd be pretty damn mad by 
now. 

i just wish i had the e mail address of total who 
was saying that clinton did n't propose a . 


actually , jerry brown essentially did .  .  . and . clinton , in his 
, condemned brown for it in the crucial ny primary last year .  . 

however .  .  .  .  . 

why do n't the get their act together , and say they 
will support a broad based that would have to be 
 ( the in canada is unlike the invisible they 
have in europe ) 
and suggest a rate sufficient to and 
and capital tax and at a rate sufficient to give 
the enough for their health care reform , and 
force an agreement with the that the top tax 
rate would then be frozen for the future and could 
be increased only via a national  . 

why not make use of the to do something worthwhile .  .  .  . 
shift the tax burden from investment to , and get 
health care reform , and a frozen low top marginal tax rate 
all in one  . 



from  ( david matthew deane ) 
subject re public on ballot access , vote fraud and other issues 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 

in article ,  ( bob waldrop ) writes 

 . . .  . . .  . . . 


public 

on the by the 

united states government 

and the governments of the states of 

florida , louisiana , , missouri , 
west virginia , north , , 
maryland , , , , 
, and 

with certain international agreements signed 
by the united states government , in particular , 

the international covenant on civil 
and political rights 
 ( signed 5 october 1977 ) 

and the 

document of the meeting of the 
conference on the human dimension of the 
conference on security and 
in europe 
 ( june 1990 ) 

a democracy project of 

celebrate liberty ! 
the 1993 libertarian national 
and political 

 . 2 5 , 1993 
salt center 

salt city , utah 




these will investigate charges that the governments 
referenced above routinely violate the political and 
democratic rights of political minority parties .  . persons 
interested in at these , or in 
written or documentary evidence , should contact 

bob 
p.o. box 
salt city , 
 ( 801 ) 


examples of possible information of interest includes 
evidence and testimony regarding 

(1) unfair or treatment of political minorities 

(2) physical assaults on , , or 
members of minority parties 

 ( 3 ) of minority party , , or 
members while engaged in political activity 

 ( 4 ) to organizing third parties and or 
running for office as anything other than a 
or republican (e . g .  . signature required for 
to put new parties and on , 
requirements for third parties that and 
are not required to meet , etc . ) . 

 ( 5 ) of democratic and republican 
that are denied or not available to third 
parties 

 ( 6 ) or non reporting of minority party vote 
(e . g .  . stating for democratic and 
republican party as equal to 100 of the 
vote ) 

 ( 7 ) by state , , and courts to 
hear for of from third 
parties , and or rulings laws 
against third parties 

 ( 8 ) refusal to allow as a member of a third 
party when to vote  ( in states where 
voter is optional or required ) 

 ( 9 ) vote fraud , ballot boxes , , fixing 
elections , threatening , ballot printing errors 
machine voting , dishonest corrupt 
election , refusal to third party voters 
or allow filing by third party failure to 
print third party options on official voter 
documents of third party 
voters and or and or any other criminal 
acts by local , , state or federal election 

 ( 10 ) exclusion of third party from debate 
sponsored by public schools , state and 
universities , and governments  ( including events 
carried on television and radio owned and or 
by governments 

 ( 11 ) any other information relevant to the topic. 

information is about incidents to all non 
democratic and non republican political parties , such as 
libertarian , new alliance , workers party , natural 
law party , , , consumer , green , american , 
communist , etc. , as well as independent such as 
john , , , 
, etc. 





representatives of the governments referenced above will be 
invited to respond to any allegations .  . 





relevant sections of the document of the 
meeting referenced above 

 ( the states ) recognize that 
democracy and the rule of law are essential for 
respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms .  . . . 
they therefore welcome the commitment expressed by all 
states to the ideals of democracy and political 
 . . . the states express their conviction 
that full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms 
and the development of societies based on 
democracy .  . . . are for progress in setting up the 
lasting order of peace , security , justice , and co operation. . . 
they therefore their commitment to implement fully 
all of the final act and of the other 
documents to the human dimension .  . . . in order to 
respect for , and enjoyment of , human rights and 
fundamental freedoms , to develop human contacts and to 
resolve issues of a related character , the 
states agree on the following. . . 

(2) .  . . . they consider that the rule of law does not mean 
merely a formal which regularity and 
consistency in the achievement and enforcement of 
democratic order , but justice based on the recognition and 
full acceptance of the supreme value of the human 
and guaranteed by providing a 
for its  . 

 ( 3 ) they that democracy is an inherent element of 
the rule of law. they recognize the importance of 
with regard to political organizations .  . 

 ( 4 ) they that they will respect each other 's right 
freely to choose and develop , in accordance with 
international human rights standards , their political , social , 
economic and cultural systems. in exercising this right , they 
will ensure that their laws , , practices , and policies 
conform with their under international law and 
are brought into harmony with the of the 
declaration on principles and other  . 

 ( 5 ) they solemnly declare that among those elements of 
justice which are essential to the full of the 
inherent and of the equal and inalienable rights of all 
human beings are the following. . . 

. . . a clear separation between the state and political 
parties in particular , political parties will not be with 
the state. . . 

. . .  ( 7 ) to ensure that the will of the people serves as 
the basis of the authority of government , the 
states will. . . 

ensure . . . that  ( votes ) are counted and reported 
honestly with the official results made public 

respect the right of citizens to seek political or public 
office , individually or as representatives of political parties or 
organizations , without discrimination .  . 


relevant sections of the 
international covenant of 5 october 1977 
referenced above 

the states parties to the present covenant .  . . . recognizing 
that. . . the ideal of free human beings civil and 
political freedom and freedom from fear and want can only 
be achieved if conditions are created whereby everyone may 
enjoy his civil and political rights , as well as his economic , 
social , and cultural rights , considering the of 
states under the charter of the united nations to promote 
universal respect for , and of , human rights and 
freedoms .  . . . agree upon the following articles .  . . . 

article 2. (1) each state party to the present covenant 
to respect and to ensure to all individuals within 
its territory and subject to its jurisdiction the rights 
recognized in the present covenant , without distinction of 
any kind , such as race , , sex , language , religion , 
political or other opinion , national or social origin , property , 
birth , or other status .  . 

(2) where not already provided for by existing or 
other measures , each state party to the present covenant 
to take the necessary steps , in accordance with its 
constitutional processes and with the of the 
present covenant , to adopt such or other measures 
as may be necessary to give effect to the rights recognized in 
the present covenant .  . . . 

article 3. the states parties to the present covenant 
undertake to ensure the equal right of men and women to 
the enjoyment of all civil and political rights set forth in the 
present covenant .  . . . 

article 25 .  . every citizen shall have the right and the 
opportunity , without any of the distinctions mentioned in 
article 2 and without unreasonable restrictions  ( a ) to take 
part in the conduct of public affairs , directly or through 
freely chosen representatives  ( b ) to vote and to be elected at 
genuine periodic elections which shall be by universal and 
equal and shall be held by secret ballot , 
the free of the will of the  ( c ) 
to have access , on general terms of equality , to public service 
in his country. 

article 26 .  . all persons are equal before the law and are 
entitled without any discrimination to the equal protection of 
the law. in this respect , the law shall any 
discrimination and to all persons equal and 
effective protection against discrimination on any ground 
such as race , , sex , language , religion , political or other 
opinion , national or social origin , property , birth , or other 
status .  . 




there will be no peace without freedom .  . 
think act  . 
resist much. obey little. 
question authority .  . 

comments from bob are the responsibility of bob 
! for a good time call  . 

e mail 
mail p.o. box 
salt city , utah 
united states of america 
voice phone  ( 801 ) 





do n't blame me i voted libertarian .  . 
disclaimer i speak for myself , except as noted 1993 rich 
uucp ... ! uunet ! es . com . ! rich 
internet irc rich programmer 

david matthew 

when the words open , 
it means the death of doors 
even sense the danger .  .  ( amon liner ) 

from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re eight myths about national health  ( pt ii ) 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization in the hall 
lines 

 ( daniel b case ) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes .  .  .  . 
the difference in the environment is in the  . 

lack of medicine and near absence of is really 

why we spend less using the most expensive approach of pure 


and maybe that 's not such a good thing. i also read somewhere that 
it is next to impossible in canada to against the health 
system class action suits are nearly impossible , and you ca n't 
the health at all. 

since our doctors are private and the system is just an 
plan , would not involve the  . our lawyers 
do not work on , so that if you were to for 
then you 'd better be sure of to cover your ... likewise , 
if you were a doctor and subject of a suit , it 's time to  . 

since the wings of the are the ones that go to when 
the fee are presented , the politically doctors 
were just when they realized the would grow in strength 
rather than , especially when unlike in 
medicine approaches like britain 's national health service .  . 

oh no. do n't let the know about this. they have enough power as it 
is. ask most americans whether they 'd like the doctors  lobby to get 
more powerful .  . 

a few weeks ago , the president of the canadian ma wrote a letter to 
the to a 's repeating the same old trash .  . 
this is significant because the and the are 
organizations and he would not have done it without the approval 
of his  . 

well , yeah , tell us about the national defense medical centre outside 
ottawa .  . theoretically it 's limited to service , but some 
studies i 've heard about have suggested that about half the 
there are civilians who not only have but are n't 
at all. 

it serves the same purpose as the hospital ... since 
not all hospitals can provide everything , maybe they have some stuff 
that others do n't  ( ottawa 's population is only a million , 
if you include the surrounding ) . 

the problem is , in a system where hospitals  are 
approved by the government , how do you keep political 
out of medical decisions i bet that if you 're an or , or good 
friends with one , you 're put on any hospital 's care list no 
matter how minor your problem. which is ok unless you 're someone who 
gets off the list for some  . 

people of influence will get their way in any system , american or 
european .  . it 's the golden rule he who has the gold makes the 
rules. ( 

as for , those are actually grants for facilities 
(e . g .  . , , , etc . ) . given to hospitals of which most are private 
foundations  ( btw , i have no problem with having aggressive 
for profit hospitals like the french , who use our approach ... but in 
the they have almost as many people as canada does so 
their market is much more  . the rest has to be made up for 
by from who use their services .  . 

t national health mean that americans who are now 
fully might have to for less 

in canada , covers all health costs except 
care , , prescription drugs , service , and private 
hospital , so many do end up buying some private 
 . a policy to cover all of these things runs about 40 to 40 
a month .  . 

hmm .  . how much difference would it make in the figure of percentage 
of spent on health care if and were included 
in the accounting maybe canada proportionately just as much 
on health care as we do. 

the are combined public and private for total 
, and are compiled use the same methods by the that 
the 13 14 figure for the u.s. 

so what happens if the health care systems collapse .  . 

how they are ... and i'm an advocate of having 
like the french do in their system in order to make it look 
more like the real that it is. the private doctors and 
hospitals will still be there after the  ( hypothically ) 
, as they were there before it appeared .  . 

bob , the second least popular man in ontario , warned a 
few years ago that if they did n't stop cross border shopping in such 
huge numbers , the services they expect from the just wo n't 
be there in a few years 

for one thing , i think that bob is an idiot ... 

he did n't say so , but i knew he meant the  . 

most of comes from separate on your if you are 
a ... he wants to spend our money on other things than the 
health  . our high taxes are high for other spending but 
health , which is separate and optional , and it is being 
spent in a manner by every party. ) 

is just a health plan it does not provide any kind 
of health care , that is up to you and your private doctors .  . 

would the private take up the slack they 'd be under no 
to. of course , they could eventually make money again , 
but if what you say is true , they 'd be to do so  ( and out of 
practice in handling such basic services , too) .  . 

some of the providing extra are of 
american , and their parents provide full down 
here. regardless , all up north can easily turn on tv 
to see how well the american are doing by being involved in 
basic  . the private are making too much money after 
having gotten rid of basic  . they run around them 
on the back for their own in providing 
for those people who it . 

when private realized how much money they 'd make without the 
risks involved in basic (e . g .  . , neurosurgery ) versus deluxe 
(e . g .  . , having to call tv to replace a set on 
the in someone 's private hospital room ) , they started to 
themselves on the back for their social responsibility .  . in quebec 
last spring , a of private publicly warned against 
any thoughts of , low cost parts of that 's 
public health plan .  . 

again , i doubt americans would like giving the that 
much power. i half wonder if the canadian health did n't go 
along with the and the federal government years ago because 
they knew that there was a good chance of the public system going 
in the long run , and then afterwards they could clean up  ( okay , this 
sort of contradicts what i said higher up. but it 's another  . 
they 'd have an added when arguing against government 
involvement in their industry as they could then point to its failure 
instead of just principles .  . 

i agree ... they were in a win win situation. but right now , it seems 
that they have won bigger , when you look at how full their 
are. friends from my sisters  class were still being out 
for job individually with in london , on , 
 ( canada 's capitol a la hartford ) along with generous expense 
this year despite the post  . 



me 
l. dare 
go go ! ! ! 


from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 26 

in  ( clayton cramer ) writes 


the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . it 's a that we do n't have a for 
straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 

possibly because gay men are less likely to get married 

what was the purpose of this post if it was to show a 
with statistics , an incredibly flawed system of reasoning , and a 
, then the purpose was accomplished with  . 

 ( a ) get a clue .  .  ( b ) get a life.  ( c ) get out of my face. i'm not in yours. 



andrew d. ! 


words were n't made for happy 

from  ( brian keith michalk ) 
subject re high speed is bad 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 14 
distribution tx 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

in article  ( rex black ) writes 
in texas .  . being from california , i have come to the conclusion 
that one has two choices for preventing economic through 
traffic high speed or growth limits .  . 



growth limits how will help with the traffic from what 
i understand , the will not stop in places like , or bryan , or 
lots of places in between .  . even though i live in austin , 
i do n't see myself using the train except on rare  . probably 
twice a year .  . and at 65 dollars a i could probably drive for 
also.  ( even if the price of gas went up ) 


from  ( doug holtsinger ) 
subject pro abortion leader trashing of free speech rights 
organization 
lines 38 


51 for defying judge 's order at abortion 
the miami , april 11 , 1993 

, florida ... 

judge robert 's order prohibits anti abortion 
within 36 feet of the property line of aware woman center for choice. 
even across the street , they may not display pictures of dead 
or or loud enough to be heard by inside the clinic .  . 

the say the ruling all but out the first amendment 
to the constitution .  . 

is our , '' said joe , 33 , a who 
with his children , mary , 8 , and john , 7. 

am not a  . i am not a  . it 's just that this is 
my  . i am not really protesting abortion .  . we are protesting 
denial of our rights of assembly , religion , speech. this judge is 
trashing the constitution . '' . 

the children 's led them away , , as and 
his father were  . 

outside the clinic , , president of the washington , 
d . c .  . based majority foundation , called for the florida 
and congress to pass laws as tough as the judge 's 
order , which covers only and  . 

cannot go on , '' she said. is not freedom of speech , 
this is total psychological warfare with violence .  . it is ridiculous 
to have to ask clinics to go court by court . . . to get protection . '' . 

... 




from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization america , south san francisco , ca 
lines 21 

in article state . edu . 
state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 
just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you ! 

a friend of mine who pot every day and last tuesday took 5 of acid 
is still having trouble for the bowl when he takes a dump .  . do n't as 
me how , i just have seen the results. 

gee , the war on drugs has been going on for all these years and they 're 
still getting drugs ! imagine that .  .  .  . 

my friends who like grass (i t agree but it 's pretty harmless ) are 
unable to get it , yet i know a number of places where someone stupid 
enough could get crack cocaine within a half hour of leaving my office. 

the war on drugs has been completely , yet it 's lead to really 
horrible abuses of peoples  constitutional rights. i do n't see how a 
thinking person could justify it. 




from  ( john viveiros ) 
subject re to be , or not to be a disaster 
distribution na 
organization 
lines 31 

in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 
not at all. you are apparently just another member of the religious left. 

show me all these environmental . most of them are n't .  . and the 
natural we have had individually far the man made ones. 

most of your so called  ( love , times beach , tmi ) are n't 
at all. 

so look , if you want to worship trees  ( or or or whatever ) , fine , do 
so. but t try to push the of your religious off onto me. 

if you want to see environmental , go to eastern europe or some 
parts of the  ( former soviet  . this is because they had no 
environmental protection laws and were trying to increase 
at any expense to justify their political systems. for us , some 
of our politicians with vision passed some environmental laws .  . that 
is n't to say that they should n't be modified , but all i ever hear from 
you is that the environmental laws were up by a bunch of 
left tree intent on putting us back on  . yes , 
there are some of those , but a lot of us simply want to procede with 
 . 


john 
usa standard disclaimer applies 
tx 

netnews for com . 

who said no news is good news 

from  ( king banaian ) 
subject re national sales tax , the movie 
lines 43 
organization college 

in article  ( david veal ) writes 
in article 
ca .  ( gerald olchowy ) writes 
in article 2 . pa . dec . com .  ( broward l. horne ) writes 

why do n't the get their act together , and say they 
will support a broad based that would have to be 
 ( the in canada is unlike the invisible they 
have in europe ) 
and suggest a rate sufficient to and 
and capital tax and at a rate sufficient to give 
the enough for their health care reform , 

the are , in general , fighting any tax increase .  . 
there is also worry that a would be far too easy to increase 
 . 

i was a graduate student in the early , and we had a conference on 
where jerry , then a member of the council of economic 
advisors , was a speaker .  . i had the pleasure of driving him back to the 
airport afterwards , and since taxes were the main topic of discussion i 
thought i would ask him about the  . i have it for these reasons 
you mention , that the base is too to define , that it taxes 
savings and investment , that it is likely to be more  . he agreed , 
and reported that the at that time was in favor of  . so why not 
propose it i asked. he replied that the reagan white house that 
the would introduce in addition to the tax , rather 
than in  . better not to give them any ideas , he said. 

pretty  . 

 ( btw , what is different between canada 's tax and most of 
europe 's that makes it ) 

yes , any canadian readers , please tell us if the tax is on price 
stickers  ( i'm relatively certain it is not in  . 

king it 's almost as though young 
white guys get up in the 
dept. of economics , college morning and have a big 
latest 1993 2 . 4 . on their face ... because , 
you know , wrote the 
. d 

from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject re a rational viewpoint was re new study out on gay percentage 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random .  . 
lines 27 

in article () writes 
it is very difficult for a young person to develop and build 
a positive view of when they are constantly being 
told implicitly and explicitly that they are wrong and 
immoral .  . 

yes , that is most certainly true. however , the reflects a value less 
position and that what is more important than anything else is to 
have a positive view of one 's self .  . 

this of course , is foolish .  . 

should a mass murderer , a , a 10 year old have a positive 
view of themselves 

of course not. 

a person that in behaviour that a large number of people condemn , 
and if you believe in the concept of society , then your only choice is 
to expect that person to have a negative view of themselves. 



there are actually people that still believe love was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re about pay 
distribution usa 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 53 

in article , c . jpl . nasa . gov .  ( tim fogarty ) writes 
in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article , c . jpl . nasa . gov .  ( tim fogarty ) writes 
in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
2. get off industry employees do n't .  . 

what professor gets the summer off the primary purpose of a professor 
at a university is to publish .  . teaching is secondary .  . the summer 
is when are able to do the research required for their 
papers .  . 

i'm told by my that only at some universities is publishing 
the primary emphasis many in the cal state university 
system do n't publish at all. those that prefer teaching are under 
no pressure to publish .  . 


when discussing and issue , it helps that all participants use the same 
definitions , although this rarely occurs on usenet .  . 

when i use the term university , i think of an organization that has 
a , masters , and program .  . i believe that cal state schools 
do not. i call them  . schools are universities .  . at a 
the number one goal is to publish .  . 

cal state university system and masters degrees .  . the 
d .  . is not offered , because of opposition from  . 

at the cal state schools , do the you speak of have at 

nearly all the have  . i have n't had a professor who did n't , 
though my wife has had a couple of with just an m . a .  . a friend 
had an who did n't have a degree at all , but because he had 
been of culture for the black , he was teaching anyway. 
he had a bad habit of usually not showing up to teach the class , and 
finally quit in disgust at the racism of a university that expected him 
to show up to teach .  . 

a university you have with and then teaching  . 
were the slave labor , graduate students who got their paid , and 
a few hundred a month for living in exchange for doing all the 
work. the taught the , with 100 to students per class , 
then the taught the labs , with 20 to 30 per class .  . 

tim  ( fogarty@sir c . jpl . nasa . 

at state university , typical class size is 20 to 30 per class .  . 
teaching is definitely more the goal , and sometimes , it actually happens. 
the best at state u. are equivalent to the best 
i had at and usc .  . 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( matt x8043 ) 
subject re with a friendly face 
nntp posting host com . 
organization thought police agency , u . s . a .  . 
lines 


who wants to look through the at some reactionary liberal conspiracy 
theory idiots and see how they rant and at the of their 
support this is very typical of the liberal attitude that the people 
are incapable of thinking for themselves. this attitude will be the 
eventual of the arrogant liberal sweeping america , as the people 
begin to realize more and more that they are being treated like children 
and robbed of their freedoms by a bunch of  . 


in article in talk . politics . misc . , new liberation news service 
writes 

subject with a friendly face 
lines 

from new liberation news service 
subject with a friendly face 

written 8 33 apr 14 , 1993 by in news . 
packet 3 . 11 . 4 14 93 

with a friendly face does rush you of 
anyone 
, the madison 

the main difference between adolf hitler and rush is that 
hitler was original and showed  . 
on the tom radio show , abc radio network , 
october 27 , 1992 .  . 

although i find myself often disagreeing with the rationale 
of mr. , i find him entertaining and i often agree with his 
conclusions .  . the fact that he sends liberal like these 
idiots through the roof makes him all the more entertaining .  . 



 ( nlns ) believe it or not , i was planning this comparative review of 
mein kampf and 's rant , the way things ought to 
be before issued his comparative review .  . as usual , 's was 
independent and as a  . 
my effort can only dream of comparing to 's .  . at 
least it has a fairly popular premise everyone i 'd mention the 
idea to thought it was either divinely inspired or at least past due for 
 . 
those reactions are based on that should be obvious to the 
most observer of the acts of those false prophets .  . both are 
noted for their , which they both used with 
passion to generate a political cult of massive  ( in 
fact , claims to have an audience of just over 12 million , almost 
identical to the number of votes cast for hitler in the april german 
 . both used a social perspective to build the cult , and 
enthusiastically facts from the record to their 
ideological  . 

actually , i find 's less than and his 
sometimes lacking , even though his conclusions are often correct. 

i would suggest that a bankrupt ideology that hopes to use 
political power and a loaded gun to force everyone to do the right things 
 ( where right is defined by the who lead the movement ) 
is showing an case of social perspective , not to mention 
arrogance and utter stupidity .  . 

is certainly far from perfect , but his opponents in the established 
body and the media are the ones arguing for federal control of 
virtually all aspects of the lives of the , and for the elimination 
of local control over affairs public. 

perhaps has a following because the people are tired of being treated 
like children by a self important group of arrogant controlling 
people who have no understanding of how life operates outside of the be 's 
inside their own closed minds .  . 



the last point is documented by passages in the 
pages of both books. hitler 's example is when , on page 5 , he claims the 
german terrorist  ( he bombed part of a 
line between and , being caught in the act , in 1923 ) 
was betrayed to france by a representative of his government when 
there has never been any factual foundation for such a statement. 
in fact , the governments of both the reich and , as well as 
the vatican , actively intervened to save him from execution , and almost 
succeeded .  . 

ok , let us take your word for that and work with it. a nice specific 
incident .  . 



follows suit by making the 
claim in his introduction that in a school or during a 
or many other public places .  .  .  . god is  . of 
course , it 's not god but the official of particular concepts of 
god against an individual 's will that 's  . but is 
too in his talent for to want you to know that. 

hmmm , congress shall pass no law regarding an of religion , 
nor prohibiting the free exercise thereof .  . liberal translation the 
federal government  ( as long as it is run by liberals ) may force local 
school to include certain content in christmas , 
while prohibiting others. 

i think has you on this one. it seems to me that he is arguing 
for less of the federal government into religion. 

nice job on the of that one , too. 



analysis of historical modern media deleted 

but , as also observed on the radio the other night , some 
of the radical right wants to be a point of 
their propoganda .  .  ( and remember , is an al conservative these 
days . ) . 
might not know exactly who rush 's equivalent of 
is  ( the book itself suggests ed , the former president of 
abc radio and now 's in media , the radio 
program 's company) .  . but himself is a of the talk 
show , having them in new york , washington and los  . he 
knows what evil in the hearts of major market media men. he knows 
that could not have his audience had not the 
opportunity been placed on a silver and handed to him. 
his money just as honestly as al did it 's almost worthy of a 
indictment .  . 

ah yes , it is a conspiracy of profound  . that you 
may be a bit of mr. 's success because you attribute it 
primarily to luck  ( how , after all , could anyone with profound differences 
of opinion from yourself have become successful without the operation of 
conspiracy or blind luck ! ) do you feel this same level of knee jerk 
against , or do you congratulate them on their 
good 



on questions of social issues , there is an of 
material in the book that seems to hitler 's venom .  . for 
example 

this should be great fun , since it is the liberal movement in america 
that is pushing the for control of the people 
and business  ( government business   indeed ) , and mr. 
is the of that movement .  . 

i have read mr. 's book , and although it was not the most 
piece i have read in recent memory it certainly did not contain venom 
at all , let alone venom comparable to an individual who murdered 
millions out of racism .  . 



on their own to control society 
hitler out of the host of sometimes millions of people , who 
individually more or less clearly and guess the truth , partly 
perhaps understand it , one man author 's emphasis must step forward in 
order to form , with force , out of the world of 
imagination of the great masses , principles , and to take up the fight 
for their sole correctness , until out of the playing of a free world of 
thought a of uniform combination of form and will 
 ( page  . 

a very serious tone in that  . 



who needs the media when they 've got me ... the 
show is devoted exclusively to what i think ... the phrase with half my 
brain behind my back to make it even denotes the of mental 
i require to engage and demolish and others who disagree 
with me ... it might take four or five years , but i'm convinced the media 
will and reluctantly come around to my way of thinking , kicking 
and screaming all the way.  ( pages , 21 , and 273 , respectively . ) . 

you to mention that mr.  ( have you ever to his show , 
btw ) continuously encourages his audience to think for themselves rather 
than blindly following any media , himself included. you yourself mention 
that he makes no bones about his show being strictly about his own opinions. 
he also a rather approach , and his audience to be 
intelligent enough to distinguish from  ( and he says as  . 
this is in to the average mass media show , in which the audience is 
treated as society 's intellectual lowest common denominator .  . 

i am sure that adolf hitler was a master of i am sure he was just 
kidding when he said that the jews were the cause of germany 's problems and 
needed to be exterminated .  . 



on religion as the basis of a nation 
hitler in this world human culture and civilization are 
bound up with the existence of the  . his dying off or his 
decline would again lower upon this earth the dark of a time without 
culture ... he who to hand upon the highest image of the lord 
sins against the benevolent creator of this miracle and helps in the 
from paradise .  .  ( page ) . 

this is not religion , it is clearly a perverse worship of race .  . since 
christ was a jew , it seems quite unlikely that hitler 's characterization of 
the as the highest image of the lord fits with christian doctrine .  . 



america was founded as a christian country ... 
but our intellectual and political are often either hostile or 
religion ... people for whom belief in god is at best a 
have managed to ban prayer from the public schools 
for the last thirty years. is it only a coincidence that the quality of 
american education has declined ever since  ( pages 274 5 . ) . 

private religious schools have a better record of success than 
publicly funded schools .  . american history is indeed primarily 
christian .  . i suppose that mr. pointing out facts is equivalent 
to adolf hitler the race .  . i think you might be 
just a bit here. 



on popular culture as a reason for social collapse 
hitler the fight against the poisoning of the soul has to set in ... 
one has only to look at the of our movie houses , and 
and one can hardly deny that this is not the right kind of food ... 
theatre , art , literature , , the press , and 
must be cleaned of the symptoms of a world and put into the 
service of a moral idea of state and culture .  .  ( pages 346 and ) . 

definite suggestion that the government should control the 
industry here. 


today , hollywood is in trouble .  . the reason is that 
hollywood has forgotten who its audience is ... they make fun of people 
who believe in god. they the traditional family , 
and  . they american heroes .  .  ( page ) . 

just a guess here , but i do n't think that mr. would advocate 
government control of hollywood .  . you should perhaps call his radio show 
to this. i believe this is more a criticism of hollywood and the 
moral values it , not an of government control 
of hollywood .  . 

90 's , on the other hand , want to have complete government control 
of our school systems , so that the government can teach the people at an 
early age the right way to view religion and morality .  . i believe mr. 
is against this , as his use of the young heads full 
of indicates .  . 



on the news 
hitler the activity of the so called liberal press was the work of 
for the german people and the german reich .  . one can pass 
by in silence the marxist papers of lies ... it 's task is only to break the 
people 's folkish and national , in order to make it ripe for the yoke of 
slavery of international capital and its masters , the jews .  .  ( page ) . 

pretty strong conspiracy theory here , with an plea for 
government power to be used to break up the conspiracy .  . 



elements of the media have on the 
of causes .  . the cynical of the past has been 
replaced in many cases by an enthusiastic for causes ... during 
the gulf war , bernard shaw said is a 
network. we ca n't take sides. take sides ! ... if they do n't 
realize that their freedom lies in the united states of america and that 
therefore they should defend this nation , they are misguided 
and , may i suggest , with megalomania .  .  ( pages and ) . 

indication here that elements of the media  ( since career is a self 
categorization , perhaps an  larger percentage than represented in 
the at large' ) has a bias .  . does n't sound too unreasonable .  . 
no that should not report in an objective fashion , only 
that for reporters to say that they do not have any personal bias in the 
situation is disingenuous to  . 

you may disagree , and it may well be , but it is not an unreasonable 
opinion and mr. goes well out of his way to make sure that his 
audience knows that these are his opinions , unlike most other reporting that 
to achieve perfect objectivity but in will in some degree 
or other , in a statistical sense , reflect the of the reporters .  . who 
is being disingenuous here , mr. shaw or mr. 

again , you should ask mr. himself , but i expect that he would 
oppose government control of the media. 





to continue these comparative excerpts is certainly possible , but 
ultimately too depressing to take in one reading. 

it is indeed depressing to see such and tiresome liberal arrogance .  . 
love to play games with as a way of people 
who disagree with them. why do n't you challenge conservative ideology 
on an intellectual level rather than engaging in ludicrous comparisons 
perhaps the of your ideology are intellectual only in that 
they exist in your mind , not the real world. 



after putting these books down , there is one undeniable fact that 
me. in the , adolf hitler fed depressed and frightened 
germans the of hatred of those around them in turn , it allowed 
germans to hand their collective national power to the nazis .  . in the , 
rush is doing the very same thing hatred to 
depressed and frightened americans in turn , it is helping the american 
radical right to maintain its power base as the 12 year of the 
reagan bush era comes to an end , to it into their hopes for 
the states of america .  . 

perhaps there are a few among the intellectually challenged who 
rush as a hate , but in my experience he has been spreading 
laughter at the ludicrous self importance of the left , not hatred .  . 

as to mr. bush , you may be correct about his economic  . 
mr. reagan , on the other hand , did his best to reverse the trend 
of government involvement in business. mr. clinton is increasing 
in america through business government and increased levels 
of  . perhaps you should not have your vocabulary classes 
in grade school. 



and if is not as a hitler , it is only because the 
radical right as its own gateway  . one can only 
wonder what the ultimate drug is they plan to america on. 

hmmm .  . seems to me that is not in any way comparable to hitler 
because he has not murdered million jews and many , many others out of 
racism .  . i come from a race family , so i am quite well to 
racism i do n't hear any coming from rush  . the only place i hear 
racism coming from these days and being taken seriously is from the liberal 
left. 

the liberal left is the movement i see trying to get america 
on the of medicine , transportation , 
education , etc. the left already has america to 
that liberal drug , the social security letter. it is quite clear 
to me that while the hitler analogy does not really apply to either rush 
or william jefferson clinton , if one of the two is closer than 
the other it is clearly the clinton .  . 


the madison can be reached at po box , madison , wi 53701 
(608)  . 

30 

this is the same address as idiots anonymous , is n't it 


matt 



thinking is irrelevant .  . is irrelevant .  . 
free speech is irrelevant .  . private property is irrelevant .  . 
personal responsibility is irrelevant .  . 
is futile .  . 
you will be  . 

these are my opinions only and not those of my employer ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 



from  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) 
subject re k. on rodney king 
distribution usa 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 54 

 ( ted frank ) writes 

in article  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 
 ( ted frank ) writes 
in article  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit 

i'm curious why you think that particular is important. 

i'm curious why you took a statement and cross posted it to several 
different news groups , including something along the lines of 
alt . discrimination .  . 

me i saw your original post in alt . discrimination .  . 
your post was cross posted to three groups. my followup was cross posted 
to two of those three  ( omitting soc .  . 

now , instead of engaging in meta discussion off the topic , could you answer 
the question posed if your statement is so ( ! ) , you should have no 
trouble responding to a polite  . 

well , i do n't think your was exactly polite , but i will try to 
give you a polite  . something of the net , but here it goes. 

black is a descriptive that describes mr. king .  . from many 
of the newspaper , radio , and tv news reports i have seen , this 
is commonly in front of his name. i have never seen anyone complain about 
the use of this when used in a benign manner. i did not say that 
mr. king was a no good black ! i do not know mr. king and would not make this 
without some evidence to this effect. i used it purely as a 
descriptive in the same manner than many ( most ) news people have 
used it in the past. 


the entire second trial was about race ,  . i do n't feel compelled to 
discuss mr. king 's racial background , but had mr. king been white there would 
not have been a second trial .  . you probably are saying that the beating would 
not have occurred if he were white , but that is an extremely difficult call 
to make. it is possible the case , but not definately .  . 

i still think your actions are crap ,  . they are far more than 
me using the  black  in a non manner. would you have 
been if i had used  african american  if so , then you really are 
lost in the world of pc .  . you have already been in getting one 
persons net access revoked , and i wonder if you have sent a copy of my 
message to my sys admin with a plea that i am not worthy of posting. 

the way you went about this  polite  inquiry makes me believe it was 
anything but .  . 



from  ( phill baker ) 
subject re frank wanted for killing  .  .  . 
lines 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 


in article ,  ( mike godwin ) writes 

in article writes 

but punishing the person for posting such a thing of 
 . 

it 's a deliberate act of fraud intended to cause harm .  . 

you seem to be about the legal meaning of fraud .  . mere 
misrepresentation is not fraud .  . 

your comment here is meant as a put down. it fails for several reasons 

1 ) you have edited out the context of the action under discussion. 
2 ) i never brought the legal definition up. i use the english language 
and not the legal  . the legal definition of fraud changes from 
one country to another in any case. the context of the discussion is morality 
of censorship .  . 



how does a posting from your site do any such thing especially if your 
site is a university do you know any person who believes that a 
university every comment made from a university site 

that is why i refered specifically to a company .  . 

good. now , do you know any person who believes that a company 
every comment made from a university site 

you are from the statement i made concerning a 
in which such an act of censorship would be to the case. 
if you had bothered to read the post instead of trying to prove how stupid you 
thought me you would have done rather better. the mode of argument i was using 
was a form of rhetoric .  . argument by example , i describe a wide set of 
circumstances in which an action is and demonstrate that they 
do not apply , thus the action is not  . 

obviously a company posting from a university would be squashed , it 
would be contrary to the internet use. 

usenet does not distribute  . 

organization , experiment zeus 

i suggest strongly that if you mean for this to be taken as you 
get a better stationery designer .  . 

now you are at  . in the context of the discussion it was 
the fact of association between the company and the post that was important. 
the etc is inconsequential .  . 


there are people on the net who are openly supporting the murder of members 
of my family. 

sigh. 

if you are implying that i am lying i suggest you read mark and 
posts into soc . culture . british .  . if you are suggesting that 
advocating murder is a trivial matter i would prefer that you state it 
directly .  . 

certainly i oppose the right of dr and the to 
call for the murder of salman rushdie .  . to murder is not part 
of what i consider legitimate freedom of speech. 


as for your notion that employees can argue their different political 
views at their own expense , could you explain precisely what expense 
you 're talking about 

internet is not free. the connection charges are quite expensive for 
concerns .  . 

could you give me a cost for the expense to your company 
to an 's posting a political view in disagreement 
with yours numbers , please. 

that is irrelevant , the case is not the cost but the 
cost .  . if i decide that a company i am associated with should subscribe 
to usenet that usenet connection is the property of the company .  . it is 
quite legitimate for a company to have a political or other and 
the use of its property in accordance with its policy. for example 
if a were to post nt is crap do n't buy it 
from a machine i would consider it reasonable for to 
that  . in the same way if a company decides that it has 
political objectives it might wish to postings in a political 
manner. this is no worse than using his papers as a political 
for his views. 


i was refering to the arrogance of your position , quoting the words written 
by slave owners at me in the cause of freedom .  . 

which words written by slave owners did i quote i do n't recall quoting 
anyone. 

ah yes you did not quote them , merely refered to them. 


your constitution is not 
considered in other parts of the  . 

nor have i assumed it is. i do n't consider the first amendment to have 
value. 

you might just as well have attempted to argue from the king james bible 
to a muslim .  . i was pointing out that your reasoning is when with 
little effort you could have made a substantive point. 

i made the effort apparently you made a certain effort to misunderstand 
me. 

your article of a reference to the first , your signature 
and pretty well damn all else. 


for an example of a uk publication that this , try index on 
censorship .  . 

i used to subscribe , i would still if i was not moving .  . 

index regularly opinions by non americans who believe the first 
amendment represents appropriate free speech principles for all open 
societies .  . see , e.g. , the opinions of the dissenting law in the 
case. 

are you refering to the initial on an or the judgments 
on the substantive case 

the initial that the government won were judged on the not 
judgment that assertion by the government that the national interest might be 
harmed would be grounds for prior  . the second set of on the 
substance judged that the government had no case and that the official 
act could not be used to suppress information in public domain already. 
the part that they won was over the issue which is rather separate .  . 

here again the issue of censorship is rather different in the case that 
information is on the understanding that it will not be communicated 
to third parties .  . the first certainly does not apply in this 
case as the numerous prosecutions of in the us proves .  . 

the crux of the affair was of british law. 
the censorship aspect of it as a result of the government 's 
ludicrous attempts to prevent summary of the case in the book. 


you have n't any reason to believe that anything i 've said has been reached 
 . 

only most of what you write .  . 

for someone who to be opposed to argument from assertion , you 
certainly get by on assertions a lot. 

funny i saw that as a rejection of an assertion that you had made. of course in 
rejecting an assertion i have to make a contrary assertion , since this assertion 
is i left it at that. 

so far i have not seen you demonstrate a command of the contrary opinion to your 
own. you are attacking my anti censorship view because i dare to accept the 
validity of some pro censorship arguments while rejecting their conclusions .  . 
plus i am not an absolutist .  . i have this funny idea that the solution to this 
problem was not decided in by a group of white male in secret 
and in a single line. furthermore i do n't think that the 
issues are half as simple as you imply .  . 

you may think that i am being anti american in recourse to the 
first  . it 's just that this argument has no currency in the parts 
of the world where there is state censorship such as iran , and israel .  . 

i do n't pretend to have my discourse for all conceivable audiences .  . 

i do n't think that you have your discourse to any audience save that 
of proving that you are the only person wearing a white hat .  . 


baker 

from  ( gerald olchowy ) 
subject re national sales tax , the movie 
organization university of chemistry department 
lines 27 

in article  ( aaron t boyken ) writes 

if the will be done in the same way that state and local sales 
taxes are done , nothing will be on the  . the 
up your  ( gum , gas , car , etc . ) . will hit a to add 
another 5 on top of the state and local sales taxes  ( and that wo n't 
include any of the from previous levels of  . 


there is no need to include the from previous levels because 
the is a difference tax .  .  . if . the is x , than the amount 
of tax the government through all the levels is x of 
the price of the end consumer .  . at the levels , 
only the difference between the paid out and the received 
is to the government. 

here 's a question what if , instead of a true , the federal 
government imposed a sales tax of say 2 3 the tax would only 
be paid on sales  ( thus not building up at all levels of 
costs that are just passed on to anyway ) , 
and would only go to reducing the  . (i know that this 
would never happen , but it seems a lot more than 
a  . 

a is infinitely preferable to a tax .  .  .  . 



from  ( steve thomas ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization , san francisco , ca 
lines 34 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 
in article  ( steve thomas ) 



just try to justify the war on drugs , i dare you ! 


a friend of mine who pot every day and last tuesday took 5 of acid 
is still having trouble for the bowl when he takes a dump .  . do n't as 
me how , i just have seen the results. 

boy , i really wish we we cut the drug war and have more people up in 
the head. 


i 'll answer you 're sarcasm with more sarcasm 

boy , it looks like the is working really good to stop people from 
being up in the head , given that example ! 

 ( issue your friend got his drugs legal or not legal , he 'll continue to 
get them. issue 2 why should i , as somebody who does not use illegal 
drugs and who is not up have to pay for this idiot 's problems he 's 
not doing anybody any harm except himself. the , on the other hand , is an 
immediate threat to my life and  . tell me why i should sacrafice 
this to that ! ) .  . 





steve thomas 


from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton war powers resolution on bosnia 4 . 14 . 93 . 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 102 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 



the white house 

office of the press 



for immediate release april 14 , 1993 


text of a letter from the president 
to the speaker of the 
house of representatives and 
the president pro of the senate 


april 13 , 1993 


dear mr. speaker  ( dear mr. president ) 

as part of my continuing effort to keep the congress fully 
informed , i am providing this report , consistent with section 4 
of the war powers resolution , to you of actions that i 
have ordered in support of the united nations efforts in 
bosnia  . 

beginning with u . n .  . security council resolution of 
september 25 , 1991 , the united nations has been actively 
addressing the crisis in the former yugoslavia .  . the security 
council acted in resolution to establish a ban on all 
military over bosnia  . there 
have , however , been blatant of the ban , and 
in bosnia have been bombed .  . 

in response to these , the security council decided , 
in resolution of march 31 , 1993 , to extend the ban to all 
over bosnia and to 
member states , acting nationally or through regional 
, to take all necessary measures to ensure  . 
's north atlantic council  ( nac ) agreed to provide air 
enforcement for the no  . the u . n .  . general 
was of 's decision to proceed with operation deny 
, and an order was to 
allies .  . 

the united states actively supported these decisions. at my 
direction , the of sent an execute order to 
all u.s. forces in the force , for the conduct 
of air to prevent not by 
the united nations over bosnia  . the u.s. forces 
initially to this operation consist of 13 f 15 and 
12 f and supporting  . 
these enforcement at 8 00 a . m .  . 
e . d . t .  . on april 12 , 1993 .  . the are for 
combat to their mission and for self defense .  . 

has forces and has established combat air 
 ( cap ) within the control of early 
warning  ( aew )  . the u.s. cap will normally 
operate from bases in and from an in the 
sea. entering or 
the no will be identified , , , 
, and turned away  ( in that  . if these 
steps do not result in with the no , such 
may be engaged on the basis of proper by 
military authorities and in accordance with the approved 

more 

 ( over ) 

2 

rules of engagement , although we do not expect such action will 
be necessary. the of  ( the united nations 
protection force currently operating in bosnia herzegovina ) was 
to ensure that his concerns for his force were fully 
considered before the rules of engagement were approved .  . 

it is not possible to at this time how long such 
will be necessary. i have directed u.s. armed forces 
to participate in these to my constitutional 
authority as in chief .  . i am for the con 
support that the congress has given to this effort , and 
i look forward to continued as we move forward 
of our goals in this  . 

sincerely , 




william j. clinton 








from  ( gary piatt ) 
subject re employment  ( was re why not concentrate on child 
organization general  . inc. , , ct 
lines 51 
nntp posting host 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 

wrote 
in article  ( xavier gallagher ) writes 

true , man did not invent the need for food , shelter , and the ilk , 
but man did invent the property laws and the laws of  . 
but how do you think property is generated does it grow automatically 
on trees when we wish so , or someone has to produce it 

some say it was generated by god or some say it was the result of 
the of billions of tons of  . in either case , 
the property of which speaks has been around for millions of years. 


it all follows from the fact that mother nature does not 
provide us automatically with our needs , 

oh when did she stop mother nature has been automatically providing 
us with her bounty ever since we out of the  . it 
is not produced it produces itself , year after year .  . last night , for 
example , i saw four deer the road  ( pretty sight , too) in an 
earlier time , one of them would have been  . 

there are 2 ways to go with produced things the first is to 
trade it with the the  ( person(s ) who produced it. 
the other one is to take it with a gun from the person who produced 
it. the first way is the civilized method , the second is how 
their affairs .  . 

the american had no concept of ownership of property , and often 
freely gave of their to tribes , trading food and 
clothing for weapons or services .  . the native , like their 
ancestors , also could not conceive of that idea , and shared 
many things with the other  . in fact , hi , the hawaiian 
word for means food . the great , in which 
the islands were divided up more or less between the rich and 
the poor , was a white man 's idea. in africa , will often 
share tools , , and clothing with other members of their own 
and  . every who has ever been to 
africa has at least one tale of the difficulties arising from the so 
called theft of the scientists possessions two concepts of which , 
until the came along , the had no understanding. 

these are the people we call . 

on the other hand , car and are up from last year .  . 

, before you make further comment on this thread , i think it would 
you to study all of the facts .  . 




from  ( james a. donald ) 
subject re tax case ! 
organization the liberty trust 
lines 22 
x mailer version 1 . 13 . 


do you have a strange definition of that you titled this thread 
tax case ! lost . by a 3 0 decision that 
his arguments to pieces .  . he went to prison using these arguments .  . see 
united states v ,  ( 7th 1990 ) , g 704 f 880 .  . 

the tax are legally correct , but they are put in jail anyway. 

the weakness of the governments legal position is shown by the fact that when 
someone protesting tax or gun laws on legal grounds gets a federal jury trial 
 ( very rare ) the feds blatantly stack the jury , with the same old faces turning 
up time after time. 

however should have mentioned that though his advice is legally sound , if 
you follow it you will probably wind up in jail .  . 



james a. joseph stalin said ideas are more powerful 
than guns .  . we would not let our enemies have 
guns , why should we let them have ideas. 

from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject not the issue  ( was re 8 myths about national health .  .  . ) . 
summary and do n't explain us health 
organization free the , inc. 
lines 46 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( daniel b case ) writes 
in article ,  ( gary l dare ) writes .  .  .  . 
the difference in the environment is in the  . 

lack of medicine and near absence of is really 

why we spend less using the most expensive approach of pure 


then why do we really need national health then 
would n't it just make more sense to find some way to cut down 
on the cost of 

it would if and medicine were the main 
factors in explaining spiralling us health care costs , but they are n't .  . 

although is correct in that related problems are 
greater in the us than canada , they by no means account for the overall 
difference in health care costs .  .  ( they do account for a somewhat larger 
portion of the difference in  gross in the two countries . ) . 

some facts .  . and account for less than 1 of 
total health care costs in the us. in 1991 , according to a survey of 
conducted by a national medical journal 
paying 3 . 7 . of their practice in  . 
and in 1985 
they 've declined since then. at the same time , health 
care costs have increased more than any period in history. 

as far as medicine is concerned , the estimates that its 
total impact is about 7 billion per year .  . that 's about 8 of the total 
current increase in health care costs and the estimate is from a group 
that could be expected to the of medicine 
on health care. 

as small a problem as this is in the overall scheme of things , however , 
clinton has been on record for a long time an 
of md 's against suits if they follow set by their 
 . this would eliminate most , if not all suits 
while the ability to for true  . 



steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 61 

in article ,  ( lawrence c. foard ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
from the santa rosa ) . press , april 15 , 1993 , p. 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new study on male sexual behavior , the most 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

the on homosexuality in the study released 
by the institute are lower than 
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional 
wisdom since it was published in the report. 

1 ) so what 

homosexuals lie about the 10 number to hide the 
involvement of homosexuals in child  . they also lie 
about 10 to keep politicians scared .  . 

2 ) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2 . 
gather in washington  . after all if there are only of 
us then this is an event in history .  .  .  . 

but many of the people who will be are n't homosexuals , but 
other members of the  . 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners .  .  .  .  . 

not surprising .  . remember , that study includes homosexuals as well. 

compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . 

and what did this study show for number of sexual contacts for those 
who said they where homosexual or is that number to for 
you .  .  .  .  . 

it was n't published .  . 

it 's a that we do n't have a for 
straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 

fuck off 

typical response. 




clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  . grinch ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization 
lines 29 
distribution world 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 
summary more on failed governments 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  . grinch ) writes 
in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 

it would seem that a society with a failed government would be an ideal 
setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented .  . now why do you suppose 
that never seems to occur ... 


i fail to see why you should feel this way in the first place. constant 
combat is n't particularly conducive to intellectual theorizing .  . also , 
they tend to get invaded before they can come to anything like a stable 
society anyway. 

and the reason that the soviet union could n't achieve the ideal of pure 
communism was the hostility of surrounding capitalist nations .  .  . uh . huh .  . 
somehow , this all sounds familiar. once again , dreams are 
by the real world .  .  .  . 
steve domain com . 



steve , you 're the one who suggested that a failed government should be an 
ideal proving ground , i never felt that way in the first place. quite the 
contrary , i think a better proving ground would be that already 
had a that would prevent outright acts of , yet had a 
strong spirit of and  . like .  .  .  . texas ) 

mr. 

from () 
subject new  guess  out on gay percentage 
organization santa 
lines 38 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( greg hennessy ) writes 
clayton writes 
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . 

did you ever consider the selection effect that those who are willing 
to admit to being a member sexual minority  ( homosexuality ) are more 
willing to admit to being a member of another sexual minority  ( highly 
promiscious ) 

i did n't think that you did. 


greg , university of virginia 

it is obvious that mr. has the  ability  to take the  leap of  . 
i have to several of the men involved in this study , and even they 
claim that the men involved will not  tell the whole  . 

i put little value in from these types of  studies  or   , 
they have limited of individuals , and there is alot of due 
to improper selection methods , and the bias of the people involved in the 
studies on both sides subject and  . 

would you admit to be part of a group that was not very well liked would 
you admit to having had sex with other people at some considered abnormal 
rate  ( this applies to heterosexual  . in fact , as one gay man and one 
straight man put it , men lie about the number of partners , because that 's 
the thing to do our culture for the male almost requires this type of 
response. it may seem harmless and silly , but carries a large emotional 
and mental price  . 

i hear college male students everyday talking about their  supposed  
conquest .  . they just have to look good to one another , at least in their 
eyes. but also know that alot of this does go on , there are many college 
males  ( hetero ) having a lot of sex with different partners .  . 

from  ( don baldwin ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization america , south san francisco , ca 
lines 24 

in article  ( jeffry r beach ) 
writes 
i would be upset that , although abortions would continue , they would be 
a lot more expensive for the rich , and a lot less safe for the poor. 

so now things are supposed to be legal just to keep their cost down 
and the safety factor high 

in the case of crimes yes , i think so. 

think about it. if i rob or up or rape or kill someone , it 's very 
clear to anyone not a that i 've done something immoral .  . on the 
other hand , if i grass or have sex with a adult in a 
manner illegal in that state , the morality or of that act is 
merely a lifestyle choice it t clearly hurt anyone else. imo , if 
such an act t hurt another person it should not be with. 

think about it should n't all drugs then be , it would lower 
the cost and definitely make them safer to use. 

i think so. and i do n't use drugs , outside of the legal ones  ( alcohol 
and  . 



from  ( ian sutherland ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization department , university 
lines 40 

in article com . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article  ( paul schmidt ) writes 
com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

as noted in another thread  ( limiting govt ) , the problem face 
is that the limited government they seek does not become the 
tool of private interests to pursue their own  . 


... 

it is a failure of if the ideology does not provide any 
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than dreams .  . 

you seem to be saying that a limited government will provide more 
opportunities for private interests to use it to pursue their own 
, and asking to prove that this will not happen. 
while i ca n't offer such a proof , it seems pretty damn plausible that 
if the government does not a particular area , it cannot become 
a tool of private interests to pursue their own in that area. 
i rather suspect that it 's the sort of government we have now that is 
more likely to become such a tool , and that it is such a tool in many 
instances .  . 

just 
as fails to how pure communism is to be achieved and 
the state is to away , frequently fail to show how 
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human 
condition. 

i suspect that this is because improvement in the human condition as 
you define it is not the primary goal of , and would not 
be the primary goal of a libertarian government. my impression of 
is that its primary goal is the elimination of 
government coercion except in a very limited cases. 






from  ( dowdy jackson ) 
subject re swimming pool defense 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university , , illinois 
lines 23 

in article  ( king banaian ) writes 
in article  ( ted frank ) writes 
in article ( 
david smith ) writes granted , the simple fact of holding down a job will 
improve these kids  chances of getting another job in the future , but what 
inner city kid would want to hold down just one more minimum job when 
there is so much more money to be made dealing drugs 

what kid would want to hold down a minimum job when there is so 
much more money to be made dealing drugs 

yet , somehow , kids do hold down minimum jobs .  . so do inner 
city kids , when give the chance. any reason you think that inner city kids 
are incapable of doing legitimate work 

i suppose the correct answer is not family values 

s pose not. never mind. sorry. 

are you assuming that families in the inner city do n't have family values 
i sure hope not. 



from  ( tom kimball ) 
subject re supply side economic policy  ( was re david ) 
organization systems , , tx 
distribution na 
lines 36 

in article  ( ed ipser ) writes 
details that you are seeking , is that the 
were working .  . in fact , they were working so well that unless the feds 
did something , they were going to have to start cutting  . so bush 
and the got together in a summit and replaced 
with the now grand compromise in which bush 

yea , it turned out that was a to fool the voters 
into accepting the borrow and spend policies of the last 12 years. 



as it turned out , the taxes killed the reagan and the caps 

anyone can expand the economy by 3 on their credit 
cards. big deal. spending only the economy in the short 
term .  . in the long term it the economy for numerous reasons. i would 
have much preferred that the had that 3 instead. 


the result is that clinton now hopes to reduce the to a level 
above where it was when reagan left office. 

on that  . 


if reagan had kept his campaign promise to the by , 
there would have been no need for bush or clinton to raise taxes .  . and 
all reagan had to do was that  . 

on that  . 


tom systems 
, 
, tx 

from  ( hokh'ton ) 
subject re k. on rodney king 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 39 

in  ( vern morrison ) writes 


in a previous article ,  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) says 

 ( ted frank ) writes 

in article  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit 

i'm curious why you think that particular is important. 

i'm curious why you took a statement and cross posted it to several 
different news groups , including something along the lines of alt . discrimination . look rodney king is black and large .  . i have several large black male friends , and they are referred to as being large black men ( to their faces , and by 
themselves ) .  . you know , , i have a large number of for you , 
but i will spare you most of them because i try not to get into personal 
flame wars .  . let me just say that i think your action of cross posting this 
was total bs , and you 're trying to start some crap. , others will 
see through your little game and not play along. 

you still have n't addressed 's statement. we 're waiting. 

yeah , i'm also curious as to why you felt compelled to us of the 
guy 's race .  . btw , i do n't mean to imply that you 're or anything , but 
the statement was hardly benign . 





the wind is the storm , 
and the storm is data , 
michael douglas and the data is life. 
's  ( the long run ) 



from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton am press by 4 . 15 . 93 . 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 844 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 





the white house 

office of the press 

for immediate release april 15 , 1993 


press 
by 


the room 


9 45 a . m .  . edt 


q why was the 10 00 a . m .  . 

 . just due to conflicts .  . so as we 
put out , the president will meet with the leaders of the national 
police organizations at 2 00 p . m .  . in the rose garden , as opposed to 
10 00 a . m .  . the only other things on his today are at 
11 00 a . m .  . he 'll meet with general , who , as you know , is on 
his way to vietnam to continue working on the issue. at 
12 30 p . m .  . he 'll have lunch with the vice president in the 
office. and at 2 00 p . m .  . he 'll meet with the police organizations .  . 
then from 3 00 p . m .  . to 4 00 p . m .  . he 'll do his weekly with the 
various groups. 

q a photo with 

 . there 's no on the meeting. 

q why 

 . why it 's a closed meeting. 

q what about the lunch 

 . the lunch no , there 's no  . 

q is he meeting with any congress people today 

 . nothing scheduled .  . 

q there are no meetings 

 . there are no congressional meetings today , 
no. 

q has the president been given any information by the 
or reached any conclusion about the validity of this report 
from any instructions to on how to deal with the 
on that subject 

 . well , clearly , the report is the first order 
of business. it 's high on the on something that they 'll 
discuss. i think the president and general will discuss the 
of his visit to vietnam today , but the president has n't 
drawn any conclusions about the report yet. certainly , it 's 
something that he wants general to talk with the 
about first. 

q did the president talk with any republican 
yesterday about the 

 . he spoke with  . 

q how many times 

 . i believe once during the day and once last 
night. 

q what was the outcome of that 

 . they 're continuing to work some kind 
of an agreement on a jobs  . 

q is it your impression that is in any 
way on this 

 . well , i think we 're that we 're going 
to get some kind of jobs through the senate , and we 'll 
continue to work with and others until we reach some 
kind of an agreement .  . 

q did they discuss the tax 

 . i do n't know if that came up. 

q can you check that 

 . sure. 

q so what are they is the president offering to 
scale down his program is that what he 's trying to do , buy it down 
to where will sign on 

 . well , he 's trying to protect as much of it 
as he can. but it 's important to him to get some kind of a jobs 
through the senate and through congress now. and as soon as 
we reach some conclusions on that , we 'll let you know. but at the 
moment , he 's continuing to consult with members of congress 
including , obviously ,  . 

q is he talking to anybody else 

 . i do n't believe he talked to any other 
yesterday. 

q is he talking to anybody today 

 . i do n't think anything is scheduled , but i 
would n't rule it out. 

q we were led to believe that the president called 
mr. on the subject of aid and that bob brought the 
conversation around to  . is that correct 

 . i think the president has several 
people on aid .  . i think that it was always expected that the 
or the jobs will be part of any conversation 
he would have with  . the primary objective of the 
conversation was aid .  . that was the first order of business , 
but it was both. 

q in the president 's mind , are they linked 
politically in that if the continue to reject the 
, he thinks it will be harder to sell aid to 
the american people has he made that argument 

 . i ca n't talk about specifically what 
arguments he might have made. the president is obviously committed 
to both. he liked to see a jobs to the american people 
first. but as you know , we the details of additional 
aid last night in tokyo .  . 

q but does the president believe that the 
will make it more difficult to persuade americans to vote for 
to accept a vote for aid 

 . i think that the president is going to 
continue to work to pass the , to pass a jobs 
, and we 're still that we 'll get some kind of jobs 
through the congress .  . 

q is it fair to say that the president is 
now with 

 . he 's discussing options with him. 

q on the , is it your understanding that over 
the break some , themselves , have left the support that they 
had earlier for the , the 

 . i think we still have wide support in the 
senate for the jobs  . 

q but specifically , that you 've lost other 
than 

 . i do n't believe so. there has n't been a 
vote .  . 

q what about 

q and 

 . there has n't been a vote yet. and we 'll 
continue to work with to try to get a majority to try to 
bring the to a vote , because we believe that a majority of 
the members of the united states senate support the  . 

q if you 're were n't worried about and , 
why did george mention milwaukee the other day 

 . i think george pointed out a number of 
in a number of states that stand to be funded , or to lose 
funding if this jobs does n't pass .  . 

q no  . ) . 

 . i 'll let you draw your own conclusions .  . 

q does he plan to talk to again today or any 
other again today 

 . there 's nothing specifically scheduled , but 
again , i would n't rule it out. 

q does he plan to put out any more press to 
any other states today 

 . what we 've done is we 're in the process of 
breaking down the benefits of the jobs state by state. i 
think it 's entirely that as we sort of are able to sum those 
up , we 'll send out press to the various states that suggest 
how their states would benefit from this  . 

q will you share those with us 

 . sure. as we did yesterday. 

q do you have copies of the ones you sent 

 . yes , we made those available yesterday. and 
we certainly can continue to provide them today. 

q , since yesterday 's questions and subsequent 
stories about the , what further consideration of this issue has 
been given 

 . nothing 's changed since yesterday. i think 
the president commented on it this morning to say only that it was 
something he knew was being considered by the task force and that he 
has not made a decision on , and i do n't think we have anything to add 
to that. 

q but he also said that business and labor groups are 
telling him they support it. can you tell us 

 . i think that there has been i'm not going 
to speculate on who supports it. i think the president said that 
there has been some support among business and labor groups. i do n't 
think he said he was directly by them. 

q are we to take that to mean that the 
has out business and labor groups on this 

 . i think there 's been plenty of public 
discourse on this over the years and even recently , but i do n't think 
i want to add to that. 

q in february , though , the president said that this 
was something to be considered 10 or 15 years down the road. what 
has happened between then and now to cause this to 
change its mind 

 . i think as we said yesterday , it is 
something that the working groups are looking at. they 're 
considering a wide variety of options on everything from funding to 
specific options that will be covered by the president 's health care 
plan .  . the president has not taken it up yet , has not made a decision 
on it. and beyond that , i do n't have anything to add .  . 

q you have n't answered the question. it was n't being 
considered by anyone in the white house after the president 's 
comments in february , and george that in a  . 

q and then suddenly 

q what happened 

 . the working groups , as we have said 
throughout , we instructed to consider a wide variety of options 
across the board. and one of the things that has been talked about 
and that they are clearly considering is some kind of a value added 
tax .  . 

q but the president himself took this off the table , 
, and suddenly it  . and this goes to the credibility 
of this in a way. what has happened in the meantime 

 . the president has not looked at this , it 
has n't been presented to him , again , yet. the working groups are 
looking at it , as they 're looking at a wide variety of options , and 
no decisions have been made. 

q and it raises the question of how independently the 
task force is working .  . 

 . the task force was instructed to consider 
all options , and they 've taken that seriously and they 're 
considering all options .  . 

q but that 's not the impression that the president 
left in february .  . the impression he left was that this was something 
that was long range , to be looked at 10 , 15 years down the road. the 
clear implication of his remarks was that this was something that was 
not on the table , not an option. 

q if it changes i 'll tell you. 

q bring him on. 

q and you repeatedly referred to the president 's 
remarks , telling us that those were still in operation. 

 . it 's changed , and we told you. ) . 

q but that 's what alice 's comments and 
comments were about. i mean , that seemed like an 
effort because you have two independent officers 


 . i would n't no , alice 's not a 
member , first of all. second of all , it was not 
, but clearly , they both said yesterday and in the last 
couple of days that it 's something that 's being looked at. we 
confirmed that yesterday. and i do n't have anything to add to that. 

q is it because he has very few options 

q is this something that it will be incumbent upon 
the task force to convince the president about in other words , has 
the president himself personally ruled it out and it 's now up to the 
task force to convince him to put it back on the table or is it , in 
fact , back on the table , having been placed there by discussions with 
the president 

 . it is not the working group 's mission at 
this point to convince the president of anything. it is their 
mission to put before him his options and to explain the benefits and 
the costs and the basic pros and cons of each of those options .  . i 
think that they will certainly present the to him in that 
context , and at this point he 's not that has not been 
made , but it 's something that he will hear and he has not made a 
decision on. 

q they will present it to him as one of his options , 
though he specifically ruled it out 

 . correct. 

q , is this more than a trial is 
this a serious consideration that the working groups are giving to 
this form of 

 . it 's simply a statement of fact. the 
working groups are considering a wide variety of options on a number 
of issues to health care reform .  . one of the options that 
they 're looking at is the  . 

q , when the working groups were examining 
this possibility , was this on the table during the same time period 
that you were telling us that it was not 

 . i do n't know what the specific of 
their of options is. i do n't know. 

q who was telling you that it was not under 
consideration 

 . i was referring back to the president 's 
comments .  . 

q have they discovered that the sin taxes wo n't raise 
enough money to the core benefit 

 . no , there 's no decisions that have been made 
on how to pay for the health care plan .  . 

q i'm asking whether the 

 . there 's a number of options depending on how 
the plan is  . you ca n't decide how much the plan is going 
to cost until you decide what the plan is going to look like. and so 
you ca n't discuss what options have been ruled in our out 
until you know. 

q , we 've been told that they have a computer 
models on a number of possible  . 

 . correct. 

q the question is whether they have now determined 
whether sin taxes would not produce enough money for even the 
minimum  . that is not a very difficult  . 

 . it is a question that you know that we 're 
not going to answer until there 's a number of options being 
considered .  . it depends on how the is  . the exact 
details of the and the mechanisms used to pay for 
them are all among the decisions that have yet to be made. 

q and when the president has been meeting with health 
care his health care advisors , which we are told he has been doing 


 . correct. 

q they have never once said to him , these are your 
funding options , including the he has never heard the word 
in his 

 . i am not going to comment on the specific 
nature of the daily they 're not daily , but the regular 
 . 

q well , you have. 

 . i have not , other than to say that he 's not 
considered the  . and i think that is a true statement. 

q no , but you said that it has not been presented to 
him as an option. 

 . correct. 

q that does n't mean he has n't heard about it. 

 . i'm not going to get into the details of 
what 's discussed .  . i think that statement stands for itself. 

q specific ,  . when you say he has n't 
looked at it , do you mean that he has n't looked at it in terms of 
paying for medical , or has n't looked at it in general 
because back in he was very specific in defining how it 
works , what the are , the whole thing. it sounds like 

 . but that was i think in , if 
you go back to his remarks there , it was a philosophical 
discussion of the tax structure .  . and i think the comments were 
generally in reference to the overall economic plan .  . but clearly , 
it 's something that he 's thought about in the broad context. i mean , 
that was clear in  . what i'm saying is that in the process 
of the working groups it 's something that he has n't considered yet. 
it 's something that the working groups will present to him among the 
number of options , and that no decisions have been made. and i'm not 
going to comment any further on the details of the meetings where 
health care issues are being discussed .  . 

q it 's your statement from this that no 
discussion of this has taken place. you say that no option that 
the option has not been presented to him. 

 . that is correct. 

q do you stand by does the white house still stand 
by george 's statement in march that this will not be in the proposal 

 . no decisions have been made. we have 
nothing to add to what 's already been said. 

q let me follow up here. do you stand by what 
said yesterday , that if any kind of were to be used or 
considered , that other changes to the tax code would have to be made 
so that it would be less 

 . i'm not going to comment any further on what 
might happen if .  . 

q but do you stand by the previous in 
february that if there were to be a , i think the president said 
you 'd exclude food and energy 

 . i'm not going to comment on the specific 
structure of a decision that has n't been made. 

q was the president aware prior to 's 
comments yesterday that this was under consideration by the working 
groups 

 . i do n't know specifically what 

q could you check for us , because that 's a real 
important credibility question 

 . sure. 

q since the task force was brought together this 
issue has been discussed , at the beginning and throughout , as one 
fairly painless way to raise a lot of money. were you all kept in 
the dark was the press office kept in the dark over the past month 
and a half when you 've been denying that a tax would be 
considered that it was actually on the table over there as an option 

 . i think we 've said all that we have to say. 
it is something the working groups are looking at. the president has 
not made a decision about it yet. and beyond that , i have nothing to 
add .  . 

q well , sorry , , there are still a couple of 
questions that we are going to have to ask because we have a problem 
with credibility here yours primarily .  . what we 're asking is , if 
you all were not told at all that this thing was being considered 
while you were coming out here and telling us that it was not , or if 
it 's a case that you were coming out here and deliberately 
us. 

 . i do n't believe that anyone has ever come 
out here and deliberately misled you from this ever ever. 

q has anyone tried to it a little bit to 
indicate something has anybody told anybody to come out 

 . we 're not trying to answers or 
deliberately anybody .  . i 've said what i have to say about 
this issue. 

q all we were trying to find out 

 . i understand what you 're trying to find out 
and i 've given you the answers , helen .  . 

q we 're trying to find out what changed what made 
it an option again. that 's the 

 . the working groups were given a broad 
to investigate all options , and they are doing that. 

q yes , but it was n't an option before. how can you 
investigate it if the president has taken it off the table 

 . it is something that they 're obviously 
considering and the president has not made a decision on. 

q yes , but he took it off the table in february .  . 

 . working groups are considering it. they 'll 
present it to the president at some point and he 'll make a decision. 

q why would they consider it if he has taken it off 
the table 

 . it 's clearly on the table .  . 

q yes , but he took it off the table .  . did he change 
his mind 

 . it 's back on the table , bill. 

q did he change his mind 

 . he said this morning that he has n't made a 
decision about it. he obviously knows that it 's on the table .  . it 's 
something that he will look at at some and when we have a decision on 
this we 'll let you know. 

q so he must have changed his mind , right 

 . at some point it will be looked at. i mean , 


q , there 's like two options either he 
changed his mind or the working groups think they 're authority 
the president 's .  . 

 . the working groups were given a broad 
to look at all options they 've done that. 

q are you going to put out his tax 

 . yes , there will be something available on 
his tax probably later this afternoon. his return will be 
available. 

q will there be any kind of to go through 
it 

 . no , nothing 's  . i think someone will 
be available , probably not in a setting , but to walk you 
through the questions. 

q we 're used to be walked line by line through the 
presidential tax forms .  . 

 . i 've seen those  . ) . 

q could we have one 

 . no , i do n't think there will be any kind of 
a formal , but there will be somebody available to answer 
your questions about it. 

q did they file a form 

 . yes. 

q when did he file it 

 . i believe it 's being filed today. 

q , is there going to be a for 


 . no , there will be a after the 
meeting. 

q no today 

 . no today. 

q this is complicated stuff. we need help. 
) . 

 . we ca n't give you taxes and all in 
one day , it 's too confusing. ) . 

q and have opened the doors on the use of 
force in bosnia .  . they 've both said that , a , they never ruled it 
out , and b , it might be necessary now. does that influence your 
thinking on whether or not to change your approach 

 . there 's been no change in our policy towards 
bosnia .  . we have always said that we 'd consider 

q but does that impact upon your decision are they 
people whose opinions would carry weight with you 

 . they 're people whose opinions carry weight 
certainly .  . i mean , the president supports the process that they 've 
initiated .  . but there 's been no change in our policy for bosnia , 
although we 're considering a number of options right now. if the 
serbs do n't come back to the table , if they do n't sign on 
to some kind of an agreement , we will consider additional options , 
which we 've been saying regularly. 

q one follow up question then we cannot get a 
straight answer from anyone in the  . why do you not 
set a for the serbs can you tell us the strategic or 
tactical reasons for not giving them a to come to the table 

 . we 're continuing to put pressure on them 
every day. 

q which does n't work so 

 . well , we think it is having some effect. 
we 're going to continue to sanctions .  . as you know , we 
support the resolution .  . we expect that to come to a vote on 
the  . 

q you say it 's having an effect can you give us 
any documentation 

 . i 'd be happy to provide somebody to talk to 
you about the impact of the sanctions and things like that. 

q there 's been no you have not been able to 
provide anybody who can tell us that the sanctions have had any 
effect in bosnia .  . , yes in bosnia , no. 

 . i think that they 've had effect in 
and we think they 've had some effect in bosnia .  . and again , i 'll be 
happy to provide somebody to walk you through the details of that , if 
you 'd like. 

q we would like to hear from someone who can show us 
what the effect has been in bosnia .  . we had the on all of 
the terrible things that are happening in , but we have n't 
seen anything that indicates an impact on the fighting .  . can you 
provide something along those lines 

 . i will see what i can get you. 

q on the extra aid that 
this morning where is that money coming from 

 . we 'll have to work with congress on the 
details of that  . 

q so that would be new money that you would hope to 
get 

 . yes , that 's new money , in addition to the 
1 . 6 . billion in vancouver .  . so i assume that you all have 
seen the 1 . 8 . billion that was this morning in 
tokyo by  . 

q is n't there a concern , though , about offering 
something which you have to get in congress i mean , that was the 
concern with vancouver you did n't want to do that. 

 . the concern with vancouver was to do 
something immediately , which required money that was already approved 
in the  93  . what we 're looking at now is a little bit 
longer term plan to build on top of the 1 . 6 . billion that we 
in vancouver .  . this clearly will require congressional 
approval , or some of it will anyway , and we 're going to continue to 
work with congress to make that happen. 

q to what extent has that been or agreed to by 
congress 

 . the president has had a number of 
with members and will continue to work with them as 
this process forward .  . 

q was able to put this out with a 
fair degree of understanding that you will be able to get it through 
congress 

 . it was created in with 
congress .  . 

q in meeting with the law enforcement , is 
that does that have a set speech and a goal a direction 

 . yes , the president will talk about and 
the law enforcement organizations are the president 's jobs 
 . they believe particularly the summer jobs will help 
give kids something to do. 

q who are they 

 . it 's members or leadership from three 
organizations , which is the national association of police 
organizations , which is the international of police 
organizations , i believe and , which is the international union 
of police  . 

q will the fbi chief be there 

 . the fbi chief no. 

q or any other federal law enforcement 

 . no , it will be the president and these 
national law enforcement organization leaders .  . 

q does the 1 . 8 . billion today include the 
400 million that 's in the  94 for 

 . no. the money is separate .  . 

q so this would be the 700 million that 's in the 
already , plus another 1.1 billion 

 . i believe all of this is on top of the 700 
million already in the  . 

q is this going to be part of the or 
 94 

 . we 'll work with congress on the exact 
funding mechanism on exactly how this will be paid for. 

q this 1 . 8 . billion on top of 

 . on top of 700 million on top of the 400 
million money we earlier. 

q and this is what prompted the president to call bob 
it was on this , not on the previous money he was 
calling bob 

 . correct. 

q is there a on 

 . there will be a after the meeting 
with  . tomorrow .  . 

q , on a totally unrelated matter , some 
who are active in the u.s. chamber of commerce are 
complaining about this new cozy relationship between the white house 
and the chamber of commerce .  . there are the town hall meeting the 
other night , the and all of this relationship .  . 
does the white house feel that you 're getting too close to these 
of commerce 

 . that 's an interesting charge .  . ) . 
after how many years of being accused of not paying any 
attention to the , now there are those who would accuse us of 
being too close. i think that 's interesting. but no , we 're 
by the support we 've received from the national chamber and local 
across the country and we 'll continue to work with them on 
this and other  . 

q what 's the status of the president thinking about 
going to this democratic 

 . it 's on his  . i think he 'll almost 
certainly go. 

q all three days 

 . we have n't out exactly when he 'll be 
there yet. 

q is it open to 

 . no , i believe the whole thing is closed. 

q is he going to have any kind of address , statement , 
anything at all on the gay rights march on the 

 . we 're still looking at that. we have n't 
made a final decision about how we 'll who will make a statement or 
what 

q any meetings scheduled with any of the leaders 

 . nothing is scheduled , but i would n't rule it 
out. 

q what about an aids 

 . it 's coming .  . 

q anything on the 

q there 's been a suggestion that he 's going to this 
to avoid having to participate in the gay rights or appear 
or have any involvement in the gay rights march .  . 

 . no , i think this is something he 's been 
discussing for a long time at the senate democratic 
 . 

q the 

 . do n't know the only thing on 
right now is the radio address on saturday .  . 

q any travel plans 

 . if it changes none right now. 

q he 's not going to be off campaigning for his 


 . no specific plans right now. 

q what about mid week anything likely 

 . it 's possible. yes , i think it 's likely 
that we 'll travel next week certainly the weekend. 

q has he called about his daughter 

 . i do n't know. i 'll check .  . 

q going to name a drug this 

 . this i do n't believe so. 

q and the radio address on saturday is that going 
to be on the 

 . i'm sure it will. 

the press thank you. 

10 a . m .  . edt 




from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re top ten excuses for slick 's record setting 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 56 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( mark  mark  sachs ) says 

in article , 
 ( broward horne ) says 
it sure does appear that way , does n't it 

the attitude that people are stupid if they do n't agree with you is not 
going to bring you great success in life. free advice , there. 


 . oh , christ ! oh ,  . 

 . mark , what on earth makes you think i give a fuck 
about being a success , particularly now when i 'll just 
the hell out of me oh , this is excellent .  . 

holy christ ! ) 

besides , let 's ahem examine the record , shall we 

clinton 's going to the holy fuck out of you ! 
mark no , he 's not. only 17 month 

( i still get a laugh out of this one ! ) ) 

oh , here comes a national sales tax 
clinton supporter oh , no , bill never said that 


want some more free predictions 

) 


it always makes me , to see george bush used to defend 
bill clinton .  . can you imagine anything than to be left 
with george bush as a final argument 

true. the did look pretty pathetic in of  . ) 

yup .  . they surely did. 
almost as pathetic as clinton are looking in 
april of 93 .  . 

well , , i see my my watch here that my 
at the is about 2 hours past due ! ) 

you 'll let me know who the full time working thing works 
out , wo n't you i want to enjoy every minute of my free 
time and free health care ( the only reason i would have 
gone back to working ! ) thanks , bill ! ) ) 





from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton press by george 4 . 15 . 93 . 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 






the white house 

office of the press 

for immediate release april 15 , 1993 


press 
by george 

the room 



1 04 p . m .  . edt 


mr. good afternoon. 

q could we do this on the 

mr. that would be nice. let 's go out 
to the  . we 'll do like the president .  . 

q is the dead 

mr. absolutely not. 

q can you tell us more about the talks you 
said it was a good visit , but no compromise .  . 

mr. yes. the president had a good talk 
with last night. i think that as we said before , there 
were no specific on either side , although it was a very 
good discussion about the jobs and about other issues as 
well. as you know , the president first called i believe 
tuesday night to talk about the aid  . they did not 
speak called him back morning when the 
president was out. instead he spoke with tony , and at the close 
of that conversation , indicated that he wanted to speak to the 
president about the jobs and  . they finally talked 
about that yesterday afternoon. 

at the close of that discussion they said that they 
would have another talk last night , which they did , when the 
was up in new hampshire .  . and although there were no specific 
made on either side , they did say that they would 
continue to have some discussions .  . and that 's where we are. 

q well , who is giving in where is it standing are 
both making 

mr. i do n't know that it 's at that 
 . no compromise has been made. as the president has said 
, he intends to come forward with an  . 
he believes in the , but he believes that if it 's going to 
take to get the minority to release it , he 's willing to 
make those  . 

q on the subject of a 

mr. oh , boy .  . 

q can we stay on this for one more minute 

mr. sure. 

q we have a problem with the five 

q i know no decisions have been made , but what would 
lead the health group to believe that a might be necessary 

mr. sorry , , i'm not going to go 
down that road. no decisions have been made. as the president said 
this morning , a number of groups , a number of members of congress , a 
number of other organizations have recommended that this be looked 
at. the working group is looking at it , but no decisions have been 
made. 

q to follow , have they done that directly through 
him have labor and business groups been in touch with the president 
about it 

mr. not to my knowledge , although 
there 's a lot of people who have public decisions in support of the 
 . but the president has not made a decision. 

q at the meetings that he 's had with his own task 
force , have they discussed the funding issue and what the 
possible options would be 

mr. i do n't think that that has been 
presented for a decision , no. 

q not for a decision , but has it been discussed as an 
option 

mr. again , there are a lot of levels of 
 . i do not believe that the has been presented to the 
president as , okay , this is something for you to decide on. 

q you 're not saying he did n't know it was being 
considered , though , are you 

mr. no , he said it 's being considered .  . 

q he knew that. 

q but has he discussed that with his 
that 's what i'm asking .  . 

mr. the president has said it 's being 
considered .  . i do not know what level of discussion there has been 
over the  . it is something the working groups are looking at. i 
do n't even know that it 's 

q but he did n't say he was considering , did he , at 
this stage 

mr. no , he is not. i think we 're 
getting into something of a metaphysical debate right here. what is 
considered 

q well , he is the one who said , i have n't 
it. 

mr. that is true. that is what i just 
repeated .  . 

q george , is there any concern here that as a result 
of the definite statement he made in february and the promise that if 
it were to be considered he 'd let us know , and having it out 
the way it did , that there may now be the development of a 
credibility gap on this issue and others 

mr. i do n't think so. i mean , it is 
now public knowledge that this is being considered .  . 

q is he or you at all embarrassed about the absolute 
statements that were made from this to the effect that it 
was off the table and was not being considered , and then to have it 
come out not from you people , but 

mr. well , wait a second .  . it came out 
from the  . what are you talking about 

q what i'm saying is , though , that the president said 
he would let us know. 

mr. right. 

q you people then said you said , i believe , that 
it 's not going to be on the program .  . 

mr. on march  . 

q on march  . 

mr. circumstances change .  . 

q well , i understand. but we have to find that out 
by around in the fine print of an 

mr. around i know you did do 
a very good job there to read the usa today article. but this is 
 ( laughter ) the director of the and the of 
health and human services .  . i mean , that is common anytime you guys 
write a story that has an quote from somebody in the 
clinton , the headline is i 'll look at it right 
here , and ap story clinton wants more money for  . 

q what about his remark that if it were being 
considered , he 'd tell us about it 

mr. and the 's concerned , 
and he 'd let you know. 

q and did he 

mr. yes. absolutely .  . what did he say 
this morning 

q it had to be out of you here yesterday. 

mr. it did n't have to be out of 
me. we had the director of the , we had the of 
health of human services say it was being considered .  . that is his 
 . that is his policy. 

q were these trial , or were they 
i mean , what was the 

mr. they were asked questions , they 
answered the questions. 

q you 're saying here that it did n't have to be 
out , that you more or less made it clear yesterday you were 
considering it. 

mr. absolutely .  . i was very clear. 
clear. 

q was there a particular political strategy in making 
it clear the is considering a new tax increase on tax 
day 

mr. no , it was just this issue is being 
considered .  . they were asked if it was being considered they 
answered that it was being considered .  . 

q george , the new york times 

q why do it yesterday 

mr. they were asked. 

q the new york times reports today that 
reich and the chief at the labor department used apples and 
oranges numbers in order to last month 's 
in a way that was of the president 's job bill , 
but which turned out to be totally false .  . 

mr. i do n't know if it was totally 
false , but i think  ( laughter ) the chief at the labor 
department did grant that it was an inappropriate mixing , and they 
say that. 

q the question is , is the president concerned about 
behavior that to government data and what 's he 
doing about it , if so 

mr. the chief has said that a 
mistake was made , it wo n't happen again , and that 's the end of the 
matter. 

q is n't that the same information that goes to the 
president 

q if i could go back to the 

mr. there 's two separate pieces of 
information. i think that 's where the confusion was. 

q when did you all first learn about this mistake 
that was made 

mr. i read the article this morning. 

q and as far as you know , is the president aware of 
it 

mr. i think so. 

q and was he aware of it before he read about it in 
the new york times 

mr. i do n't know. not to my knowledge. 

q did you ever hear about it before this morning 
anything 

mr. i did n't .  . 

q was n't the president given an erroneous spin on 
this for his own purpose for his , for his arguments 

mr. well again , i'm not sure. both 
statements are true. what the labor department has granted is that 
mixing them in one sentence , essentially , was  . they said 
it was a mistake. they said they would n't do it again. 

q did they drop it is this something that you 
choose to spin or make an issue of 

mr. whenever people are out of 
work , we 're  . but that does n't take away from the need to 
get this jobs going .  . 

q if i could go back to the for a 
minute. you said that the president plans to come forward with an 
amendment .  . is the still what it was that the amendment 
would be laid down on monday and voted on on tuesday , or did he , in 
the conversation with , talk about the possibility of putting 
that off for a few more days to give more time for the discussion 

mr. i think at this point there 's no 
changes in the at all. i do n't know that they discussed the 
like that. 

q do you believe that you 're closer or getting closer 
this week than you were last week 

mr. again , i believe that we 're going 
to pass a jobs  . the president is prepared to make 
in order to get that to happen. i do n't know where the 
votes are on at this particular time. i do n't know what 's 
going to happen until we have a vote .  . but the president believes 
deeply in this jobs and wants to get it done. 

q has there been any indication that this situation 
has changed 

mr. we 're going to continue to work on 
it. we 'll know when the votes are taken .  . 

q george , last week you said that there are or 
various people in the were saying that you could n't go 
through , you were going to have to try and go around him because 
he was on this subject of a compromise , or at least the 
compromise he wanted was not anything like the one that you could 
accept .  . this week you 're talking to him. is that because you 've 
realized that the off effort was n't going to work 

mr. that 's because wanted 
to talk to the president about the  . 

q he initiated the conversation 

mr. yes. 

q reich this morning said that , in fact , 
the president is not willing to compromise on this bill at all. you 
say he 's making 

mr. i do n't know that that 's exactly 
what he said. i think he said he did n't have any indication that 
there was any yet or that there would be a compromise , 
and the president does n't want to compromise .  . and the president 
does n't want to compromise .  . but if he has to make to get 
it through , he will. 

q here yesterday said that was 
working on a series of that might be made public before 
the actual vote .  . 

mr. it 's possible. 

q today 

mr. i'm not sure exactly when that will 
happen , but i think that it 's very possible that we 'll come forward 
with some sort of a different , or senate will come 
forward with some sort of a different in order to get it 
passed .  . 

q as we understood his with , the 
first one was some discussion of this and i 'll get back to you 
with some details or some , or whatever the phrase 
is. did he offer him some details or some 

mr. i think it 's a question of how 
detailed .  . i mean , i think they had a general discussion about the 
last night , subsequent to their conversation yesterday 
afternoon. i believe that there will be follow up discussions today 
in the senate , not necessarily between the president and 
 . and let me just reiterate , neither side has made specific 
at this date. when we have something we 'll let you know. 
and i'm not suggesting that has accepted anything that 
we 've talked about or that we 've offered anything in a hard way. 

q what are the follow up discussions if not the 
president and 

mr. i think is going 
to talk to  . 

q is that a threat ) . 

q did the president say to , all right , 
how about this number as an overall size , or did say to the 
president , i can go as high as this did they talk numbers 

mr. i do n't think it was a 
in that respect. it was more of a discussion about their positions .  . 

q did they discuss actual numbers 

mr. i'm just not sure. i know they 
talked about the basic of the  . i think they talked 
about the programs they cared about. i do n't know if they got to the 
level of this many x billion dollars .  . 

q does have to sign off before there is a 


mr. no , of course not. 

q did the white house have anything to do with the 
who showed up in new hampshire today where 
was speaking was that in any way organized by 

mr. not to my knowledge , no. 

q and has the president been in touch with 
or 

mr. i do n't think he 's talked to them , 
no. 

q george , is the president considering the more 
fact of having a national sales tax instead of having the 
having to continuously pay for the have and is he going 
to his proposed tax on the few , with the 
having to pay for the have 

mr. the president believes deeply that 
the tax on americans , as he presented in his 
, should go up. and i think for the second half of your 
question , i 'll refer you to my from yesterday. 

q george , on the subject of accuracy in information , 
you suggested the other day that the included money 
that would solve the water problem in milwaukee .  . apparently that is 
not true. it 's actually waste water money. 

mr. it 's waste water money for 
wisconsin , and some could go to milwaukee .  . 

q but it would not affect the drinking water problem 
because it 's waste water money , right 

mr. it would affect the water treatment 
overall .  . 

q but the implication from your statement the other 
day was that it would help fix this disease problem in milwaukee now. 
would you agree that 's not the case 

mr. i'm not sure of the  . i 
know that it goes to the overall water treatment in wisconsin .  . 

q a question from this morning , which was , 
when did the president find out that the task force was 
on a 

mr. i'm not sure exactly when. i just 
do n't know. i assume it came up over the last certainly between 
the time that we had commented on in the past and two days ago. 

q so sometime since march 

mr. i think that 's right. i do n't know 
the exact date. 

q george , the president this morning mentioned that 
some labor and business groups are for the tax .  . apparently , the 
national association of talks about perhaps the tax 
being okay if it the tax .  . so does the president feel 
that perhaps this might be in place of some other tax he 's proposed , 
or is this totally in addition to the other taxes he 's already 
proposed 

mr. i think we 've said all we have to 
say about the at this point. i mean , there 's just no this is 
being considered by the health care working groups , and that is all. 
the president has n't made any further decisions beyond that. 

q but it would be to health care , it would n't 
be to replace some other tax that it would n't replace the 
tax , for instance 

mr. there have been no discussions on 
that. 

q in terms of getting a tax through congress , 
's press release today said on tax day. do you 
think does it have a chance of getting through congress would it 
have a chance 

mr. i have no idea. 

q is that a consideration whether you all put it 
forward 

mr. that would become a consideration 
if the president were to decide to do it. it 's not in consideration 
now. 

q you said at the beginning of the that 
circumstances had changed and that had caused the to now be under 
consideration .  . 

mr. yes , what the president referred to 
this morning. these groups came forward and said this is something 
that has to be considered .  . 

q those are the circumstances that have changed 
that 's the only difference between now and when he emphatically ruled 
it out that groups have asked it to be considered 

mr. that 's what he said. 

q is that true 

mr. yes. 

q was there , in fact , some understanding that sin 
taxes would not produce enough money for the health care benefits 

mr. i'm not going to get into the 
 . 

q but , george 

mr. no. what the consideration is , as 
the president said , groups came forward and said this is something 
you ought to consider .  . the working groups are looking at it. 

q is that the only thing that 's changed since his 
prior statement and your prior statement on the 

mr. yes. 

q can you explain how those groups how that 
information got to him that groups wanted it was it just reading 
the newspaper or did groups make 

mr. i think the groups as you know , 
the health care task force has met with of groups. 

q but this is the president 's knowledge that these 
groups had come forward .  . 

mr. i think he was referring to what 
was coming to the working groups. obviously , there have also been 
published positions in the newspapers. 

q have certain groups him on the group 's 
to them 

mr. i do n't know if they 've him 
i mean , how detailed the have been. i know that the 
working groups decided to look into this after being pressed by these 
groups. 

q what kind of arguments did the groups make that 
were persuasive enough that the president would change the position 
that he had previously 

mr. i do n't know , it 's just they 've had 
longstanding positions that this would be a good way to 
health care. 

q the president was n't aware of those longstanding 
positions 

mr. he may have been at some level. 
obviously , he 's been a for a long time and he knows the 
basic arguments for and against a tax .  . 

q what we 're trying to figure out here you 're 
telling us that the only change , the only thing that affected this 
change in the president 's attitude the between february 
and now 

mr. the president 's attitude has n't 
necessarily changed. i mean , he has not made a decision. 

q i know , but the president said that it was off the 
table .  . so did you. and you 're saying that the only thing that 's 
changed is the positions of these groups , except you 're also 
describing them as longstanding positions .  . i do n't see the change .  . 
if these groups have n't had any change in their position that 's been 
made to the president 

mr. well , they 've made the 
to the health care task force. 

q there 's no relationship at all between the fact 
that sin taxes that he had said suggested in february that he 
will not produce enough to 

mr. i do n't think he ever suggested 
that they would produce all the  . 

q well , he suggested that he thought that those were 
appropriate ways to health care. 

mr. he did say that. i do n't know that 
he said anything to refute that. 

q but , in fact , has the task force discovered that 
there would n't be enough from those taxes to the kind 
of core benefits 

mr. again , i do n't think that the task 
force ever suggested that there would. 

q george , if he advocated a tax , would that break 
his promise not to raise taxes on the middle class to pay for his 
programs 

mr. i ca n't comment on a hypothetical 
situation. 

q but does that promise would that promise not to 
raise taxes on the middle class to pay for the programs prevent him 
from seeking a tax 

mr. the president has made no decisions 
on the tax .  . when he does , we 'll tell you and we 'll explain the 
implications then. 

q which specific groups can you cite business , 
labor or otherwise whose to the health care task 
force has prompted this consideration 

mr. i do n't have the specific .  . i just 
do n't have that. 

q george , can you tell us to what extend these other 
alternatives , for instance , the employer tax or the sin taxes or 
other options are also still on the table and what these 
options are 

mr. no , as members of the task force 
and representatives of the working groups have said , they are looking 
at a wide variety of options .  . i think that ira said that 
there are 20 different options under consideration .  . but i'm not 
going to comment 

q what 's the 

mr. i'm just not going to comment on 
them , no. 

q what 's the of the need how much are you 
talking about that has to be produced by one or a combination of the 


mr. that 's what the health care task 
force is looking at. 

q since there 's not going to be any on the 
visit , two questions one , generally what does the 
president hope to use that meeting for , but more specifically , is his 
task complicated by the japanese over the vancouver note and 
the remark about market access at the press conference 

mr. the vancouver note 

q does no mean yes. 

q yes and no. 

mr. well , i do n't know. i saw the 
prime 's press conference where he was asked the question 
about that note and he gave a very gracious and complete answer when 
he was asked the question. the questions of trade are something that 
certainly will be discussed between the prime and the 
president .  . there is obviously a trade between japan and 
the u.s. that we want to do something about. 

q also in those comments the prime made he 
suggested that the united states should come down heavy on him in 
terms of trade .  . are you going to 

mr. i think the president will state 
our views on trade very clearly and our views on the trade 
very clearly .  . i do n't necessarily want to agree with your 
characterization of the prime 's comments .  . 

q that we need specific targets , specific 
targets is that what he 's going to discuss with 


mr. they 're going to have a broad 
discussion of a wide range of trade issues. i do n't want to get into 
those until after the meeting. 

q why 

q that 's the crux of the issue , right whether or 
not does the president believe that without specific 
targets , it is really , as he said in his press conference , sort of 
hopeless that this is going to change very much 

mr. the president believes that we must 
have pressure on japan to turn the trade around. i do not 
want to get into the of how that would be done. 

q but does the president believe that their 
yesterday will the 

mr. i think , first , the president wants 
to get a full on the from prime 
himself , and then he 'll make the comment on it. 

q how about the aid there seems to 
be some confusion about how the u.s. views that , 
saying or saying the japanese may need to do 
more , the japanese saying that that 's not what they heard 

mr. again , we 're going to continue to 
work with all our allies in the g 7 , and we 're going to continue to 
press for help for reform , democratic reform .  . and i 
think that , so far , we had a very good announcement out of tokyo and 
we 're going to continue to work with our allies for 
 . 

q do you think the japanese need to do more 

mr. we 're going to continue to work 
with all our allies to do as much as we can. 

q was asked today on the today 
show this morning what he thought of margaret 's comments on 
the bosnia policy. and he said , it 's a rather emotional response. 
mr. over an emotional issue. 

q right to an emotional problem. does the white 
house that kind of remark 

mr. i think that 
's remarks speaks for itself. the president believes also 
that this is a deeply situation that we 're trying to find 
answers for. 

q but that specific rather emotional response 
specific term 

mr. no , it speaks for itself. 

q in connection with that , does n't it seem that with 
the numbers of people who are being killed at this very moment , is it 
good american policy to put off some decisions that might be made now 
to help win a 

mr. for example 

q to take stronger action , to take military action 
air strikes , anything that can be done 

mr. the president believes that what 
must be done now is to push harder for sanctions .  . he is also as 
you know , the has been discussing lifting the 
 . he believes those are the appropriate ways to increase 
pressure at this time. 

q what is your response to the who would say 
that the u.s. is now by trying to help 
the 

mr. they 're wrong. we 're hard 
for the serbs to come to the table .  . we 're hard 
for increased sanctions , and we 're talking to our allies about the 
 . 

q you were putting great in and 
getting people to agree to that. now , and have both said 
that military force to some extent would be acceptable .  . does that 
change your thinking 

mr. clearly , we 're going to listen to 
whatever people who have put so much time into a situation have to 
say. but at this point , the president is moving forward on sanctions 
and talking about the  . 

q a follow up on a comment this morning. she 
said she would be able to provide some who 
could document the effect the sanctions are having in bosnia .  . are 
you going to be able to do that , or do you have anything 

mr. i do n't think that 's what she said. 

q that 's exactly what she said. 

mr. i do n't think that 's true. but 
what she said we would look into the situation of what kind of 
evidence can be provided in bosnia .  . obviously , if there are 
between the bosnian serbs and the serbs in and 
we are the on the serbs in , that will have 
an effect over time. i do not know day by day , minute by minute , 
what kind of help is being given between the two and what the exact 
effect has been. but , clearly , we are slowing the of 
into  . we are having an effect on the serbs there. what 
kind of effect that will eventually have on the bosnian serbs i do n't 
know. but one thing i would say is if it were having no effect at 
all , i do n't know why they 'd be fighting it so much. 

q are the first 's tax returns going to be 
released 

mr. i think there 's a tax return. 
and it will be probably later today. 

q is the president considering an 
order banning discrimination against homosexuals in the federal work 
force as part of the gay rights march here next week 

mr. i do n't think there 's any proposal 
for that at this time , not that i know of. 

q it 's something that the president promised during 
the campaign that he would do. 

mr. i have not seen any i do n't 
think it 's anything that 's on his right now. 

q is he meeting with gay rights leaders at any point 
on this issue 

mr. i do n't know about on this issue. 
i assume that he 'll meet with representatives of the gay and 
community sometime soon , as he with representatives of lots of 
different groups and communities .  . 

q do you know if that 's scheduled 

mr. it 's probably going to be tomorrow .  . 

q probably going to be tomorrow ) . 

q it 's a good thing you asked. 

q who 's probably going to be there ) . 

mr. i do n't know. 

q how long 

mr. i do n't know. that 's all i know. 

q do you know if it 's at 3 00 p . m .  . tomorrow 
) . 

mr. i do n't know what time it is. i 
do n't even know for sure if it 's going to be tomorrow .  . 

q environmental groups have asked him to make a major 
speech next week of some kind. is that going to happen , do you know 

mr. i do n't know if they 've asked , but 
i think the president has always , as he did last year , to 
give a speech on earth day and i expect that he will. if it 's not 
exactly on earth day , it might be a day before or something like 
that. 

q is he planning to sign or announce the of 
the treaty in connection with earth day 

mr. again , i do n't know the specific 
of something like that , but it 's certainly something under 
discussion and something we 've been working on. 

q campaign reform 

mr. we 're working on it. 

q do you think it will be next week 

mr. i'm just not sure. 

q the treaty is something you 're working 
on i missed the question. 

mr. yes , something we 're working on. 
he asked if it was ready to be signed , and i said i did n't know 
anything about that but it 's something we 've certainly been working 
on. 

q do you know what organizations might be represented 
in this meeting with the gay and groups 

mr. i do n't .  . 

q do you know if he is going to reconsider being out 
of town on the day of the march 

mr. he 's got to be at the senate 
meeting in , and i believe he 's also going to be giving a 
speech to the american association of newspaper publishers in boston 
on sunday , as he did last year .  . 

q would you have told us if she had not pressed you 
on the question 

mr. on what 

q on the gays .  . 

mr. when we went through the 
president 's for the day , certainly .  . 

q george , what day is the 's speech is 
that sunday 

mr. i think it 's a sunday .  . 

q and saturday he 'll be in 

mr. yes. 

q so you 're just going to be in for one 
day 

mr. no , i'm not sure. i do n't know how 
long the senate thing goes. it might go overnight .  . i just do n't 
know. 

q you would have made the gay meeting public , right 

mr. i'm certain if we had the meeting 
i do n't know about open to the press , but we would have told you 
about it. 

q i mean , because it is , as far as i can tell , the 
first time in history a president has met in the office with 

mr. i did n't say it was going to be in 
the office. ) . but i did n't i'm not say that it 's 
not , but i did n't say that it was. ) . 

q at the white house in the bush 
gay were invited to a bill and the white 
house had to having done that. so i just wanted to make 
sure 

mr. well , the president would n't do 
anything like that. 

q certainly not. 

q what orders did the president give to 
general 

mr. they had a very good discussion for 
about half an hour today. he wanted the most important thing was 
he had a full accounting for american and  . he will 
obviously look into the circumstances surrounding this new document .  . 
the president stressed that he wanted the possible accounting 
and said that only when we have that can we even consider any changes 
in our policy towards vietnam .  . he 'll be looking at vietnam 's 
response to the questions raised by the document and he 'll also look 
into on discrepancy cases , increased efforts on 
remains , and access to 
military archives .  . 

and also the president on the 
activities of the and on the document .  . 

q vietnam says it 's a fake .  . what is the analysis 
at this stage 

mr. it 's not yet , and it 's 
also the first thing that general will bring up with the 
 . 

q a number of defense have been saying that 
they think that the 600 or so prisoners referred to are , in fact , 
non americans that the had captured who they referred to 
as americans from time to time. do people 

mr. we do n't have any final 
determination .  . we 're going to wait for the complete review when we 
have it , we 'll make a judgment .  . 

q i know you do n't have any final determination , but 
given all of the intense public interest in this , do you think that 
that 's a likely possibility 

mr. i just do n't want to characterize 
it in any way until the review is complete. 

q george , was there a topic scheduled for the speech 
in boston 

mr. no. 

q is the president going to have a press conference 
tomorrow with 

mr. i think so , but i'm not positive .  . 
yes , i expect , yes. 

q was in with 

mr. yes. 

q he was in on the meeting 

mr. yes. 

q what was the question 

mr. was in with , 
and the answer is yes. 

q do you have any response to the street journal 
report this morning the president 's about some of his 
press and that perhaps he 's with you about that 

mr. no. well , i do have a response. i 
think the article was highly to the extent that it implied 
that the president has had restricted access to the press. i would 
point out that he 's answered 358 questions on , more than 
any of his  . i would also point out it also 

q how many questions 

mr. three hundred fifty eight , on 
 . 

q how many were while he was 

mr. well , no , that 's actually a very 
good question ,  . and i would point out further that the 
article also implied that these questions were only answered at 
tightly controlled photo opportunities , which is just patently false .  . 
he 's had 13 press in either the east room , the 
office or the room or the room , in addition to 
questions taken at photo opportunities , and that is only the 

q office press conference when was that 

mr. he 's answered questions in the 
east room. he 's had five in the east room , he 's had one in the 
office , he 's had one in the rose garden , he 's had one or two in the 
room. and this is just to the white house , washington 
press corps .  . in addition to that , he 's had 17 with local 
television  . he 's met with the board of the 
 . he 's had an hour long with dan rather .  . 
he 's had with local press from california , florida and 


q can you address the question of the attitude the 
article implies that he does n't 

q why does n't he like us ) . 

q did you really get blamed for that post story 

q the story is that you are you held responsible 
for it. 

mr. i do n't think i'm going to comment 
about this. 

q are you denying that the president has shown 
publicly 

mr. i am not commenting on the 
discussions between the president and myself. 

q did the president write that letter to chris 


mr. what 

q the letter to the university of michigan 


mr. oh , yes. 

q that is an authentic letter 

mr. yes. 

q since the president first talked about the in 
february , he said at the time that he thought there probably should 
be exceptions made in basic such as food and clothing .  . 
does he still hold that position given the impact it could have 

mr. again , i just ca n't comment on a 
proposal he has n't made. 

q george , does the president have some for 
this meeting with the gay leaders tomorrow 

mr. well , i think it will just a 
general meeting on the wide range of issues that they care about 
including aids and other issues civil rights. 

q the military issue 

mr. i'm certain it will come up. 

q is he using this event to name the aids 

mr. i do n't think so. 

q george , what specifically is the president doing to 
prepare for tomorrow 's meeting with the prime 

mr. he 's had  . he 's had 
general discussions with members of the treasury department , the 
trade representative and others. 

q report yet 

mr. i do n't know if he has the report 
referred to in the times , but was here to brief him 
today. 

q he was 

mr. yes. 

q does he intend to use any of these instances that 


mr. again , i do n't know that the 
report 's been presented .  . but obviously , the president will press 
hard in any case where he thinks that a violation has occurred .  . 

q in terms of the street journal , the thrust was 
that there 's a real here a hostility .  . do you think he 
that way 

mr. not at all. as i said on the 
record in the article , i think the president likes reporters .  . again , 
i think that the thrust of the article was still  . the 
thrust of the article was that in some way , some attitude which the 
president may or may not have is affecting access when , in fact , he 
has the most open , accessible than have any in recent 
history. 

q can we come up to your office ) . 

mr. if you 're invited .  . 

the press thank you. 

end 1 34 p . m .  . edt 

57 04 15 





from  ( ed ipser ) 
subject top ten ways slick could improve his standing with americans 
nntp posting host solomon . 
lines 38 



top ten ways slick could improve his standing with americans 



10. institute a national sales tax to pay for the socialization of 
america 's health care resources .  . 

9. declare war on  . the draft .  . 

8. the economy with massive to 
 . 

7. appoint an like to the court. 

6. focus like a laser beam on gays in the military .  . 

5. put hillary in charge of the ministry of truth and move 
over to health care. 

4. the through  . 

3. everyone , again , how despite the holding the 
, the majority of in the house , and in the senate , 
the have still managed to block his tax and spend programs. 

2. go back to england and get a course in european socialism .  . 

1. , now ! 



 ( c ) edward a. , jr. , 1993 

be sure to look for 
slick 's first very own book of top ten lists 
available soon in paperback .  . 

from de .  ( gene w. smith ) 
subject re mr. 's 'evidence' 
organization , university of , germany 
lines 17 

in article  ( phil ronzone ) 
writes 

, i think you are. while both organizations may , on paper , support the 
of the age of consent , there the resemblance stops .  . 

one supports the removal of a law , the other a paper 
to sexual relations with children. 

i get it. one organization wants to age of consent laws , 
whereas in the other wants to age of consent laws .  . 
this makes it respectable to belong to one organization , but not the 
other. 


gene ward smith university 
de . 

subject re stop putting down white het males .  . 
from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 
lines 32 

in  ( mark wilson ) writes 

wrote 
 ( public account ) writes 

in article 
 ( tree of schnopia ) writes 
in 
 ( michael rivero ) writes 

we are told , by u.s. , that we are biologically 
incapable of compassion .  . 
personally , i doubt she said anything of the kind , but if 
someone can provide the original quote , in context , with source 
 ( for , ahem , cross checking ) , i would we willing to agree 
she is full of t. naturally , if no one can provide these 
bits of data , the paraphrase listed must be , 
and its poster regarded as full of t. ok , so which will it be 

i followed up without a thought of double checking .  .  . if . i double checked 
every fact people onto the table here on the net , i 'd never have 
time to sleep .  . but to pass the to the person who originally posted 
that quote .  .  .  . 

 .  .  . well . , michael take it away !  ( wild applause ) 



andrew d. ! 


words were n't made for happy 

from  ( david mcgaughey ) 
subject re high speed is bad 
organization texas tech university 
distribution tx 
lines 32 

 ( brian keith michalk ) writes 
a few weeks ago i found out about some of the politics that 
is going on with the texas bullet train , and was appalled at some 
of the apparent to push this thing through 
without any public say whatsoever. so , i wrote up a short 
thing and posted it , to get some discussion. 

i suppose do n't do it here. so now i am asking for 
the general opinion of the net about the proposed high speed 
train .  . 

what do you think i personally think it is a stupid idea , and 
that there are a few people somewhere who are going to get very 
rich from this deal. 


my opinion is this in a society whose economy is primarily based on 
capitalism , the role of government should be to provide those and 
services that need providing for the general public 's good. but government 
should supply those necessary and services only when it is impossible 
for a private  ( or individual ) to make money from providing them. 
i agree with some of the other posts that this train probably can not make 
money and will rely on state tax dollars .  . 

the question , i think , then becomes do we , the general public , need the train 

i certainly do not , nor will i ever , need this train in , texas .  . with 
the air travel provided between and houston , i do n't think 
people in or houston need it either. 

david mcgaughey 
texas tech university 

from  ( anthony s. pelliccio ) 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay in nc ) verdict 
organization 's italian kitchen and in operating network 
x newsreader v1 . 01 . 
lines 47 

 ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 

 ( thomas farrell ) writes 

funny , but i 've seen a lot more than 10 or 15 seconds of that video , and 
i still think the police involved were guilty .  . i do n't think there 's any 
excuse they could possibly come up with that would make what they did 
ok. i do n't care if rodney king was satan himself , there 's just no 
excuse. now , whether they did it because he was black or they did it 
because they wanted to up on somebody they were is 
another entirely separate question that i have insufficient information 
to make any kind of conclusion about. 


how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives o 
n 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 
took a large amount of punishment and refused submit oh yeah , did you watch 
the start of the video when king got up out of his prone and charge 
the cops sorry , the video cuts both was when you sit and watch it start to 
finish .  . 



i have to agree with you .  .  .  . the police may have carried it a bit too far 
but rodney king was no angel either. and i do n't think any guilty 
should have been returned .  . i'm sure you know why they handed 
down guilty on two of the officers .  . it 's quite simple really , 
it was a compromise to avoid in the places where minorities 
think it 's right to  . i hate to say this , but i would have liked to 
see them with everyone prepared .  . it would be open if your 
was even slightly brown. 

hey , my motto is , you do n't fuck with me or my stuff and you do n't get 
killed. it 's just that simple. 

tony 


anthony s. , yes , you read it right , the 
system @ garlic . com . man who went from no code 
 ( thhhppptt ! ) to extra in 
flame sysadmin exactly one year ! 

this is a calm  . sig . ! 



from  ( david veal ) 
subject re national sales tax , the movie 
lines 66 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article  ( gerald olchowy ) writes 

in article 2 . pa . dec . com .  ( broward l. horne ) writes 
well , it seems the national sales tax has gotten its very 

own news logo ! 

cool. that means we 'll be seeing it often. 

man , i sure am glad that i quit working ( or taking this 
seriously ) in 1990. if i kept my ass , watching 
time go by , being , i 'd be pretty damn mad by 
now. 

i just wish i had the e mail address of total who 
was saying that clinton did n't propose a . 


actually , jerry brown essentially did .  .  . and . clinton , in his 
, condemned brown for it in the crucial ny primary last year .  . 

however .  .  .  .  . 

why do n't the get their act together , and say they 
will support a broad based that would have to be 
 ( the in canada is unlike the invisible they 
have in europe ) 
and suggest a rate sufficient to and 
and capital tax and at a rate sufficient to give 
the enough for their health care reform , 

the are , in general , fighting any tax increase .  . 
there is also worry that a would be far too easy to increase 
 . 

 ( btw , what is different between canada 's tax and most of 
europe 's that makes it ) 

and 
force an agreement with the that the top tax 
rate would then be frozen for the future and could 
be increased only via a national  . 

this would require a constitutional amendment , and congress 
enjoys taxes too much to restrict themselves like that. 
 ( besides , with the 2 3 majority necessary to pull that off you 'd 
have a difficult time forcing anything like that . ) . 

why not make use of the to do something worthwhile .  .  .  . 
shift the tax burden from investment to , and get 
health care reform , and a frozen low top marginal tax rate 
all in one  . 

primarily because it 's a practical impossibility to 
tax rates. 

however , this is something that bothers me. we 're always talking 
about consumer and consumer spending as for the 
economy .  . if they really are important , would n't shifting taxes to 
provide a to spend money 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( mark eckenwiler ) 
subject re the state of justice 
organization 
lines 52 

in , 
a judge denied 's new trial motion , even though says it has two 
new witnesses that said the of the was dead from the 
impact , not from the fire .  . 

thoughts 

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start 
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led 
to the previous ruling appear .  . 

there 's this minor thing called interest of . what 
it means is that parties are n't into court over and over again 
because the side some new evidence. i do n't know 
about you , brett , but i suspect had the resources to find just 
about as many expert and fact witnesses as it wanted before the trial 
started .  . letting them re open the case now is practically an 
invitation to every civil on earth to keep an in the hole 
in case the verdict goes against him. 

btw , in federal criminal cases , rule 33 does a motion for a new 
trial based on . . . discovered evidence if made within 2 
years of the verdict .  .  ( emphasis mine . ) . if you 're trying to make a 
point about criminal justice in a discussion that has 
little to do with criminal trials as the david did 
in his amusing piece last week save your  . 



or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be 
believed 
should n't that be up to a jury 

yup .  . which is why they shoulda been brought around the first time 
through. 


and what about members of the previous jury through the talk 
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against should n't that be enough for 
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial 
whatever happened to jurors having to be objective 

unless there 's some reason to believe that this supposed bias 
the trial  ( as opposed to being a product of it) , and that was 
prevented from it  ( by or 
otherwise ) , why should be allowed to complain 


moral always choose the right sort of parents 
before you start in to be rough 
george 
mark ... ! cmcl2 ! ! 

from  ( michael p. anderson ) 
subject re from the 's 
distribution usa 
organization grass group , grass , ca 
lines 11 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 

what they broke in the for is still open to serious question. 

some suggest what they were after had something to do with 
the  . let 's hear all of the real soon , shall we 






from  ( phill baker ) 
subject re 
lines 43 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 


in article ,  ( mark wilson ) writes 

in article 
 ( phill baker ) writes 

the does not make sense because the senate is elected as a last 
assembly .  . it is designed to be the of old men with 
no power. 

, i do n't know which senate you 're discussing , but it ai n't 
ours. 

probably thinks that the us senate is supposed to be the equivalent 
to the uk 's house of  . 

the status of the house of today is quite different to its status 
in  . 


which just goes to show that where the us is concerned still has no 
idea what he is talking about. 

and were both studying existing forms of government for 
several years before they wrote the papers .  . that the us system 
is based to a degree on the uk model is pretty widely accepted. 
at the time there was no other major country with a representative body. 
the french had been suppressed for years and its 
eight years later would mark the start of the french revolution .  . 

after the uk system the major influences were the system and of course 
the classical systems. nobody seriously suggests that rome or were 
models though because the political systems of both countries were 
 . the main lesson from was that unless a federal 
state was constructed a war would be inevitable .  . the greek democracies were 
always fighting amongst themselves which is how rome managed to invade .  . had 
the federal been rejected the new roman empire in the shape of 
britain would quite certainly have much of the in due 
course. moreover the states would have been at each others as soon 
as the louisiana situation during the period. 


baker 

from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re why is tax evasion not considered unpatriotic 
organization engineering and manufacturing , 
lines 37 

in  ( ben 's dad ) writes 

in article ,  ( mark wilson ) writes 
in article  ( loren i. petrich ) writes 

the title is self isaac asimov once pointed out 
that curious fact. 

are you saying that it should be considered unpatriotic if you do not give 
everything you own to the state. 

are you saying that it should be considered unpatriotic if you do not give 
your life in battle for the state the pc  ( patrioticly correct ) certainly 
think so. 

i thought that kind of system collapsed 
when the soviet union did. 

no , the is still standing and names for the draft .  . 

if that 's not what you meant. at what point does paying more taxes cease 
being patriotic 

your money or your life. which is more important 

nice dodge .  . i give it a 9 . 2 .  . 

now to answer your questions. i do not believe that there should be a 
draft .  . the armed services should be voluntary .  . can you say the same 
about taxes .  . 

i 've answered your question. would you now answer mine. 

rule is n't any merely because the calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related .  . 


from  ( girish kumtheker ) 
subject how many spent at by 
organization mae 
distribution na 
lines 18 

hi , 


wonder how much money is being spent at by 

are we paying because up and have made this 
a issue 








unix technical support 

e mail address 

from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization engineering and manufacturing , 
lines 14 

in  ( don baldwin ) writes 

think about it should n't all drugs then be , it would lower 
the cost and definitely make them safer to use. 

i think so. and i do n't use drugs , outside of the legal ones  ( alcohol 
and  . 

i'm to myself. 

rule is n't any merely because the calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related .  . 


from  ( dave o'shea ) 
subject re if drugs should be , how  ( was good neighbor .  .  . ) . 
organization department of department 
lines 22 

 ( william december starr ) writes 

however , it and just some drugs in gas to 
be bought like is just plain silly. plus , i have never 
heard of a recommended for drugs like crack , , 
and  . the 60 minute report said it worked with cocaine 
, pot and heroin .  . 

or , the government could adopt the radical and probably unamerican idea 
that citizens are free to live their lives as they wish , and simply 
cocaine , marijuana , heroin , , etc. please explain why 
the idea of allowing drugs to be bought like 
is just plain silly. after all , it works just fine for  .  .  . 

i'm all in favor of drug , but i do see some problems with 
it. my hope is that people to doing so would simply 
quickly , and be done with it , before making a mess of  . 


let me get this straight medical treatment costs too much and is 
inefficient , so we 're going to let government make it better 


from  ( ed ipser ) 
subject government mandated energy is unnecessary and , study finds 
nntp posting host solomon . 
lines 94 



government mandated energy is unnecessary and , study finds 

washington , the energy tax and energy 
measures supported by president clinton and energy 
o leary are based on faulty assumptions , a new study from the 
institute points out. 

according to jerry , 's director of natural resource studies , 
we are not running out of sources of energy .  . the world now has almost 10 
times the proven oil it had in 1950 and twice the of 
 . proven of and natural gas have increased just as 
 . 

when standards of living , population , and industrial 
structures are controlled for , the united states is no less energy 
efficient than japan and more energy efficient than many of the group 
of seven nations .  . 

energy independence provides little protection against domestic oil 
price shocks because the energy economy is  . moreover , since the 
cost of oil represents only about 2 percent of gross national product , 
even large increases in the price of oil would have little impact on the 
overall u.s. economy .  . 

market are , on average , 2 . 75 . times more energy efficient per 
1 , 000 of than are  . 

 energy , known as demand side 
programs , encourage free , overuse of competing resource 
, an  . furthermore , programs do not 
reduce demand .  . 

concludes that government mandated energy 
unnecessary costs on and , not , energy that 
energy will , not advance , 
in energy and that central control over the 
of modern society energy would power to the state 
at the expense of the individual .  . 

energy and the case against coercion is no. 
in the policy analysis series published by the institute , an 
independent public policy research organization in washington ,  . 



available from 
institute 
second street 
washington , 








the institute 

founded in 1977 , the institute is a public policy research 
foundation dedicated to the of policy debate 
to allow consideration of more options that are consistent with the 
traditional american principles of limited government , individual 
liberty , and peace. to that end , the institute to achieve 
greater involvement of the intelligent , concerned public in 
questions of policy and the proper role of government. 
the institute is named for 's letters , libertarian 
that were widely read in the american in the early 
century and played a major role in the philosophical foundation 
of the american revolution .  . 
despite the achievement of the nation 's , today virtually 
no aspect of life is free from government  . a 
intolerance for individual rights is shown by government 's arbitrary 
intrusions into private economic and its disregard for 
civil liberties .  . 
to counter that trend the institute an extensive 
program that addresses the complete spectrum of policy 
issues. books , , and studies are 
to examine the federal , social security , , military 
spending , international trade , and other issues. major policy 
are held throughout the year , from which papers are 
published in the journal .  . 
in order to maintain its independence , the institute accepts 
no government funding .  . contributions are received from foundations , 
, and individuals , and other is generated from 
the sale of  . the institute is a , tax exempt , 
foundation under section  ( 501(c)3 ) of the internal 
code. 

the institute 
second street s . e .  . 
washington , 

from (dean . kaflowitz) . 
subject re i thought was not allowed 
organization at t 
distribution na 
lines 

in article ,  ( matt x8043 ) writes 

in article in talk . politics . misc . , 
(dean . kaflowitz) . 

in article , 
 ( matt x8043 ) writes 

1 ) is an child a human being at any point during 

in my opinion , at all points during the pregnancy it is human. 
you 'll have to define what you mean by human being for me to 
answer the question as put .  . 

a parallel q is a person of color a human being 
a you 'll have to define what you mean by  . 

to answer your irrelevant question , yes a person of color is human , 
but i still do n't know what you mean by human being and you have 
merely the question without responding .  . by trying to 
the notion of race into the discussion , you the without 
adding any insight whatever. the same parallel question could 
be is a person a human being you still have not 
answered what you mean by human being. please do so. 

i would suggest that legal precedent defines a human being (i . e .  . , a person 
whose rights are protected by the constitution and the law ) as someone with 
a brain .  . 
could you cite some of those for me , or the basis of this 
definition while the law does allow the removal of extraordinary 
means of life in cases of brain death , this in itself 
does not lead to your conclusion of how the law defines a human 
being. however , at least you defined human being in a 
fashion .  . that is , a person whose rights are protected by the 
constitution and the law. 

for my answer to your question , i refer you to v wade and 
subsequent supreme court decisions , which define to what 
extent a fetus is protected by the constitution and the law. 
certain judges have that slavery is not a violation of 
human rights therefore , it is not. 

you wo n't answer the question and instead in irrelevancies .  . 
if you want a definition of human being that does not depend on 
the of law , but holds solid whatever the law may rule , 
provide it for me. 

i would suggest that your blind faith would not likely hold up if the 
were on the other foot. the brain life death paradigm is one that 
i suggest as one consistent with other legal definitions .  . it clearly 
does n't matter to you whether an child has any rights or not , 
however , so the point is lost on you. 

more irrelevancies .  . as larry pointed out , the law 
has made special exceptions in order to include , but does 
not follow your version of human being. and as he pointed out , 
brain death is not a means of determining who has the rights 
of the living , but rather who has died. there is a significant 
difference. 

what i am wondering now is , has your argument so failed you that 
you feel it necessary to out irrelevancies and leave the 
thread you started you got answers to your questions when 
you began me , if you recall , after you had made some 
ridiculous remarks about regard and , having been , 
changed the subject with your remarks about having a discussion 
of substance .  . if you really wanted a discussion of substance , 
why then do you disregard logic and substance in order to toss 
silly , e.g. it really does n't matter to you .  .  .  . 
if it matters to you , then why not define human being and seek 
some substance you 're not going to convince a logical person 
of the of your position unless you apply some logic 
and show some meaning to your words. 

2 ) if she is , then why does the mother have the right to kill 
her when she is in the womb but not after she has passed 
through the birth 

because a woman has a right to have any object which threatens her 
health and is within the confines of her body removed. the other 
side of the argument would give rights to the fetus that would not 
be granted to an adult human. if , for example , you were 
the body of another , for whatever reason or through whatever means , 
the reason and means being irrelevant , that other would be able to 
remove or have you removed. if that removal required your , 
i see no reason in law that such a removal could not be  . 
rather than examining a hypothetical thought experiment , let us examine 
a real , though rare , situation  . if one has 
the other removed , knowing that it will cause death  ( and 
some emergency where they will both die anyway ) , it is 
murder .  . 
is it have you any support for this assertion furthermore , your 
analogy is completely inapplicable .  . have an equal 
claim to any body parts they have in common .  . try again. 
what this equal claim beyond your assertion if it 
is merely a matter of which came first , cannot one kill the other since 
they both have equal claim what if one has more control than 
the other does that establish a superior claim 

as others point out , one is sacrificed for the other depending on 
which has the better chance at survival .  . again , your analogy 
fails .  . not precedence , but makes a difference here. 
a woman 's womb is her own. also , i see you ignore 
my statement that you would grant rights to a fetus that would 
not be granted a born human being. was that due to its 

you see , the right to life is granted to adult humans in the 
same sense as it should be to the at some point prior to birth. 
are ever separated in the womb or is this 
right you assert for , which i do n't even think is 
true as stated or valid as an analogy , one that exists after birth 
, your entire argument here is a failure .  . 
interesting way of trying to two essentially concepts .  . 
the point is that it is murder for one to kill the other , 
regardless of their status of or  . 

is it please cite a precedent and the basis of the ruling .  . 

it would be difficult for one to kill the other inside the 
womb , and even if it were possible i doubt that a case could be made for 
or  . note the use of the phrase it should be 
in my post. 

you simply assert things without any support .  . your analogy is 
not accurate and your assertions are  . try this on 
for size. it is not murder for one to kill 
the other in the womb .  . there. we now have equal arguments .  . 
but the idea is illogical .  . for one to kill the 
other in the womb would likely be to kill itself as well. the 
systems are dependent on each other for life. i'm still 
to see anything here and failing to do so. 

of course , the situation is not a perfect comparison it may well be that 
one deliberately initiates oppression or against 
the other. this is clearly not the case with an child. 
and this last statement from you is a total non sequitur .  . the 
comparison is far worse than you give it credit for. 
are you going to let this assertion stand on its own also , or do you 
plan on following up with a reasoned argument 

your argument is from fantasy island .  . your comparison is a total 
failure , as i have demonstrated already , and has no basis in 
reality , neither legally nor  . and for you to assert 
that it is not a perfect comparison because of the impossible , 
that of coercion or oppression , is ridiculous .  . as i said , 
you give the analogy too little credit for failure .  . on the one 
hand you start this by saying you want to take a real , rather than 
a hypothetical , situation , then you off into 
murdering one another in the womb or or oppressing each 
other in the womb when the reality of the situation you describe 
in now way your version. as i said before , decisions 
are made regarding which lives and dies in situations where 
they cannot both survive. and , furthermore , as i have already said , 
there is a difference between an equal claim to and a claim 
that is  . you seem to be asserting that a fetus has a 
claim on a woman 's womb .  . when the fetus is born , what happens to 
its claim and by what reason do you assert its claim 

3) if a parent has the right to choose to not take responsibility 
for their own child , why are there laws and penalties against 
child 
this last question is irrelevant and something of a non sequitur .  . 
can you establish some relevance or even some sense for it 
if at some point an child is a human being , the parents clearly 
have the same her as any other parents have 
their children. 
again , what is the relevance you have established no sense of when 
that point is , you ignore the significant difference between a fetus 
and a born child  ( the of a born child can be transferred 
to another party , while that of a fetus cannot a born child does 
not live within the body of another human being while a fetus does , 
thereby potential and often actual harm to that 
body , as in the case of one of our talk . abortion . participants who 
suffers from epilepsy and to whom pregnancy represents a significant 
health risk , or as in the case of a woman i know , who chose to 
continue her pregnancy , but spent her entire pregnancy confined to 
a and suffering great pain from of some 
nerve ) , and your argument is not an argument against abortion 
generally , but at best an argument against abortion at some 
time during the course of pregnancy .  . 
again , a quest for common ground. most of the pro choice people i 
have spoken to in person  ( none of them pro abortion activists ) concede 
that the child has a right to life at some point that supersedes all 
of the mother 's rights except that of her own life. as is often the 
case in emotionally charged issues , the have a very different 
from the mainstream .  . 

you have n't answered the question. the situations are not  . 

the of a born child is not transferred it 
takes time and effort .  . , it is the pro choice side , not 
me , arguing that the government should make it easy for parents to 
their children to the state. 

again you avoid the question. can be transferred , and 
it is not as slow as you seem to think. 

as to the evidence of real human , there is ample 
on both sides. i would hate to be in the position of the mother in 
who has to tell her daughter that she lost her in a 
abortion attempt .  . 

yes , and i 'd hate to have been the one to tell dr 's children that 
he was murdered by a religious , pro life  . please do 
try to stay relevant .  . 

the thing i can say about these responses of yours is 
that i can see you are trying to say something , but the result 
is a mish mash of negligible value. 
you. 

clever  . i congratulate you on the of your wit .  . 

in article in talk . politics . misc . , 
(dean . kaflowitz) . writes 

ground covered in another post deleted 

if at some point an child is a human being , the parents clearly 
have the same her as any other parents have 
their children. 

and no parent can be forced to supply bodily resources their children , 
even if necessary to save the child 's life. 

as was this. to make it clear , you are not 
obligated to donate a to save your child 's life 
under law. 

again , the confusion between action deliberately taking away the life 
of a child and refusing to run out in front of a to save 
a child . 

what happened to that claim to bodily where life is at stake 
why does this parent now have an right to his or her 
when previously the parent did not , by your standards what 
is different about the two situations i see i have to this 
out for you since the meaning was too subtle for you. in the one 
case you do not recognize a difference between a fetus and a born 
child  ( you ask why a born child cannot be abandoned but a fetus 
can ) , and in this case you recognize a significant difference 
between the fetus and born child where the lives of the two are at 
stake .  . you ca n't have it both ways. action and are 
irrelevant to the principle , but you are wrong about the 
anyway. ask any of the numerous women who post here and have 
borne children how their pregnancy was. to have a 
healthy , live child , a woman does more than out , eat as 
she chooses , plays like she always did , at 
parties with her friends , etc. she very differently , and 
the of her resources to a fetus may be no more voluntary 
than the beating of her heart , but it is far from  . 

dean kaflowitz 


from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 21 

in article ,  ( blort ! ! ) . writes 
actually , i was rather surprised to see an article on this subject 
(i . e .  . the new , survey saying that roughly 1 of men are gay ) 
on the front page of the new york times recently (i think it was 
on , 15  . the headline was something to the effect of 
new survey finds 1 of men are gay 

i was shocked , not because the new york times was running a story 
on a sex survey  ( although that was part of it) , but because they thought 
that this news was actually important enough to warrant front page space .  . 
i mean , how many people actually care how many people are gay  ( as long as 
you know how to find avoid them if you want to) i do n't .  . 

if you do n't care , why was so much effort put into promoting the 
10 lie because it was important to politicians into 
obedience .  . 

matt 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( hokh'ton ) 
subject re race and violence 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution usa 
lines 93 

in  ( alan filipski ) writes 

even though this city  ( phoenix ) has a relatively small black 
population , black people seem to be responsible for a 
amount of violent crime .  . yesterday , black men robbed a , 
the employees for no apparent reason , and shot one dead , even though 
they were being cooperative .  . a few days ago , a car full of black men 
opened fire on a car containing a young white couple and their baby , 
possibly because they did n't like the way the man was driving. the 
baby was slightly injured .  . these incidents are not even unusual .  . 

even if a white person starts out without racial prejudice  ( as , after 
all , we all do ) and no one teaches them to be prejudiced , it 's 
sometimes hard to see how they can avoid becoming so , based on their 
own observations and instinct for self preservation .  . we always taught 
our children that racial prejudice is wrong  ( not only bad , but also 
mistaken ) , but how do you the effect of these kinds of 
incidents 

what 's the answer how can we work against racial prejudice when 
incidents like this keep fanning the flames what can we say to deny 
that racial prejudice is a rational response to our environment is 
it should we since the 60 's , i have thought the only hope is through 
based on ignoring race and treating each person as an 
individual , but so many either preach by race 
or validate racism by their actions .  . where does it lead 



( , corp , e. road , phoenix , az , usa ) 
( internet uucp uunet ! ! al phone  ( 602)224 ) ) 


, you can start by teaching your children that the perpetrators 
of crimes no more represent the black community than racist 
represent the majority culture  ( although there are many ethnic minorities 
who have fallen into the very trap that you are with , and believe 
 . the trap is the easy way out. 
for yourself , i think it would be a good idea to realize that the 
related to the crimes you speak of have less to do with race , 
and much to do with status and disenfranchisement .  . you 're 
going to find higher crime within any community comprised of any ethnic 
group or that has become , whatever the factors 
to that  . with ethnic minorities it is more usually than 
not , as i said , disenfranchisement .  . 
if , for example , you lived in an area where there were very few 
blacks , but quite a few poor for generations , you 'd see the crime 
statistics the of those white people. would you then 
worry about your children would begin to see as 
or whatever the trap into action when our to 
define us and other raises its little voice .  . the trap becomes dangerous 
when we stop to listen to that little voice and stop thinking like rational 
humans. 
it 's interesting that blacks are traditionally seen as the or the 
most criminal element in many of our areas .  . i do n't know the racial 
makeup of phoenix , so i ca n't speak to your situation. however , i live in 
san francisco , a city that loves to its ethnic diversity . here , we 
have black , ,  ( yes , the model minority ) , 
and even a few white  . the have become a particularly 
element for law enforcement here , mainly due (i think) to their 
for engaging in organized criminal activities. but ask people on 
the street and they 'll , 8 out of 10 times , tell you that black and 
crime are what they most fear. during the in los last 
year many of the and were not black .  . some were even white ! i 
remember being amazed at television news that showed mobs 
where there were maybe one or two blacks at most ! my perceptions , gleaned 
from tv news , were further by numerous friends and relatives 
that live in los  . this may have been the country 's first truly 
ethnic  . yet i know from face to face and discussion that 
in the minds of america the popular perception is that it was a black 
! 
in , i 'd like to say that you raise some interesting points 
that really need discussion. our country has spent too long ignoring the 
racism  ( and its ills ) that is very much a part of our culture .  . as 
a people , we are afraid to face up to some truths , and the problem 
becomes daily . we cannot afford to do it much longer .  . i truly 
believe that the well being of all of us depends on changing our current 
course of denial and  . 
i wish you and your children , and all other people , of all , 
luck in avoiding the trap . 
peace , my brother .  . 
m. 





the wind is the storm , 
and the storm is data , 
michael douglas and the data is life. 
's  ( the long run ) 



from  ( dunn jonathan james ) 
subject re selective service 
organization university of , boulder 
lines 42 

 ( marc mueller ) writes 

considering that clinton received a draft notice and got out of it  ( he admits it) the political of him it is not something he would 
be inclined to risk any extra exposure on. 

as a libertarian  ( with a small l ) who voted for clinton , i think that he 
should the selective service and the draft .  . if his conscience 
him to go to war in vietnam , it should forbid him to perpetuate 
this system of government slavery .  . 

agreed. congress took money from nasa and to the second  . 
the are still building los class and there 
is a lack of foes to with. the navy is considering reducing 
the number of attack to 40  ( navy times ) and that would 
getting rid of or some of the current los class .  . 
politically , general is in and we will get 
whether we need them or not. 

if our government would pay attention to serious domestic issues  ( the economy ) 
and choose to stay out of other people 's wars  ( iraq , bosnia , somalia ) , 
we would not be in this fix .  . an anyway , could n't the jobs be replaced by 
improving our domestic situation  ( i'm not for continued spending , 
but if clinton and congress want to spend , i 'd rather they improve the 
than fight other people 's wars . ) . 

in addition , more bases need to be closed. probably long beach station 
and others. the navy is talking about three main bases on each coast being 
required to home a total of 320  . 
the question is whether and clinton will be able to face down 
a happy congress .  . 

a novel idea getting away from bases , what about 
air force bases as this would be so much 
than building them from the ground up  ( denver 's new airport is one of the 
most appalling examples of and i have seen in 
my  . even if no more are needed , i'm sure bill 
or would love to have their own private , and the 
money from their could be applied to the public debt .  . 

jon dunn 

all e mail flames will be deleted without reading 

from  ( kevin darcy ) 
subject re who be conservative on this .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization who , me 
lines 31 

in article  ( mark a. cochran ) writes 
 ( kevin darcy ) writes 
in article  ( mark a. cochran ) writes 

the allows restrictions after   (a term never defined ) 


any who ca n't make a reasonable stab at determining whether a given 
fetus is viable or not is not qualified to perform an abortion .  . 

shows that he does not know the difference between determining 
the of an individual fetus , and providing the universally 
accepted medical definition s of 

i was not discussing universal definitions in this post , mark. please 
from in irrelevancies .  . 

do you agree with my statement above about being if 
they ca n't determine 

since we know 
that there are some out there who are qualified to perform 
abortions , then obviously some medical definition of is being 
employed .  . 

on an case by case basis , is relatively easy to determine .  . 

and that 's good enough for the law , mark. so why do you keep that 
is n't defined what purpose does your serve 

kevin 

from  ( eric smith ) 
subject re down  ( was was dan quayle , genius 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 36 

writes 

 ( robert nehls ) writes .  .  .  . 

jason k. wrote 

in article writes 

what did you live in dropped during the 80 's , 
inflation dropped during the 80 's and interest dropped during 
the 80 's .  . 

this all may be true , but we 're paying for it now , through the 
nose .  . our current  ( and some would argue the world 's 

first off , we 're not in a  . we 've had a record number of months of 
straight economic growth .  . even the are admitting that the 
ended in march of 1991. 

this months 's rate in california was 9 . 4 . 
sure like a to me. 

maybe we should ask the , 103 people who were laid off this whether 
or not we 're in a  . that was a figure that was reported in the 
new york times. there is no official figure , because the bureau of labor 
statistics stopped government of eight months ago due to 
cuts .  . 

 ( the above information was published in 's index , 's magazine . ) . 


eric smith the day dan quayle is our president is the day 
runs with the bulls in  . 
miller 
, 


from  ( martina cartwright ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
article i.d. 




organization the american university university computing center 
lines 53 

in article , 
 ( bronis vidugiris ) says 

in article  ( chris bertholf ) writes 
 ( martina cartwright ) writes 
) 
) 
) the official and legal term for rape is the crime of forcing a female 
) to submit to sexual intercourse .  . 
) 
please ) , supply me with some references .  . i was not aware that all states 
had ) the word female in the rape  . i am sure others are surprised 
as ) well. i know how it works in practice  ( nice n fair , not ! ! ) , but 
was ) that it was in the as applying to only , 
uniformly ) throughout the u.s. 

i agree mostly with chris .  . it is  ( unfortunately , imo ) true that the fbi 
for rape based on the  uniform crime report  report only female 
 . however , some states  ( such as illinois ) are not because they 
refuse to comply with this sexist definition ! 

the worms in 
the worms out 
the worms post to the net from your account 

as several liberal are concerned , the essential 
elements of rape are neutral .  . nonetheless , i decided to provide 
a number of references to support my original argument. black 's law 
dictionary  ( every law student lawyer 's friend ) defines rape as 
sexual intercourse with a female without her consent .  . the 
knowledge of a woman by a man forcibly and against her will. the model 
code  ( the proposed by the national conference of 
of uniform state laws or other organization for by state legislatures ) 
defines rape as a male who has sexual intercourse with a female not his wife 
is guilty of rape if he  ( a ) her to submit by force or by threat of 
imminent death .  .  .  .  .  ( mpc 

indeed the following states have similar to the 

code of  . 6 61  ( 1992 ) 
stat . ann .  . 14 103  ( 1993 ) 
district of d . c .  . code  ( 1992 ) 
o . f . g . a .  . 6 1  ( 1992 ) 
code  ( 1992 ) 
maryland md . ann . code . art .  . 27  ( 1992 ) 
miss . code . ann .  . 3  ( 1993 ) 
new york  ( check case law ) n . y . c . l . s .  .  ( 1993 ) 
north n . c .  . gen . stat .  . 27 2  ( 1992 ) 
l . p . r . a .  .  ( 1993 ) 

, 



from  ( richard walz ) 
subject re how many homosexuals are there 
organization the 
lines 94 

in article  ( mimi ) writes 
in article 
u . edu .  ( douglas meier ) writes 
in article bedfellow . mit . edu . 

 ( william december starr ) writes 

and what difference does it make if homosexuals should not be treated 
as equals with in the eyes of the law then it does n't 
matter if they an overwhelming majority of the population , and 
if they should then it does n't matter if , , they 're only an 
minority , right 

and if it makes no difference , then a false number down my 

should n't be a high priority .  . after all , why should a minority group 
d to 
their numbers in order to justify the rights they claim they des 

i.e. extra they ask for 

if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault and 
 . why must we add gay to the list is n't this a sort of 
double or am i just being a again 



douglas c. this space for 
university , 
this university is too 
to have these views. 


you know , i have thought about the issue of if someone beats up a 
homosexual , or a black person , etc. , should the crime be 
as something special. shit , beating up anybody , regardless of race 
and sexual orientation should be a very serious crime .  . if you 
pick out those crimes which are committed against the opposite sex , 
different race , or a different sexual orientation , is this a form 
of those groups over other groups. hmm .  .  . i mean , i think 
that a crime committed against all people should be treated the 
same. but , i know that there are many people out there who are 
very prejudice against people who are different than they are. and 
perhaps hate crimes laws are the only way to punish the 
 . but , why should a person who a crime against 
a protestant white by a protestant white be treated 
on a lower level. is n't this discrimination against the 
white person. 

hmm .  .  . any out there as a black person , i here about all 
sorts of stories where fellow blacks are persecuted and up 
because of their race .  . this really me up. but , a crime 
against a white by a white should also be treated as a 
crime .  . 

please respond .  . i would like to hear what other views are out  . 

ciao  


the federal government has used such laws to allow charges in 
order to prevent more crimes than would occur just from two people 
being off at each other. the federal government has an interest in 
the intent of the perpetrators in the pursuit of preventing of 
civil rights. it 's the way they broke the back of the klan , by putting a 
lot of people away for a very long time for blacks specifically .  . 
it is a principle that has been well recognized as valid 
since over 100 years ago. it has been used whenever a select group was 
getting or more than any other person would just for being 
part of a minority .  . it is the only way we made the defeat of the south 
stick after the civil war. people who free blacks , when normally 
they would n't find themselves just anyone walking around were 
tried and for 5 to 8 years until nobody wanted to try 
it anymore. now with the amendment of equal protection under 
the law , the law can use multiple crime and severe penalty involving intent 
as much as is needed to protect even one human that is a minority to 
somebody .  . they can call out the national guard just for them , as they did 
the school girls in during in the 1950 's , and the 
president can the state and turn the guns of the 
that were being used to bar blacks right around to point at the 
thousands in the with an order to shoot that they would have to obey 
or face possible death by firing squad under the uniform code of military 
justice for failing to obey a direct order while under ! and by god , 
they did ! those southern turned right around an fixed ! and 
the was left standing and was by the federal 
that had brought the order to the guard .  . and that 's why we need 
such an ability in federal jurisdiction .  . 



richard  ( 408 ) 1200 
street 1 without safe and free abortion women are 
santa , ca to unwanted parasites .  . 
real men would never accept slavery and will protect women. 

from  ( casimir j palowitch ) 
subject re clinton president 's trip to sic 
organization university of pittsburgh 
lines 37 

in article clinton  ( clinton '92 ) writes 

statement by the press 

the president will travel to pittsburgh on saturday , april 
17 to talk about his job creation plan and its impact on the 
state of , where it would create as many as 3 , 

would ha ha 

how the hell can they come up with a number , to the units 
, on something as complicated as this 

face it , it 's the perceptions that matter here , folks , not the facts .  . 
especially this one 

full time jobs and up to 21 , 240 summer jobs .  . he will make a 


according to the pittsburgh post , that means over new jobs 
for allegheny  ( metro pgh ) alone ! 

ha ha 

doing what i hope it 's fixing the on my street. 

let 's face it , folks , we 're in a depression and this is the  . 

clinton 's really coming here to on  . , who happens 
to be vacationing in africa  ( do n't know whether to laugh or cry ) 



j.  ( casey ) in , there will be two kinds 
slavic of computer those 
u. of  . library systems who know , and those 
without jobs .  . 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re hard times was  ( no subject given ) 
article i.d. usenet . 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 33 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( bill riggs ) says 


i do n't believe in the wave theory . 


you do n't have to. it believes in you. 


horses .  . she keeps telling me that inflation is coming back , and to lock 
in my fixed rate as low as possible. 


well , looking at our new government pals , i'm inclined to 
agree. i do n't much believe in our money , either. ) 


maybe you 'd like to in some foreign currency .  . 


oh , ho ho ! if only you knew ! ) 

yup , i'm definitely checking out foreign currency , thanks to 
to this newsgroup .  . it sure does n't take much thinking to realize 
what direction the u.s. is headed .  . 


 ( sigh never learn . ) . 


oh , ho ho ! ! me ! no , no , i'm going with a sure 
thing. sure as in california real . ) 

from  ( michael d. adams ) 
subject re california federal legislation to protect from 
article i.d. 
reply to 
organization d service 
lines 12 
nntp posting host 
x ignore ignore ignore ignore this line 

 ( richard warner ) writes 

very simple. an   is a a  . 
it is his her duties to make rules to enforce laws .  . 

 .  .  . and . to make life difficult for us  .  .  .  .  . 


michael d. adams champaign , il al 

believes in the two party system the masters and the slaves .  . 
napoleon  ( from the man from u . n . c . l . e) . 

from  ( carlos carrion ) 
subject re the role of the national news media in 
organization , pasadena , ca 
lines 20 
distribution ca 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 

in article  ( michael a. thomas ) writes 
in article ,  ( carlos carrion ) writes 
i have come to the conclusion that the tv here in la 
want a to happen when the verdict comes in. 

why is this surprising then the times can get a few more 
the same way they did last year .  . 

i suppose all media want something to happen , otherwise what would 
they report that 's their job.  ( duhhh to me ! ) 

but it 's not so much surprising that they want a as it is amazing 
how they carry that desire across in not so subtle ways  ( at least to 
me .  .  . ) . 

 . 

i as much as any other man am in favor of having the superior position 
to the white race abraham lincoln 
 .  .  . ames . ! elroy ! jpl ! ! 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re top ten responses to ed 's top ten lists 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 16 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , state . edu .  ( michael r conners ) says 

in article  ( scott w roby ) write 
s 

the real question should the feds out steve jobs next (a la chrysler ) 
so that important manufacturing jobs would n't be lost 


no. the real question should the feds out ibm ( a la ) 
so that important manufacturing jobs would n't be lost 

it could be part of the jobs bill 



from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton press with press 4 . 4 . 93 . 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 





the white house 

office of the press 
 ( vancouver , british columbia ) 

for immediate release april 4 , 1993 


press conference by the president 
with press 

canada place 
vancouver , british 



2 46 p . m .  . pdt 


q i had two questions for both , so you 
could probably answer for , too. ) . 

the president i 'll give you my answer , then i 'll 
give you 's answer. ) . 

q the first is that this is the meeting of the 
, so the money that 's being promised is government 
money , and naturally it 's going to be through the 
government. but you 've indicated that three are going 
to be going to  . so the question is how the 
themselves are going to be , if ever what 
are the , because there are several association of 
existing already , so will they be invited to 
participate in setting up for investment 

this is the first. and second , to you. we know 
that , public in america do not show that americans 
are very enthusiastic about giving this aid .  . like newsweek 
say that about 75 percent do n't approve it , and new york times 
published that 52 percent support if it just prevents civil war 
42 percent if it democratic reform and only 29 percent 
if it just personally supports  . how are you going to 
sort of handle this problem that americans themselves are not 
very enthusiastic thank you. 

q i have a question , i'm sorry is there going 
to be a translation of everything into no , just the 
answers. just the answers. okay. 

the president the answer to the first question is , 
it depends on what kind of aid we 're discussing .  . for example , 
the funds that will be set up for new will 
obviously go to those who apply and who seem to be 
good risks and make the application .  . the privatization will 
be used to support the privatization of existing public 
 . then there are some other general funds in the 
democracy corps and other things which people in russia will have 
some influence over the distribution of. 

with regard to your second question , let me say that 
i would think that there would be people in both countries who 
would not feel too simply the american government 
giving money to the government. there 's opposition to 
that in russia .  . and in our country , throughout our whole history 
there has been an opposition to foreign aid of all kinds .  . that 
is , this has nothing to do with russia .  . if you look at the whole 
history of america , any kind of aid program has always been 
unpopular .  . 

what i have tried to tell the american people is , is 
this is not an aid program , this is an investment program that 
this is an investment in our future. we spent 4 
on on soldiers and other 
because of the cold war. now , with a democratic government in 
russia , with the independent states , the remainder of them 
working on a democracy and to get their 
going , it seems to me very much in our interest to make it 
possible to do whatever we can for democracy to survive , for the 
economy of russia to grow because of the potential for trade and 
investment there , and for us to continue the effort to reduce 
nuclear weapons and other elements of hostility on both sides , on 
our side and on the side. 

so i do n't see this as an aid program this is an 
investment for the united states. this is very much in the 
interest of the united states. the things i today , the 
second stage of the program , which i hope to put together next 
week , in my view are things that are good for my country and for 
the and workers of my country. 

russia is a very great nation that needs some 
now , some common with other people who share 
her goals. but it would be a great mistake for anyone to view 
this as some sort of just a charity or an aid issue. that 's not 
what it is , it 's an investment for america and it 's a wonderful 
investment .  . 

like all , there is some risk. but 
there 's far less risk with a far greater potential of return than 
the 4 we spent looking at each other across the 
of the cold war. 

q mr. president , first of all thank you very 
much , indeed , for coming here and talking to us. in the memory 
of the living correspondents , this is the first time an american 
president is doing this to the press corps , so it 's kind 
of a very measured  . 

i have two questions. one , in your introductory 
remarks of the other press conference , you mentioned in brief 
that you discussed the start ii and start i issues. could you 
tell us did you reach an agreement with president as to 
what might be done in order to have join the 
of start i and the regime and my second question is , how 
confident you are that the united states congress would be eager 
to support you in lifting and other restrictions 
inherited from the cold war 

president clinton first , we discussed the issue of 
with regard to start i and , and generally , with 
regard to the need to proceed to have the other independent 
states all be non nuclear but also to have the united states 
develop strong relationships with them. we know that one thing 
that we could do that would increase , i think , the of 
the to support this direction is to successfully conclude 
our own on highly enriched , because that 
would provide not only an important economic opportunity for 
russia , but also for , and it would show some out 
on our part. but we agreed that basically the people who signed 
off on the have got to honor what they did , and 
we agreed to continue to press that. 

i , myself , have spent a good deal of time trying to 
's leaders , specifically the president and the 
foreign , that i want strong ties with , that the 
united states very much wants a good relationship with , 
but that , in order to do what we need to do together to 
the economy of and to have the united states 
be fully , the commitment to start i and to join 
the regime is critical .  . 

what was the second question 

the president with regard to and 
, i would make two points first , i have agreed with the 
republican and democratic leaders in the congress that we will , 
as soon as i return , have a list of all the and other 
restrictions , some of them are in nature , imposed on 
relations between the united states and russia , that are 
of the cold war. and we will see whether they 're how many of 
them we could agree to do away with right now , at least among the 
leadership of the congress .  . 

with regard to , i think there will be 
an to change the law if the congress is convinced there 
are , in fact , no more , no more people who wish to 
who are not being allowed to. if the fact is that there 
is no one there who would have been who the law was designed 
to affect , then i think that the desire to keep the law will be 
much less. 

with regard to , my guess is , and it 's nothing 
more than a guess , that the leadership of congress and indeed my 
own , might prefer to see some sort of movement 
out of the regime .  . but i think they would be willing to 
begin it in the fairly near future. 

q mr. clinton , when i read your speech in 
, i got the impression that you have a completely 
different personal and i that personal , not 
political approach towards russia , compared to the approach of 
mr. bush .  . could you formulate in a few words , what is the 
difference between you as a and your approach the 
difference between your approach to russia and the approach of 
mr. bush and who made you why did you cite in the 
last part of your speech 

the president let me say , first , i do not wish to 
compare myself with president bush or anyone else. i ca n't say 
what was in his heart about russia .  . i can say that since i was a 
boy , i have been personally with the history , the 
music and the culture , and the literature of russia .  . i have been 
by music since i was a serious student of music 
for more than 30 years now. i have read major 
and many of your and followed your and tried to know 
as much as i could about your history. 

and i went to the soviet union but it was then 
the soviet union you may know it was a big issue in the last 
presidential campaign that i spent the first week of alone 
in and did not return again until three days before mr. 
was elected president .  . but all that time i was away , i 
was following events there very closely and for the day 
when we could be genuine partners .  . so i have always had a 
personal feeling about russia .  . 

i remember , for example a lot of you know i like 
music very much. one of the most moving experiences for me as a 
was when leonard took the new york 
to and played 's 
to the russians .  . and he played the last movement more rapidly 
than anyone had ever played it before because it was technically 
so difficult. that is something i followed very closely when it 
occurred .  . 

these are things that have always had a big impact 
on my life. and i had just always hoped that someday , if i ever 
had the chance to , i could play a role in seeing our two 
countries become closer partners .  . ) . 

the press thank you. 

06 p . m .  . pdt 




from  ( chris winemiller ) 
subject representation of territories  ( was re the 11 , 250 , 000 , 000 , 000 lunch ) 
distribution tx 
organization none 
lines 31 

writes 

in article , 
 ( chris winemiller ) writes 
btw , is anyone besides myself that non us citizens  ( puerto 
, etc . ) . are very close to having full representation in the u.s. 
house of representatives 


sorry chris , are us citizens .  . 

ok. i stand  . i guess , then , that the comments about 
(i . e .  . , ) to that others have been making still 
stands 

now , everybody , how about some opinion on the following related topic 

should the people who are of u.s. territories have 
representation in the u.s. house of 's or the u.s. congress 
the u.s. constitution sets up the house of representatives to represent 
each state in to its population , and the senate to represent 
each state equally .  . what should be done with u.s. territories like 
does anyone have knowledge about how this was in 
the past , such as with the louisiana territory or the 
territory 

chris 


chris internet 
uucp ! ! ! 

from  ( steve pope ) 
subject re 
organization u . c .  . berkeley 
lines 17 
nntp posting host zion . berkeley . edu . 

any thoughts on who is going to count all of the bodies at 
the the press the white house the most 
the king of the motss 

just curious as to whose bias we are going to see when the numbers 
get brought out. 

probably , law enforcement people  ( park service police and d . c .  . cops ) , 
who will use and extrapolate based on the 
of the in small regions .  . 

these sort of techniques derive from army intelligence and 
methods of strength , and tend to be 
skewed to always come up with numbers , 
so as to justify bigger  . 

steve 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re still waiting for evidence , mr. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 46 

in article ,  ( sam lowry ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( kim althoff ) writes 
in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
gay men constitute at least 20 of all child  . whether 
this is because gay are unusually common , or have unusually 
high numbers of victims , sort of misses the point , does n't it it 
means that is the case , homosexual men are 
to children. 

clayton says 

you are incorrect .  . the most recent survey data i can find shows that 
26 of is exclusively homosexuals , 4 is bisexual  ( victims 
are both male and female ) , and the remainder is exclusively heterosexual .  . 

so what you are saying is that 74 of the child are 
committed by  . i cannot see the correlation you cite 

are since when 

which concludes that by being homosexual , you will children or that 
by being homosexual you will have the for children. 

i have n't said that homosexual child , simply that is more 
likely. 

if 26 of the are by homosexuals , why are you so concerned 
about creating a relation between the two if you had evidence that 
of the are committed by homosexuals you might find a 
relationship .  . ok , where is the you make 

the one that is shown when in gay  . 

also , what is the reason people from human sexuality and a 
psych class or too i have taken the overwhelming voice says that people 
commit these acts as power trips and to feel in control. this has nothing 
to do with sexual orientation .  . 

you mean that s m , because it 's a power trip , has nothing to do with 
sexual orientation 



clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re lincoln slavery  ( re top ten you can play on the american voter ) 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 54 

in article ,  ( craig depken ) writes 
in article com . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
the argument that slavery was a dying institution was often made by 

 ( is ) 

, mainly , who sought to attention from the 
institution as the central issue of the civil war. in fact , however , 
the argument is specious , at best. more recent from the 
last 20 30 years demonstrates rather conclusively that the sugar 
economy and its on slavery was dominant in 
the south prior to the civil war. 

this is because the south did not receive the massive of capital 
growth that the northern states did. compare the northern 
system with the southern and you will see a major difference 
in the capital to labor  . 

capital and labor are one and the same in a slave economy .  . except that 
capital does n't reproduce quite as readily as slaves did. 

slavery was a dying institution before the , yes , but not 
in  . 

it is true that suffered from price depression in the 's 
the period used to claim that slavery would not have lasted in the 
south .  . 

that is not the argument that i have heard. it would not have lasted because 
the growth in the north would not have been for much longer without 
over to the southern states , i.e. northern industry would have 
capital to the southern states , and with that would have come 
labor to the of the south , e.g. , , , 
new , etc. this would have put the breaks on the slave market and 
slavery would have been out by the capital of competing 
 . those that insisted on keeping slaves because of their 
cruel hearts and hatred for black people would have been driven out of 
business. simple capital to labor ratio .  .  . read . michael 
2nd edition , and any other basic economics book. 

this assumes that the slave dominance over state governments 
would not have caused the passage of laws to keep out capital from the 
north .  . since slave were prepared to do almost anything else 
to destroy free in order to maintain slavery , i do not doubt 
that they would have passed laws to any serious 
threat .  . thomas 's market and minorities argues that the 
of slavery , and the costs it imposed on state and local 
governments , discouraged not only capital formation , but also outside 
capital investment in the southern states. 

craig a. , ii 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( kennedy james scot ) 
subject drug use up among u.s. 
organization state university , computer science , 
keywords drugs 
lines 87 


the article that follows was taken from the , april 14 , 1993 
issue of usa today ( drug use up among u.s. by mike 
, p.  . 

a new national survey says drugs are easier to get , more are 
using them and drug use as  . 

for the last two years , government have results 
from the national high school survey as signs that the drug war is 
being won .  . but this year , are drug use by 
has risen , according to the survey of 50 , 000 students 
 . 

possible reason for the increase more  . why if 
drug use dropped during the '80s , eventually some students will 
have drug using contemporaries who act as examples of 
substance abuse 's , says social lloyd , 
one of the survey authors .  . each new wave of must be given 
the knowledge , and motivation to resist using these drugs , 
says .  . 

this type of is possible , says , author of 
parents  ( delta , 14 .  . but that 's not the issue , 
she says .  . the of and drugs among today 
could result in more adults decades from now. 

the problem baby parents who with 
drugs and as trying to be friends , not parents , to 
their children. i 've even seen parents serving kegs of beer to 
their kids and friends , says .  . for a recent , 
and other parents organized an all night , lock in party where 
no or drugs were allowed .  . we need to fulfill that 
role , otherwise the peer group takes over , she says .  . 

may talk about the war on drugs , but they really have n't 
done anything that i 've seen , says , , 
 . , 16 , a who talks with about drugs , dating and 
other issues on a peer and suicide hot line. , a 
member of usa today 's , says there 's always going to be 
with drugs .  . 

a real war on drugs could be education wise , she says .  . but 
some do n't want to give kids the facts .  . they think it will give 
them ideas it 's the same with birth control. i think you should 
give the kids the information or have it accessible through classes , 
and speakers , she says .  . 

education efforts need to start as soon as kids get in school in 
kindergarten , says , 17 , from miami , 
 . i remember in kindergarten , i used to see  . i think 
kids in the and grades have already made up their minds 
 ( about using drugs ) , he says .  . 

in public service are n't working only 
one has gotten it right , he says .  . the 
with two good looking girls in the talking about having 
no date. then they take a hit off a  . that home 
because it 's not attractive , he says .  . you ca n't be doing drugs if 
you want somebody to like you. 


adolescents  choices 

drugs used by in the last month 
, per 100 students 
1991 1992  .  . 
25 . 1 . 26 . 1 . 4 
14 . 3 . 15 . 5 . 8 
marijuana 3 . 2 . 3 . 7 . 16 
2 . 6 . 3 . 3 . 27 
0 . 6 . 0 . 9 . 50 
cocaine 0 . 5 . 0 . 7 . 40 
crack 0 . 3 . 0 . 5 . 67 

source university of michigan institute for social research , 
1993 report 


scott , and 

before david koresh is a cheap thug who interprets 
the bible through the of a gun .  .  .  . atf spokesman 
after the atf is a cheap thug who interprets 
the constitution through the of a gun .  .  .  . me 



from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re v. wade 
distribution na 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 42 

in article ,  ( larry margolis ) writes 
in  ( doug holtsinger ) writes 
abortions destructive of the fetus must be , even 
just before birth , if they promote what the supreme court 
calls   

yes , doug , we all know that v. wade prevents states from prohibiting 
abortions necessary to preserve the life or health of the woman. only 
very stupid people  ( such as yourself ) confuse a discussion of mental health 
related to doe , who was in a mental institution , and attempt to claim 
that this same argument could be applied to a woman who decided she wanted 
an abortion because she was having a bad hair day . 

as you well know , the facts are that there are about 100 third 
abortions performed in this country , and those are only done for 
serious health reasons. 

larry ,  ( bitnet ) ,  ( internet ) 

hmmm .  . human period is something like 39 weeks. that means 
third abortions are those done after 26 weeks. in 
a 1989 world , i see that 1 of abortions in were done at 
21 weeks or more. that 's about abortions in after 21 weeks. 
unless the number of abortions performed has dropped , or 
a lot of abortions are done between 21 and 26 weeks , i think you are 
wrong. 

by the way , v. wade allowed states to adopt very , very broad 
on third abortions , but some states , such as 
california , declined to do so. it was reported that what finally 
stopped third abortions in the bay area was n't law , 
but that the only hospital doing them out of , then doctors , 
willing to do them. not surprisingly , the bay area now chapter was 
terribly upset about this. 

i remain pro choice , but when pro compare abortion in a 
clinic to a religious ritual in a church , you have to start wondering 
a bit if the pro life criticism of abortion as modern human sacrifice 
does n't have a grain of truth to it. 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton president 's public 4 . 15 . 93 . 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 51 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 



the white house 

office of the press 

for immediate release march 14 , 1993 


public events on the president s for 
thursday , april 15 , 1993 

10 20 am the president with leadership of law 
enforcement organizations the rose 
garden 

open press 

3 00 am edt the president with the national 
for the march of birth 
foundation the office 

tv pool , open still photo , writing pool 

3 15 am edt the president with of 
new york , ny the rose garden 

open photo , writing pool 

3 30 am edt the president with the , pa , 
high school , state 
the south 

open photo , writing pool 

events on the president s 




april 16 , 1993 the president with 
japanese prime 
, the white house 

april 26 , 1993 president clinton with 
president of , the 
white house 

30 30 30 



from  ( not a boomer ) 
subject the state of justice 
organization acme products 
lines 23 
summary 's quest for justice 

a judge denied 's new trial motion , even though says it has two 
new witnesses that said the of the was dead from the impact , not 
from the fire .  . 

thoughts 

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start 
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led 
to the previous ruling appear .  . 

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed 
should n't that be up to a jury 

and what about members of the previous jury through the talk 
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against should n't that be enough for 
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial 

whatever happened to jurors having to be objective 

brett 

there 's nothing so as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . o in the white plague by frank  . 

from  ( paul havemann ) 
subject re throws out the first ball .  . and media of it 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( russ anderson ) writes 

in article ,  ( mark wilson ) writes 
this past thursday threw out the first ball at the home for 
the  . according to the news reports he was quite loudly  . 
 ( no , dr. norman , these were not your typical beer red ) . 

personally i would n't have paid any more attention to the incident except 
that the evening news when describing the event , went on to comment that 
being was nothing unusual since it was normal for audiences to 
boo at this point since the was the start of the game. 

what a bunch of crock .  . i have never heard of any incident in which the 
of the ball has been before. 

dan quayle got in last year .  . (i was listening 
on the  . this was the game that quayle told the that 
he would like to see them play the in the  . 

it 's come to this , has it defending al by comparing him to dan quayle 
i 'd say that about says it all .  .  .  . back to the with , back to alt . fan .  . 
dan quayle ! ! 



paul  ( internet 

they 're not just opinions they 're for the brain ! 
 ( up to 50 per cynical observation . ) . 
recommended minimum daily requirement 1 , 000  . keep reading. 

from  ( neal ) 
subject re and violence 
organization and , 
distribution usa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 28 

i am glad that you recognize that people should not engage in denial 
and , and should acknowledge such. the united states , with 
its people , have recognized that has taken place , with the 
loss and outright of civil liberties and constitutional 
of citizens .  . this recognition has taken the form of the 
civil rights law  ( let 's just discuss the federal level for now ) , such 
as 18 usc et .  .  . , 42 usc et .  . , et .  . al. 
with this recognition of , at times in the 
form of collective guilt , i want people to recognize denial .  . 
though it can be said that white people commit more 
crimes in the united states , because white people are a majority , 
it can also be said that black people commit a 
amount of crime in the united states , in their relation to their 
numbers in population .  . 
my views are out of experiences when i was a police 
in a large area , and of a citizen .  . unless people 
account for their behavior , and for the behavior of their immediate 
community , nothing will improve .  . 

regards , 









from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton public of the president 4 . 5 . 93 . 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 34 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 



the white house 

office of the press 

for immediate release april 5 , 1993 




public of the president 
tuesday , april 6 , 1993 



11 15 am president clinton remarks with 
egyptian president , the east room , 
the white house 

open press 




future of the president 


april 16 , 1993 president clinton with japanese prime 
, the white house 


april 26 , 1993 president clinton with italian 
president , the white house 

from  ( red herring ) 
subject re clinton 's program 
nntp posting host com . 
organization company , , ma 
lines 48 

in article  ( david veal ) writes 
in article  ( red herring ) writes 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( jeffrey s linder ) writes 
in article 
 ( mark wilson ) writes 
on the news last night clinton was the for 
his so called  . 
it seems that one small item within this was going to pay for free 
for poor kids .  . 

for children in this country are already free if you care to 
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the parents 
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done. 

in case you have n't noticed , are pushing a universal health 
care access program .  . access here means that folks who do not give 
a damn about their children will have health care services 
to their  . 

i 've read about more than a few of these programs that into 
problems in convincing parents to get their children even 
when they were to their  . (i do n't know , maybe 
that they have to be informed of about possible risks , side 
effects , and bad reactions them . ) . 

the program is just a useful first step . among other 
things , the money will go to pay for creating and a 
a on all u.s. children. 
 ( code named big mother .  .  .  . just kidding , the name will be children 
defense , or something like that . ) . 

once the money is spent and little or no results achieved , 
the will have to start knocking down doors , in some 
, and parents in others  ( probably the ones that 
are paying kids for the school what a idea ! ) 



david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 


from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
summary promoting competition does not depend upon 
organization free the , inc. 
lines 60 
nntp posting host com . 

in article b . writes 
in article com . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

these two are from two different posts. in splicing them 
together it is not my intention to change steve 's meaning or misrepresent 
him in any way. i do n't think i 've done so. 

as noted in another thread  ( limiting govt ) , the problem face 
is that the limited government they seek does not become the 
tool of private interests to pursue their own  . 

it is a failure of if the ideology does not provide any 
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than dreams .  . just 
as fails to how pure communism is to be achieved and 
the state is to away , frequently fail to show how 
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human 
condition. 

patrick 's example of anti for 
deleted. 
here 's what i see offering you 
... 
this does not seem to me to be a dream , but basic human 
and common sense. a real grass roots example of freedom and liberty .  . 
and yes , not having a few people acting as our masters , or 
rejecting each of our basic with each other , does strike me 
as a wonderful way to improve the human condition. 

thanks awfully , 
patrick 

let me try to this discussion back to the original issues. as 
i 've noted before , i'm not necessarily the benefits of 
anti legislation with regard to , 
, etc. one need not , however , swallow the entire libertarian 
to this end. just because one grants the benefits of 
allowing anyone who wishes to cut hair to sell his her services without 
does not mean that the same should be 
free to people as a medical service without government intervention .  . 
 ( as some many would argue . ) . 

on a case by case basis , the cost benefit ratio of government 
is obviously worthwhile .  . the libertarian , however , does not call 
for this  . it assumes that the costs of  ( of any 
kind ) always its benefits. this approach avoids all sorts of 
difficult analysis , but it strikes many of the rest of us as dogmatic , 
to say the least. 

i have no objection to an analysis of medical care , education , 
national defense or local police that suggests a free market can provide 
a more effective , efficient means of social objectives 
than is provided through approaches .  . with some 
exceptions , however , i do not see such nitty gritty , worthwhile 
analysis being carried out by self  . 



steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( bruce hayden ) 
subject re hate crimes laws 
nntp posting host org . 
organization , inc. 
lines 59 

 ( ted frank ) writes 

in article  ( douglas meier ) writes 
in article com . com . 
 ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article 
 ( douglas meier ) writes 
... 
if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault and 
 . why must we add gay to the list is n't this a sort of 
double or am i just being a again 

() to deter an of gay that has not been by 
assault laws .  . 

so we ought to make beating up a homosexual more illegal than beating up a 
straight 

and who 's advocating that hate crimes laws are aimed at the motivations 
of the acts .  . just like is treated stricter than 
of passion  . 

but you still get into trouble .  . for example how often are crimes 
of violence not hate crimes the question is then who are you 
hating if its another member , then its better than if 
the person you hate is of a color 

also , is it to declare that crimes of hate are worse 
than crimes of gross  ( like random drive by 
where they ca n't be hate crimes because the does n't know 
who he is going to hit he just into the  . 

() no , it is not double  . a single act may lead to multiple 
charges and multiple crimes .  . 

i think what you meant to say here was , with the current mutation of the us 
constitution under the current police state , someone may be charged multiple 
times for one act if the victim in question is of the right  . a single 
act should never merit more than on charge .  . 

so if i set off a bomb in the world trade center , i can only be charged with 
more than one murder , and not the other five deaths and extensive property 
damage after all , the bomb was a single act. 

first , i heard today that there is a good chance that the u.s. instead 
of new york is going after the bombers .  . this means no capital punishment .  . 

secondly , double does help keep the government from going after 
you for first one murder , then the next , etc. a has essentially 
one chance with a single fact pattern  ( such as the world trade center  . 
that is why the bombers will in all probability be tried for all the 
deaths , as well as the property , as well as conspiracy , at once. 
of course , as we discovered in the rodney king case , there are two 
, neither of which can try you twice for the same crime .  . 

bruce e. 
 ( 303 ) 



from  ( david matthew deane ) 
subject re public on ballot access , vote fraud and other issues 
reply to 
organization university 
lines 10 

well , the message was interesting  ( and long) , but twice oh well. personally , 
i , but my disagreement is , not tactical .  . 
election law reform is a good idea. you would not believe what kind of 
the creatures of the 2 party system are capable of  . 

david matthew 

when the words open , 
it means the death of doors 
even sense the danger .  .  ( amon liner ) 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 28 

in article ,  ( xavier gallagher ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article and cs . ac . uk . , and cs . ac . uk .  ( womble with attitude ) writes 
absolutely nothing , seeing as there is no table for  . 
if , as you claim , the supposedly higher amongst homosexual 
males makes them an risk , you need to be show that 
heterosexual males are less than homosexual males .  . 
without the data on heterosexual males , we cannot make a comparison 
between promiscuity of and homosexuals .  . 

and cs . ac . uk .  ( world ) 
or and cs  ( uk ) 

well , the obvious point to make is would straight men fuck like 
if the presented itself 

i reckon any man would go if presented with a 
huge variety of willing partners .  . the question here is not of being 

that , i suppose , says a lot about how up you are. 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 




clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from ( jonathan a. ) 
subject re damn be taken over 
organization university of virginia 
lines 34 

writes 

, you are a worm .  . 

rank ! america 's reputation has become 
because of and who apparently do not 
have the to stand up for american honor and  . 

translation it 's them damn again ! 

the american way may not be the only way , and you may not consider it 
to be necessarily the best way , but , by god , it 's our way and we 're 
going to stick with it ! if you ca n't go along with the program , then 
perhaps you should consider moving elsewhere. 

who gave you the authority to create and enforce this rather 
thing called the american way this is a democracy , and 
we do n't need to stick to it or stick up for it unless we so 
choose .  . remember that , , from class in , co 

that is exactly the problem with ! they do n't stand for 
anything with  . 

nice generalization .  . 

you ! you ! if you are sorry to then why do 
it do n't you have the courage of your convictions hell , do you 
even have any convictions to start with what kind of example of 
manly is this ! 

coming from such a example of manly , he must 
feel really hurt. 

jon , 

from  . nice guy ) 
subject re celebrate liberty ! 1993 
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university 
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither 
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users. 
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept. 
lines 10 

this is as bad as the did you know japan of 2 weeks ago. after 
finding this set of postings for the third time i hope no one shows up. 

i do n't know why fools insist on posting to every group. it just 
people. 

the only acceptable 
boulder , co for brains is silence .  . 
solomon short 
on 16 

from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re is la burning yet 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 18 

in article writes 

i hear the jury reached a verdict .  . 

where did you hear this i seem to have missed it. 

is la burning yet 

no. will l . a .  . burn no.  ( regardless of the verdict . ) . 

i'm not near a radio .  . 

count your  . 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

organization city university of new york 
from 
subject re most recent u . n .  . members 
lines 4 

179 of they were admitted early 
this year .  . was also recently admitted .  . also san  . 
both within the last 12 months. incredible what passes for a nation 
state nowadays. 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re clinton 's program 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 10 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( paul havemann ) says 

all together now .  .  .  . c mon , you know the words .  .  .  . meet the new boss ! same as 
the old boss ! and the we wo n't get again ! 

hmmm .  . can i , eh , get a little side bet on this one 




from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re f o health one system b . s .  . 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization in the hall 
distribution na 
lines 54 

writes 

there is never any mention of how much working have to 
pay in taxes for their free health care system. 

oh , really 

i know that more than 50 of an average daily 's goes 
towards taxes in canada mainly because of this free health care. 
it looks like we are pretty lucky so far. 

i know that when working in , ontario and quebec , i was aware 
that i was paying for health e.g. , in , 
were listed on my pay  . 

while i'm not the only canadian who lower taxes and 
in spending , health is n't on the table .  . see our ... 
a better one might be the 1st conducted for  ( our 
major english newsmagazine ) by research ... president 
allen gregg is considered one of the world 's top , 
and 's have relied on him to keep in power in 
the face of impossible election situations .  . i have n't had a chance 
to see this year 's version due to our library , but previous ones 
before the americans started their assault and had 
shown at and switching to an american all private 
system had support within statistical  . the are 
considered definitive .  . even the new reform party , a of 
from the with a mildly libertarian 
, hold our public health as an but that 
just a few people have to be reminded that it 's not free  ( the average 
canadian european is more naive than their american 
on issues like  . 

personally , i feel that the universal health approach used 
in canada , france and germany paying to private health in 
a nominally free market not unlike america 's , 's depends a 
lot on values in those societies different from the u.s. the basic 
health needs for life are not viewed as market , but the does 
allow the market to address that basic health care is not viewed on 
the level of ownership of a as americans would see it. plenty of 
room is left for of private funds as extra or as 

lastly , there were about how the canadian system was not 
containing costs , but , in fact , their system is currently bankrupt .  . 

please explain this one , in a way that canadian readers 
besides myself can understand and concur ... 



me 
l. dare 
go go ! ! ! 


from  ( lance w. bledsoe ) 
subject frank wanted for killing  .  .  . 
article i.d. 
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin 
lines 
nntp posting host cs . utexas . edu . 

 .  .  . his . account that is. 

many important issues , and some not so important ones , are discussed here 
on the net on a daily basis. i have just been informed of what i feel is 
one of the most important things that we could ever discuss the 
out and out censorship of one of our fellow posters because some people 
do n't like what he says or thinks .  . 

we have all seen the postings here by  . although many of us have 
not agreed with their content , i'm sure most of us have been at least 
somewhat interested in them. i , for one , am to live (i thought ) 
in a country where people like mr. are allowed to say what they please. 
if i do n't n't to read it , i can just on by , or  . but , 
unfortunately , some people cannot let others live and let live. they feel 
an overwhelming need to out the little  . now it seems that 
mr. will be with us no more , due mainly to our brother , and 
net police , frank .  . 


please help net  ( post ) access and correct this  . 

are you on s hit list 
are your thoughts correct 
is your account safe 
has your sysadmin been by the thought police 

i thought the and the supported people with opinions. not ! 


please read the following messages from so that 
you may understand this act for what it is .  .  .  . 



newsgroups alt . , alt . conspiracy . , talk . politics . misc . , misc . legal . 
subject frank , thought police number 
summary the argument by killing his opponent ! 
expires 
distribution 
organization university of , boulder 
keywords frank 

well , well , well .  .  .  . thanks to  ( mark eckenwiler ) and 
 ( ted frank ) , my account is to be  . 
i guess that the information i am presenting is just difficult 
for them to deal with. they  ( only and mark) have to my 
sysadmin some unknown number of times to get me off the net.  ( in his 
defense , mark sent only one message and it was not that bad it has 
been posted in one of the newsgroups however , it was not directed 
at me as would be common practice and i am very good at responding 
via  .  . ) . 

while i disagree with , i would not send mail to his sysadmin 
to get him  . name calling was not enough jumping on every post 
i made was not enough ignoring specific points when they were not 
what the desired picture was not enough simply ignoring me if i 
am such a was not enough. even now i do not wish to have him 
, but i do wish to express my disgust about this. argumentum 
ad silence your opponent ! i would have thought he would have 
wanted me to stay around just to have someone to about and 
seem sooo wise .  .  .  .  ( to himself , i think) .  . 

the issue that seems to be is the following an 
apparently , and mark think so .  .  .  . 

1 ) i posted an article from around one year ago as it was taken 
off the net from last year .  . if an article 
constitutes posting an ad , then i am guilty .  . this post 
did have a name and address and , yes , a price .  . if one 
had posted the address and price of newsweek , 
would that be an ad i get nothing from showing this stuff. 
2 ) i posted a list of documents showing examples of the kind of 
proof that was requested by frank .  . he then complains 
to my sysadmin saying that i am and , lo and 
behold , , there goes my account. this one had an 
address in it ! oh , no ! i guess that means it is an ad ! 

if you value the alternative view i have been discussing , or value 
its discussion even if you do not agree with it , i ask that you send 
a note saying as much to me to show to the sysadmin .  . they rarely get 
know , that user on your net was real helpful .  .  .  . or whatever they 
only get i do n't like what that user is doing because .  .  .  . . 
please do not send the note to the sysadmin .  . i need to take it to them 
in a manner that has at least a chance of getting through. 

in my files here are hundreds of responses from people saying thanks for 
the info or could you send me such and such or your posts are 
very interesting .  .  .  . keep it up. and only a of go . but , 
i guess the fact that i have decided not to waste my time trying to 
convince is a net offense tm of such magnitude as to warrant 
a message complaining about me.  ( knock , knock .  .  .  . my name is and 
and this is mark .  .  .  . we 're from the thought police .  . seems you have 
some pretty dangerous ideas here , and we 're here to them .  .  .  . ) 
indeed ! 

guess i will have to go back to the drawing board and come up with 
a new plan .  .  .  . thanks and mike .  . hope you are happy. 
i will be on for a few more days and then .  .  .  . that 's all folks ! 
your comments and support are requested .  . i can no longer post 
to news. i ask what this has accomplished .  .  .  . is there some benefit 
from making alternative views simply not in my book. 
seems the easiest way to win an argument is to make the side 
shut up. images of  .  .  .  . ah , but  .  .  . and all this when i am in the 
process of typing in a letter to me from the tax saying that 
a was removed due to a letter that i wrote challenging jurisdiction .  . 
oh , well .  .  .  . it takes time to come up with the info requested , and i 
was just getting started .  . 

it should be noted that frank has been accused publicly over 40 
times of being an supporter and has never made an statements to the 
contrary .  . further , what are frank 's motivations for getting me 
we all know that some people are getting paid to info on people 
on the net that are of interest to the government , and sure seems 
to have a personal interest in debunking me. hmmm .  .  .  . just who does 
he work for the university of chicago which he ( ) is well 
known as one of the biggest  .  .  . 

and finally , if anyone would be able to help me find a new account here 
in the boulder denver area , i would greatly appreciate it. i am in the 
process of and so will be able to do uucp or maybe 
a connection .  . any help here would be greatly appreciated. since i 
am longer be able to post news and will no longer have email very 
soon , i hope that anyone who wishes to contact me will do so via 

a. j. , 
c o box 
boulder , , u . s . a .  . 


or leave me voice mail at c o  ( 408 ) 



messages from frank via sysadmin follows 


with explicit of all rights c . c .  . 1 207 ) 
regards , a. j. , 




from mon apr 5 14 39 21 1993 
received from cs . edu . by cs . edu . with id 
ida 1 . 4 . 4 . for ) mon , 5 apr 1993 14 39 19 0600 
received by cs . edu . with id 
ida 1 . 4 . 4 . for ) mon , 5 apr 1993 14 36 54 0600 
message id 
to frank 
subject re list of documents 
cc , , 
, 
reply to 
in reply to your message of mon , 05 apr 93 13 29 06 
date mon , 05 apr 93 14 36 51 0600 
from 
status or 



please ask to stop his on the network. thank you. 
editor 's note 

in article writes 
start of document txt . 
documents now available 

bill medina , 
post office box 
, california , u . s . a .  . 


 ( 79 lines  . 


resolution 


thank you. he has been warned before. we are taking action. 


j. department of computer science 
, computer campus box , 
university of 
 ( 303 ) boulder , co 


from 
 . cs . edu . mon apr 5 15 50 36 1993 
received from cs . edu . by cs . edu . with id 
ida 1 . 4 . 4 . for ) mon , 5 apr 1993 15 50 34 0600 
received by cs . edu . id 
ida 1 . 4 . 4 . for ajteel ) mon , 5 apr 1993 15 50 27 0600 
date mon , 5 apr 1993 15 50 27 0600 
from 
message id 
received by next . mailer . 87 . 
received by next mailer 87 . 
to 
subject your account 
cc , , 

status or 

... 

i had already warned you that your inappropriate use of 
your account here must stop .  . you have used your account 
here as a soapbox for your political  . 

... 

date tue , 23 93 13 26 43 
from 
to 


also , if you are reported for any more 
, your account may be  . 

editor 's note what are we talking about 

from 
to a . j .  . 
date tue , 23 93 17 26 40 mst 


... 

as long as 
they are n't causing any problems , we typically do n't 
mind.  .  .  . we . have received two about the 
content of your messages so far  ( at least one of which i 
consider valid ) which already constitutes excessive 
in my book. just do n't let it happen again. 

editor 's note i wonder who the other post was from ! 

from thu 18 01 40 15 1993 
to frank 
subject re 

cc , 
reply to 
in reply to your message of wed , 17 93 21 05 59 cst 
date thu , 18 93 08 40 15 mst 
from 



in article 
names 





all 
i am having trouble the following  ( keeps  . 
if you sent me mail and have n't gotten a response , check here. 
also , can anyone tell me why these are i used 
the reply in which should send it right back , right 
with explicit of all rights c . c .  . 1 207 ) 
regards , a. j. , 

... 

editor 's note the reason for posting the lines from the 
messages was to show what the problem was and correct it. 

frank it 's inexcusable to post 150 lines of mail to four 
newsgroups .  . 
a simple four line post would have been sufficient .  . 


resolution 


yes i agree. but our policy is to not watch someone here 
makes .  . 
we generally let the net itself take care of inappropriate postings 
by flaming the user into shape  ( which i assume this is to  . 
we  ( cs operations ) do n't like to get involved in this stuff  ( unless 
its illegal , posts of , harassment , or something 
else that the community in  . my suggestion is that 
you take it to email and explain what a post for should look 
like or tell him to rtfm 


editor 's note obviously , had no such intention of doing so .  .  .  . 

frank however should have mentioned that though 
his advice is legally sound , if you follow it 
the u of c law school you will probably wind up in jail .  . 
standard disclaimers james , in misc . legal . 

editor 's note from this  . sig . , it seems obvious that frank has an 
axe to  .  .  . why that particular quote .... hmmm .  .  .  . sure makes me wonder .  . 




w. (512) 
shall know the truth , and the truth shall make you free. 


from  ( craig brown u ) 
subject re stop the former my beloved damn 's be taken over 
organization university 
lines 35 

in article  ( greg otts ) writes 
in article  ( juergen guenther ) writes 

i never understood why , , etc. accusing 
us. people for though think of them as the americans . 

not few think of you all as americans  ( and of the us. as 
a bunch of trash that god has to sooner or later ... ) 

 . m .  . 

it would not be surprising that a continent that produced , communism , 
and two world wars might have quite a few people who tend to think of other 
people as trash that should be sooner or later. i seem to 
remember a gut called hitler who felt the same way. one wonders what would be 
the fate of europe if god had this nation of trash 
before  .  ( not that i believe in gods . ) . how many millions of people through 
out the world would have to die because no force could stop the insane , bloody 
european the us helped put an end to 
these games so that the rest of the world can sleep alittle more safely .  . thus , i 
could care less what not few think so long as they ca n't do anything 
about it. 

greg 

these opinions are entirely my own. 


but remember that had god the blasphemous trash of europe  ( and 
with it) , the united states would not exist today to put an end 
to those games  .  .  .  . begs . the question , which came first , the or the 
egg 

c . brown . 


from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re getting off to an early start ! 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization in the hall 
lines 61 

patrick writes 
so ... the jury will be making its announcement at 7 00 am saturday 
morning time .... 10 00 am eastern time. why such an 
hour 

maybe by making the announcement at 7 00 am on the west coast , 
they figure all the will be , giving the troops 
time to move into place. 

since the actual were not known by the authorities , it was 
smart not to allow friday night for fighting  ( sorry , elton ) and to 
them for this morning. also , it allows for daylight to 
wear down and any potential , as well as give 
more time. 

i guess we can look forward to a of , eh 

are you a local news ( 

the of los , in a press conference about 3 00 am 
saturday morning , ... 

actually , that was 8  cos it was shown live on our 11 news 
and cut into 's 11 o sports  ( sorry , but i did n't watch 
the game ! no  .  .  . ) .  . 

, following the announcement of the jury 's verdict , the 
judge , jury and assorted court will be evacuated from the 
building via landing on the roof of the  . they 
ca n't even walk out through the front door with their heads held 
high. 

we had to la 's on our , and i did n't recall this 
detail. but i 'll not comment further on that ... 

wo n't the have a surprise waiting for them when they wake 
up later today ! 

a net contact in l . a .  . tells me that the alert will remain over this 
, as some elements may find excuse over the not guilty 
on three of five charges  ( the and  . those 
seem to out the fact that rodney king himself was not any kind 
of angel that night , speeding and fleeing et al. however ... another 
consideration is any street over the two convictions on 
the excessive force charges  ( koons for , and for 
both guilty as heck even from the view of cops 
interviewed ) that might get out of hand. ) also , some elements 
may take the as an excuse to challenge the cops (a 
move ,  . and , are still scared and certain people 
are really mad over how they have armed themselves in the last year .  . 

a from , long island was questioned about how his 
people would have rodney king , and he said we 'd have let 
him roll around in the  he got tired , then him . 



me 
l. dare 
go go ! ! ! 


from  ( thomas farrell ) 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay in nc ) verdict 
article i.d. 
organization university , boston , ma .  . , usa 
lines 10 

in article  ( mark wilson ) writes 

so you feel that the should have been convicted regardless of the 
evidence. now that would be a sad day for civil rights. 

i do n't know about everybody else , but to me , they should have been 
convicted because of the evidence , which in my mind was quite 
sufficient .  . 

tom 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re the role of the national news media in 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 17 

in article ,  ( greg hennessy ) writes 
writes 
the fact that she was wearing a with no was 
presented as evidence that she was a prostitute , and the court 
apparently found this compelling .  . 

ah , i know women who wear without wearing , and 
they are not  . 

do they have a history of working in , and telling 
co workers there that they are do they frequent 
stop lots at 4 00 am , without id on any sort 

greg , university of virginia 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re i thought was not allowed 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution na 
lines 47 

in  ( matt x8043 ) writes 

in article in talk . politics . misc . ,  ( bob blackshaw ) writes 

and  . regard , please do n't give us the you ca n't legislate 
morality nonsense again there is little else that is , 
including the moral concept of rights . 

really pure socialism had this belief , and flat on its ass by 
attempting to follow such reasoning .  . suppose you pass a law that 
states that i must love my , regardless of race , religion , 
etc. how exactly do you plan to enforce such a law better yet , how 
do you plan to measure and even if you overcome those 
two obstacles , how will you ever know if i have become more moral 
or not 

you either missed the point or are being somewhat disingenuous i have 
never heard anyone suggest that you can legislate what people think. 
laws are based on either (i . e .  . traffic laws ) or morality (i . e .  . 
human rights ) , as far as i can tell , and the majority are based on the 
latter .  . 

once more around the  . see the original statement that it is 
nonsense to believe that you cannot legislate morality .  . i simply stated 
that they can pass all the laws they want but not a single one of them 
will make you or i more moral people. they may make us act in a moral 
manner , but our actions are only a reflection of the to 
risk punishment .  . they say nothing about whether we have become more 
moral or not. perhaps the distinction is too fine. 



matt 




i'm not a i'm for equal rights ! 

if you do n't believe in abortion , do n't have one ! 
if you do n't believe in slavery , do n't own one ! 
if you do n't believe in murder , do n't commit one ! 

pro child. pro family. pro life. 

these are my opinions only and not those of my employer ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 


from  ( richard walz ) 
subject re how many homosexuals are there 
organization the 
lines 

in article  ( douglas meier ) writes 
in article com . com . 
 ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article 
 ( douglas meier ) writes 
... 
if someone beats up a homosexual , he should get charged for assault and 
 . why must we add gay to the list is n't this a sort of 
double or am i just being a again 

() to deter an of gay that has not been by 
assault laws .  . 

so we ought to make beating up a homosexual more illegal than beating up a 
straight silly me , thinking that the issue was that we are all people , to be 
treated equally .  . thanks for me out. 

wrong , if a bunch of from the decide to go straight 
and they target a heterosexual man and the bloody 
fuck out of him , they would get charged as well under all the federal laws 
that exist about violation of rights. the focus of their intent is 
his sexual orientation , and so the law applies to them as well. the 
national government the right to make any laws necessary to 
sufficiently deter and punish any crime against someone 's civil rights 
until that behavior becomes so well punished that nobody even tries it ! 
the fact is , that at last count , gays were not beating for their 
sexual orientation .  . thus , the law is getting applied only to the 
who indulge themselves. the federal government or has the right 
to enforce the amendment of equal protection under law even 
if it takes 1000 possible charges against people who would violate them. go 
read your constitutional law. we broke the back of the 's 
campaign with the same strategy in the early 1900 's .  . so many went to jail 
and for so long that it cut the heart out of the  . 


() no , it is not double  . a single act may lead to multiple 
charges and multiple crimes .  . 

i think what you meant to say here was , with the current mutation of the us 
constitution under the current police state , someone may be charged multiple 
times for one act if the victim in question is of the right  . a single 
act should never merit more than on charge .  . that 's almost like if four cops 
got from cruel and unusual punishment charges , and the country went 
and tried them again and again until they .  .  .  . oh .  .  .  .  . never mind. 

this mutation as you call it , your little butt too , if you 
happen to be somewhere where you 're the wrong for somebody else 's 
taste. if it can be shown that the motive for the assault on you was 
motivated , then the full power of these extra laws that bring more 
charges and punishments will come against those who harmed you. the first 
use of such laws was well over a hundred years ago , and constitutional 
scholars of all conviction recognize that this right to the 
federal government is well established and not just some short lived 
, too ! go read some constitutional law for  . maybe you 'll 
get it. 


douglas c. 






richard  ( 408 ) 1200 
street 1 without safe and free abortion women are 
santa , ca to unwanted parasites .  . 
real men would never accept slavery and will protect women. 

from  ( paul havemann ) 
subject re top ten excuses for slick 's record setting 
organization 
lines 26 

in article ,  ( bill anderson ) writes 
 ( steve shapiro ) writes 

oh , and btw , its william jefferson clinton .  . 

regards , 
steve .  . 


no , it 's not and i really fail to understand the use of that name 
as an insult .  . do you feel that being implies some sort of 
moral failing 

yes , it is you could look it up. and spare us the thin 
, please what 's sauce for four years of using george 
walker bush and j. quayle as an insult is sauce for william 
jefferson clinton .  . do you feel that calling a president by his full 
name implies some sort of disrespect hint this is a rhetorical question. 



paul  ( internet 

they 're not just opinions they 're for the brain ! 
 ( up to 50 per cynical observation . ) . 
recommended minimum daily requirement 1 , 000  . keep reading. 

from  . grinch ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization 
lines 73 
distribution world 
nntp posting host tamu . edu . 
summary considered 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 

i'm not sure why you do n't consider it an option. no one suggests that 
such analysis should be left to  . in fact , the re 
government movement provides just such a cost benefit approach to the 
analysis of public spending .  . would do well to learn more 
about it. 



okay , let me try to explain this. 

when one votes for such a creature as a or , worse yet , a president , 
one votes not for specific policies but for a general which must cover 
all issues for 4 or 6 years. as such , one 's influence is highly  . 
i might add that , even if one were free to vote on individual , 
the vast amount of time required for considering a particular , 
combined with the very small chance of one 's vote making a difference , would 
make it unreasonable to expect the voter to make an intelligent decision 
with respect to specific  . 


sorry , but it strikes me that it is the only approach. what is 
not is a wholesale attack on all government and 
that treats cutting hair and practicing medicine as equivalent 
 . 

i'm not sure what you mean by in this case. do you mean that 
are impossible in , or merely that it would be undesirable in 
fact 


actually , the only areas of public spending above that strike me as 
substantial support among are police and defense .  . 

2 of the four you saw fit to mention , and education of is always 
another possibility , since are generally considered not to be 
responsible to make their own decisions as adults are. 

 ( it is an interesting aside that as committed as claim to 
be to a principle of non coercion , the only areas of public spending 
that they frequently support involve people with guns .  .  .  . hmmm .  .  . ) . 

you say this as if it were surprising , yet in fact a necessary consequence 
of libertarian philosophy .  . all non functions should be dealt 
with privately , therefore it follows that the only functions remaining to 
the state are the ones. 


perhaps you have. may i suggest that you consider that 
frequently generate support by acting as of , 
and children. governments that ignore such people on the grounds 
that we do n't have much to fear from them do so at their own peril .  . 

much more likely it 's  . the groups in more 
likely 
to be worse off during and after a revolution than before. in the unlikely 
event that you missed my earlier sarcasm , let me say this directly 
the idea that such programs as social security or should be considered 
defense  ( an idea which has been advanced in and other newsgroups ) is 
so absurd a lie as to be unworthy of consideration .  . do you seriously 
dispute this 


i do n't want to seem patronizing , but you still seem to be 
under the that under a economic system it is reasonably 
intelligent and honest persons  ( like yourself ) who make the decisions. 
i feel any third party added to a is every bit as likely to be 
ignorant or corrupt as the or  . i do n't expect you to agree 
with me , but you explain why you feel i'm wrong 


mr. 

from  ( albert cheng ) 
subject re hard times was  ( no subject given ) 
article i.d. news . 
organization l for  ( ncsa ) @ university of illinois 
lines 10 
originator 


in article ,  ( bill riggs ) writes 
my mother in law , who grew up in germany , does n't believe in 
money at all. she started out as a real , and now raises 
horses .  . she keeps telling me that inflation is coming back , and to lock 
in my fixed rate as low as possible. 

if time is really hard , can a bank call in some 
loans early what if the bank , can its call in the 
loans 

subject re stop putting down white het males .  . 
from 
organization city university of new york 
lines 31 

from  ( duane hentrich ) 
btw , i'm a  ( white catholic ) 


d m. 

i would like to go on record as objecting to mr. calling 
himself an  . the word  is of origin and occurs first 
in the hindu scripture , the  . it seems to have been a term 
but may have had of good character. such 
are quite explicit in the sayings of the buddha who called his religion the 
path .  . the word was borrowed by the german scholar 
who used it as a for european  , but then the 
nazis proceeded to steal it and started that  is 
with  which seems highly unlikely .  . the people who 
originally called themselves , the , , the afghans 
and possibly the , are none of them  . so the use of the word 
by westerners , though meant with apparent good humor in this case , is 
inappropriate .  . the only westerners who may have some claim 
to call themselves  ( by descent ) are the who seem to have 
a god called who is mentioned in the  . 

if you want to check what i am saying , look at 's book , 
search of the or , just look at the encyclopedia  . 
the reason this usage is offensive is that most of ancient literature 
as well as religion is directly or due to the and 
for westerners to butt in is really not nice , not to mention the horrible 
things done by germans to jews , using a word to which the germans have 
no clear claim .  . 



from  ( drevik , steve ) 
subject re clinton 's program 
news software vax vms 1.41 
organization university of computing center 
lines 32 

in article ,  ( red herring ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( jeffrey s linder ) writes 
in article 
 ( mark wilson ) writes 
on the news last night clinton was the for 
his so called  . 
it seems that one small item within this was going to pay for free 
for poor kids .  . 

for children in this country are already free if you care to 
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the parents 
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done. 

i do n't know where you live , but this is not the case  . 
perhaps your state or has put together the funds to 
do so , but in my area and most areas where i know people , 
cost . 

sorry to your  . 



in case you have n't noticed , are pushing a universal health 
care access program .  . access here means that folks who do not give 
a damn about their children will have health care services 
to their  . 




disclaimer opinions expressed are mine , not my employer 's .  . 


from  ( marc mueller ) 
subject re ( c 17 c 5 was  ( re selective service ) 
nntp posting host 
organization university school of engineering , , , usa 
lines 48 

in article  ( fletcher p adams ) writes 
 ( marc mueller ) writes 
 ( fletcher p adams ) writes 

eliminate the c 17 transport .  . 

wrong. we need its capability .  . sure it has its problems ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

if you read week , the c 5 line can be and the c 
would be a year earlier and cost a billion less for the 
program .  . politically , though , the c 17 is popular  . 

i do read week and do n't remember this. could you supply the date 
of the magazine 

week march 15 1993 p . 48 . 

the estimates that matching the capability of 100 c would 
require 70 c at a total cost of 14 . 4 . billion .  . this option is still 
more than 10 billion than the c 17 program , which 
the estimates will cost 24 . 7 . billion .  . 

sorry , i was billion off. the c would be ten billion  . 
as for c 17 vs. c 5 , the c 17 ca n't carry as much 
but has more capability ( read can land at smaller of which 
there are more of ) than the c 5. now is the c 17 it depends 
on whether your job relies on it or not. ) in california right now , 
i would say that it is not since due to peace dividend so many 
people are out of work. 

well , california voted for change , right 
the argument to continue military programs just to support jobs is 
a poor one. it 's kept quite a few bases open that should have been closed 
years ago , wasting billions of taxes .  . 

the question is whether and clinton will be able to face down 
a happy congress .  . 



huh should n't that read the question is whether a social happy 
and clinton will be able to face down a jobs happy 
congress .  . 






from b . 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
organization at t 
lines 63 

in article com . com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

these two are from two different posts. in splicing them 
together it is not my intention to change steve 's meaning or misrepresent 
him in any way. i do n't think i 've done so. 

as noted in another thread  ( limiting govt ) , the problem face 
is that the limited government they seek does not become the 
tool of private interests to pursue their own  . 

it is a failure of if the ideology does not provide any 
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than dreams .  . just 
as fails to how pure communism is to be achieved and 
the state is to away , frequently fail to show how 
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human 
condition. 

part of what started this was my earlier example of illinois , usa requiring 
anyone doing more than x automobile a year  ( x 10 , i think) 
to become as a used car  . in addition , it anyone 
with a used car 's license to own at least 10 cars at a time , all the 
time. 

let me continue with this example and try to answer steve 's questions. 

steve , let 's say you have the talent and to fix up and 
cars .  . either you 've gotten good enough at it in your spare time to 
up against these limits , or you would like to do it full time but these 
stupid , arbitrary laws prevent you from starting out small and 
yourself up. so i'm protected from a neighborhood willing 
to take a low profit while working extra hard to fulfill my needs , and you 're 
protected from doing what you want with your life. 

here 's what i see offering you 

your money is truly yours it belongs to you. you can use it to buy a car. 
if you use it to buy a car , it is truly your car it belongs to you. you 
can use your money to fix up that car. since it is your car , you can sell 
that car. 

your life is truly yours it belongs to you. it matters not if someone 
thinks that it 's wrong for you to buy and sell 10 cars within 12 months 
rather than , say , 9 cars .  . they may , but it is not their life or 
their money , it is your life and your money. 

my money is truly mine it belongs to me. i can use it to buy a car. 
perhaps your car. perhaps that car , the one that someone , somewhere 
of you selling and , presumably , of me buying .  . 

that someone could go to the government and insist that the government make 
us stop it. but the government would be powerless to stop us from doing 
what we like with our own property , in the of fraud or  . 
and it would be powerless to stop us from with each other. 

this does not seem to me to be a dream , but basic human 
and common sense. a real grass roots example of freedom and liberty .  . 
and yes , not having a few people acting as our masters , or 
rejecting each of our basic with each other , does strike me 
as a wonderful way to improve the human condition. 

thanks awfully , 
patrick 


from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re damn 's be taken over 
article i.d. cos . 
distribution world 
organization corporation for open systems 
lines 34 

in  ( peter nelson ) writes 

in article  ( bob blackshaw ) writes 
in  ( peter nelson ) writes 

norway  ( where you appear to be posting from ) is just such a 
place , although it has always escaped my understanding just 
what the appeal , to allegedly rational people , of such a 
scheme might be. what gives king v  ( or whoever it is 
now my is from 1987 ) the right to any special legal 
status or title based on a mere accident of birth 

to begin with , it 's quite compared to here , what with our 
having former still alive , drawing , expense 
accounts , and secret service protection. 

maybe so , but they were , after all , president .  . in the 
world it 's for to be given nice 
, etc. the point is that they performed a service and 
this is part of the  . the only service 
have to perform for their free ride is being born. 

we might be better off had some of our former done nothing. 


peter 



ps . . . which is not to say that some of our have 
not provided a service for the country too from what 
occurs when a bull services a cow  ( for those of you familiar 
with  . 


from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re clinton 's program 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 33 

in article  ( red herring ) 
es 
in article state . edu . 
cs . ohio . state . edu .  ( jeffrey s linder ) writes 
in article 
 . c . 
 ( mark wilson ) writes 
on the news last night clinton was the for 
his so called  . 
it seems that one small item within this was going to pay for free 
for poor kids .  . 

for children in this country are already free if you care to 
go have it done. the problem is not the cost , it is the parents 
who are to stupid or to lazy to have it done. 

in case you have n't noticed , are pushing a universal health 
care access program .  . access here means that folks who do not give 
a damn about their children will have health care services 
to their  . 



excuse me for my nose in , but any parent parents who do not 
their children  ( especially if it is already free ) , do n't one 
of tax money for health care for themselves , or public health 
care service .  . 

(i know the program and the coming national health care issue are 
slightly issues , but anybody who would n't help their kids , do n't 
my tax  . 

ryan 

from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
organization university of virginia 
lines 15 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
that describes some and nearly all homosexual males .  . 

can you provide any evidence that does n't massive selection 
effects 

no , i thought not. 

just slander on your part. 


greg , university of virginia 
mail astronomy department , , va 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re the state of justice 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 26 

in article  ( not a boomer ) writes 
in article ,  ( tim smith ) writes 
what kind of witnesses if we are talking about witnesses who were at 
the accident , or were otherwise directly involved (e . g .  . , , 
emergency room doctors , etc . ) . , then they should have been used at the 
first trial .  . you do n't get a new trial because you up and 
forgot to call all of your witnesses .  . 

they are two witnesses who did n't come forth until after the first 
trial .  . while it would be tough luck for if they new about these witnesses 
, imo this constitutes new evidence . 

the test is n't whether knew otherwise that would reward for its 
stupidity .  . the test is whether reasonably should have known of their 
existence .  . it works both ways if had won the trial , and the 
turned up two witnesses who came forward after the first trial who should 
have been , too bad , so sad no new trial .  . 

like tim said , you do n't get a new civil trial because you up 
the first time around. unlike the criminal justice system , is 
much more important in the civil justice system. 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from  ( william december starr ) 
subject re selective service 
organization law , class of  93 
lines 18 
nntp posting host 1 . mit . edu . 
in reply to 


in article , 
said in response to dave 

you selfish little bastard. afraid you might have to sacrafice 
for your country. what someone not approve a lone for you 
to bad. what is immoral is people like you and the current president 
who do n't have any idea why this country still exists after 200 
years. 

william if the reason that this country still stands after 200 years 
is that it uses military to force young men to fight for 
causes that they do n't believe in strongly enough to for 
military service in support of , then perhaps the fact that the country 
is still standing is not good news .  .  .  . 

william december 


from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject re part 4  ( re looks like clayton must retract 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random .  . 
distribution ca 
lines 48 

in article  ( carlos carrion ) writes 
does the greatly increased of amongst 
blacks show that they are or that the majority 
of them support criminal activity 

is n't this a matter of does n't this simply show 
that since criminal behaviour is common  ( or to be common ) 
in the 18 34  ( insert your favorite correct numbers here ) year 
old range and since the percentage of blacks in this range is 
higher than in other groups , then it follows statistically 
that more blacks in prison is an expected result 

note that i have n't said anything about blacks being given 
or longer sentences than other groups. i'm sure this 
has to have an effect on the issue of over representation of 
blacks in prison .  .  .  . 

blacks have the same ( 2 ) crime report rate , arrest rate , and 
rate for violent crimes .  . 

so i doubt that for violent crimes , that there is any inherent bias mechanism 
present. 

there is a discrepancy for all crimes for blacks wrt to 3 categories .  . 

interestingly enough , the discrepancy is the largest in the southern 
united states where blacks are well below the average in 
the rest of the united states ! which points to an anti bias against wrt 
blacks .  . 

in any case , for violent crimes and and drug selling , blacks are 
reported 53 , 44 , and are present in 47  . 

considering that 12 of the population is black , 6 are black males , and 
some percentage of that is out of the high low age groups , we do have a 
situation where  ( if i remember my old calculations right ) 4 of the 
population almost half of the really nasty crimes .  . 

blacks with similar histories  ( crime ) to get the same sentences , 
except in the south , where they receive around 20 less on paper ! ! 




there are actually people that still believe love was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from 
subject re stop putting down white het males .  . 
nntp posting host edu . 
reply to 
organization rochester institute of technology 
lines 33 

it may be a little late to reply to your and also on an 
board but along with all of the so called great things the white male has done they have also contributed to society by means of mass genocide , the theft of 
ideas and cultures , creating and the of historical lies among many other horrible activities. 
but every culture has its and its  . it seems to me that the 
white male  ( must be extremely ignorant to qualify for the following if 
you 're not disregard ) and western culture are the only things that look to 
actively things as good or bad , worthy or unworthy  ( ya dig ) 
it can be seen with slavery and the and destruction of the 
american civilization .  . nothing but selfish acts that benefit one 
group of people  ( and not even their women get or got respected or regarded as 
equal ai n't that some stuff ) 

white men not being specific but in a lot of cases are just or have 
of how the world is to serve their purpose. 

just look at david koresh throughout history (i may be on this one so excuse my ignorance ) only white men associate themselves god. no other culture is ignorant or arrogant enough to assume such a 
position. and then to and all those people. 

hmmm .  .  .  . i 'd say look in your history books but since it seems that history 
has been written to glorify the of white men you 'd only find lies .  . 

that 's enough already from me because this has nothing to do with sex or this board. if 'd like to continue this discussion e mail me and we can 
compare and ideas 

i like conflict it 's when the 
is good .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

my  . 02 . worth 

(i apologize to those who thought this was going to be about sex but i was 
prompted by a response i found up here ) 

dave lewis hands man 

from  ( rick roy ) 
subject re so why does clayton on children 
organization , inc. 
reply to  ( rick roy ) 
x mailer release 1 . 
lines 76 


in article politics . misc . , alt . sex . , soc . ,  ( richard walz ) writes 
in article writes 
i think the dialogue would go better if  ( at least some ) gays 
showed awareness of a practical issue. for example. men and women use 
different  . hence men who are likely to abuse girls have that 
avenue closed to them. there are many other situations where it is easy 
to prevent sexual abuse between the two through such measures and 
social conventions .  . it is harder to prevent it with gays but if those 
gays who do not abuse children  ( nor want to) became aware that this is 
a practical problem that we can solve with good will on both sides , then 
we can have protection for parents and children at the same time as 
protection for gays in those ways that are of importance to their 
pursuit of happiness in their own way. 

just a thought 



sorry , , but you are responding to someone well recognized as a 
flaming , i.e. , clayton  . he must have been by a man and is 
living his life in an attempt to all men who like sex with other men 
something slightly similar to the way his liked it with him. he 
will alter or misrepresent anything he finds to try to prove that there are 
homosexuals who wish to rape little like he was coming out of the 
 . there is no hope for him. in all probability he is secretly gay , 
which his neurosis in his own mind , by thinking that someone else 
made him that way. i do n't personally see how someone like him could walk 
and gum at the same time , as mentally crippled and dominated as he is 
by his fantasies .  . 

he would have you believe that the on the percentage of people who 
like to do it with the same sex sometime or all the time is way smaller 
than it is , but then he will virtually assert that everyone 's and 
they 're trying to get him. he actually believes , despite all evidence that 
homosexuals do some huge amount of child sexual abuse , 
even though he insists that there may be as few as 1 of them in the male 
population ! if there were that few of them in the population , san francisco 
would currently be empty , because a significant portion of them have sought 
a tolerant atmosphere in that city , and the numbers simply do not work when 
you add up their home town origins .  . there is nothing to be gained by 
communicating with clayton , he is unable to listen to anyone. 




richard  ( 408 ) 1200 
street 1 without safe and free abortion women are 
santa , ca to unwanted parasites .  . 
real men would never accept slavery and will protect women. 

sorry , but i do n't see how the response applies to what was posted. 

unless i am mistaken , is suggesting that protecting 
from men is different than protecting girls from men. there are situations 
in which and girls are apart from members of the opposite sex 
 ( due to social or whatever ) and thus are safe  ( in at least 
some  . these same situations do n't  ( necessarily ) protect the 
children from abuse by members of the same sex. 

if we can understand that , it 's not such a leap to suggest 
that if we all think about it hard , someone may come up with a 
practical solution  ( or even a solution ) to some of the situations 
in which children are made vulnerable to homosexuals who wish to abuse 
them. by working together with good will on both sides , we may be 
able to start problems without anyone 's freedoms .  . 

mr. on the other hand is using 's post as an excuse for 
personal attacks on mr.  . while mr. has n't  ( by a long 
stretch ) been the only one to flame mr. , it is no less childish 
and it only serves to any other arguments he may make in the 
future. 


roy usenet america 
disclaimer my employer 's views are to these. 
the early got worms .  . 

from  ( roy radow ) 
subject re a subject 
organization public access unix , 
lines 59 

in  ( carlos carrion ) writes 

in article  ( roy radow ) writes 
but this does not imply that all relationships between youth 
and adults are and abusive .  . 

the critical factor here is whether the sexual activity is forced 
or whether it is an activity that is agreed upon and 
freely engaged in by the people involved. 

when a child is forced there is often damage , on the other hand , 

agree here. 

relationships are often found to be positive experiences 
for all concerned. 

why do i find this hard to believe 
care to convince us 

, 

why not check out some of the scientific research that has been 
done in this area and convince yourself. 

research around the world indicates that the issue of coercion is 
the critical factor .  . 

for those interested in research on the topic i can suggest , et al 
 ( england ) ,  ( united states ) , and  ( the  . 
i especially like 's research for he actually quotes what the 
who are involved in the relationships have to say. 



children and sex new findings , new perspectives by larry 
floyd m. ) .  . little brown co .  . , boston ,  . 
on their contacts with men by theo , academic 
publishers , , new york , 1987 .  . 
perspectives on by brian ) .  . academic 
ltd .  . , london ,  . 
a factual report by bernard .  . , , 
the , 1985 .  . 
sexual experience between men and by  . maurice 
temple smith ltd .  . , , great britain , 1985 .  . 
children 's sexual with adults by c . k .  . , d . j .  . west t . p .  . 
 . co .  . , london , 1990. 


yours in liberation , 

roy 



roy  .  .  . ! cmcl2 ! ! roy 
north american man boy love association for a packet containing a 
, list and membership information send 1 . 00 . 
to info , dept . , po box , station , ny  . 

from  ( gadfly ) 
subject re california federal legislation to protect from 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
summary whatever you say. 
lines 

in article ,  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
you mean , since your philosophy took over , the economy has almost 
collapsed .  . 

excuse me , my philosophy you do n't have any idea what my philosophy 
is. the american economy has had its and through a number of 
prevailing economic  . but then , economics is hardly a science. 

in my lifetime , your philosophy socialism as a liberal 
welfare state has been in  . 

yo earth to clayton my philosophy i have never discussed this with you. 
i know it 's a minor point , but , gee , dude , you have no idea what economic 
and political principles i to. but do n't let that stop you you 're on a 
roll .  . just ascribe to me whatever you want i know you 'll choose  . 
after all , i do believe in personal responsibility .  . 

no , i mean exactly what i wrote the welfare system of the new deal is 
wholly to with the current state of affairs .  . 

absolutely .  . so the response of is take us even further 
into socialism .  . 

 . what else would you expect a to do 

in the no , your has utterly dominated the 
tv and movie for two decades now. 

my my , we 're getting personal .  . the only i see 
the tv and movie is money . if you 'll buy it , 
they 'll sell it. and as recent movements to boycott tv have 
shown , they 're very sensitive about what  . whatever happened to 
personal responsibility , anyway or am i personally responsible for 
the decline in that , too 

to the extent that people have been encouraged to not be responsible 
for themselves , yes. 

 ( a ) just when and where have i encouraged people not to be responsible 
for themselves be specific but do make up random dates and 
acts as you see fit. 

 ( b ) you and i have encouraged many people to do many things. how does that 
in any way make our audiences less responsible for their actions is there 
a finite amount of responsibility , so  . of energy ) as 
i become more responsible for an occurrence by encouraging it the actual 
becomes less so at what point does the 
become completely innocent you know , this lends 
a whole new meaning to the term the moral high ground . 

enough , all the or people i know 
to find employment almost immediately .  . maybe she needs to move to a 
part of the country , where jobs are , and the cost 
of living is lower .  . 

the west side of chicago is about as cheap as it gets city. 
tell me about all these places where it 's cheap to live and jobs are 
i 'll pass them on. 

 . 

i will pass the info on. out of curiosity , what kind of jobs would these 
be what 's the mix wrt race , age , culture 

lots of employment , and utterly by  . well , i suppose 
that 's the sort of environment that would attract , or at least 
not them. 

no , it 's that areas with a lot of all the 
spoiled rich kids , feeling guilty about their wealth .  . but not guilty 
enough to give it away they just look for politicians to take my 
more limited wealth away. 

life 's a bitch , ai n't it man , you 've got to get out of have 
you considered perhaps distant but politically 
more friendly to you , like , say , or maybe utah 

well , i doubt that much of this goes to drugs there is n't much left after 
buying food , and there is very little in the first place. sure , you read 
about such cases now and then , but that 's what makes them news. show me 
your statistics about abuse .  . 

i can tell you that relatives i have known , the drugs came first , the 
food was secondary .  . 

i do n't doubt it , but unless you can show me statistics to the contrary 
i will in my apparently dogmatic belief  ( hey , if you say 
so ) that most money really does for better or worse in the long 
term feed  . 


ken 
16 apr 93 27 an 


 .  .  . ! de l ! de l ! 

from  ( amar chaudhary ) 
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of on avenue 
organization yale university science engineering  ( unix(tm ) , new haven , ct 
lines 
nntp posting host cis . yale . edu . 




top ten signs that it 's the age of on avenue 



10. men in uniform are non in the home of our in 
chief .  . 

9. 's will make the clean air act look like an 
industrial policy. 

8. higher taxes are once again the prescription for all that america .  . 

7. tax is unpatriotic draft is a symbol of pride .  . 

6. from the office  . 

5. socialism may be dead in the ex soviet union but we are told to prepare 
for the of our health care resources .  .  ( these people 
must be something . ) . 

4. not quite free love but eating flowers is considered healthy .  . 

3. the have a president in the white house whether the rest of 
us realize it or not. 

2. slick may be the first draft to send american troops into 
combat .  . 

1. slick may be unpopular with middle class americans , but he 's a big hit 
on campus with the class .  . 



 ( c ) edward a. , jr. , 1993 


here 's my own top ten response to mr. 's list 


10. it 's about time we have a president that might actually stand up to the 
military .  . our men and women in uniform must learn that the world does not 
around them , and that one of the things they 're out there defending 
is our right to be critical of them , even denounce them. 

9. let me explain something to you. environmental policy and industrial 
policy must go hand in hand. our nation , and indeed , our planet cannot 
afford to continue ignoring this as was done over the last twelve years. 
our industrial environmental position has been ! we 
must have active government support of the key such as , 
telecommunications , , medical , , and environmental 
tech .  . out old , , high , 
that are better left to other nations .  . this will make us , help 
produce new jobs , and help the environment. to give credit where credit 
is due , i heard a lot of this in a speech by john  ( d ma ) 
 . in addition , it 's time we get really , really serious about 
issues like overpopulation , , and  . the 
planet on which we live should be our utmost priority ! 

8. it just so happens that that it takes money to make this country work , 
to provide the services that people need , and to help solve the problems 
that need to be solved .  . granted , some things can probably be done more 
for less money , and should be. but some things are going to 
cost more money and i'm sick and tired of hearing everyone about 
taxes all the time. you want to live in my country , you pay your fair 
share ! 

7. i ca n't believe what hypocrites people are when they ask people to give 
up their lives for their country and then complain about taxes .  . if you 're 
willing to send me off to die for some stupid with fighting an 
enemy which at best does n't affect us and at worst really should be our 
friend , then you have no right to tell me you should n't pay taxes ! 

6. hey , i think the add a 60 's touch ! 

5. look , canada , europe , and japan to provide health care for their 
citizens  ( and , yes , basic health is a human right which people are 
entitled to) .  . if these nations are n't capitalist enough for you , then 
i guess we 've found something better than capitalism ! there is nothing 
sacred about the capitalist system , and if something , be it socialism 
or anything else , works better , then i say let capitalism die. 

4. make love , not war ! 

3. contrary to popular belief , it is possible to be a male and a 
at the same time. to discriminate against or to deny equal opportunity 
to a majority of the population is just plain wrong , and trying to force 
them into some sort of tradition role is even worse. women certainly 
have as much to offer this world as men , and the day that 
discrimination is finally broken it going to make all the of 
the past few centuries seem like reform  . i look forward to it. 

2. see number 10. 

1. hey man , rules ! ! 





peace , land , at ! 
ac in in ! 

none of the opinions here necessary reflect the opinions of yale university or 
anyone or anything associated with it , except for me , of course ) 

please post or send them to 



from  ( phill baker ) 
subject re will be the next to fall 
lines 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 


in article ,  ( ed ipser ) writes 

will be the next to fall 



socialism may have collapsed in eastern europe and the soviet 
but it on in western europe and the united states. it remains 
the primary ideology in the hearts and minds of the liberal 
and media. but all the political correctness they can may not be 
sufficient to hold back the economic forces that threaten to spread 
socialism 's collapse from the second world to the first. indeed , it is 
becoming more apparent every day that socialism may not even survive 
the turn of the century. 

ed of course has never demonstrated remarkable of socialism , 
or any other political system come to that. 

while the have already discarded their third way and the 
french have made history by turning out the party in a 
record setting defeat , it is that appears most 
on the of its political existence .  . 

that leaves germany , japan and the uk as examples of a country where the 
right government is on the verge of collapse .  . oh and of course the usa 
which just elected a government ) 

, today , is a case even by european standards. it has 
introduced 17 new taxes in 5 months and public is at or 
near the 50 of mark. 

etc , unfortunately you ca n't pin this on the left or the right , both are 
to blame .  . both sides are equally deep into the corruption  . the only 
party is the northern league which is a bunch of 
and the communist party which has collapsed .  . 


in spite of this political , it has 
an the sum of all other ec countries and a 
public debt 2.5 times that of america .  . is 
having serious trouble selling its treasury bonds in the  . and 
while is an extreme case , it is anything but unique all 
european governments appear headed in the same direction in spite of 
their nominally non governments .  . 

unfortunately , being , well , , it is very unlikely 
that they will discover american style liberty .  . instead , they will 
likely from socialism to as quickly as they had moved 
from to socialism never pausing along the way to the 
role of government , itself. i hope i am wrong. 

ed should take a look at the and bush created together 
before he starts to make claims about europe based on the 
deficits here. none of them are serious on the usa scale. 

and here in europe we have zero interest in ed type freed thank you. 
we do not want our countries to be run by a narrow of rich lawyers 
for the benefit of the super  . we are quite happy with social 
democracy and despite the fuss made in time and newsweek there is 
little being done to reverse the social welfare reforms brought in by 
socialism .  . 

the problem with socialism is that it started with the of free education 
and health care and of the welfare state. this has been achieved 
across the whole of europe , only the usa is to up. the 
problem for socialism is what to do now it has succeeded .  . 


nobody ever claimed that the collapse of socialism would be pretty .  . 
the decline of the nation state will probably lead first to anarchy 
since politicians always cut essential services before  . los 
has rampant crime and for the next wave of 
riots but it has a new that nobody wants to use and 
which , like every other public transit system in the world , will never 
be economically viable .  .  ( if you were trying to tax , 
which would you cut first , mass transit or police protection ) 

ed starts to la , presumably he thinks that it is in europe .  . on 
the other hand he most probably has n't heard of a european city. 

thus does the world chaos even as the 21st century 
approaches .  . 

rather the opposite .  . what is happening in is that the communist party 
has collapsed .  . this has meant that the grand between right and 
left parties to keep out the communists has also collapsed .  . the 
have this opportunity to crack down hard on fraud and 
corruption and have half the politicians .  . the fact that the 
are in charge this week is incidental , the right is into the corruption just 
as  . 

what looks likely to happen is the fringe parties are going to do much 
better in the next election .  . most of the are going 
to get replaced and the parties are going to be forced to look to people 
who are free of any hint of corruption .  . look out for a of 
's and stars .  . 


baker 


organization city university of new york 
from 
subject re illegal war 
lines 5 

the operation going on in is a 
operation where force may be used. it is not a war. it is also legal 
under international law , which is higher than us law. the operation 
is under the of the united nations .  . ca n't get a higher 
authority than that on this earth. 

from  ( gary l dare ) 
subject re z magazine health care reform  ( march 93 ) 
nntp posting host cc . edu . 
reply to  ( gary l dare ) 
organization in the hall 
lines 

sorry , et al , but our doctors and most hospitals are still 
private in canada as well as in much of western europe .  . 

 ( harel brown ) writes 

h e a l t h c a r e r e f o r m 
by 
z magazine  ( see bottom ) , march 1993 

... 
the single model , sometimes called national health , 
private and removes health care from 
employment .  . the government provides free health care to all u.s. 
residents .  . and there are no out of costs .  . 

wrong. in better ec countries that use pure  ( but public ) health 
 ( like we use in canada ) rather than self like 
medicine , 30 of our costs comes from private 
and or  . france magazine 's summer 1992 edition 
has a of their basic , 
including a of  . for 1 30 days , 
you 're covered for 80 of the public hospital rate , 100  . 
with extra private , you can get into a private hospital and 
be covered for any differences beyond the public hospital rate .  . the 
public covers 100 beyond 30 days , or the same cash amount 
for a private hospital and the difference is paid out of or 
according to your private  . over 2 of 
french have some form of extra private  . so , 30 of health 
costs in europe are out of private funds and not gleaned from other 
taxes .  . the are combined public and private 
for total using the same methods that the 13 14 figure 
for the u.s. 

that the french had and in their 
is to their credit ... i am in the minority for advocating such back 
in canada  ( to make the canadian look more like real health 
which actually it is) .  . the new reform party , a 
of from the with a mildly libertarian 
, hold our public health as an but that 
just a few people have to be reminded that it 's not free  ( the average 
canadian european is more naive than their american 
on issues like  . 

i'm one of the few people who favour  ( forget about 
, even our attack me for it on the canadian 
newsgroups ) to make it look more like real ,  cos the 100 
is hidden  ( unlike in france ) and if you did n't know 
it , you 'd believe it actually is medicine  ( american 
and canadian are the only ones who 
seriously call it  . are n't worried about the 
americans , who spend 14 we 're worried about the french and germans 
who spend 7 to our 9 ... so the is looking at things that 
should n't be paid for out of general funds like for 
policies , sick notes , , etc. the reason that 
the canadian health has n't out of control despite 
being open and universal is that unlike americans , there is no urge to 
spend all of your benefits  worth , and more if you can ... we 're a 
different culture .  . 

like the play or pay model , managed competition leaves in place two 
elements of the current health care system that most often 
criticize the private , for profit industry and the 
employer based system of  . managed competition 
to their workers in large pools of health 
 . entire may , for example , a pool or 
network. , doctors , hospitals and other health 
care then for the pool 's business , competing in 
theory on the basis of price and quality .  . 

managed care relies on 's , which are unknown in most western 
nations that use only public health like canada , france 
and germany  ( i'm canadian , and my german father in law to be says 
of approaches , we left that behind with east germany ! ) .  . 
sure , costs because you have 
doctors with  . 

in canada , we use the public health approach as in france 
and germany , with all private doctors and both private and public 
hospitals .  . it is all pure without 's .  . the divisions 
are different , with the germans using a couple hundred 
sickness funds over a century old while canada by their 
 ( who run the and set local with the 
doctors monopoly federal funds cover the ) . 

with such an open ended system , it 's no surprise that canada is 2 to 
the u.s. in costs all is the most expensive way to go. the 
french and germans use the same approach but have larger 
in more to improve of economy .  . 



me 
l. dare 
go go ! ! ! 


from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re how many homosexuals are there 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 6 

too many. 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

from  ( bram currie ) 
subject 
article i.d. 
organization university of washington , seattle 
lines 16 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 


any thoughts on who is going to count all of the bodies at the 

the press the white house the most the king of 
the motss 

just curious as to whose bias we are going to see when the numbers 
get brought out. 









from  ( neal ) 
subject re race and violence 
organization and , 
distribution usa 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 8 

i replied to your message , however , it is listed as a new topic with 
the title and violence . possibly line or error 
caused to post as a new topic. i see it here as 100 .  . 

regards , 




from  ( christopher morton ) 
subject re red army  ( raf ) 
reply to  ( christopher morton ) 
organization north coast public access , cleveland , oh 
lines 33 

as quoted from by  ( merth eric william ) 


in article ,  ( christopher morton ) writes 

as quoted from by  ( phill baker ) 

is n't it the way people can make the sadistic and 
murder of the sound like 

gee , i 'd remember where you are and that these people are the 

net. i 'd also remember that they have about as much sense of humor as ed 


damn .  . it is n't big brother after all and all this time i thought that all 
those , while blowing things up and killing the odd 
innocent person in the process , really did love all us  .  ( 'cause 
everybody knows that will save you even 
if it has to get you killed first ) .  . 
what a fool i 've been. 

what you fail to see is that in order to make a of 
and , you have to break a few eggs. you the evil 
elements in society , are those eggs .  .  .  .  . 

damn the spirit , full speed ahead .  .  .  .  . 



you 're like a bunch of over , new york jewish lawyers 
fighting to eliminate school prayer from the public schools in 


from  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) 
subject re k. on rodney king 
distribution usa 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 19 

 ( ted frank ) writes 

in article  ( koppenhoefer cramm ) writes 
how about the fact that you have a bunch of cops putting their lives on 
the line day in and day out who are afraid as hell of a large black guy that 

took a large amount of punishment and refused submit 

i'm curious why you think that particular is important. 


i'm curious why you took a statement and cross posted it to several 
different news groups , including something along the lines of alt . discrimination . look rodney king is black and large .  . i have several large black male friends , and they are referred to as being large black men ( to their faces , and by 
themselves ) .  . you know , , i have a large number of for you , 
but i will spare you most of them because i try not to get into personal 
flame wars .  . let me just say that i think your action of cross posting this 
was total bs , and you 're trying to start some crap. , others will 
see through your little game and not play along. 


from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton president 's remarks at town hall meeting 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 






the white house 

office of the press 

for immediate release april 13 , 1993 


remarks by the president , 
of education richard and 
of labor robert reich in 
goals 2000 town hall meeting 

chamber of commerce building 
washington , d . c .  . 



8 30 p . m .  . edt 


good evening and welcome to all of you 
in the thousands of communities around the country that are taking 
part in this town meeting for the month of april .  . 

you know , today is april  . in , thomas 
jefferson was born , 250 years ago. i think that 's appropriate to 
mention at the beginning of this meeting because since that time he 
has been , of course , a person who has been one that we 've all 
followed in terms of our democracy and the importance of education 
here in this great country. the success of our democracy according 
to jefferson really depends upon the success of our 
system. 

his philosophy of government , his belief in the 
importance of education is also very meaningful to our special 
here this evening. we 're so pleased to have with us 
president clinton .  . he 's come over from the white house to join us in 
the chamber of commerce  . 

mr. president , it 's good to have you. we thank you for 
taking the time to visit with these communities here on the 
network and we welcome you here this evening. 

also we have with us of labor robert reich .  . 
and , bob , it 's certainly pleasant to have you with us this evening 
also. 

i have some questions for our two , and i'm sure 
many of you do , too. so please call us if there 's something that 
you 'd like to ask. the number is 1 or  . in 
washington , d . c .  . the number is or  . 

i believe the president has a few words that he might 
want to share with us. and , mr. president , i 'll ask you to do that 
at this time. it 's great to have you. 

the president thank you very much , mr.  . 

i'm glad to be here with my friends , dick and bob 
reich also members of my at the of the 
chamber of commerce to support the effort that the chamber is making , 
along with its center for work force , to help to examine 
the whole critical question of how to move our young people 
from school to the work place. 

i want to the chamber on all their efforts , 
recognizing that without an work force we ca n't grow this 
economy or remain , and recognizing that we all have to 
work together business and government , labor and to 
make things happen. 

this town meeting is a good example of that 
kind of working together. and if you 'll forgive me a little home 
state pride , i want to say a special word of thanks to the 
corporation , in , , for providing 
several hundred of the sites for this town meeting  . i 
appreciate that a lot , as well as the sites that are provided for all 
the rest of you. 

i have tried as hard as i could to move 
constructive change for this country. talked about 
this being thomas jefferson 's birthday .  . if thomas jefferson 
believed in anything , he believed in these three things first , in 
education second , in real personal liberty , freedom of religion , 
freedom of speech , freedom of association , freedom of the press and 
third , in the absolute imperative of changing as times change .  . 

if you go to the jefferson memorial here in this 
beautiful city , which is now with all of its wonderful 
, you will see jefferson saying that we have to change 
with changing times. 

for us here in america , that means reducing our 
and increasing our investment and putting our people first so that we 
can in the world. we 're here to talk about that 
about what we can do to and train our people better. unless 
we do that , none of the efforts that all the rest of us make in 
government , even to bring the into , even to increase 
our investment in other things which will grow jobs , will last in the 
long run. 

we also have to have people who can carry their load .  . 
and in a world where the average young person will change jobs seven 
or eight times in a lifetime , that begins with the education system 
and continues into the work force where education must go on for a 
lifetime. it 's not just important what you know , but what you can 
learn .  . 

and if i might , i 'd like to close just by 
we 're doing our best to try to have the most 
between the labor department and the education department and the 
private to build a good school to work  . and we 're 
trying to get off to a good start this summer with a program that 
would create more than 700 , 000 new summer jobs , including many 
thousands that have a strong education component so our young people 
can be learning and working at the same time. 

dick , i think i ought to stop there. that 's a good 
place we can begin , i think , the discussion. 

thank you so much , mr. president .  . 

each month we get together and talk about ways that all 
citizens can work towards the national education goals. and 
, we 'll focus on goal five , and how communities such as yours 
can prepare students for this world of work. 

this week , the education department and the labor 
department are a conference here in washington , d . c .  . called 
summer challenge , a program of work and learning , to america 's youth .  . 
the aim is to use some special funds from president clinton 's 
proposed economic to provide enriched 
jobs and summer school programs for young people in 
areas of the country. 

mr. president , let 's talk a minute you alluded to it 
somewhat about the summer youth challenge. your program calls 
for more in the summer jobs .  . and why in your 
words is that so important 

the president i think it 's important for two reasons. 
first of all , a lot of the young people we 're trying to reach may 
have had trouble to school and learning. and while we want 
them to have a good experience with a real job , we also want them to 
continue to learn during the summer because we know from a lot of 
research that a lot of kids that have trouble learning in school may 
forget as much as 30 percent of what they learned the previous year 
over the  . and that is a very unproductive thing for 
schools to have to take up a lot of time teaching what they already 
taught before. 

secondly , we want to help these young people progress , 
not only in terms of work , but in terms of learning. we want to 
the artificial line between what is work and what is 
learning because we think that the best and most workers 
will have to be lifetime  . and we think that this experience 
could maybe drive that point home and prepare these young people to 
succeed in school , or at work , or in college as they go on. 

well , i think the fact that these are 
kids that gap , that you mentioned as they go 
into the next year , is really even greater .  . 

reich , of course , you have training programs 
throughout the year .  . and i wonder is you have any comment about this 
component of training .  . 

reich well , what we 've learned , mr. 
, is that for many young people , whether it 's for the summer 
or for the year , actually on the job work experience combined with 
education is one of the best ways of learning. many young people , 
for example , have a lot they have a difficult time learning 
geometry .  . but when they actually are there building something or 
working on something , and they can see the exact and direct 
application of geometry , they understand what it 's used for. and a 
lot of young people just that sense of connection between 
education and the world of work is terribly , terribly important. 
it 's important during the summer , but it 's important for a lot of 
young people even beyond the summer .  . 

thank you. 

mr. president , you 've called for a youth 
program , school to work  . and i wonder if you would tell 
us a little bit about your concept of that and how you see it 
developing .  . 

the president well , first of all , let 's talk about why 
it 's important. most new jobs that will be created in this 
will not require a four year college degree , but most of them will 
require some learning and that go well beyond what most people 
get in a high school  . 

if you look at the last 10 years , the average 
of young people that had at least two years of good post high school 
education was a good that went up over the  . the young 
people who had less than that tended to have lower wages that did not 
go up , and in many cases in real terms over the , because 
they were n't , they were n't more valuable to their 
 . 

so we think america has a big economic interest in 
trying to ensure that all the young people who get out of high school 
but do n't go on to college make a to work , which includes 
two years of further training either in a community college , a 
setting , or perhaps on the job. and what i have done in 
this , as you know , is to give you and reich some 
funds and some to try to work in with states 
and with the private to build these programs state by state in 
a way that would be essentially by the business community , 
based on the needs of the economy in any given area. it could 
long term the quality of the american work force and 
the of american workers .  . 

reich i should add , mr. president i think 
you know this from your experience in and many of the 
people watching this program that the business community and 
, labor groups are already in many of our communities , many 
of our states , building a school to work program .  . in 
fact , there 's an awful lot of , a lot of  . the 
people watching this program probably are the ones who are most 
directly involved in that. and more power to them. 
and i are going to do everything we can to build on the 
already out there. 

bob , we 're going to be talking 
about youth and tech , the co learning 
career  . and what features all those programs that deal 
with this subject what are some of the features that every one of 
these school to work programs might have that are important 

reich well , one thing that we 've seen and 
you and i have been working at this for a long time , and you much 
longer than i we 've seen that active involvement of the business 
community is absolutely essential .  . and i'm so that we 're 
doing this in the of the chamber of commerce .  . the 
chamber of commerce of the united states is committed to doing these 
kinds of programs training , education , and we 've 
aimed to work very closely with the chamber .  . 

the business community is going to be actively engaged 
in developing almost an of the kind of jobs that are needed and 
helping the , community , technical 
develop that are relevant for the jobs of the future. 

communities have got to come together. i mean , this is 
one of the most important things. you 've got to have all of these 
in a community come together and work together and 
together. you know , too often we have the over here and 
the business leaders over here , labor groups over here and everybody 
is talking , but they 're not really working together in a common 
strategy .  . 

and the third and final i would say , dick , 
would be a commitment to a commitment both to academic 
and also to development  . this is not a 
program we 're talking about for kids who are not going to 
make it. this is a program that every young person ought to be 
for. if they want to go on beyond that to four year 
college , that 's fine. that ought to be permissible .  . but we 're 
talking about the foundation of learning about jobs , the foundation 
for on the job learning. 

and again , those are the critical components .  . it 's 
already being done. 

the president i think if i might just one 
point based on my personal experience at home the business 
community has a critical role to play , not simply in saying here are 
the job that are needed and here 's what ought to be taught , 
but also in that  . if you have the right sort 
of there , the people who are paying the taxes and who are 
going to then be the workers are not going to the 
second rate programs to survive if they have any way to shape and 
influence them. so i think that 's very important. 

and when we try to , if you will , fill in the blanks at 
the federal level , trying to set some standards and provide some 
funds , one of the things that we want to be sure and do is to make 
sure that the employer has a heavy amount of influence over the 
quality of these programs , because that 's really what 's going to 
determine whether the whole thing is worthwhile .  . 

that 's great .  . we 've been talking , of 
course , about school to work and also the jobs and economic 
program for this summer and fall .  . but let 's talk just a moment about 
long term school reform .  . it 's something especially close to me. mr. 
president , i wonder if you would give us some of your ideas for the 
communities out here on goals 2000 legislation that i think will be 
coming forth before too long .  . 

the president well , as you know , back when you and i 
were both , we spent a lot of time working on our public 
schools and we tried to be very with our people in saying that 
a lot of these things were going to take some time to  . 

i had a hand in writing the national education goals 
that the , along with representatives of president 
bush 's back in 1989. and what we 're going to try to 
do this year with your leadership is to introduce legislation in 
congress that will actually define the things that the national 
government ought to do to try to help the local schools and the 
children of this country and the adult , too , meet those 
goals making sure that when by 2000 , people show up for school 
ready to learn that we get a 90 percent on time high school 
rate that children at the 4th , , and grades are 
confident in the subjects they 're supposed to know that they are 
second to none in math and science that are schools are safe , 
, and drug free. and , of course , the goal i took 
them out of line to say this the last is that we have a system of 
life long learning in this country. 

and each one of those goals there 's a national role , a 
state role , a school role , school district role , and a private 
role .  . and what you 've attempted to do in this bill you 're going to 
introduce with me in the next few weeks is to define what our job is 
and then to give the rest of america a way of defining what their job 
is and seeing whether we 're actually meeting the standards of quality 
that we need to meet .  . 

it 's very  . so far as i know , nothing quite 
like it has ever been done in the form of federal legislation before. 
not and telling people what they have to do with their 
money , but actually setting up a for and 
partnerships so that we can do our job. i'm really about it. 

well , i am , too. and i think really 
it will be an entirely new role for the federal government in terms 
of its relationship with states , serving as a really to 
support and facilitate and to help out in these education reform 
efforts , all driven by high standards. that 's the point. 

bob , let me ask you one question , and then we 'll get to 
the telephone calls .  . it 's about the same subject. we have , of 
course , standards that are going to be part of goals 2000 , and 
i wonder if you would comment on that. 

reich well , you know , we have 75 percent of 
our young people who do n't graduate from college. very often they 
do n't have very many alternatives .  . they do have a wonderful system 
of community and technical , but if we had 
national standards to which they could aspire and which 
would understand as a national , many of these 
young people would actually find that they were much more 
for jobs .  . 

everybody does n't have to go to college. other 
countries you have smaller of their population going to 
college , but you have a whole level of people who have certain 
technical , skills. we can do it in this country. if 
you do n't go to four year college you 're not a  . and we want to 
develop those national standards. we 're going to be working 
with the states , with the education department , with a lot of private 
industry in developing those standards. and i think they will be the 
kinds of things that our and technical and other 
to around , as well as our business community. 

well , that 's great .  . why do n't we go 
ahead and go to the telephone .  . we have a call , i see bruce 
of austin , texas .  . 

q yes , mr. president and mr. reich and 
, we certainly appreciate the opportunity to join you today. we 
have some dedicated and here in austin who 
have heard what you have said and are very  . let me 
simply say , amen to some of the comments made already. we agree with 
much of the tone that the clinton has taken , and are 
very  . 

we have been successful here in austin of our 
summer employment program over the last four years. we expect to 
have over 2 , 000 employed this year in the perhaps as much 
as 3 , with the federal assistance .  . 

much of the question that we had designed you have 
answered in your comments , so we must be thinking alike. but 
the question essentially involved what after labor day 
would be appropriate. we know is important. year round 
is even more important. and what kind of at the federal 
level might be proposed to meet the needs of the youth on a year 
round basis and perhaps more importantly , how can families and the 
local community be more involved using the federal that 's 
something that we believe is very important to success in this 
effort .  . 

mr. president .  . 

the president i think i 'll give everybody a chance to 
answer the question , bruce , but let me first thank you for calling , 
and thank you for all the great work that you 're doing in austin .  . 
i 've seen some of it and i 've always been very impressed .  . 

first , with regard to the summer program , we hope we can 
structure it in a way that will us to continue the summer 
program and that will move a lot of these young people back into 
schools under circumstances that might allow them to do some work in 
the private , too. we hope that reich is going to 
try to set up a system where we create a lot of private jobs 
to be with the public jobs this summer .  . and we 're 
working on that. 

secondly , in the program that i have presented to the 
congress over the next five years , what we are attempting to do is to 
build in an amount of investment that 's quite substantial for job 
training programs , for school to work programs , all of which give 
heavy , heavy weight to local community just the question you 
asked but do provide some federal investment dollars , which we 
hope you can put with local dollars to keep people working and being 
trained on a year round basis. 

and i will say again , to what reich said 
a moment ago , to try to break down the between what is seen 
as work and what is seen as learning. an awful lot of young people 
actually have quite high , but actually learn so much better when 
they 're doing than when they 're reading or just listening .  . so we 
hope that the community involvement part of it will be permanent , and 
we hope that if the whole passes and we do have 200 
cuts and more than 200 , actually , in the and some 
, and some new money for education and training , that we 'll be 
able to do just what you seem to want based on your question. 

bob , do you want to say anything 

reich well , you took most of the words out 
of my mouth , mr. president , as usual .  . but let me just add one thing , 
and that is that one of the most important aspects of post high 
school for a lot of young people who are not going on to college , in 
addition to the school to work program , simply is the of 
jobs .  . and we 've got to get this economy moving again , obviously. 
it 's terribly important to get this program , to get the 
economy back on track .  . that 's sort of the to everything 
else. if we do n't get the economy back on track we have i 
think this is the 16th correct me if i'm wrong , mr. president i 
think is the 16th month we have had seven percent or 
greater .  . this is a  . a lot of those kids are going 
to be getting out of school in june .  . and even if we did everything 
right , they would have a very , very hard time getting jobs .  . 

thank you both. of course , goals 2000 
will be a permanent , long term thing that will certainly reach into 
next year .  . it will involve , if passed and we certainly hope it 
will be action plans with every state where we can be working 
together to reach for the goals in a number of different ways. and 
then the state , with all the various school , a very 
important part of that will be citizen and parent involvement .  . and i 
think everybody will see a great energy out there , once we get that 
moving .  . 

the next call is dr. , new york .  . 

doctor 

q good evening , mr.  . it is a pleasure to 
be on with you this evening. as you may know , the school 
and work has been central to la 's program since 
its inception in the , and that includes the college , the two 
alternative high schools that operate on our campus , and the 
we have with the local schools .  . we have found this to be an 
extremely effective learning strategy .  . 

and over the years , we 've come to believe that there are 
several principles that are very important in the school and 
work. and these include theory in the with 
practice in the , with providing all students early exposure 
to , as well as providing opportunities for them to reflect 
upon these experiences while they their and 
lastly , the critical role of the liberal arts , particularly in the 
development of high  . 

my question , then is how can the general education 
and the academic be more closely integrated with 
to work experience and what mechanisms and 
can you suggest to achieve this 

well , thank you very much. i think 
and we 'll get a response from you all on that , and very interesting 
work going on there. we 're going to have three people , our next 
on the program this evening , that will be some 
in that area that you 're speaking , and i 'll certainly pass that on to 
them and we can discuss it later. 

you all care to comment any comments you might have 

the president i 'd just like to say , if i might , one 
thing. i want to this and i do n't think i'm being as 
clear about it as i 'd like , although i think at least one of the 
people who will be on the second will be able to say it more 
explicitly than i. i think this whole concept of applied 
is very important. and i think that we have to basically 
what i consider to be a very artificial distinction between what is 
learning and what is academic learning. 

i think we should keep the liberal arts going .  . i think 
we should have a strong component for people who are in the 
program .  . 

reich it seems to me that we also need to 
our entire system , because a lot of these school and 
work combinations are important for mainstream students .  . they 're 
important for all students .  . it 's not just a special group of 
students that needs them. 

some of the experiments that i 've seen around the united 
states dick , i'm sure you 've seen them as well are mainstream 
experiments .  . they 're mainstreaming all the students .  . at and 
grades they 're giving them a combined work and school experience 
and then a program .  . and again , the kids can either go on 
to college if they want they can go on to technical community they 
can go on to an entirely a large variety of possibilities and 
career  . 

but we have to get away from the that often 
goes on with young people who simply are doing job related or work 
related work within the , within our schools .  . 

thank you , very much. i think that 's 
going to be the last call that we have time for. mr. president , i 
think you 've got to move on to another matter , and i want to thank 
you and reich for being here. we appreciate your time and 
your ideas , and it 's been a help to us. 

00 p . m .  . edt 




from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re a subject 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 18 

in article ,  ( henry mensch ) writes 
 ( carlos carrion ) wrote 
just curious  ( do n't have to answer if you feel uncomfortable ) 
how many times have you had sex with 

why do you care if a total stranger asked you how often you had sex , 
would you answer 

henry , allen , inc. 

this is so typical of homosexuals constantly making excuses for 
child  . 




clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization state univ 
lines 32 
nntp posting host edu . 
x newsreader s 1 . 3 . 2 . 

in article  ( michael a. thomas ) writes 
in article ,  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
think about it should n't all drugs then be , it would lower 
the cost and definitely make them safer to use. 

yes. 

i do n't think we want to start using these criterion to determine 
 . 

why not 

where do they get these people ! i really do n't want to waste time in 
here to do battle about the of drugs .  . if you really want to , we 
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is ! 

you think that you all have it bad .  .  .  . here . at good ol' missouri 
state u. , we have 2 parties running for student body president .  . there 's the 
faces , and then there 's the president and vice 
president of  . they by handing out condoms and listing 
their as , i listen really well. it makes me sick to have 
a party established on many of the things that are this country like 
they are. i think i 'll run next year .  . ( 

darin j , 
pc the idea that to splinter groups is the way to go. 







from  . acuner ) 
subject turkish passed away 
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va 
lines 6 
nntp posting host csugrad . cs . vt . edu . 

turkish president has passed away today after a heart attack in at 11 00 am gmt . 
mr. was 66 years old .  . 





from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 29 

in article , writes 
 ( clayton cramer ) writes 
i thought i was clear. because homosexuals support laws to force 
employment of homosexuals against the will of some , they 
are attempting to interfere with private acts between mutually 
adults .  . 

ok , i 'll leave others to discuss your use of statistics , but i think i'm 
able to discuss ideas. 
the ideas are good. they seek to maximise individual rights by keeping 
governments out of between adults .  . if an employer wants 
to discriminate against a group , she he should be allowed to to maximise their 
freedom .  . the can go elsewhere. 
unfortunately , it does n't relate to total individual rights 
within a community. if an employer or or whatever can discriminate 
in this way , then the freedom of the goes down. because people do 
not live in perfect economic conditions , with perfect , unlimited 
numbers of potential of their , unlimited places to buy , 
the argument leads to a in the amount of liberty in the 
community. 

you mean , if a large part of the population supports discrimination 
against homosexuals , they will be injured .  . but if a large part of the 
population supports such discrimination , how did that law get passed 

tony , , new  . 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( steven e soar ) 
subject re supply side 
distribution na 
lines 22 

in article ,  ( ed ipser ) writes 

the result is that clinton now hopes to reduce the to a level 
above where it was when reagan left office. 

which , considering the amount bush congress added to it , would be a 
not achievement .  . 

while we 're on the subject , i also believe that the supply side claim that 
reducing taxes raised is also false , because they typically factor in 
taxes , which were raised a amount , at the same time that 
taxes were cut. if you look at tax alone , it after 
after the cuts began , and did n't for several years. by then , record 
deficits were well entrenched .  . 

on that  . 

, 

steve 



from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re the role of the national news media in 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 53 

in article  ( greg hennessy ) writes 

clayton 

but what came out , in much lower reporting , was that the 
victim was a prostitute , and the man had not paid her hence the 
false accusation .  . 

there was no evidence the woman in question was a prostitute , the 
defense merely that she was. 

the fact that she was wearing a with no was 
presented as evidence that she was a prostitute , and the court 
apparently found this compelling .  . 

even clayton knows the difference. err , perhaps clayton does n't know 
the difference. 

clayton does indeed know the difference. greg apparently does n't .  . 

the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the 
were engaged in self defense .  . 

no , the judge found that the prosecution did not carry out the 
on proof. 

because the judge found that there was some credible evidence that the 
were engaged in self defense .  . got it , 

a small from , under fair use 

new district court judge ruled in 
the that the state failed to carry its burden in proving 
the acted to cause injury .  . 

because , in part repeat after me , the judge found that there was 
some credible evidence that the were engaged in self defense . 
, one of these days you will understand. 

interesting that in 2 of the 3 cases clayton does what he 
others of doing. 

with respect to credibility , i would rate clayton an order of 
magnitude higher than a ) the news media , and b ) homosexuals .  . 

but i never thought clayton was consistent .  . 

clayton is indeed consistent .  . and so are you. 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

from  ( jeffry r beach ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
organization iowa state university , ames , ia 
lines 56 

in article  ( michael a. thomas ) writes 
in article ,  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
in article  ( michael a. thomas ) writes 
in article ,  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
i really do n't want to waste time in 
here to do battle about the of drugs .  . if you really want to , we 
can get into it and prove just how idiotic that idea is ! 

read i do not know what the fuck i'm talking about , and am 
not eager to make a fool of myself. 


oh , you foolish person. i do know what the fuck i'm talking about 
and will demonstrate for such as yourself if you 
wish. 

the of drugs will provide few if any of the benefits 
so highly by its safer , drugs along 
with from taxes on those drugs reduced crime and reduced 
organized crime specifically etc , etc 

if you would like to prove how you are , we can get into 
why again a lot of posts that i do n't think this group 
was intended for and something easily solved by you doing a little 
research .  . 


from a pragmatic standpoint , there certainly is some justification 
if it is a vice people will commit anyway. shall we 
again if the re for were done from 



making you look bad is too damn easy .  . the vast social and historical 
differences between and other drugs make this comparison 
worthless .  . 



vice serve 
only to make it more expensive for the rich and more dangerous 
for the poor , as tim so eloquently put it. people will , however , 


and so it shall be if the government  ( by the people ) decides that 
these are detrimental to the society as a whole .  . 


and why , pray tell , is aids victim in quotes are you of 
the sort that thinks there is no such thing as the aids 
or do they just it 


the vast majority  ( get the point ) 
of aids cases are thru choices. said. 


from  ( julie kangas ) 
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
organization , pasadena , ca 
lines 73 


in article  ( roger collins ) writes 
 ( julie kangas ) writes 
in article  ( scott w roby ) writes 
with a of the hat to david for making the top ten format 
so popular 

top ten reasons that do n't want to aid russia 

looking around who where 
do n't look at me. i want to send aid to russia .  . many other 
do as well. 

yes , it was nixon who was most vocal about giving money to russia .  . it 
makes me proud to be a libertarian .  . it appears both and 
prefer to cold war until you win , then the enemy back to 
health for another go around. 

enemy sounds like that 's the viewpoint of the 
conservative  always been , always will be . ' . i suggest you 
listen very carefully to the stuff and his people are saying 
and compare that with the very anti west coming from his 
opponents in the congress .  . i sure know who i want to back .  . 

oh , btw , germany has sure come back as a terrible enemy after wwii , 
has n't it 

it 's like the countries  ( japan , germany , etc . ) . with 
free defense , and then trade with them because of the economic 
competition .  . it 's like while paying 
to people not to  . 

better to let them into civil war remember all those 
nuclear weapons in russia .  . i cannot imagine that they would not 
be used in a civil war. if take over and , even if 
they prevent a civil war , most feel they must take back large 
parts of land that are in other countries  ( like ) . i also cannot 
imagine giving up land without a fight , possibly nuclear .  . 

how does this affect us well , we are on the same planet and if 
vast of europe are blown away i think we 'd feel something. 
a massive of a country that spans 1 the planet is 
bound to have here.  ( of course , there is also the 
argument that democracies should help other 
democracies  ( or ) . 


i ask myself , what law could we pass to prevent government from doing 
stupid , things with our money then i think , the constitution 
was supposed to do that. could someone please tell me what legitimate 
constitutional power the federal government is using when it takes money 
from my and gives it to countries seriously. 

seriously. everyone has different opinions on what is stupid. 
my two causes are aid to russia and a strong space program .  . 
someone else will welfare or education or doing studies 
of  . that is why we have a and not a 
true democracy .  . instead of on a massive scale , we 
only have on a congressional scale. 

btw , who is to decide  stupid ' this is just like those who 
want to impose their  morals  on others just the sort of 
thing i thought were against .  . 

actually , my politics are pretty libertarian except on this one issue 
and this is why it is impossible for me to join the party. it seems 
that want to from the rest of the world and 
let it or swim .  . we could do that 100 years ago but not now. 
like it or not we are in the beginnings of a economy and 
decision making. 


disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else 

subject re cbs ny times on health care alternatives 
from  ( jim howe ) 
reply to 
organization project , university of michigan 
nntp posting host umich . edu . 
lines 31 

in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
thought others on the net might be interested in a selection of findings 
from the new york times cbs news on national health care. i 'll leave 
it to doug to enter the entire article if he chooses .  . what follows 
is a selection of the findings .  .  ( paraphrased without permission .  . any 
errors are mine , not the times. the ny times does n't make mistakes . ) . 

results deleted 

the economic and political ignorance of most americans can be truly scary .  . 
price and government intervention .  . the route to 
disaster .  . it 's amazing , people never seem to learn from history  ( or 
common  . price do not , and cannot work. i would have 
thought our last experiment in the 70 's would have been enough to 
the belief that price can actually work. as for 
government intervention , people never seem to get the irony of what 
the are saying. we are told that are the biggest portion 
of the and they must be  . we are presented with 
stories of waste and fraud in almost all government  . 
we are shown stories about the miserable treatment our veterans get 
in our government run hospitals .  . we are just now seeing stories about 
how social security is n't going to cut it in the future  ( as if that 
should come as any  . and yet , people choose to ignore all 
of that and believe in the fairy tale of the government coming to 
the rescue .  . simply amazing .  . 



james w. internet 
university of michigan uucp uunet ! ! umich . edu . ! 
ann arbor , mi 

from  ( gerald olchowy ) 
subject re help fight the clinton 's invasion of your 
organization university of chemistry department 
lines 16 

in article  ( casimir j palowitch ) writes 
the clinton wants to your use of digital 
 . this includes a proposal which would limit your use of 
to a standard developed by the , the technical details of 
which would remain classified with the government. 

this cannot be allowed to happen. 


it is a bit unfair to call blame the clinton alone .  .  . this . 
was under the bush  .  . it . is basically 
a effort of the and 
 .  . the . same effort that brought the s l , 
and bcci , etc. 



from  ( john f. ii ) 
subject re representation of territories  ( was re the 11 , 250 , 000 , 000 , 000 lunch ) 
reply to  ( john f. ii ) 
organization river programming , austin tx 
distribution tx 
lines 17 

in article  ( chris winemiller ) writes 
does anyone have knowledge about how this was in 
the past , such as with the louisiana territory or the 
territory 

those areas became states. 

has the population needed to become a state. but the ethnic 
mix there is such that will probably never become a state. 

i say we cut them loose .  . if they do n't want to become a state , we 
should n't continue to their existence .  . 

john f. ii pgp 2 . 1 . ! 's ... ! cs . utexas . edu . ! ! 
ma bell (512) 17 @ 's 
look up scheme in a good dictionary it will have a picture of joe 
liberal right next to it. stop federal spending .  . cut the  . 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re lincoln slavery  ( re top ten you can play on the american voter ) 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 16 

in article ,  ( gary hewitt ) writes 
in article  ( craig depken ) writes 
to which is concluded .  .  .  . 
the south only wanted free trade ! ! ! 

no , they wanted slavery .  . if free trade was in their economic interests 
under that regime  ( which it was ) , then free trade they wanted too. but 

l 

of course , free trade and slavery do n't make much sense together in 
a phrase anyway. perhaps mr. meant , low import , but 
that is quite a bit less than free trade .  . 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 51 

in  ( dan s . ) . writes 

 ( brian stone ) writes 

 ( no axe to here i'm just a scientist and i hate to see statistics ) . 

pity you did n't say something about the use of statistics to justify 
targeting and a minority , then. 

men are men and they all like sex. i am a gay male .  . i have had sex three 
times in my life , all with the same man. before that , i was a virgin .  . 

i am a man and have had sex with one woman in my life  ( my  . it is 
very to me to be able to say that. i hope you have the same feeling 
as i do. i also wish that you could  ( if you wanted ) experience the and 
trials of being committed to someone for life  ( there is something about marriage 
that makes the commitment much greater than one might  . 

what in the tree makes you think we can t experience that commitment 
what 's stopping us from committing to one for the rest of our lives 
i have every intention of doing so , once i find the right person .  .  . and . 
whether that person is male or female , i seriously doubt that a church 
public will make any difference whatsoever in the sort 
of commitment i experience with that person. you have no conception of the 
difference marriage makes since you have never known any other way. 


statistics alone prove that most criminals are by default  .  .  . 

do n't forget about the culture .  . sadly , we do n't  ( as a society ) look upon 
homosexuality as normal  ( and as we are all too well aware , there are alot 
of people who condemn it) .  . as a result , the gay population is not encouraged 
to develop non relationships .  . in fact there are many 
put in the way of such committed relationships .  . it is as if the heterosexual 
community puts these blocks there so as to perpetuate the claim that gays 
are immoral .  . my , if we allowed gays to marry , raise children ... we might 
just find out they 're as moral as we are , ca n't have that can we 

you 're getting to the right idea here .  .  . just . be careful of making statements 
like the above , and you 'll be part of the solution and not the problem. 

just some thoughts. flame away. ) 

no flames necessary. ) 



andrew d. ! 


words were n't made for happy 

from  ( roger collins ) 
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians 
organization computer corporation 
nntp posting host com . 
lines 

 ( julie kangas ) writes 
in article  ( roger collins ) writes 
 ( julie kangas ) writes 
do n't look at me. i want to send aid to russia .  . many other 
do as well. 

yes , it was nixon who was most vocal about giving money to russia .  . it 
makes me proud to be a libertarian .  . it appears both and 
prefer to cold war until you win , then the enemy back to 
health for another go around. 

enemy sounds like that 's the viewpoint of the 
conservative  always been , always will be . ' . 

ok , i should have said former enemy .  . i was being about what 
want to do. 

i suggest you 
listen very carefully to the stuff and his people are saying 
and compare that with the very anti west coming from his 
opponents in the congress .  . i sure know who i want to back .  . 

could we back him without forcing others to back him at the point of a 
gun 

have you considered a non policy if market reform does 
happen , russia will certainly get private capital at private risk to 
help their economy .  . they will even have incentive to do so for the same 
reason. if they do n't reform , then our government will probably 
consider them enemies anyway and rather spend money to hurt rather than help 
them. 

then their 's the ideological point. we want to win russia over to 
our type of government a type where the rulers can rule without limit 
over everyone 's 

it 's like the countries  ( japan , germany , etc . ) . with 
free defense , and then trade with them because of the economic 
competition .  . it 's like while paying 
to people not to  . 

better to let them into civil war remember all those 
nuclear weapons in russia .  . i cannot imagine that they would not 
be used in a civil war. if take over and , even if 
they prevent a civil war , most feel they must take back large 
parts of land that are in other countries  ( like ) . i also cannot 
imagine giving up land without a fight , possibly nuclear .  . 

how does this affect us well , we are on the same planet and if 
vast of europe are blown away i think we 'd feel something. 
a massive of a country that spans 1 the planet is 
bound to have here.  ( of course , there is also the 
argument that democracies should help other 
democracies  ( or ) . 

if a 1 . 6 . billion gift was that important to our well being , could n't it 
be raised people already give over 100 billion a year to 
charity .  . 


i ask myself , what law could we pass to prevent government from doing 
stupid , things with our money then i think , the constitution 
was supposed to do that. could someone please tell me what legitimate 
constitutional power the federal government is using when it takes money 
from my and gives it to countries seriously. 

seriously. everyone has different opinions on what is stupid. 
my two causes are aid to russia and a strong space program .  . 
someone else will welfare or education or doing studies 
of  . that is why we have a and not a 
true democracy .  . instead of on a massive scale , we 
only have on a congressional scale. 

it seems instead of on any scale , we have aid to russia , 
expensive space programs , national charity that does n't help the poor , 
and probably , studies of  . i think limited government 
is more key than how democratic it is. 

btw , who is to decide  stupid ' this is just like those who 
want to impose their  morals  on others just the sort of 
thing i thought were against .  . 

that was an opinion , and are very big on free speech. 

actually , my politics are pretty libertarian except on this one issue 
and this is why it is impossible for me to join the party. it seems 
that want to from the rest of the world and 
let it or swim .  . 

if you are pretty libertarian except on this one issue then you should 
be very libertarian .  . consider it a compromise .  . how much money would 
your fellow russia have to give to russia if those you oppose 
were n't using the same government machine to steal money from you 
and your group for causes you do n't support 

we could do that 100 years ago but not now. 

people have been saying that for hundreds of years. 

like it or not we are in the beginnings of a economy and 
decision making. 

all the more reason to depend on the free market which can more 
process information , than to depend on rulers for decisions 
on complex issues. 


disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else 

roger 

sometimes it is said that man cannot be trusted with the government 
of himself. can he , then , be trusted with the government of others 
or have we found angels in the forms of kings to him let 
history answer this question. 
thomas jefferson , first address 

from  ( daniel b case ) 
subject re eight myths about national health  ( pt ii ) 
organization university at buffalo 
lines 
news software vax vms 1.41 
nntp posting host cc . buffalo . edu . 

in article ,  ( gary l dare ) writes .  .  .  . 
the difference in the environment is in the  . 

lack of medicine and near absence of is really 

why we spend less using the most expensive approach of pure 


then why do we really need national health then would n't it just make 
more sense to find some way to cut down on the cost of 

and maybe that 's not such a good thing. i also read somewhere that it is next to 
impossible in canada to against the health system class action suits 
are nearly impossible , and you ca n't the health at all. 


part of the deal for using the all approach like the french 
and germans do  ( hey , why do n't they criticize france and germany is 
it because too many people take french and german in college to make 
the accusations stick ( ) was to preserve the doctors  . 
since the wings of the are the ones that go to when 
the fee are presented , the politically doctors 
were just when they realized the would grow in strength 
rather than , especially when unlike in 
medicine approaches like britain 's national health service .  . 

oh no. do n't let the know about this. they have enough power as it is. ask 
most americans whether they 'd like the doctors  lobby to get more powerful .  . 

for non life threatening things , market arguments adequately cover why 
certain are in demand .  . i have md friends who ca n't 
make a living as back in not due to the 
but because they wo n't get enough the medical 
monopoly 's grip on doctors  ( as in the us ) aside so they 
must move to larger places. however , this does not refute debunking 
of waiting lines for and care , as has been done in the 
u.s. by reports , health policy studies cited by  . 
e. on usenet , , , etc. 

well , yeah , tell us about the national defense medical centre outside ottawa .  . 
theoretically it 's limited to service , but some studies i 've heard 
about have suggested that about half the there are civilians who not 
only have but are n't at all. 

the problem is , in a system where hospitals  are approved by the 
government , how do you keep political out of medical decisions 
i bet that if you 're an or , or good friends with one , you 're put on any 
hospital 's care list no matter how minor your problem. which is ok 
unless you 're someone who gets off the list for some  . 

t national health mean that americans who are now 
fully might have to for less 

in canada , covers all health costs except 
care , , prescription drugs , service , and private 
hospital , so many do end up buying some private 
 . a policy to cover all of these things runs about 40 to 40 
a month .  . 

hmm .  . how much difference would it make in the figure of percentage of spent 
on health care if and were included in the accounting 
maybe canada proportionately just as much on health care as we do. 


of course , the one thing to note is that in the canada france germany 
case , private the basic to the public 
 . they realized they were keeping low risk high profit extra 
for things like private semi private  . ward 
accomodation ) , , , etc. for or personal 
benefits , they 'll have nothing to do with you if you want to be 
covered for basic care. 

at that point , they would n't even consider a approach 
to the universal and sell policies to make up 
the difference in the federal and market stuff. 

so what happens if the health care systems collapse .  . bob , the 
second least popular man in ontario , warned a few years ago that if 
they did n't stop cross border shopping in such huge numbers , the services they 
expect from the just wo n't be there in a few years  ( fortunately for 
them  ( and less fortunately for the here in western new york ) the 
canadian dollar went back to a more  . he did n't say so , but i 
knew he meant the  . what would happen if his warning turned out to be the 
truth would the private take up the slack they 'd be under no 
to. of course , they could eventually make money again , but if what 
you say is true , they 'd be to do so  ( and out of practice in handling 
such basic services , too) .  . 




t free care encourage people to run to the doctor for every 
and pain 

people who get free treatment do go to the doctor and hospital about 
a third more often than those who have to pay a share of their medical 
 . 

still , who pay nothing at the doctor 's have a lower 
per person health bill than we do. 

it is free in that there are no nor  ( two 
things which i advocate to make the canadian look more like 
real health which actually it is) .  . i know that when 
working in , ontario and quebec , i was aware that i was paying 
for health e.g. , in , were listed on my 
pay did not at time , but only 
at tax time  ( built into the tax  . only 
will proclaim that it 's free , along with the canadian left for 
that is part of their brainwashing  . 

would that it were free. americans would start another revolution if they had 
to pay taxes at canadian rates. 

t the private health industry just too big 
and powerful to kill 

the health segment of our industry would be 
politically , in the quiet words of one advocate for a 
national plan .  . some 1 , 200 now sell more than billion in 
health  . they 'd put up a hard fight. not only has the industry 
grown since canada shut down its own health , but 
our government leaves politicians more open to than does 
canada 's system. 

health does exist in canada and in western europe , its 
just that it does n't cover basic care. you can opt out in canada 
and germany , but you 'll have to go as a result because 
there are too few other people that do so i.e. , no market .  . 

when private realized how much money they 'd make without the 
risks involved in basic (e . g .  . , neurosurgery ) versus deluxe 
(e . g .  . , having to call tv to replace a set on 
the in someone 's private hospital room ) , they started to 
themselves on the back for their social responsibility .  . in quebec 
last spring , a of private publicly warned against 
any thoughts of , low cost parts of that 's 
public health plan .  . 

again , i doubt americans would like giving the that much 
power. i half wonder if the canadian health did n't go along with the 
and the federal government years ago because they knew that there was 
a good chance of the public system going in the long run , and then 
afterwards they could clean up  ( okay , this sort of contradicts what i said 
higher up. but it 's another  . they 'd have an added when 
arguing against government involvement in their industry as they could then 
point to its failure instead of just principles .  . 

from  ( lance visser ) 
subject re selective service 
nntp posting host com . 
organization engineering , computer corp .  . , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 46 


dave  ( borden@head wrote 
the selective service should be abolished .  . to start with , the 
draft is immoral .  . whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now , 
and military agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior 
with a army than with  . finally , the government has us 
on many lists in many computers  ( the , social security and 
to name a few ) and it can find us if it needs to. 
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time. 
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the a little bit. 

more talk from another of the past. the 
selective service system creates jobs and is an investment in 
the future of america .  .  .  .  .  . and . wrong with that 

we need jobs because at this point in the , the economy 
should have generated 10 billion jobs and since it has not , the 
government has to step in and help. down selective service 
would cost good jobs and we ca n't do that. 

what we really need is to involve selective service in a more 
closely directed manner. we need the selective service involved 
in environmental protection , high speed , , 
civil rights , national service and health care. every dollar 
we put into selective service now will get us 10 less spending 
in future. 

i really believe now to think about it that selective service 
is long past due for the creation of a position. 


your not beyond hope , just get back on america 's side and 
start doing your part for change .  . what bill needs from you 
now is support for the economic and health care reform .  . 
you need to all your to fighting and 
supporting change .  . get on the team .  . after all , the evil has 
been from washington and the time for complaint 
is past being  . 

and remember , bill clinton cares .  . he may someday even have 
a town meeting in your city. if your an appropriate sort of 
person , if you phrase your questions properly and show the 
proper respect and , you might have the chance to ask mr , 
president your question in person. 



from  ( daniel r. , to be ) 
subject re defense against the  .  .  . 
organization university of 
lines 93 
distribution world 
nntp posting host edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , 
(a . j .  . teel ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article  ( mark eckenwiler ) writes 
in , 
(i would have thought you would have found better means 
of refuting or responding to the substantive points and information in 
the s . b .  . 

the s . b .  . needs no refutation by me. the absurdity of your 
beloved great book speaks for itself. 

your ignorance is clearly showing itself again , mark. 
why do n't you read the post and show us all where the 
silver is wrong. it is an  of the 
corruption and fraud in government. or do you feel 
that our wonderful state is just and 

fine. if you think it 's an of corruption and fraud , 
please prevent a jury question. do n't just your 
statement. 

. . . 
for those in the dark , i wrote to 's sysadmin that a ) he 
bandwidth by posting identical messages  ( long ones ) to several 
newsgroups independently  ( instead of cross posting) , and b ) he has 
improperly used his posts to for sale .  . 
a ) i was requested to post to those groups 
and they were getting deleted .  .  .  . by whom 
b ) the for sale was a method of showing the 
source and obtaining further info .  .  .  . 
and the message in question was in its 
from the net. i simply reposted it from one year ago. 

would there be a complaint if i had posted an article from 
newsweek then posted the address and price 
how about the info for the american law review 
bit of a double standard yeah .  .  .  . think so .  .  .  . 

no indication that was what happened until now. editing down is 
always possible. 

. . . 
readers more careful than a . j .  . will note that the complaint  ( appended 
below) any wish to suppress 's postings merely 
because they are infantile , irrational , and tedious .  . 
more name calling , mark is that your best shot 
oh , i see. the reason for your sending that letter 
had nothing to do with your opinion of my information .  .  .  . 
right. clearly your motivations were the best interest 
of all of those poor users who could not speak for themselves. 
if we were n't talking about attempted  ( censorship(sp ) , it 
would be funny .  .  .  . 

further , your perception  ( for want of a better term ) is not 
the that i have been getting via email and others. 
the keep it up ! 's the go away ! 's at least 20 to 1. 

it would be interesting to hear who the responding parties are. 

i , for one , have no intention of being a slave .  . you may 
be so if you like. just remember where you heard that 
on day  ( april  . i am not a amendment 
slave etc. are you 

for discussion purposes only 

do n't let the see this , mr.  . 

. . . . 
and by the way , the reference to 1 is made 
in with my common law rights. 1 
is the recourse and 1 103 is the  . 

and , as has been noted more times than we care to count , about as 
likely to stand up in court as the twenty seven eight by ten 
color pictures the , mass .  . , police , took for 
use as evidence against  .  ( as anyone who knows 
alice 's is aware , he guilty to , was 
fined 50 , and told to pick up the garbage . ) . 

daniel 

how not to write a deed 

one case involved the construction of a to , as 
in common , with equal rights and interest in said land , and to the 
thereof , in fee simple. . . . to have and to hold the same unto the 
said parties , equally , , as in common , with equal rights 
and interest for the period or term of their lives , and to the thereof 
at the death of the other. 

the court held that the indicated an intent to create a 
 . v. ,  . , so .  . 

from  ( russ ) 
subject re to be , or not to be a disaster 
distribution na 
organization etc organization 
lines 46 

in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 

not at all. you are apparently just another member of the religious left. 


not at all. i am not a member of the religious left , right , or even 
center .  . in fact i do n't consider myself very religious at all this will 
probably result in flames now ) . in fact , you should leave 
religion out of it. it just the issue. 

show me all these environmental . most of them are n't .  . and the 
natural we have had individually far the man made ones. 

how typical .  . so you think we should n't avoid these  events  i shall 
from the word disaster since it seems to upset you so much. ( 
when we can. in case you did n't realize it , the natural oops , 
sorry events you are refering to we have no control over. man made 
ones we do. 

i guess you missed the show on 20 earlier this week about the disaster 
oops there i go again .  .  .  . i meant to say event on the  . 
just a natural every day to spread oil on of beach. i 
would like to know which natural event hey i not to say disaster 
that would be similar to this. 

most of your so called  ( love , times beach , tmi ) are n't 
at all. 

hmm , i suppose you could be right. they are as natural as a tree , or a 
 . not ! 

so look , if you want to worship trees  ( or or or whatever ) , fine , do 
so. but t try to push the of your religious off onto me. 


so look , if you want to worship a oil slick ( or waste dump or live 
in a house that has a in the front ) , fine , you have my 
permission to do so yea right like you need my permission .  .  .  . , it just 
wo n't be in the neighborhood where i live. but t try to push your 
views off on the rest of us. 


russell there are people who believe that there is 
, inc. no such thing as an environmental disaster .  . 
pretty  .  .  . ai n't it 
my own opinions no one elses packet @  . ca . na . usa . 

from  ( michael a. thomas ) 
subject re the role of the national news media in 
organization , ca 
distribution ca 
lines 13 

in article ,  ( carlos carrion ) writes 
i have come to the conclusion that the tv here in la 
want a to happen when the verdict comes in. 

why is this surprising then the times can get a few more 
the same way they did last year .  . 


michael thomas 
i do n't think eyes will get you that flame  .  .  . 
to 
santa heights , ca , 
 ( 714 )  ( 714 )  ( fax ) 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton press by george 4 . 14 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 





the white house 

office of the press 

for immediate release april 14 , 1993 



press 
by george 


the room 


12 40 p . m .  . edt 


mr. i guess i'm just prepared to take 
questions today. 

q george , bob says that the clinton 
's policy on bosnia is a failure and that he wants the 
united states to take the lead in lifting the so that 
the bosnian muslims can defend themselves. 

mr. as you know , president clinton has 
said that that suggestion is under active consideration .  . obviously , 
this is a tragic situation in bosnia .  . and if the bosnian serbs do n't 
come to the table in a constructive way , we 'll look 
seriously at for lifting the  . in the meantime , 
we 're going to continue to press for a tough sanctions resolution in 
the u . n .  . we 're going to continue to work on the serbs to come to the 
table .  . but the of an is something 
the president certainly will consider if the serbs do n't come to the 
table .  . 

q how much longer are you going to give them to come 
to the table , george 

mr. we 're working on that right now. 

q it 's been a long time. 

q on february , the president mentioned the value 
added tax in ohio .  . and when he was asked about it later by 
reporters , he said quote that is a radical change in the tax 
system of the united states. it 's something i think we may have to 
look at in the years ahead. questioned again about it later he 
says , it is not something that is now under consideration .  . if we 
start considering it , i 'll tell you. it was n't a trial or 
anything , he said. i was just discussing the tax response to a 
question. , quoted in usa today this morning quote 
certainly we 're looking at a  . what 's gone on 

q the same with alice this morning. 

mr. the health care task force is 
a number of options .  . they have n't made any decisions yet. 
and as i have said from this time and time again , we 're not 
going to comment on decisions that have n't been made. 

q but you have also said from this time and 
time again 

q wait a minute. ,  .  . 

q that that was not under consideration .  . 

q yes. clinton says , it is not something that is 
now under consideration .  . is that no longer true 

mr. i believe the working group , as  . 
says , has looked at this , but no decisions have been 
made of any kind. 

q well , i know. but he said he 'd tell us about it if 
it was ever under consideration .  . i take it that now he is and he 
did n't tell us about it or 

mr. did he say if it was under 
consideration or if it was something to be proposed 

q if we start considering i 'll tell you. 

mr. if it 's something to be proposed 

q if we start considering it , i 'll tell you. 
that 's a direct quote. 

mr. the task force has looked at a 
number of different options .  . they have not made any decisions yet. 
the president has not made any decisions yet. this is one of the 
under consideration by the task force was to go out and 
cast as wide a net as possible for different ideas on how to reform 
the health care system. they have cast a very wide net. they have 
looked at hundreds of different probably thousands of 
different  . but the president has not made any decisions. 

q well , is the president aware of their consideration 
of this option 

mr. i do n't know if he 's been 
on any preliminary conclusions or anything like that from the task 
force on this specific proposal of any kind. i do n't know that 
that 's gotten to his level. he started yesterday to go through with 
the task force a very wide range of decisions and i do n't believe 
that that 's been presented to him , no. 

q well , he 's not relying on the usa today to tell him 
what his task force is considering in the way of taxes .  . 

mr. no , he 's going through it in a very 
deliberate fashion .  . there are a number of decisions that have to be 
made. i do n't know that this proposal has reached that decision 
making point. 

q if this is still under consideration , that 's a 
change , at least from what we 've been told by , i think about 
three weeks ago or so. she said , that is not an option , talking 
about the had a big argument with somebody over this , so i 
remember it specifically and said it not once , but twice .  . is that 
not the case 

mr. again , i do n't know if this has 
been presented to the president as something that is being looked at 
at some level in the task force. 

q it was ruled it out , though. i mean , unlike other 
options that you 've kept in the mix , this one specifically was ruled 
out. 

mr. again , this is something that is 
being looked at , but no decision has been made of any kind. i mean , 
it does n't it 's not necessarily material until you get to the 
decision making  . the working groups are looking at hundreds of 
different options .  . 

q if it was ruled out before and it 's not ruled out 
now , then something has changed , george .  . yes , no 

q when a guy says in february 

mr. well , the working groups are 
looking at the possible range of options .  . 

q so something 's changed. they were n't looking at it 
before they 're looking at it now. 

mr. well , i do n't know if the working 
groups have gotten to that point yet. they are casting a very wide 
net. 

q how was it possible that you and were able 
to sell rule it out as an option previously and now 
are saying that , in fact , it is being considered 

mr. again , the working groups are 
looking at a wide range of options .  . they have not 

q do you deny that you and ruled it 
ruled it out on several in the past month 

mr. i do n't deny that i mean , those 
are the president 's words. those are very clear. 

q subsequent to the president 's words , do you deny 
that within the last month you and have both publicly ruled 
it out 

mr. i do n't know about the  . i 
think what we did was refer back to the president 's words and say 
they stand. 

q so do n't they stand any longer 

q march , clinton said for the next four to five 
years it was ruled out. 

mr. well , those words the president 
did say that in february .  . the working groups are on a separate 
track , and as i said , i do n't believe 

q separate from the president 

mr. i do n't believe this has been 
presented to the president .  . 

q are they considering something that the president 


q has ruled out 

q has ruled out i mean , will the president 
consider a tax 

mr. again , the working groups have not 
presented this to the president .  . they have looked at a wide range of 
options .  . i suppose that if an argument is made , he will clearly 
listen to it. that does not mean he has decided to do it. 

q can we put this another way in his answer in 
ohio , he looked at the in terms of the whole tax 
system. under those that was the that he said it 
might be considered at some future point. is that no longer the 
case , or is that the only way that he can see a 

mr. i guess i'm not sure exactly what 
you 're asking .  . 

q he talked about the in the context of a 
tax system , not as a specific way to health 
care , for example. 

q or anything else. 

q or anything else. 

q it was always in the context of for 
other taxes at a time of a of the whole tax system. 

mr. right. 

q has that change , too 

q is that still his view 

mr. i have n't spoken about those 
specific comments .  . i think i can just go back to it are the 
working groups have they examined the possibility of a yes , 
they have. 

q certainly we 're looking at a , she said. 

mr. they have examined the possibility 
of a  . has it been presented to the president has he made a 
decision no , he has not. 

q what kind of a deal do you have when you 've got the 
president 's task force , obviously not to his 
ruling something out except in the context of some huge down the line 
reform , goes ahead on its own and considers a tax which he has 
specifically ruled out in any context other than much later , and then 
goes ahead and announces that that 's what they 're looking at is the 
president concerned about that sort of thing 

mr. i think that the president 's 
concern is to make sure he gets the best health care proposal 
possible. he 's concerned with making sure that they have the most 
process for examining all the possible alternatives , all the 
different alternatives .  . if a decision is made to go forward with 
something like that it 's certainly something the president will 
explain and justify .  . but no decision has been made along those 
lines. 

q what does it mean exactly , though , when the 
president rules something out does it mean it can get back on the 
table later if a more persuasive argument is made 

mr. that 's just that 's 
true. if you but , at the same time , he has not ruled it in. he 
has not made a proposal .  . 

q what makes him open to it now when he was n't open 
to it before 

mr. he 's certainly willing to listen to 
the argument. 

q was he willing to listen to the argument for a 
short term tax this year , and he was n't willing to listen to it in 
he 's now open to it 

mr. the context of his comments was 
that it was not something he wanted to be clear that this is not 
something he was proposing , not something he was floating .  . 

q not something he was considering .  . those are his 
words it 's not something that 's now under consideration .  . if we 
start considering it , i 'll tell you. you 're now , are 
you not , that it is under consideration and 

mr. i'm that the task 
force has studied this proposal .  . i am also stating that the 
president has not made a decision on it. 

q but the door is open for the president to 
reconsider including this as part of 

mr. obviously , the working groups are 
looking at it. again , but the president has not made a decision. 

q do you know if they will make a on 
behalf of the to him 

mr. i do n't know that. i assume that 
if i do n't know what stage they are it in proposing .  . i do n't know 
that they 're going to make the conclusion that this is something they 
should present to him. i know this is something the working groups 
are looking at. 

q do you understand , george , that none of us are 
asking these questions in context of a decision that the president 
has made , only about what the president is considering 

mr. i understand that , and i am 
that the working groups have examined the issue of a 
 . 

q and the president will consider it 

mr. i assume that he will consider the 
argument if it is presented to him. 

q does that mean the president that working groups 
think that when the president says no , he means maybe ) . 

mr. i think that means that the working 
groups are trying to do the most job possible. 

q george , can i ask you another question about 
bosnia 

mr. sure. ) . 

q no , he wants us to stay on this. 

q let 's do gays in the military .  . ) . 

q no , he got out of that  . 

q i think we 've gotten the bottom line on that  . 
, your special in , today said 
that if the serbs do not accept the agreement that has been worked 
out quote we will do our part to pursue the lifting of the 
together with our allies .  . that seems to go a bit 
further than what you 've just said 

mr. sounds almost exactly what i just 
said. 

q well , do you accept in other words , you accept 
what 

mr. well , the president has said that 
this is something that 's under consideration .  . it is something he 
will consider if the current actions do n't bring the serbs to the 
table .  . 

q is n't there some kind of here 

mr. yes , there is a  . there 's 
going to be a vote on the u . n .  . resolution in about 10 days. 

q that 's on sanctions , that 's on the 
sanctions .  . 

mr. that 's right , that 's sanctions .  . 
and we believe that that will up the pressure , and we hope 
that that will bring the serbs to the table .  . as you know , mr. 
also met with mr. of russia , and they are also 
working on ways to bring the serbs to the table .  . we will continue to 
pressure them in many different ways and this is one possible option 
as well. 

q the question is whether there 's a for 
consideration or a vote on a decision on lifting the , 
not the sanctions .  . 

mr. the next vote in the u . n .  . is on 
sanctions .  . as far as i know , there are no votes scheduled on lifting 
the  . but it is something that we have discussed both 
internally and with our allies .  . 

q why did tell the serbs that the 
u.s. would do that what was the point of his telling them that 

mr. well , clearly , i mean , this is 
something that 's under consideration , and this is something that we 
take quite seriously if they do not come to the table .  . they should 
know the consequences of failing to come to the table .  . 

q have they been given a 

q warren has been saying the same thing 
and it has n't seemed to change the serbs  behavior in the least. why 
should the serbs take any of a threat to lift the 
when so far everything that 's been done has had no effect on the 
fighting in bosnia 

mr. i just do n't accept the premise of 
your question. it has had an effect the is having an 
effect. 

q what effect 

mr. if the choose not to 
our warnings , then they will face the consequences .  . 

q what effect has it had in bosnia 

mr. well , the effect that it has had on 
the , it has up they are not getting their 
through. we can brief more fully 

q in bosnia , george .  . in bosnia what effect has it 
had 

mr. well , it 's hard to say if it 's 
stopped the to date. that is why we 're continuing to 
press for the to stop .  . but we believe that over time we 
will continue to the serbs and that will have an effect. 
i'm not saying it 's going to happen overnight it clearly has n't 
happened overnight .  . but we believe that over time the sanctions can 
the serbs .  . if it fails to work and if the serbs fail to come 
to the table , we 'll move forward with the  . 

q is n't there a working , george , of the 24th 
the same date as the u . n .  . the scheduled u . n .  . vote has n't the 
united states said , along with many of the other allies , that if 
the serbs are n't willing to sign on to the peace by then , that 
we 'll seek have n't we said that we will seek 

mr. we 've said continually we 're going 
to 

q but on that 

mr. i do n't have a specific date , but 
we 're going to move forward with the resolution , the u . n .  . resolution , 
by around that time. and if that fails to take effect , if that fails 
to bring the serbs to the table , we will clearly consider other 
actions .  . 

q is n't this awfully 

mr. we 're taking a step by step 
approach. we 're up the pressure and we 're going to 
continue to do that. 

q is there a possibility , george , that by the time 
all these steps are taken the serbs will have achieved 
their goals and then what 's the purpose 

mr. i think the purpose is to get the 
serbs to stop the  . we are that goal on many 
different  . we are it through the u . n .  . we 're 
it through direct talks we are it through 
the sanctions .  . and we will consider lifting the 
 . we are turning the up on the serbs and we will 
continue to do that. 

q but if the efforts have been in 
getting the serbs to stop the how effective will any 
campaign be to have the serbs give back what they 've gained i mean , 
once they 're entrenched 

mr. i ca n't speculate on that. we 're 
going to continue to press for them to come to the table now. we 're 
going to continue to find ways to stop the  . but i ca n't 
see into the future. 

q george , on the , house 
say they 're going to hold a series of town meetings on saturday to 
try and explain the details of your  . they cite which 
show that the more people learn about it , the less they like it. 
what 's your strategy to counter that 

mr. the strategy we have is the one 
we 're going to continue. as you saw , the president today pointed up 
the very real benefits of the summer jobs program that this 
will provide 700 , 000 new summer jobs this summer for kids in inner 
cities and to do work. we are also going to point 
out the benefits of the money , the in  . 
we 're going to point up the benefits of  . we 're going to 
point up the benefits of head start. we are going to say that the 
have a choice they can take action to create jobs or 
they can perpetuate the of the last four years. 

q does it concern you , though , that the house now , 
the house are after you as well as the senate 

mr. the house voted against 
it before. they made a mistake then they 're making a mistake now. 

q george , does it strike anybody in the 
that it 's a bit strong to describe , as the president 
did this morning , the summer jobs program as quote a 
of a promise of america 

mr. not at all. i think it 's the 
promise of america to give kids a chance to reach their full 
potential. 

q government funded jobs 

mr. to give people a chance to work 
absolutely .  . that is the promise of america .  . 

q i want to follow up on something i asked yesterday 
where does 700 , 000 summer jobs , where does that figure come from 

mr. that is on top of. i did look at 
it. there are currently 600 , 000 summer jobs in the  . this 
will be on top of the 600 , 000 , so it will be a total of 1 . 3 . million .  . 

q the 700 , 000 would be created by the 


mr. yes. 

q where does that number come from because we 've 
been told all along that the would create , 000 
new jobs .  . and according to , that breaks down to something 
like 200 , 000 full time jobs and 150 , 000 summer jobs .  . 

mr. yes , but the summer that 's when 
you do their full time equivalence .  . i mean , 700 , 000 individuals will 
receive jobs this summer .  . when you it for the full time 
job effect , you have to do i do n't know what the exact is. 

q seven hundred thousand part time jobs 

mr. 150 , 000 or 

q one to four because it 's three months. 

mr. thank you. 

q can i follow up on that did the president 
this morning when he said that some of the government money 
for these summer jobs will pay for private for kids to work in the 
private 

mr. not necessarily .  . i mean , i think 
that there will be grants available. that 's one of the ways that you 
pay for the jobs .  . at the same time , he 's also issued a challenge to 
the private to kids on their own as well. 

q tax dollars , for instance , would pay for kids to 
work at time 

mr. i think the time is actually 
somebody coming forward and actually doing a grant .  . that 's going to 
be the of it. there could be isolated instances , though , where 
there would be grants to  . 

q has the president spoken with any senate 
this week 

mr. 
no , but there 's been a lot of contact with senate in the 
white house. 

q at a lower level. but the president has n't 

mr. the president has not , no. 

q getting any closer to get the votes 

mr. we 're continuing to work on it. 

q anybody your way 

q on , the new york times seems to be reporting 
something of a in 's attitude towards the coup 
leaders .  . can you that there has been this change , and what 
impact will it have on the process and what did have to 
say yesterday in his report 

mr. did brief the principals .  . 
i ca n't what 's actually happening in the talks .  . i would 
leave that to the themselves. but mr. has 
returned to  . we have received a here at the white 
house from  . and as we have said time and time 
again , we believe that of security are important to a 
final resolution to a political  . 

q george , yesterday you offered some selective 
of how the would impact some states and cities .  . 
can we get a complete by state of how these jobs would be 


mr. i think we have it for most states , 
yes. and i think we can get it out. 

q could you make that generally available 

mr. i believe we can. 

q and could you do it by the component of the 
in other words 

mr. i do n't know if we can do i know 
that we can do it by summer jobs and other jobs .  . i do n't know how 
deeply it can be broken down. but clearly , we can break it down into 
summer jobs and other jobs .  . 

q and can i follow up is this the information that 
jeff and the rest of the white house is using in the in the 
states 

mr. i do n't know if they 're , but 
they 're press  . 

q can you describe what those press contain 

mr. all we 're doing is pointing out the 
benefits of this to various states. for instance , i know 
that today is heading up to and new hampshire .  . 
and i would point out that the , the jobs 
creates 1 , 000 jobs in  . it creates 2 , 000 jobs in new 
hampshire .  . and the people of those states should him that 
this is important. 

q where are the going 

mr. they go to the states. 

q to whom 

mr. we can get them. it 's no problem. 

q can we get it 

q why do n't you put them out here as well 

mr. i think we can. 

q this afternoon would that be possible 

mr. i 'll have to check .  . i do n't know. 
but as soon as we can. 

q are you focusing these press on states 
where there are moderate or pragmatic republican 

mr. i think we 're trying to get as many 
as we can. it 's actually quite difficult to pull this together and 
we 're doing our best. we 're putting them out as we get them. 

q why are you so closely 's 


mr. i was just following it. 

q are press going along to states where he 's 


mr. i'm not sure. i think that 
probably there are press going to  . ) . 

q will there be a man in a suit waiting 
) . 

q george , as the president goes about the business of 
defending what 's in his , he does n't address what 
seems to be the  main point , that you 're funding it with 
spending rather than if it 's so important , why not come up 
with the funding for it seems to be the republican argument. and 
how do you answer that 

mr. what was answer is , we are paying 
for it over time. and if you look at our , we pay for this 
over time. we believe right now the economy needs a jump 
start for jobs .  . 

q you 're not claiming , are you , that that does n't add 
to the this year 

mr. i'm saying we 're paying for it over 
time. i did n't say that. 

q i know that , george .  . but i mean , from the 
beginning , the question we do have and things 
spending will pay for that this year , will it not 

mr. this year they clearly will. but 
over time our fully for this program .  . 

q what you 're saying is that there are savings that 
would cover this if it were this year in future years 

mr. absolutely .  . that 's exactly what i 
said. 

q i know that , but there is going to be outstanding 
debt , it will add to the national debt from this year 

mr. no , we 're reducing the by 
billion billion over the next four years. 

q you mean you 're reducing it below what it would 
have been 

mr. exactly. 

q in fact , you 're adding a very large amount to the 
national debt over the period of 

mr. but we 're reducing it far more from 
what it would have been. that 's true. 

q washington type  . ) . 

q you 're getting to be a old man. 

q george , has any decision been made about the white 
house or the president 's participation in the gay rights march coming 
up in a week and a half 

mr. we 're working on the president 's 
now. i believe he 's going to be at the senate democratic 
in that weekend. 

q will he address it by phone 

mr. i do n't know about that. it 's a 
little far out , but i believe he 's going to be in the senate  . 

q so will he have the leaders in a day or two before 
the speech 

mr. i do n't know. i would expect that 
at some point he would meet with the leaders of some of these groups. 
i do n't know the on it , though. 

q will there be an aids prior to or in 
with the event 

mr. i'm just not sure. 

q april 22nd is earth day. what is the president 
going to do to mark that , and is it the case that he is going to sign 
the treaty that day 

mr. i know there 's been some work on 
the treaty .  . i do n't know about it that day , but 
i would expect he 'll have a statement on earth day or right around 
then. 

q where is the work on the treaty 

mr. i 'd have to check with 
 . i just know that there 's been some work done , but i do n't 
know exactly what. 

q when is earth day 

mr. the 22nd , i think. 

q why is it you know that he is going to have a 
statement on earth day but you do n't know if he 's going to have a 
statement on the gay rights march 

mr. i said i do n't know if he 's going 
to meet or when he 's going to meet .  . 

q do you have a statement on the gay rights march 

mr. i do n't , actually , no. i would n't 
be surprised if he did , though. 

q do you have some details on the visit 

mr. it 's a working visit on friday and 
the president is looking forward to that in discussing a number of 
issues including aid and the japanese and 
the trade issues between the two countries. 

q there was some expectations that a second aid 
to russia was going to be at the g 7 meeting and , if 
i understand , it has n't happened. why is that or what 's the status 
on that 

mr. the g 7 meeting is still going on 
and , as you know , and have talked 
about the of a possible  . but we 're going to 
continue to consult with congress and our g 7 allies on that. 

q we will not then make any kind of announcement 
during the two day meeting 

mr. the meeting 's not over yet. 

q is that when you 're going to make one 

mr. i'm not ruling out the possibility .  . 

q the president 's going to announce it tomorrow .  . 

q said that. 

q yes , said it would be tomorrow .  . 

q so did  . 

mr. i 'd have to look at that , but i 
believe it is more likely that the announcement will come out of 
tokyo .  . 

q george , has there been further consideration here 
about going to sending the president out to los 

mr. i do n't know that there 's it 's 
not something we 've ruled out. we do n't have a date set for it. 

q george , you all have a position or do you support 
immigration 's plan to 4 , 000 iraqi prisoners in the united 
states 

mr. it 's the first i 've heard of it. 

q george , there was a report today about the 

q fortunately .  . ) . 

q about the of and says that 
president clinton is behind president bush in the number of positions 
that people have been for. are you going to speed up the 
of or where do you stand with it 

mr. we filled of the president 's 
 . and it 's broken down we have c 
full time. i'm not sure what that means 
 ( laughter ) 70 pa full time. and this is about the same it 's 
about the same of president bush .  . obviously , as you move along 
, once you each level of actually has a 
effect and up far more  . so we expect 
the process to speed up. but we 're at the of bush .  . obviously 
we 'd like to get these done as quickly as possible. 

i would point out that the fbi background and the 
background check is far more comprehensive and it takes more time 
than our , and that is part of the  . but we 're 
working on it. 

q is that because of 

mr. i think that 's an awful big part of 
it , yes. 

q in the story this morning , you were at 
approximately the same as bush in making , but way 
behind in  . 

mr. that 's where the background 
comes into play .  . that 's the problem. 

q that 's the background problem because i 
mean , you have a democratic senate 

mr. no , that 's not the you make the 
, and then it takes quite a bit of time to fill out all 
the forms and have the background done. that 's exactly where 
the problem is. 

q what 's the president doing this afternoon , and 
what 's on the plan for tomorrow 

mr. he 's got some meetings just 
office meetings this afternoon for the most part , on a variety of 
issues that probably a half dozen different issues. and then 
he 'll be tomorrow we 'll have an event , probably again on 
the and jobs out of here at the white house. and 
friday is the meeting. 

q will you be his tax return tomorrow , 
george 

mr. either tomorrow or friday .  . 

q is there going to be a pre regarding the 
japanese prime 's visit tomorrow 

mr. i do n't know about tomorrow , but 
we 'll probably get something done , as we usually do , for these 
 . 

q was here this morning and do you 
know what that was about 

mr. he was here. he met with a group 
of us here at the white house , including  . 

q who 

q  . 

mr.  . , 
me , gene , bruce reed , jeff watson , mark  . 

q talking about 

mr. we talked about general 
policy. he is about to go to los  . he was just back from 
, where we had a good victory last night and he 's going 
on to los  . 

q did he request the meeting 

mr. actually , no. he 's in 
contact with the president .  . he had written a letter on a variety of 
issues , and so we asked him to come in and talk about it. 

q george , is having a for 
in  . have you guys been in contact with at 
all on this 

mr. i think there 's been some contact , 
sure. 

q can you tell us about the contacts 

mr. i'm not sure 

q do you know who him or what was said 

mr. i know that talked to 
him and they just has a general talk about the  . 

q and did he express his support for it now , or is he 


mr. i ca n't the details of the 
conversation , but there have been  . 

q the l . a .  . times is reporting that abortion 
abortions is likely to be included in the basic health care 
 . is this something the president is considering 

mr. again 

q along with the ) . 

mr. it 's certainly something that 's 
been looked at , but no decisions have been made. 

q what was the question 

mr. the l . a .  . times story on whether 
abortions will be covered by the president 's health plan .  . 

q did the president in his meeting did you in your 
meeting with ask his advice , his advice 
about what kind of stance the white house should take in the wake of 
the verdict in l . a .  . 

mr. well , we certainly talked about the 
situation in los and the long term for economic 
development and other issues. 

q for instance , did you discuss whether it would be 
helpful for the president to go there or not 

mr. well , we discussed a wide range of 
issues related to los  . that was certainly one of them. 

q letting you perhaps go out on the way you came in , 
i need to go back to bosnia just for a second and ask 

mr. oh , good. 

q your reaction to margaret 's comments 
that you 're just sitting by and watching a massacre .  . 

mr. well , we 've been pushing very hard 
on a number of for more aggressive action. we will continue 
to do that. 

q can you tell us if you 've made any progress in your 
talks on the getting a compromise i mean , we do n't 
have any feel except talks are  . have you talked to like 20 
people or 

mr. i do n't know the numbers. we 've 
talked to several people and we 've had wide  . 

q anyone your way 

mr. i ca n't get into that. we 're just 
going to keep working through tuesday .  . 

the press thank you. 

end 1 10 p . m .  . edt 

56 04 14 





from  ( ed ipser ) 
subject re supply side economic policy  ( was re david ) 
nntp posting host solomon . 
organization , singapore 
distribution na 
lines 29 

in article writes 
excerpts from netnews . sci . 5 apr 93 re supply side economic po .  .  . 
by not a 
... 

the deficits declined from 9 , a low of 2 . 9 . of before 
the tax and spending of 1990 reversed the trend .  . 

brett 
is this true some more details would be appreciated. 

yes , sadly , this is true. the primary reason , and the essence of the 
details that you are seeking , is that the 
were working .  . in fact , they were working so well that unless the feds 
did something , they were going to have to start cutting  . so bush 
and the got together in a summit and replaced 
with the now grand compromise in which bush 
to raise taxes in exchange for certain caps on spending 
increases .  . 

as it turned out , the taxes killed the reagan and the caps 
on spending increases were dispelled by clinton in his first act as 
president  ( so that he could create his own new plan with more tax 
 . 

the result is that clinton now hopes to reduce the to a level 
above where it was when reagan left office. 

on that  . 

from (c . j .  . silverio ) 
subject re abortion to health reform is clinton nuts 
reply to 
organization sgi 
lines 27 


in article , writes 
i like the way people call it cruel and unusual punishment , as if 
imprisonment is n't cruel , too. lethal injection in comparison .  . 
and , they have a death sentence because they were convicted of a cruel 
and unusual crime . 

it 's not what they did that matters. it 's what you do and 
what i do and what we do in response that matters. do we 
ourselves by killing in response to killing it 's 
 . that 's all. it 's no deterrent .  . it serves no 
purpose but to somebody 's blood lust .  . 

it would be nice , though , if we never convicted someone of a crime they 
did n't commit , and it would make the death penalty much more  . 

yeah yeah yeah .  .  .  . and sure would be nice if we did n't apply the 
death penalty to minorities .  . i 'll my 
opinion on the death penalty when there are more up for 
it than blacks .  . i.e. , when hell over. 


c j 
the people causing the trouble were and homosexuals , 
the typical sort of person who us. , 
ex , leader of the pro life group rescue america , 
on tv , 2 april 1993 .  . 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re clinton president 's remarks at town hall meeting 
lines 25 
organization university of division of continuing education 

in article clinton  ( clinton '92 ) writes 


good evening and welcome to all of you 
in the thousands of communities around the country that are taking 
part in this town meeting for the month of april .  . 

you know , today is april  . in , thomas 
jefferson was born , 250 years ago. i think that 's appropriate to 
mention at the beginning of this meeting because since that time he 
has been , of course , a person who has been one that we 've all 
followed in terms of our democracy and the importance of education 
here in this great country. the success of our democracy according 
to jefferson really depends upon the success of our 
system. 

i wonder if he the irony of a federal 
a anti in support of federal education 
programs 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 14 

in article ,  ( blort ! ! ) . writes 
would n't one expect more heterosexual men than gay men to be 
simply due to a larger group of potential partners 

just a thought. 

matt 

you might except that gay men are much more than 
straight men which shows how and up gay men are. 


clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of virginia 
lines 18 

clayton writes 
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . 

did you ever consider the selection effect that those who are willing 
to admit to being a member sexual minority  ( homosexuality ) are more 
willing to admit to being a member of another sexual minority  ( highly 
promiscious ) 

i did n't think that you did. 


greg , university of virginia 
mail astronomy department , , va 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from  ( michael d. adams ) 
subject re how many are there 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
x ignore ignore ignore ignore this line 
organization d service 
lines 11 

 ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 

too many. 

agreed. we need more folks to admit they 're  . 


michael d. adams champaign , il al 

believes in the two party system the masters and the slaves .  . 
napoleon  ( from the man from u . n . c . l . e) . 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 75 

in article  ( la 
c. foard ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 


from the santa rosa ) . press , april 15 , 1993 , p. 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new study on male sexual behavior , the most 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

the on homosexuality in the study released 
by the institute are lower than 
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional 
wisdom since it was published in the report. 

1 ) so what 

so there are less gays , then the gays claim .  . 

2 ) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2 . 
gather in washington  . after all if there are only of 
us then this is an event in history .  .  .  . 


dream on. abortion and african american civil rights rallies do n't even bring 
in half of that. 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners .  .  .  .  . 


i was wondering why i was n't getting laid .  . 

compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . 

and what did this study show for number of sexual contacts for those 
who said they where homosexual or is that number to for 
you .  .  .  .  . 


if it 's more , then who cares 

it 's a that we do n't have a for 
straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 

fuck off 


actually , i bet you more gay men are as not as as gay men , 
because more of them could have the option of living a straight life , and 
with social , probably would at least try. 


join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the reform church bbs at . . . . 


did you know that is is a fact that homosexuality was high in 
hitler 's storm  ( sa ) before he came to power. i wonder if they got to 
put the on themselves .  .  .  .  .  .  . 

ryan 

from  ( the pinhead ) 
subject re formal to the of jurisdiction 

organization california state university , 
lines 21 
nntp posting host edu . 
in reply to 's message of 05 apr 1993 06 48 53 

in article  ( dan breslau ) writes 
... an amazing of from reality. 

glad to see that you agree that the current government is 
about admitting the of the people ! speaking from personal 
experience , i have had judges assume jurisdiction even after 
i demanded that the prove such jurisdiction on the record , and the 
stood mute .  . i have also had an court uphold such action 
and hide behind california rules of court , rule ( the judges of 
the department shall not be required to write opinions in 
any cases decided by them , but may do so whenever they it 
or in the public interest .  . ) .  . that is reality , i agree. 





ronald e mail 
software engineer phone 1 
international 
the bill of rights where by law 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re abortion to health reform is clinton nuts 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution world 
lines 37 

in  ( simon e. booth ) writes 

in article writes 
 ( simon e. booth ) writes 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes 
we already kill people  ( death penalty ) , and that costs even more 
money , so you could as well complain about this extremely 
way of justice. 

but the death penalty is right. 

and how expensive can an execution be i mean , i think , 
 ( for the gas ) , or the and ammunition to firing squads are 
affordable .  . 

now , perhaps lethal injection might be expensive , in that case , let 's 
return to the more efficient methods employed in the past. 

oh , sure , the death penalty is fairly , but the trial and 
can run millions .  . 


unless you cut costs by the trial and 
 .  .  . you little rat bastard 

why as a matter of fact , i was thinking of that as a way to make 
the system more efficient .  . and the only rat are 
 . 

yeah , simon 's no rat bastard , he 's the head attack ) 


simon 





from  ( paul barnett ) 
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians 
nntp posting host com . 
organization engineering , computer corp .  . , , tx .  . , usa 
x disclaimer this message was written by a user at computer 
corp .  . the opinions expressed are those of the user and 
not necessarily those of  . 
lines 15 

in  ( scott w roby ) writes 

top ten reasons that do n't want to aid russia 

edited 

now that 's funny !  ( remembering that good humor always 
close to the truth) 

i ca n't wait to see the inevitable flames .  . ) 


paul 
development  ( 214 ) 
computer corp .  . , tx 

from  ( paul havemann ) 
subject re clinton 's program 
distribution usa 
organization 
lines 47 

in article ,  ( mark wilson ) writes 
on the news last night clinton was the for 
his so called  . 
it seems that one small item within this was going to pay for free 
for poor kids .  . 
so now clinton is claiming that the are holding the health of 
poor kids for blatantly political  . 

aside from the merits  ( or lack thereof ) of another free program , 
just what is such a program doing in a bill that is supposedly about 
creating jobs .  . 

jobs what the hell have jobs to do with it it 's another 
program from the new ,  . the fact is , the major claim 
made for universal that all children will be 
has absolutely no validity .  . several states already have u . i .  . programs , have 
had these programs for years . the result on average , their success 
are no better than the national average .  . it seems that the has n't 
yet out a way to make parents bring their kids in. yet another case 
of from the new , the of change .  . 

if clinton is so hot to get this program , why does n't he and 
the just introduce it as a stand alone bill. is n't it possible 
that clinton is the one doing the blatant political  ( read pork ) 
here. he is telling the , pass my billion dollar , 
or i will go to the people and tell them that you are opposed to 
poor kids .  . 

what clinton using this issue for gain do tell. 

i have never thought highly of clinton , but like this lower my 
opinion of him even further. 

i thought one of clinton 's campaign was that he was going to be 
a new kind of  . this kind of would have made 
proud. 

all together now .  .  .  . c mon , you know the words .  .  .  . meet the new boss ! same as 
the old boss ! and the we wo n't get again ! 



paul  ( internet 

they 're not just opinions they 're for the brain ! 
 ( up to 50 per cynical observation . ) . 
recommended minimum daily requirement 1 , 000  . keep reading. 

from  ( richard warner ) 
subject re california federal legislation to protect from 
organization san jose state university math cs dept. 
lines 29 

 ( john eaton ) writes 

allen  ( ndallen@r node . wrote 
here is a press release from the california department of  . 

california federal legislation to 
protect from 

i may be a little but i would have thought that protecting 
from would be the prime objective of something 
called the cal  . if they are n't that now 
then why do we need them 

very simple. an   is a a  . 
it is his her duties to make rules to enforce laws .  . he she cannot 
make laws .  . if there is no law that covers a specific subject , say 
, a cannot create one. so they have 
to go to a proper body to get such a law  . for 
the california , there are two possible 
bodies the california state and the u.s. congress .  . we all 
know how little the california state , esp. 
along the lines of reform legislation  ( negative  . so 
wants the feds to do it , because  ( a ) he has a better chance 
of getting a federal law through , and  ( b ) since many of the 
work across state lines national borders , it is better to 
have a law that reach out into other  . 

john 
! ! 

from  ( bernard silver ) 
subject re bill  ( et al ) 's letter 

organization laboratories incorporated 
lines 27 
in reply to 's message of 3 apr 93 23 18 gmt 

in article  ( ted frank ) writes 
in article (a . j .  . teel ) writes 
well , the two letters giving concrete proof that the 
tax is voluntary and giving specific for stopping 
, et cetera have been out there for a while now. 
there has been no refutation to date. have the 
finally given up as sure would like to hear there reasons 
for disbelief at this point. 

probably because you have yet to respond to the refutation i 've posted. 
, it 's bad enough you post this bs , it 's even worse that you do n't 
even try to defend it when it gets to pieces , but then posting 
that no one 's looked at it and when all facts point to the 
contrary point to a severely deluded mind. 

what i found interesting about 's letter is the 
6 cases he has won against the  . now , assuming that 
these cases really exist and were one by him  ( anyone checked ) 
they may have nothing to do with his major tax claim .  . the fought 
one of his  . defending your seems when 
you believe that there is no need to file in the first place ! 


bernard silver 
laboratories 

 ( 617 ) 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re if drugs should be , how  ( was good neighbor .  .  . ) . 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 22 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( wil 
december starr ) writes 

in article state . edu . , 
state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) said 

however , it and just some drugs in gas to 
be bought like is just plain silly. plus , i have never 
heard of a recommended for drugs like crack , , 
and  . the 60 minute report said it worked with cocaine 
, pot and heroin .  . 

or , the government could adopt the radical and probably unamerican idea 
that citizens are free to live their lives as they wish , and simply 
cocaine , marijuana , heroin , , etc. please explain why 
the idea of allowing drugs to be bought like 
is just plain silly. after all , it works just fine for  .  .  . 


yeah , is pretty cool , is n't it. 

ryan 

from  ( mike van pelt ) 
subject re anyone interested in facts here 's a few 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
lines 19 

oops , i forgot to set read permission .  . it 's fixed now. 

ftp netcom . com . 
anonymous 

pub 

get clinton . zip . 

you need 2 . x . or the latest net . zip . to un this. 

economic since day one , plus all of the ways slick 
and the of are to do it to us. from ron brown 's 
, so any is pro , can you believe it 

let 's face it , when it comes to , has mike van 
performed about as well as a savings and loan .  . these are 
the guys , remember , who put and not to 
mention on your hard  . lincoln 

from  ( rich wales ) 
subject sick and tired  ( was re bill  ( et al ) 's letter ) 
reply to  ( rich wales ) 
organization systems inc. , , ontario , canada 
distribution na 
lines 

replying to a . j .  . 

well , the two letters giving concrete proof that the 
tax is voluntary and giving specific for 
stopping , et cetera have been out there for a 
while now. 

 . those letters do n't provide concrete proof of anything at all 
in the absence of any case law that demonstrates the method will 
ally work for ordinary people in everyday situations .  . 

specifically , show us some case law in which the courts have ruled that 
tax is illegal and or that ordinary working types do not have to 
pay tax  ( and that they can legally avoid paying tax with 
out declaring themselves to be churches or some such  . this 
issue is sufficiently important that i think we have a right to expect 
something on point from the us supreme court  ( in the case of 
federal tax ) or a state 's supreme court  ( for a state 's  . 

unless you can do that , i for one am unwilling to call your material 
concrete proof . 

there has been no refutation to date. have the 
finally given up as sure would like to hear their 
reasons for disbelief at this point. 

refutation refutation of what you have n't made a case yet. you 've 
posted plenty of claims , but you have n't given us any valid reason to 
believe that any court in the us will agree with you. your claims seem 
on the surface to so from the legal mainstream that i 
feel the burden of proof is still on you to show that your arguments 
have any merit whatsoever. and the cases you 've cited involve such 
strange situations that i see no reason to assume that the rulings are 
applicable to anyone else , or that they will ultimately stand on appeal 
to the supreme court. 

why ca n't you just cite us a case in which joe , a regular 
regular wages from a regular company , refuses to pay 
his tax , gets into court , is convicted of tax 
, and then has his conviction by the us supreme court 
with a 7 2 majority ruling that tax is indeed totally 
voluntary what , you say no such case exists hmmm , i wonder why 
not why have n't you 

shall i conclude that the point has been received and the 
opposition has the field 

with all due respect , you can conclude anything you want. i just hope , 
for your own sake , that you do n't conclude that anyone in a position of 
authority in the united states or any legitimate or illegitimate 
thereof is going to agree with your conclusions .  . 

for that matter , i confess i'm thoroughly confused as to why you would 
be looking for court rulings in your favor anyway since i thought you 
told us earlier that every court in the us has been in with big 
banking interests since the 1938 jurisdiction thing. 
do you honestly expect us to believe that they 'd go to all the trouble 
to subvert the system , and yet would still slink back into 
their in the face of anyone who knew enough to invoke the right 
combination of magic and 

not only that , but why do you even care what the us courts say anyway 
did n't you tell us a while back that you 've all attempts by us 
to you as a amendment federal citizen when 
the fbi comes to you away for tax evasion , why do n't you just tell 
them they 're out of their jurisdiction and should go back to washington , 
d . c .  . , where they belong 

or maybe we should all just go back to common law , which you 
suggested would be better than all these , codes , and the like. 
if you want to renounce society 's legal , fine we can just 
declare you an outlaw , ok , and anyone who sees you driving on the roads 
with no license on your car and no 's license in your 
can just take you like a game animal and you for their  ( with 
plenty of and a of salt , but without prejudice 1  . 

sorry , everyone , it 's getting late , and i'm sick and tired of all this 
garbage .  . if i know what 's good for me , i 'll just clam up and stop try 
to refute this nonsense , and if anyone falls for it and up in 
jail for tax evasion or what not , it 'll be on their own head. 

to say , none of the above represents the opinions of my current 
employer who , in any case , is a canadian and does n't really need to 
care too much about us tax law. i , on the other hand , am a amend 
federal citizen , with a us to prove it , and plan to keep 
on filing form 's for the future  ( though i will probably 
not owe any us tax due to the foreign earned exclusion 
and or the foreign tax  . 


rich systems inc.  ( mks ) 
35 king st. n .  . , ontario , canada 1  ( 519 ) 

from  ( julie kangas ) 
subject re top ten reasons not to aid russians 
nntp posting host jpl . nasa . gov . 
organization , pasadena , ca 
lines 

in article  ( roger collins ) writes 
 ( julie kangas ) writes 
i suggest you 
listen very carefully to the stuff and his people are saying 
and compare that with the very anti west coming from his 
opponents in the congress .  . i sure know who i want to back .  . 

could we back him without forcing others to back him at the point of a 
gun 

if we had backed him strongly early on i doubt there would be the 
problem there is now. many russians became with democracy 
and reforms when they felt , imo , that the west did n't care. 

was virtually promised massive aid  ( once bush got over his 
mania . ) . this probably kept him from the congress 
and calling for new elections .  . well , the aid did n't come through 
and we did n't make sure it went to the proper places and now the 
anti are strength where before they were in 
hiding .  . 


have you considered a non policy if market reform does 
happen , russia will certainly get private capital at private risk to 
help their economy .  . they will even have incentive to do so for the same 
reason. if they do n't reform , then our government will probably 
consider them enemies anyway and rather spend money to hurt rather than help 
them. 

if they do n't reform i do n't believe in giving them money. however , 
i think this is too important to take a non approach. 
this is what really me about it sounds like 
 it 'll all be the same in a hundred years time. no need to do 
anything . ' . 


how does this affect us well , we are on the same planet and if 
vast of europe are blown away i think we 'd feel something. 
a massive of a country that spans 1 the planet is 
bound to have here.  ( of course , there is also the 
argument that democracies should help other 
democracies  ( or ) . 

if a 1 . 6 . billion gift was that important to our well being , could n't it 
be raised people already give over 100 billion a year to 
charity .  . 

despite the wishes of , this society is a far way , and getting 
, from being libertarian .  . perhaps voluntary would work if 
we had the proper but we do not have it. we have to face the 
problem now , not in x years when we have a libertarian dream society. 

right now there are huge blocks to trade , let alone charity .  . 
there are still to high tech  . nasa ca n't buy 
launch from them. sure , the market may be able to 
help a great deal but it ca n't right now. there are too many obstacles .  . 
instead of fighting against the aid you should be fighting to 
tear down the obstacles the market and charities have to face. 

seriously. everyone has different opinions on what is stupid. 
my two causes are aid to russia and a strong space program .  . 
someone else will welfare or education or doing studies 
of  . that is why we have a and not a 
true democracy .  . instead of on a massive scale , we 
only have on a congressional scale. 

it seems instead of on any scale , we have aid to russia , 
expensive space programs , national charity that does n't help the poor , 
and probably , studies of  . i think limited government 
is more key than how democratic it is. 

well , i think limited government is primarily democratic due 
to it being limited .  . but the main question is how do you 
a state run economy and monolithic government into something that 
even remotely looks like ours  ( btw , sometimes it seems that our government 
is trying to go the opposite direction ) it is not going to be 
painless and not going to be easy .  . we simply cannot wait to 
help when they have the  proper  government. they 'll never 
get there without the aid .  . it may be too late already. 


btw , who is to decide  stupid ' this is just like those who 
want to impose their  morals  on others just the sort of 
thing i thought were against .  . 

that was an opinion , and are very big on free speech. 

and i'm just mine. 


actually , my politics are pretty libertarian except on this one issue 
and this is why it is impossible for me to join the party. it seems 
that want to from the rest of the world and 
let it or swim .  . 

if you are pretty libertarian except on this one issue then you should 
be very libertarian .  . consider it a compromise .  . how much money would 
your fellow russia have to give to russia if those you oppose 
were n't using the same government machine to steal money from you 
and your group for causes you do n't support 

as i also said above , another problem i have is with transformation . 
a libertarian society is not going to happen or overnight .  . 
i have seen nothing about how to take our current government and 
society and turn it into a minimal government and a responsible 
self sufficient  . 


we could do that 100 years ago but not now. 

people have been saying that for hundreds of years. 

they did n't have nuclear weapons 100 years ago. nor 
communications nor travel to virtually on the earth in 
less than a day. 


like it or not we are in the beginnings of a economy and 
decision making. 

all the more reason to depend on the free market which can more 
process information , than to depend on rulers for decisions 
on complex issues. 

yes , depend on the rulers of the free market and the  . rulers 
do emerge somewhere and they will never represent the opinions of 
every person on the planet. 

there must be and  . on the government when 
it gets out of bounds and on industry when it gets out of 
bounds .  . putting all your hopes on the benevolence of the market 
is , to me , just like putting all your hopes on the benevolence of 
government. 



disclaimer all opinions here belong to my cat and no one else 

from 
subject re from the 's 
summary liars 
news software vax vms 1.4 
keywords 
organization ask computer systems , product division 
distribution usa 
lines 36 

in article ,  ( michael friedman ) writes .  .  .  . 
in article writes 
in article ,  ( phil ronzone ) writes .  .  .  . 
correct. jfk was quite disgusting in that way. the reports of the women that 
he via power of the office are now in the  . today , we  d 
call for immediate for that kind of behaviour .  . 

i guess women into having sex is much worse than , breaking 
and entering , national elections , starting secret wars that kill 
hundreds of thousands , and using the powers of your office for personal 
gain like nixon did. not ! 

, you are a really pathetic liar .  . 

is n't name calling fun ! 

some of your charges are arguable , but most of them are obvious lies .  . 
i challenge you to present us with any evidence that nixon stole , 
a national election , never mind elections , or used the powers 
of his office for personal gain .  . 

what do you think happened at what do you think they broke into 
the building for it was n't to just look around. do i have to draw you 
a picture 

you ca n't because there is absolutely no evidence that any of these 
events occurred .  . 

whatever .  .  .  . 


who said anything about snapped  . johnson 
this is still just culture  . you wait till i 've 
into the situation and found my  . 
then i 'll start ! douglas adams 


from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re we 're from the government and we 're here to help you 
summary historical examples and the us constitution 
organization free the , inc. 
lines 76 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( jim albea ) writes 


in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

, now that really  . i'm being accused of no nor depth 
to my historical knowledge because i'm unwilling to agree that economic 
leads to poverty and from there to social and political 
. you go read your history again. poverty is the main 
engine of social  ( in this context , we 'll put aside religious 
, mass , etc . ) .  . 

well , the fact of the matter is that poverty is related to 
social and political , while economic is much more 
strongly related .  . in virtually all major including 
england  ( the revolution ) , france , russia and china , the 
occurred as were substantial long term 
growth and poverty was  . what sets off is massive 
coupled with a perception on the part of those at the bottom 
that social change is possible. 

if poverty  ( were ) the main engine of social , this typical 
historical pattern would not hold .  . in fact , would have been 
far more typical before the century than since that time. 

much deleted .  .  .  . 

gee , jim , if you 'll check the constitution you 'll find in order to .  .  .  . 
promote the general welfare .  .  . do . and establish this constitution .  .  .  . 
i'm surprised you missed it. it 's right there in the first paragraph .  . i 
would have thought you would have made it at least through the  . 

you almost got it right , and it was a good try , but you should follow your 
own advice. the to the constitution does read as you have quoted 
but let us not forget that after all it is only the  . it is not 
a binding part of the constitution and carries no weight in the law. that 
poor tortured paragraph has got to be one of the most unfortunate passages 
in the english language witness the of like yourself who 
think those vague phrases are part of the law of the land. do you 
really believe that a only has to give service to promoting 
the general welfare to be within the limits of the constitution 

sorry , buddy , but some other managed to include the general 
welfare in another portion of the constitution .  . 

article i section 8 the congress shall have the power to and 
taxes .  .  . to . pay the and provide for the common defence and general 
welfare of the united states .  .  .  . 

i guess they wanted to make sure everyone understood they meant what they 
said in the  . 

just to make sure you 've got the point , let 's do a little experiment .  . what 
if the constitution read as follows 

we the people , to promote the general welfare , do 
and establish this constitution for the united states of 
america .  . 

constitution the federal government shall have one function and one 
function only to provide for the defense of the nation .  . 


but as noted above , the constitution does n't say that , does it 

the government would not then have two functions defense and welfare .  . 

but since it explicitly includes both the general welfare and defense 
in article i , section 8 , i guess you 'll grant that are constitutional 
functions .  . right 



steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re who be conservative on this .  .  .  .  .  . 
organization engineering and manufacturing , 
lines 17 

in  ( kevin darcy ) writes 

congress is not allowed to the constitutional rights and 
already by persons , however , unless the has a rational 
reason or a compelling interest to it , depending on which standard is 
applied .  . this is relevant because a right to one class of persons 
by definition always on the rights of another class or classes or 
persons , to some degree. in the case of abortion , establishing rights for 
the greatly on the rights of pregnant women. there has yet 
to be presented a sufficient justification for such rights. 

not to your  . but the arguments have convinced me , and others. 

rule is n't any merely because the calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related .  . 


from  ( jeff sents ) 
subject re top ten signs that it 's the age of on avenue 
organization communications public access. the mouth of the south .  . 
lines 19 

 ( paolucci paul ) writes 

in article  ( ed ipser ) writes 
top ten signs that it 's the age of on avenue 
biased and not as funny as dave stuff deleted .  .  .  . 

i sure hope that someone somewhere is these lists ... 
stuff deleted 
i'm no clinton fan , but i'm no fan .  .  .  . 

then why not simply stop reading them. this is n't intended as a flame , 
but your post reminds me of the old joke 
patient doctor it when i do this. 
doctor then stop doing that. 

regards , 
jeff 



from  ( phill baker ) 
subject re re 
lines 55 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 


in article ,  ( david veal ) writes 

come to that under the original plan there was n't meant to be anything 
much for the federal government to do except keep the british out. 

that 's also untrue , but at least we 're a little closer 
reality. that the articles of apart is enough 
proof it was there for just a bit more. 

well yes and no. the papers are propaganda and it is therefore 
difficult to determine precisely what etc were up to from them. they 
certainly a limited role for the federal government but this 
was not necessarily their true position. 

and like the house of which it is copied from it was given pretty 
wide powers .  . unfortunately they started to use them and thus the 
set in. 

i was n't aware the house of had wide powers .  . i was under the 
impression is was pretty powerless compared to the house of , and 
certainly did n't have almost equal their powers .  .  ( the senate is restricted 
only that it may not introduce to ) . 

the senate was less powerful than the house of in the period in question. 
the of the powers of the house of did not occur until 
and david george 's  . even despite this the house of has 
power even today and is far from a body. 


my reading of the constitution and other writings gives me absolutely 
no reason to believe the senate was n't intended to make use of their 
law making powers .  . in fact , lock appears to have been designed 
into the system , with the senate being a more body to act 
as a check on the more often elected house. 

the system is meant to be slow to react , the problem is that it ended up 
a bit too slow .  . 


on what basis do you suggest that the senate was supposed to be 
some sort of stamp for the house you 'll note that while the 
president 's may be over ridden , the house ca n't do anything about 
a by the senate .  . 

the n't was meant to be entirely separate .  . until bush it 
in a quite extraordinary manner it was used more in with the intent 
of being a check on unreasonable legislation .  . the was clearly regarded 
as a completely last measure its use was meant to be restricted to 
preventing the interfering with the actions of the  . 

the senate is not meant to be exactly a stamp body , it is meant as 
a check on legislation .  . that is the extra measure built into 
the constitution in favour of the status quo , 60 of the representatives 
of the states is not a reasonable  . 

from  ( charles kincy ) 
subject re the could win the  .  .  . clinton . 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of missouri , , 
lines 29 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 

this country is hardly  . in fact , it is compared to after the 
election .  . 

this whole usa has gone to hell and reagan bush caused it , is not only , 
pathetic , and old .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . it 's wrong. 

under reagan bush the economy grew by 1.1 dollars .  . this is more than 
the entire economy of germany , a kind , gentle country , in many peoples  
books. what a joke. 

drive down to and take a look. not pretty , is it 
things were much better there in  . all that growth went into 
the hands of ron and 's pals , and i t get a single 
of it ,  . and , now , i'm gonna be to death by tax 
to pay for the damage. f great .  . 

oh , here 's another thing. seems like a lot of people in 
drive over to and make japanese cars .  .  . 
i wonder how many american owned those in 
central ohio other than ohio state university .  . ) 



it 's been 80 days. do you know where your is 

slick 's already got his hand in my  . i'm just afraid 
of what he might hold of. 

from  ( alan e. asper ) 
subject re top ten ways slick could improve his standing with americans 
organization news organization 
lines 13 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( mel walker ) writes 

 ( c ) edward a. , jr. , 1993 

this means we ca n't quote ed without his permission .  . no using these lists 
in your  . , folks ! 

oh ,  . 
okay , okay , let 's stop , and get on with making fun of other 
people. 




from  ( greg nikolic ) 
subject re damn be taken over 
organization university of 
lines 59 

in article  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
in article  ( paul hess ) writes 
that the us down and cause problems at home and  . 
rank ! america 's reputation has become 
because of and who apparently do not 
have the to stand up for american honor and  . 

do n't be ridiculous ,  . i suggest you give the american 
concept , which i can easily see you demonstrating , a good hard second look. 

the american way is not the only way , it 's not the best 
way , and it is incredibly arrogant to even think that. 

the american way may not be the only way , and you may not consider it 
to be necessarily the best way , but , by god , it 's our way and we 're 
going to stick with it ! if you ca n't go along with the program , then 
perhaps you should consider moving elsewhere. 

dear god. did n't this die out in the with and the 


i 've spent quite a bit of time in different of canada and 
let me tell you , it is very to spend time with people who 
are not full of arrogant and empty patriotism .  . 
that is exactly the problem with ! they do n't stand for 
anything with  . 

did n't your mother ever teach you not to generalize i am a canadian , and 
i stand up for too many things with too much  . 

the i know well enough to say this about , seem to have a 
great deal of pride in their and their country , but they 
are n't by and ideals like many americans are. 
could this be because they are of ideals 

uh huh .  . this must explain the world , record low american crime 
rate .  . i see now , it 's all becoming so clear to me. 

well , i 've said too much , 
yes you have. 

no he has n't .  . 

but i was so angered by your words that i felt i had to say something. 
sorry to  . 
you ! you ! if you are sorry to then why do 
it do n't you have the courage of your convictions hell , do you 
even have any convictions to start with what kind of example of 
manly is this ! 

remarkable audacity and  . what you take for your own courage , 
sir , is nothing more than simple loud coupled with 
 . 


please allow me to introduce myself. sympathy 
i'm a man of wealth and taste. for the devil 
i 've been around for long , long years. the 
stolen many a man 's soul , and faith. 

from bnr . ca .  ( ken michael edwards ) 
subject re economic or 
organization bell northern research , research triangle park , nc 
lines 73 


in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

in fact , no one has such a list. the clinton as presently proposed 
includes a variety of recommended spending areas and dollar  . it 
does not include a line by line list of every project that would be funded .  . 
 ( congress may include such line items in the bill when it passes .  . 
likewise , it may spending for specific as to 
the bill. such , positive and negative , are often pointed to 
by those who propose a line item or enhanced power for 
the president . ) . 

some of the 16 billion is in the form of block grants to states 
and  . 

this is why i asked to be  . you are making claims about what 
 is  or  is not  part of this program .  . but if the block grants go to states 
and cities , the list is very  . 


i 'd suggest your local , reading a newspaper with 
good of congress  ( washington post , ny times ) , or if you 're 
serious about paying attention to these issues , get copies of congressional 
quarterly at your library or have your representative put you on the 
mailing list for the congressional record .  .  ( it 's free . ) . but be prepared 
to more time in the effort than it takes to watch the evening 
news or read your local paper. 

okay does , but i already contact my local , my 
congress  . , , watch evening news , news programs , and c  . 


in addition to the picking that went on with the  wish list , 
congressional wish list from a variety of 
federal , based apparently upon how silly the names of the 
 . i'm not even sure if they bothered to a potential 
of an agency in clinton 's bill with a potential project from 
the same agency , but it is clear that the effort was to make clinton 's 
potential appear to be linked to with absurd 
names.  ( not to be taken seriously any more than equivalent by 
would have been in the reagan bush era . ) . 


the fact is that  ( tm of abc ) has had on such waste 
programs that already exist. again , if we are in 
the debt , we must remove the , and do away with all ! ! ! 

i realize that it is tempting to believe that government is in the hands 
of who are dishonest at best. but such simplistic analysis does 
little to advance the cause of public education. 

there have been several books written on gov .  . waste , network news programs 
from time to time to this , and there have been proposed 
that reduces without external programs by 
changing the way  congress does business   ( and make it more  . 

true , blame is easy , but also is spending someone else 's money. 

clinton on a that he would ' .  .  . not . raise taxes on the middle class 
to pay for these  ( his )  . he has proposed a program that is not 
specific , that on tax to pay for. 




ken m. , bell northern research , research triangle park , nc 
 ( 919 ) email ham 

all opinions are my own and do not necessarily reflect the views of 
my employer or co workers , family , friends , congress , or president .  . 

you 'd better call my  .  . my . mom 's pretty busy. 
clinton 

from  ( bronis vidugiris ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
organization motorola , d , corp , , il 
nntp posting host 23 . 47 . 37 . 
lines 21 

in article  ( chris bertholf ) writes 
 ( martina cartwright ) writes 
) 
) 
) the official and legal term for rape is the crime of forcing a female 
) to submit to sexual intercourse .  . 
) 
please ) , supply me with some references .  . i was not aware that all states 
had ) the word female in the rape  . i am sure others are surprised 
as ) well. i know how it works in practice  ( nice n fair , not ! ! ) , but 
was ) that it was in the as applying to only , 
uniformly ) throughout the u.s. 

i agree mostly with chris .  . it is  ( unfortunately , imo ) true that the fbi 
for rape based on the  uniform crime report  report only female 
 . however , some states  ( such as illinois ) are not because they 
refuse to comply with this sexist definition ! 

the worms in 
the worms out 
the worms post to the net from your account 

from  ( michael d. adams ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
nntp posting host 
reply to 
organization d service 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 14 

on sat , 17 apr 1993 20 42 gmt , greg observed 
in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 
tells you something about the politics being practiced .... 

ah , ending discrimination is now  . 

is that what they called it when forced of the 
armed forces , despite the opposition of congress and most of the 
american public at that time 


michael d. adams , 

at you more than the  . long 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re using california 's the sort of case i predicted 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 30 

in article ,  ( xavier gallagher ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( richard walz ) writes 
face it , clayton , he was not found guilty , and so what if gays sometimes 
make it with 16 year old boys. there are 16 year old gays , you 
know. and as i recall , the case of the state on the testimony of one 
victim who declined to testify , even under threat .  . i have had since 
i was 40 , and so have a lot of people. face it clayton , you 're just a jerk ! 


richard  ( 408 ) 1200 
street 1 without safe and free abortion women are 
santa , ca to unwanted parasites .  . 

i am always amazed to see people admit to breaking the law and 
putting their address in the signature .  . please tell us more about 
this. were they 13 14 would you like to make a statement for 
the district 

i had sex with a 13 year old boy , it was great , we did everything , 
well , a hell of a lot. it was fun anyway. oh , and before you turn 
with rage i was 12 at the time. 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 

the above , however , was past 40 when he these 
kids , as he says above. 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from () 
subject a rational viewpoint was re new study out on gay percentage 
organization santa 
lines 29 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( dan s . ) . writes 

do n't forget about the culture .  . sadly , we do n't  ( as a society ) look upon 
homosexuality as normal  ( and as we are all too well aware , there are alot 
of people who condemn it) .  . as a result , the gay population is not encouraged 
to develop non relationships .  . in fact there are many 
put in the way of such committed relationships .  . it is as if the heterosexual 
community puts these blocks there so as to perpetuate the claim that gays 
are immoral .  . my , if we allowed gays to marry , raise children ... we might 
just find out they 're as moral as we are , ca n't have that can we 

just some thoughts. flame away. ) 

dan 

this is a very good point. one that i have held for sometime .  . we do not 
allow people to develop on the that they choose or desire .  . even with 
we tend to leave some hanging in the sense of knowledge and 
information about sexuality and relationships .  . 

it is very difficult for a young person to develop and build a positive 
view of when they are constantly being told implicitly and explicitly 
that they are wrong and immoral .  . 

the concepts about personal relationships are deeply embedded in emotionalism 
and fear these cover a wide range , but mostly and lack of trust 
seem to be of modern day american relationships .  . we also set on 
top of this the concepts of madison avenue attractiveness and standards and put 
the pressure on to measure up. 

subject re new funding plan for the military 
from  ( jeff medkeff ) 
organization college 
nntp posting host edu . 
lines 20 

in article , 
 ( drieux , just drieux ) writes  ( about the armed services ) 

ps maybe even the organization , or consider 
 out  various aspects of the as a part of 
the current  down  who knows , maybe if we 
finally allowed to free market to take control , we will 
no longer have a military run by the same folks who are 
running the post office .  .  .  .  .  . 

slow down , and think before you flame , rhetoric is an  . 

well , uh , actually i agree. 



jeffrey s. bitnet 
po box internet 
, oh pale thought it wrong to fight. but 
u . s . a .  . roaring bill  ( who killed him ) thought it right. 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton remarks to law enforcement leaders 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 






the white house 

office of the press 

for immediate release april 15 , 1993 


remarks by the president 
to law enforcement organizations 


the rose garden 


2 52 p . m .  . edt 


the president good afternoon. and , 
two months ago i presented a comprehensive plan to reduce our 
national and to increase our investment in the american 
people , their jobs and their economic future. the federal 
plan passed congress in record time , and created a new sense of hope 
and opportunity in the country. 

then , the short term jobs plan i presented to congress , 
which would create a half a million jobs in the next two years passed 
the house of representatives two weeks ago. it now has the support 
of a majority of the united states senate .  . 

all of these members of congress know it 's time to get 
the economy moving again , to get job growth going again , to get a 
fast start on the we need to build a lasting  . 
unfortunately , a minority of the members of the united states senate 
have used to prevent their colleagues from working 
the will of the majority on the jobs bill. 

when congress returns , i ask every from every 
state and from both parties to remember what is at stake .  . the issue 
is not politics , it 's people. million of them are looking 
for full time jobs and ca n't find them. these men and women do n't 
care about who 's up or down in washington .  . they care about paying 
the and meeting the , about putting food on the 
table and buying shoes for their children , about a sense of 
that comes from doing a day 's work and supporting their 
families and drawing a  . 

they 're asking those of us who have the privilege of 
serving to put aside politics and do something now to move our 
economy forward .  . i am prepared to do that. and i have been working 
with the senate to come up with an that some 
of the concerns of those who have been blocking action on the jobs 
plan .  . i'm willing to compromise , so long as we keep the focus on 
jobs , keep the focus on growth and keep the focus on meeting 
national needs. 

our opponents have been asking for a smaller  . 
today i ask them to join me in determining exactly what kind and what 
size congress can approve that actually the needs of 
the american people. 

but even as we make those and the 
will be smaller , i believe we must address problems that are on the 
minds of millions of americans , and one in particular , and that is 
the need to law enforcement in our society to deal with the 
rise in violent crime .  . 

so i will ask , even in this reduced , for an 
additional 200 million in federal funding to help local communities 
to police officers who have been laid off because of the 
problems caused by the national  . together , with a 
matching effort by local governments , this could put as many as 
10 , 000 police officers back on the job , and back on the in 
communities all across our nation .  . 

at a time when too many of our people live in fear of 
violent crime , when too many have closed and too many 
people have lost their jobs because people are afraid to leave their 
homes , thousands of officers is one of the best 
america can make. and i ask both houses of congress to make that 
investment in our people 's safety and in their piece of mind. 

i believe in the need for strong federal action to keep 
the economy going and to create jobs .  . make no 
mistake about it i will fight for these as hard as i 
ever have. i will never forget that the people sent me here to fight 
for their jobs , their future and for fundamental change .  . 

i want to thank the police officers who are here today 
and tell you that not a single one of them knew before they came here 
that i had determined to ask for more money in this jobs bill to 
police officers .  . they came here because they believe in the 
summer jobs portion of the  . and i want them to be free to 
talk about that. they came here not out of any law enforcement 
concern other than the fact that they wanted the kids in this country 
to have a chance to have jobs this summer , to have safer streets and 
a and more peaceful future. 

i say what i say today not just because it 's good for 
law enforcement but because it 's good for the people who live in 
these communities .  . i have always supported community not 
only because it helps to prevent crime and to lower the crime rate , 
but because it better relationships between people in law 
enforcement and the people that they 're to protect .  . it reduces 
the chances of abusive action by police officers and increases the 
chances of harmony and safe streets at the same time. 

these are the kinds of things that we are trying to do. 
i promised in my campaign that i 'd do everything i could to put 
another 100 , 000 police officers on the street over the next four 
years. this makes a good on that. this keeps in mind 
the core of the jobs  . and this will help us to move forward .  . 

so i ask the people in the senate who have the 
jobs bill , let 's work together. i can accept a reduced if 
you will increase your commitment to safe streets. i do not accept 
the fact that we should reduce our commitment to summer jobs or to 
building our or to doing those other things that will 
create real and lasting for our people. i have done my 
part now to end the i ask you to do yours. 

i want now to give the people who are here with me on 
the a chance to make some remarks and to be heard by the 
american people beginning with janet , the 
general. 




q mr. president , can you tell us do you think that 
the jobs could be put in further by controversy over 
the suggestion of a tax at this point in the congressional 
dialogue 

the president not at all. i think it should have 
they would n't have any relationship one to the other. first of all , 
i made absolutely no decision on that. you should know that there 's 
a lot of support in the business community and the labor community 
people have asked us to consider that because of the enormous burden 
of the present system on many of our major , particularly 
many of those that we depend upon to generate jobs and to carry the 
strength of this economy .  . but i have made absolutely no decision 
that would even approach that on that or any other kind of general 
tax .  . 

q do you personally believe that the american public 
is ready to pay for to have another tax to pay for health care i 
mean , apart from what business and labor leaders have said 

the president i'm not going to speculate on that. i 
will say this the real issue is how quickly we can the 
benefits of all the savings to cover the cost .  . i mean , that is 
everyone knows that if you do what we 're proposing to do , if you 
the system , if you fix the system so that 
there 's no longer an enormous economic incentive to over or 
over provide certain services , if you provide primary and 
care in places where it is n't now , every single analysis shows 
absolutely massive savings to the health care system. 

the real question is whether you can those 
savings to cover those who have no now or those who have 
virtually no so that you provide people the security .  . i 
have no idea. the say that , but i do n't know. all i know is 
the that i see in the press that many of you have , 
they say the american people want the security of an 
affordable health care system. 

but i do n't think that has anything to do with this 
, and it certainly should n't have. people want a job first 
and foremost .  . they want that more than anything else. 

q now that you 've your to 
compromise on the , can you tell us what parts of 
your you consider vital and i assume summer 
jobs is one. 

the president i want the summer jobs i want the 
program and i want the police program .  . i still intend let 
me say this i still intend to fully and push the crime 
bill , which did not pass the congress last year .  . this is a 
to that , not a for it in any way. but i think 
we need to do that. 

i think we need the ryan white funds because of the 
enormous health care burdens to the communities that are 
and affected by the problems of for people 
with aids .  . and there are several other things that i think should be 
done. we have to do the department meat the 
safety of the public depends on that. 

there are a number of other things that i do n't i 
do n't think any of it should be cut , but i have given 
and i talked to them. and 
called me yesterday to discuss this , and i told him that i would call 
him back .  . i called him back last night in new hampshire and we 
discussed this. and i basically asked them to talk today , and said 
that i would not make any statements about any until at 
least they had a chance to talk to see whether or not they could 
reach some  . 

so i do n't want to be any more specific than i have been 
already , and let 's see if they can talk it out. 

q when you talked to and 
did you tell them about your increase also , that 200 
million , that you want that as part of the 

the president i did i told i left word 
for last night about it. when i talked to 
i do n't remember for sure i do not believe i mentioned it. 
but i did tell him that i was prepared to reduce the and i 
wanted to break the , and i told him that i was working on a 
of it so that in the hope that it would become even 
more on jobs and the kinds of issues that i thought the 
american people wanted us to address. and this is certainly 
consistent with that. 

thank you. 

12 p . m .  . edt 




from  ( jim mann ) 
subject re celebrate liberty ! 1993 
organization stratus computer , marlboro ma 
lines 12 
reply to 
nntp posting host stratus . com . 

in article 
 ( bob waldrop ) writes 

what did this have to do with sf and please do n't answer 
that a number of are sf or vice  . i know a 
number of sf who are also baseball but i do n't plan on 
posting the red  . 


jim 
stratus computer 


from  ( russ anderson ) 
subject re throws out the first ball .  . and media of it 
originator 
lines 37 
nntp posting host 
organization the 1991 world minnesota ! 
distribution usa 


in article ,  ( paul havemann ) writes 
in article ,  ( russ anderson ) writes 

in article ,  ( mark wilson ) writes 
this past thursday threw out the first ball at the home for 
the  . according to the news reports he was quite loudly  . 
 ( no , dr. norman , these were not your typical beer red ) . 

personally i would n't have paid any more attention to the incident except 
that the evening news when describing the event , went on to comment that 
being was nothing unusual since it was normal for audiences to 
boo at this point since the was the start of the game. 

what a bunch of crock .  . i have never heard of any incident in which the 
of the ball has been before. 

dan quayle got in last year .  . (i was listening 
on the  . this was the game that quayle told the that 
he would like to see them play the in the  . 

it 's come to this , has it defending al by comparing him to dan quayle 

who compared quayle to mark said he had never heard of any incident 
in which the of the ball had been before. i mentioned 
another incident .  .  ( and if the media had a liberal bias , i'm sure he would 
have heard of the quayle incident . ) . 

if i was to compare quayle to anyone , it most likely would be elmer  . 

i 'd say that about says it all .  .  .  . back to the with , back to alt . fan .  . 
dan quayle ! ! 


disclaimer any statements are my own and do not reflect 
upon my employer or anyone else.  ( c ) 1993 
ex  jack , 10 , 0 runs  ( world series ! ) 

from  ( william december starr ) 
subject re and violence 
organization law , class of  93 
lines 20 
distribution usa 
nntp posting host 1 . mit . edu . 
in reply to  ( neal ) 


in article , 
 ( neal ) said 

my views are out of experiences when i was a police in a large 
area , and of a citizen .  . unless people account for their 
behavior , and for the behavior of their immediate community , nothing 
will improve .  . 

wait a minute. i agree with you that people have to take responsibility 
for their own behavior (i assume that 's what you meant by the word 
account ) , but also for the behavior of their immediate community 

first of all , how immediate are you talking about , and secondly , i 
have a lot of trouble with any theory of social behavior or justice 
which charges anyone with the duty of taking responsibility for or 
accounting for the actions of a different person .  .  .  . 

william december 


from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re how many homosexuals are there 
nntp posting host ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 28 

in article  ( riyadh al ha 
jmoosa ) writes 
 ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study 
 ( discrediting kinsey ) says so. 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 

my understanding from my classes is that the percentage is 
more like 10 12 world wide. i would really like to know your source 
for the 1 2 figure .  . 

 . 
chemistry .  . 


some survey conducted by the u.s. government and some group (i do n't know 
which ) did what they were calling on all the news shows this morning , the most 
comprehensive survey of sexuality in the past 50 years . not an exact quote , 
but you get the idea. 

this low percentage is merely one more in a of evidence disproving the 10 
theory. 

ryan 

from 
subject secret purpose of war 
organization university of wisconsin eau claire 
lines 



secret purpose of war with in technology 

dr. letter 74 of 80 

by jon , mail address 

 ( letter(r ) is a of books , 
inc. , a texas corporation , which originally produced this 
recording .  . under open license granted by 
books , inc. 



this is the dr.  ( letter(r ) , k st. , washington , 
 . 

, my friends , this is dr.  . today is april 30 , 
, and this is my  ( letter(r ) no. 74 .  . 

it 's now been almost one month since war broke out in the south 
atlantic .  . on the surface it seems that it 's only a dispute 
between and great britain over the , wind swept 
islands and south island .  . in reality , it 's far 
more than that. 

the so called crisis is just the of a 
giant military operation. during this month of april , 
battles have taken place not only in the south 
atlantic but also in the south  . up to now most of the 
have been kept under by censorship on 
all sides. but as i say these words , the war in the 
southern is about to come to the surface .  . 

beginning today , april 30 , a total and air of 
the by the navy has begun .  . at the same time a 
has been declared by in the same area. 

to be effective , a must be imposed over a period of 
time , but the navy does not have that much time. is 
coming on in the south atlantic , and the british supply lines are 
 . having come this far , her 's navy cannot 
simply drop the and sail away in a few weeks time 
without drawing blood from  . as a result the british 
will be forced to undertake military very soon no 
matter how they may be. 

there is also another reason why the navy now has no 
choice but to engage the forces in combat .  . that 
reason , my friends , is that the navy has already suffered 
losses in secret combat this month .  . up to this moment there will 
be no way to explain away the damage which has been by 
the british  . only when publicly admitted fighting 
will the british dare to admit that they have suffered battle 
losses .  . to obtain that cover story , the british have no choice 
but to sail into combat but in doing so , they will be 
even losses on top of those already  . in short , 
my friends , her 's navy has sailed into a trap .  . 

the events now in the south atlantic carry strange , 
ironic of the past. for weeks now we 've been hearing 
countless commentators referring to the british task force as an 
 . the british of all people ought to be very 
uneasy with that description. the original spanish 400 
years ago was as a seemingly fighting force , 
but it came to grief in a disaster so complete that it 
changed the course of history and it was none other than the 
english navy that the spanish  . 

the original spanish put to sea in during the 
reign of england 's queen i. the was an invasion 
carrying thousands of crack fighting men to invade england .  . 
they were met by the sea dogs of sir francis  . 
and his small , fast turned the on the spanish 
by changing the rules of battle .  . the english was 
with new longer range guns , and it stayed and out of 
reach .  . from there the english , , and 
the big of the mighty  . when it was all over , barely 
half the spanish was left to back to  . 's 
defeat of the spanish was a to the world. it opened 
the door for england under queen i to start its 
into a truly empire .  . 

today , 400 years later , history seems to have come full 
circle .  . queen ii is the of the 
world empire whose began under queen i , and now 
the cultures of england and of spain are once again in 
confrontation .  . once again a so called is for 
invasion , but this time the is british , not spanish .  . four 
hundred years ago sir francis was the hero of the day 
today , the ghost of francis is once again on the  . 

the south atlantic war is at the eastern end of the 
passage around the southern of south america .  . the defeat of 
the spanish four centuries ago broke the back of spain 's 
, and now the defeat of the new british may 
well break the back of what remains of the once glorious 
navy .  . 

my three special for this letter are 

topic 1 the military secret of south island 
topic 2 the secret war of the southern 
topic 3 the fear campaign against nuclear war. 

topic 1 when the islands crisis began early this month 
it looked at first like a in a  . for a century and 
a half since , the islands have been controlled by great 
britain .  . during that entire time , british over the 
has been disputed by  . there have been 
countless threats by to the islands , which it 
calls the , but the threats have always come to nothing 
in the past and britain has never even gotten very worried about 
them. 

the islands are four times as distant from as 
is from the united states , and they are not much of a prize .  . 
after 150 years of , the are home to 
than 2 , 000 british settlers and a lot of  . in short , the 
remote islands hardly look like something to fight over , 
and yet here we are watching another crisis take place. we are 
watching as war between great britain and  . 

the government is acting as if it has forgotten all 
about its usual with the soviet threat at 's 
 . instead , britain is throwing almost everything it 's 
got at , , , 
, assault you name it. cruise have 
even been and turned into overnight .  . 
wave after wave of additional assault troops have been 
and sent to join the even after it sailed .  . and 
have been off station from normal duty and 
sent to the task force. the initial 40 force has 
grown steadily over the past several weeks into an 
over 70 .  . over two of the entire navy has 
already been to the south atlantic off  . 

watching all this , a lot of people are asking what 's this 
fight really all about the most popular answer suggested in the 
major media is oil .  . vast deposits of oil are known to exist 
under the shelf between and the , 
but that has been known for nearly 10 years. in no way does it 
explain the of the sudden military offensive by 
this month , and oil explains even less about the 
of south island .  . 

south island is east of the with 
no known oil deposits anywhere near it and compared to south 
, the are an island paradise .  . south 
island is covered with mountains , , 
, and semi permanent  . most of it is  . 
on top of all that , has absolutely no legal or 
historical claim to south island .  . in that respect it 
stands in to the  . 

in the early the were for a while by 
 . in the british them and took 
over the island .  . for that and other historical reasons , 
argues that the really belong to , 
not britain .  . 

but no such argument is possible for south island .  . it 
has always been controlled by britain , never by or 
spain .  . the of south island looks even 
more unreasonable from a military point of view. 's 
leaders are military men and they think in military terms. they 
were well aware ahead of time that far off south island 
could not possibly be held for long .  . by it they were 
setting themselves up to absorb a military defeat , as the island 
was by britain .  . so the question is why did 's 
military junta bother with the seemingly worthless south 
island at all 

my friends , the answers to all these questions are military , 
not political or economic .  . south island an 
enormous military secret. it 's a giant 
buried under the mountains at the end of the island .  . 
the real reason for the so called crisis is this secret 
, together with two other similar which 
i will describe shortly .  . 

the secret military have been in existence for many 
years they are not new. what is new is the nuclear 
war of the american war planners here in 
washington .  . for the past two months i 've been reporting the 
details of this new war plan to you as quickly as i can obtain 
and verify them. 

the plan calls for nuclear war one to by september of 
this year ! ! it is this fast nuclear war threat 
that caused the so called crisis to now. 

what is going on now is a effort to part of 
the grand strategy for the coming nuclear war. the 
enemies of the american here namely , the 
and russia 's new rulers in the are 
behind the present crisis .  . they are trying to ruin 3 of 
the project z war plan which i revealed last month .  . that 
is to be world by the american after both 
russia and the united states have been in nuclear war 
one. as i mentioned last month , the key to this plan is the 
existence of secret weapons in various places around 
the world. 

the american military planners here in america are 
working with other in key military positions of 
other countries to set off war. having done that , they intend to 
ride out the nuclear they have caused , safe and cozy in 
government war ! when the nations finally lie 
smoldering and , the will leave the 
remains of their host countries. they will at the 
secret weapons and bring their weapons into the 
open. they will confront the world with the only remaining 
, up to date , powerful military force on earth and using 
that military power , they will become the undisputed rulers of 
the world that is , they plan to do all this , and they plan to 
pave the way for world very soon by setting off 
nuclear war one in a matter of months. the 
and russia 's new anti rulers are working together in a 
race against time to try to head off the war plan .  . 

last month i mentioned that the here are 
from war which were started by the 
long ago. it has only been about three years since 
the were as the prime of the united 
states government by the  . since that time the united 
states government has been a house divided , by internal 
power between and factions .  . 
but before that , the united states had been dominated for decades 
both economically and politically by the four 
brothers .  . 

in the brothers a new long range plan for world 
 . it was a two strategy , half and half 
secret , which i first described long ago in letter no. 28 .  . 
it was a plan for the united states to to the in secret 
while to gradually .  . without repeating all the 
details , the basic idea was grandiose yet simple. by 
deliberately weak , the controlled united 
states would itself into a nuclear war with russia .  . 
then the secret weapons , including , would be 
to russia and take over the world. 

when they set the grand plan in motion in , the 
brothers were looking ahead to a nuclear war by the 
late  . their military concluded very early that 
the war being would have very different effects on the 
northern and southern  . both , the united 
states and the soviet union , are well up in the northern 
so are the other full nuclear powers great 
britain , france , red china , and india .  . by , the 
strategic targets for nuclear war in the southern are 
relatively few and far between .  . in other words , it was expected 
that the coming nuclear war would be essentially a northern 
war. 

in an all out nuclear it is known that serious 
will gradually spread to affect even areas 
not initially hit by war. but there are limits to how far the 
war can spread .  . it was discovered long ago that there is 
very little mixing between the air of the northern and southern 
 . in the northern half of our planet , cold air from 
the north works its way towards the , then 
it works its way back to the north as warm air. a image 
of this process takes up the southern half of the planet. 
northern and southern air meet in the , 
but very little of the air changes places. 

the military conclusion , my friends , is this the coming 
nuclear war could ruin large areas of the northern for 
generations to come but if the calculations are right , the 
southern could escape virtually by the war. 
this was music to the ears of the four brothers .  . a 
quick look at the of the world shows why. the 
has dominated america ever since world war ii. as i 
discussed in my very first monthly letter , 
the grip on america during 
the war. he accomplished this as so called of 
defense for then president franklin d.  . 
so that takes care of the south american continent and its 
natural resources .  . 

then there is the african continent .  . there , too , 
control was already in effect over wide areas of black africa , 
especially south of the  . all this was thanks to the 
efforts of john d. iii , as i detailed in letter 
no. 36 .  . 

looking around the , the most important remaining land 
masses from the standpoint of world are australia and 
new  . thanks to world war ii , both were wide open to the 
 . 

the brothers decided to establish secret military 
in the southern for use after the coming 
war. by this means they expected to become the masters of the 
surviving southern half of planet earth after the northern 
war. then , as the northern gradually 
from the nuclear , the empire 
would be able to pick up the pieces .  . in this way the third 
generation brothers expected their family to 
inherit the earth. 

in order to control the southern militarily after 
the war , some means would have to be available to project 
military power onto any land mass .  . for example , against 
would require troops not a from the 
beam weapons on the moon. the most critical factor for 
military of the world was found to be a navy .  . a 
minimum of two secret would be required one based 
in the south atlantic , the other in the south  . since the 
reserve were to be kept secret until after the 
northern nuclear war , they could not be built in 
existing  . new construction facilities had to be built 
and they had to be hidden .  . to hide an entire is no 
small task they take up a lot of space .  . on top of that , it was 
essential that the remain hidden after they were built .  . 
the best way to achieve that was to the and 
base into one over all secret  . finally , the 
secret had to be to nuclear 
attack otherwise if its existence were ever discovered 
, the secret navy might be out. 

the combined requirements for secrecy , space , and protection 
against attack were but one day in , while all 
these plans were still in the early stages of development , the 
answer presented itself. during a so called banking trip to 
, david was given a of a unique hidden 
 . the is out from solid 
which come right down to the water .  . the to the is 
a hole in the side of the which can be off 
with enormous doors. inside this big on the water 
a huge has been out to  . 

the brothers and their military decided 
that a bigger , more secret , better protected version of the 
hidden was just what they wanted .  . a survey of 
candidate sites was then initiated .  . the site survey covered 
areas throughout the southern  . many areas 
were rejected very quickly because the was wrong. 
other areas were rejected because they were too close to the 
 . still others had to be ruled out because there were too 
many people living nearby , making the desired level of secrecy 
impossible. finally , it was essential that the sites chosen for 
the secret be totally secure politically .  . 

at last the sites for the secret were 
 . in the south , extreme southern new was 
 . this is what i was alluding to in letter no. 
three months ago when i called attention to new 's extreme 
importance in the coming war. 

in order to obtain the necessary space , the secret new 
had to be divided up into two sites 
close together. one is at the extreme of south 
island where the range known as the southern comes 
down virtually to the water 's  . the other part of the 
is built into the of island , 
which is off the of south island .  . the island 
is out within a rise known as mt.  . 

the new met all the requirements .  . ever since 
world war ii the government of new has been even 
closer to the united states than to great britain .  . the 
is far from the , and the are buried deep 
under mountains , protected from nuclear attack .  . they are also 
too deep to be reached by particle beam attacks , and the new 
site is well to command the entire south 
 . 

in the south atlantic an even more perfect site was found. 
that site , my friends , is south island .  . it is 
perfectly for of the entire south atlantic .  . the 
, mountains provided a perfect for the secret 
at the of the 100 long island .  . 
it is controlled by great britain whose government , like that of 
new , was willing to and south island 
was virtually except for a station on the 
northeast coast .  . the station was some 50 away from 
the secret new which was being built , but britain 
took no chances .  . in the station was closed down. 
since that time there have been no on south 
island except for a few dozen alleged scientists .  . 

construction of the secret facilities two in new 
, one on south island began in the early 's .  . 
the techniques were adapted from those used previously to build 
other large facilities , such as the 
inside , however these 
techniques were adapted in new ways to achieve 
construction access directly from the sea instead of  . 
in this way , the sheltering was left in 
appearance both during and after construction. 

the cuts in the side which were necessary to let 
in and out were kept as small as possible and were well 
 . like the hidden arrangement , the 
to the secret can be up. when 
, the is virtually impossible to detect unless you 
know exactly where it is and unlike most large construction 
, there are no or of lying 
around to attract attention .  . the man made which house 
the secret are enormous , but all the and 
was of at sea. 

once the secret facilities were built , they had to be 
for construction and  . the fake 
of the united states during the 1960s contributed 
greatly to this task .  . from to one man played a 
role in this elaborate scheme .  . he was then 
of defense robert  . all through the 60 's 
over the public back of america 's 
military power. this included the down and 
of entire  . what we were not told was where all that 
equipment went afterwards. where it went , my friends , 
was to the new secret which were being in 
new and south island ! 

the secret have been used as 
facilities to reproduce certain and designed and 
built here in the united states. as defense 
told congress recently , it is to build two 
at a time. that is especially true if the second is 
an exact of the first. this has become even more true 
in recent years through the use of manufacturing 
techniques .  . 

the secret which have been built at the secret 
are made up of exact of 
certain other and  . they are all nuclear 
nuclear nuclear nuclear 
and yes , nuclear , three of them. a secret 
was built for the u . s . s .  . , for the u . s . s .  . , and 
for the u . s . s .  .  . all have been 
through the cost , so called , that we 
constantly hear about in the defense department and all three 
have been provided with a full complement of 
whose manufacture was the same way ! 

the of the secret american are 
all of other nuclear  . even so , the 
secret one key difference. 

last month i revealed that the so called stealth program has 
succeeded in developing a kind of 
 . this makes an object invisible from a distance 
by light in its  . 

a whole new of war are now going into 
crash that use this principle and , my friends , all of 
the secret american navy have already been 
with similar stealth field equipment ! the stealth 
principle is actually easier to apply to than to 
because there is more room for the powerful equipment that 
the field .  . 

after nuclear war one , the secret stealth navy of the american 
would be light years ahead of any other navy left on 
earth. it would be perfect for the intended role of world 
 . the set it all in motion long ago , my 
friends , but three years ago they lost control of the united 
states military .  . now it 's the american who are in 
control , and they are on war. 

these secret have what is 
being called the crisis .  . 

topic 2 in  ( letter(r ) no. 73 last month i described 
project z , the new three strategy for nuclear 
war one. 

an group of american military planners here 
are out the plan right now at a secret war room here in 
washington .  . it 's a plan by which the united states will strike 
the first nuclear blow , followed by all out war 
with russia .  . 

having set off the , the here and in 
certain other countries plan to rise it out safe in comfortable 
war  . finally after nuclear war one out in 
, they plan to leave behind the of the united 
states and her allies .  . 3 of their grand 
strategy , they plan to their secret weapons , especially 
their secret  . with these they plan to conquer and 
rule what is left of the world. the united states as we know it 
will be dead and gone but in the eyes of the 
themselves , this outcome will constitute victory .  . 

up to now the nuclear war which i first revealed two 
months ago is still on track .  . they are still shooting for 
nuclear war to begin by september of this year ! time is 
fast running out. 

the here are as fast as they can 
war but , my friends , the are not the only in 
this race .  . they have two enemies , both of whom are 
equally determined to trip up the  . one enemy of the 
here is the the other enemy is the 
new anti ruling in russia and now these two 
enemies of the are their efforts in 
certain ways. 

in letter no. three months ago i reported that a 
limited , new anti was in the works between 
the and the russians .  . the 26 meeting 
between and in , , was a turning 
point in the formation of this  . it is now a reality , 
and is responsible for the so called crisis now 
the  . it should be emphasized that this new 
relationship between the and russia falls far 
short of a true alliance .  . they have very major to be 
between them , but for the time being they have called a 
between themselves to deal with their 
enemy the here in america .  . 

the first priority of the russians and the is to 
slow down the for imminent nuclear war. 
if they can do that , time is on the side of the 
in certain political movements which i discussed last 
summer in letter no. 67 .  . a slow down in the nuclear war 
will also give more space for additional 
anti actions to be implemented .  . 

the planners decided by mid february 
that military action against the was essential very 
quickly .  . no other type of action had any hope of taking effect 
fast enough to prevent nuclear war by the end of this summer .  . 

the exact details of the project z war plan are not known to 
either the or the russians , but the general 
are known to be as i described last month .  . 

it was decided that military action should be that 
would 3 of the war plan that is , the 
controlled secret and in the 
southern should be attacked and crippled .  . by working 
together , the and the russians were able to 
devise an attack plan which neither could have carried out alone. 
the group , who built and originally controlled these 
bases , provided detailed intelligence about the best way to 
attack them. the russians with their enormous military machine 
provided the to actually carry out the attack .  . 

it was essential to devise a scheme that would both 
secret in the south atlantic and south to be 
attacked .  . survival of either would leave the 
war plan still workable .  . 

military concluded very quickly that a direct assault 
on the new facilities was out of the question. there was 
no combination of , , or other military force 
which could possibly keep an attack secret from the outside 
world. any attack on the new bases would set off the 
very war which the and russians want to prevent .  . 

but the situation in the south atlantic was a different 
matter. in a way , the greatest of south island was 
also its  heel .  . the extreme isolation which protected 
the secrecy of the south base also made a military 
assault  . the key with and her 
long standing claims to the islands .  . 

as i mentioned in topic 1 , the has 
dominated all of america for decades .  . operatives 
were sent to to work out a deal with the government 
military junta there. the dispute over the 
islands was to be used to provide a , a military cover , to 
the south base to be attacked .  . the 
were not told everything about the situation by any 
means , but they were told enough to make clear what they were to 
do. 

as an to , the leaders were 
promised rewards .  . they were guaranteed that after the 
shooting was over , the islands would remain in 
hands. this included the promise of military 
assistance as needed against the navy .  . and to the 
economy , it was promised that the 
will help develop the oil  . with 
these combined promises of military glory and financial rewards , 
the military junta agreed to the plan .  . 

on march 19 carried out act 1 in the attack 
plan .  . a group of metal merchants , of all things , 
at the abandoned old station on south 
island .  . supposedly they were there to the old 
buildings and them off to sell .  . while they were at it they 
also raised the flag over the work site. the british , 
always nervous about south island , as 
expected .  . the british survey put 22 
 . they off the merchants and down 
the flag .  . 

the incident provided the desired excuse for the 
junta to bring the 150 year old dispute to a 
 . from time to time in the past , has claimed that 
south is part of the because it is 
that way by britain .  . that argument is very but it now 
came in very  . it was nothing new to hear this from 
leaders , so there was no hint of what was really  . 

during late march , military forces started 
for an assault on the  . nothing new , 
thought the british high command. has carried out 
threatening in the past many times. it was believed 
that they were about to do it again but on april 2 
forces did the  . after many past false , this 
time they actually invaded and the islands .  . all 
public statements emphasized the long standing historical claims 
to the themselves but just for good measure , the next 
day a small force also far off south 
island .  . the force was so small that it gave the appearance 
initially that it was just a side show from 's point of 
view however , the small of 22 were 
and off the island along with a group of 13 
alleged scientists .  . that was the moment of in the 
attack plan .  . 

thanks to the elaborate distraction by the 
forces , a special team got onto the island  . 
based on the detailed information about the base , the 
team moved to a on the directly above the 
secret base .  . special high speed equipment was 
set up by the members of the team while the 
members on military defense .  . by late that evening , 
april 3 , the military high command in london finally learned what 
was really taking place. the secret south base was under 
attack by virtually the only means possible. the 
team were a down through the 
the out inside. it was only a 
matter of time until their would break through the 
of the giant hidden base .  . once the hole was made , the next 
step was obvious. the team would put a 
weapon of some kind through the hole .  . the best guess was that it 
would be a gas .  . 

the that went through the highest levels of the 
british government on the evening of april 3 can hardly be 
described , my friends. the government , like the 
so called reagan here in america , is 
controlled .  . that 's why margaret always says , me , too 
any time the reagan says or does anything against 
russia .  . both governments are party to the secret nuclear war 
plan in complete betrayal of the people of their respective 
countries , and on the evening of april 3 they suddenly discovered 
that their precious war plan was in deep , deep trouble .  . 

immediately the government started a 
to sail for the south atlantic .  . was the order of 
the day. the on south island was proceeding 
around the  . the best estimates were that the 
would break through into the roof of the base in about 
three weeks , on or about april 24 .  . if help did not reach south 
by then , the secret might be doomed .  . the 
forces at the itself were unable to defend 
themselves under the circumstances .  . their mighty 
were in a bottle .  . they did not dare open the bottle to 
sail out to fight because the were armed with 
tactical and nuclear weapons .  . to open the proof 
doors would be suicide .  . 

on april 5 , just two days after south island was 
, some 40 began moving out of british  . 
the same day lord was as foreign  . he 
was forced to , my friends , because he had assisted the 
attack plan by the attack 
 . 

that same day , april 5 , new , the home of the other 
secret , broke diplomatic relations with  . 
the two hidden new facilities had been placed on red 
alert .  . as a measure , all at the 
base were ordered to sea. several surface were already at 
sea sea trials , but that still left seven  ( 7 ) major 
inside the hidden base including one of the 
nuclear i mentioned earlier. 

on that busy day of april 5 , 's foreign , 
, was at the united nations in new york .  . he was 
by the of such a large part of the navy .  . 
here to washington to seek from 
certain  . he got them ! 

for the next two weeks or so the news was filled with stories 
about the allegedly slow movement of the british while 
went on. that , my friends , was only a cover story. 
the navy was actually up and moving as rapidly as 
possible south island .  . if the task force arrived 
in time to save the secret base , a major battle was likely. the 
official stories about slow movement of the british were 
intended to give a of time for that battle .  . if need be , 
the would have several days to south island , 
then it could move on to arrive near the on the 
 . in this way the crucial importance of south 
island would be hidden and the big secret preserved .  . 

it was initially expected that advance elements of the british 
would reach the of south island within two 
weeks. that would have been soon enough to attack the 
team and stop the before it 
was  . but and made a 
of the plan .  . 

key advance elements of the south attack 
left island early april 14 , two days before it was 
 . shortly after they did so , they into 
trouble .  . and attack closed in on 
a single which was critical to the on 
south island .  . the the and 
combat information center of the with radiation .  . in 
the was without any command , its communications and 
 . then a sub closed in and quickly 
finished off this key british with  . it broke 
apart with secondary and sank rapidly .  . so far as is 
known , there were no survivors .  . 

this in the mid atlantic produced two 
results , both important 

first , it caused a in the race the south atlantic 
by the british  . the task force had to be into a 
better suited for an defense , but that cost 
valuable time. public from london about the 
progress of the this  . the for 
on battle near the started 
out longer and longer .  . all this bought extra time for the 
team on south island .  . the continued .  . 

the other result of the was equally important. word was 
to the south stealth navy to prepare for possible 
action. it was obvious that the navy was getting 
involved in the atlantic , which meant that the navy could 
be in big trouble .  . during the dead of night , early april 15 , the 
seven stealth put to sea from their secret bases in 
southern new  . they to a secret 
area in the islands , 
of new  . their were operating to 
provide protection from attack .  . these make it impossible 
to communicate with the outside world or even to see it , as i 
explained last month but once they arrived at the , the 
stealth up to with 
to the island  . the 
, in turn , was in constant touch with the south 
base by way of a around the of 
south america .  . the of the available of the 
south stealth was exactly what the 
planners had hoped for. the had been 
out from their essentially hiding place in 
new ! 

the british 's of april 14 was also followed by 
other events. on april 15 the navy started moving out 
of  . the same day , arrived again in 
 . supposedly he was there as a , but in reality he 
was there as a general , dealing with  . is the top 
of the , as i have 
revealed in the past. he was making sure that the did 
not get cold feet and back down at that critical moment .  . four 
days later , april 19 , left for washington .  . as he 
his plane , told reporters , time is running out. 
and so it was , my friends , for the secret south base .  . 

the very next day , april 20 , the broke through into the 
out of the base .  . military 
in london had not expected that it could be 
until at least the following weekend. the british was 
still out of range .  . 

the weapon which the team inserted down through the 
long hole was a small , bomb .  . when it was 
inside the confines of the huge artificial cave , the 
effects were devastating .  . the intense radiation killed 
everyone inside the base .  . also the and effects of the 
bomb are believed to have all the inside 
sufficiently to them. 

, and were 
on the stealth which were near the islands 
orders .  . from a distance , the were invisible to 
the eye due to their , which also protect 
against beam weapon attack but they were sitting for the 
which the russians employed .  . 

floating , the the seven 
using their range finding equipment known as  . 
as i have reported in the past , there is no method known by which 
can be  . the the exact 
of the to the attack  . the were armed 
with special non , non nuclear designed to 
explode on impact .  . more sophisticated would have been 
thrown off course or by the 
of each but these simple just cruise right 
through each field to strike the and explode .  . 
within 15 after the attack began , all seven 
stealth were on their way to the bottom , and with them went 
their and from 
around the world. 

the south action took place just after sunset local 
time. the time here in washington was around 2 00 p . m .  . april 23 .  . 
that evening of state was seen in public 
with the new british foreign , francis  . was 
wearing the artificial pseudo which are taught 
always to display in public. but not  . was 
from ear to ear , and no wonder .  . the 
military operation had been a success. the secret 
south atlantic had been virtually out , 
up inside south island and the south 
, while not totally out , had been crippled .  . by 
working together , the and the russians had won 
the secret war of the southern  . 

topic 3 as i say these words , news reports give the impression 
that war is about to in the south atlantic , but the real 
war in the southern is already over. what we are 
watching now is the beginning of its bloody  . that 
is the battle for the islands .  . they have been 
promised to as a reward for her role in the secret war. 

at this moment the here in washington are 
for a public announcement that the united states will side with 
britain .  . as soon as that takes place , military action will 
up fast around the  . britain has no choice but to 
fight. she has already suffered casualties which cannot be 
explained without a public battle but by fighting , the 
in britain are running the risk of a humiliating and 
tragic defeat for the navy .  . 

, the here are now 
concentrating on a fast building , anti nuclear war campaign. on 
all sides now we are hearing about the so called nuclear 
movement .  . there are , articles , of all 
kinds to us to the of nuclear war. in recent 
months , there have even been up on election 
dealing with the nuclear war issue. medical doctors are 
together to warn the public about what would happen if 
there were a nuclear war. 

we are being told that all this is just up 
spontaneously .  . we are now 37 years into the nuclear age and 
nothing like this has ever gained so much before , yet 
now we are supposed to believe that millions of americans have 
spontaneously gotten the same ideas at the same time. if you 
believe that , my friends , i give up. movements like this never , 
and i mean never , develop without leadership , organization , and 
money and plenty of it. 

what we are watching is the public relations 
machine at work. as i 've explained in the past , the 
cannot afford to let a nuclear war take place. if it 
does , they will lose everything because they are not in a 
position to control it. instead , the enemies of the 
, the here , will win out if there is 
a war and so the is now doing everything in 
its power to prevent a nuclear war. 

the present anti nuclear war orientation of the 
creates certain temporary common interests between them 
and russia but as russia 's new rulers know very well , this does 
not spring from any great moral perspective on the part of the 
group. it 's purely a matter of practical necessity 
right now for the  . 

the russians regard the united states as a house divided , and 
they are that division by working in careful ways with 
the  . their first priority is to rid the world of 
the of all out , even , nuclear 
war but once that is done , they know that there will be a day of 
with the some day. 

the group is working a definite objective 
with their new anti nuclear war propaganda .  . that objective is 
power and power that them closer to their old 
dream of world government. the here have 
provided ground for the powerful new 
campaign. under control , the so called reagan 
has become so that it 's people. 
the campaign is designed to on 
that latent fear as a tool of power. 

these days the smell of war is in the air. the 
crisis is helping to make that more intense .  . the 
propaganda machine is now the way for the argument that 
surrender of is the only way to avoid war. a new 
super united nations of sorts is now in the works to fill the 
bill. it will have ! as presently , the new 
organization will be based in ,  . the working 
name , though this may be changed , is the world 
council .  . the plan is to bring it into being as the outgrowth of 
nuclear treaties , but its true purpose will be 
to use fear the fear of war to control us all. 

last minute summary 

now it 's time for my last minute summary .  . in this 
letter i have reported on the reasons behind the so called 
islands crisis .  . the crisis because of secret 
controlled in the southern 
 . these have been attacked by action of the 
and the russians in an attempt to slow down 
the nuclear war  . the attacks were successful , but the 
results remain to be seen. one result , though , is that the 
navy has now been drawn into a trap .  . britain 's at sea 
may well be at hand. 

my friends , two factions are for control over our 
united states the and the  . they 
differ in style but both seek to control us through fear. if we 
are ever to rise above their , it must be through the 
power of our lord jesus christ , our only hope. as the scripture 
tells us , our lord  .  .  . has . not given us the spirit of fear but 
of power , of love , and of a sound mind. we must learn to 
peace. as our lord declared long ago , are the 
for they shall be called sons of god. 

until next month , god willing , this is dr.  . thank you , 
and may god bless each and every one of you. 

from  ( tim smith ) 
subject re abortion to health reform is clinton nuts 
organization university of washington school of law , class of  
lines 20 
nntp posting host u . washington . edu . 

in article writes 
 . that 's all. it 's no deterrent .  . it serves no 

it seems to deter those who are executed from future criminal activity. 

yeah yeah yeah .  .  .  . and sure would be nice if we did n't apply the 
death penalty to minorities .  . i 'll my 
opinion on the death penalty when there are more up for 
it than blacks .  . i.e. , when hell over. 

why do n't you compare the at which blacks and commit crimes 
blacks commit crimes , so in a perfectly fair 
system , blacks would be represented .  . 

 ( note black vs. white crime is not a racial thing. it 's probably 
an economic thing poor people are more likely to commit crimes , and blacks 
are more likely to be poor. the way to reduce the of minorities 
in prison is to increase the wealth of minorities . ) . 

tim smith 

from  ( william c. barwell ) 
subject re top ten comments in the secret service 
organization 's uucp , houston , tx 
lines 28 

 ( francis a. ney ) writes 

besides which , we do n't want clinton , because that would make h 
a a la jfk .  . 

it 's a much better deal to have him end his term of office in , after 
watching all his liberal friends on his run this nation down t 
toilet .  . 

assuming , of course , that the riots a from now do n't do it for him. 


he 'd have to go a far ways to run things down as bad as reagan and bush 
did. we did n't have riots but bush got out on his behind. 


we 'll see in 4 years. 


pope charles slack in our time ! 

s 



 ( william c. barwell ) 
's uucp , houston , tx ,  ( 713 ) 
1200 v . v . 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 31 

in article ,  ( tree of schnopia ) writes 
in  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . it 's a that we do n't have a for 
straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 

possibly because gay men are less likely to get married 

marriage is n't a requirement for a couple staying together. 

what was the purpose of this post if it was to show a 
with statistics , an incredibly flawed system of reasoning , and a 
, then the purpose was accomplished with  . 

 ( a ) get a clue .  .  ( b ) get a life.  ( c ) get out of my face. i'm not in yours. 

andrew d. ! 

yes you are. when you and the rest of the homosexual community 
pass laws to impose your moral codes on me , by requiring me to 
, to , or otherwise associate with a homosexual against 
my will , yes , you are in my face. until homosexuals stop trying 
to impose their morals on me , i will be in your face about this. 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( tzoq mrekazh ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization farm 
nntp posting host ca . 
lines 16 

in article  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
so , one 
should properly write who 's the answer is many 
homosexuals are. 

not quite .  . the answer is many homosexuals , heterosexual , and are , 
but then , many are not. 

or , more simply lots of people are. 



o i am a good , i am c a t , dog .  .  .  . 
o o b a t , island .  .  .  .  
o bear 
would have been content to die , had he but known such a 2 cos 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton president 's radio address 4 . 17 . 93 . 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 



the white house 

office of the press 
 ( pittsburgh , pennslyvania ) 

for immediate release april 17 , 1993 


radio address to the nation 
by the president 

pittsburgh international airport 
pittsburgh , 


10 06 a . m .  . edt 


the president good morning. my voice is coming to 
you this morning through the facilities of the oldest radio 
station in america , in pittsburgh .  . i'm the city to 
meet personally with citizens here to discuss my plans for jobs , 
health care and the economy .  . but i wanted first to do my weekly 
with the american people. 

i'm told this station first in when 
it reported that year 's presidential elections .  . over the past 
seven decades have found ways to keep in touch with 
the people , from stop to fire side to the 
that i , along with vice president , in last 
year 's campaign. 

every saturday morning i take this time to talk with 
you , my fellow americans , about the problems on your minds and 
what i'm doing to try and solve them. it 's my way of reporting 
to you and of giving you a way to hold me accountable .  . 

you sent me to washington to get our government and 
economy moving after years of and policy and a bad 
experiment with down economics .  . you know how important 
it is for us to make bold , comprehensive changes in the way we do 
business. 

we live in a economy .  . nations 
rise and fall on the of their workers , the 
of their , the imagination of their , and the 
cooperative experience and spirit that exists between business , 
labor and government. although many of the of the 
industrialized world are now suffering from slow growth , they 've 
made many of the smart and the tough choices which 
our government has for too long ignored .  . that 's why many of them 
have been moving ahead and too many of our people have been 
falling behind. 

we have an economy today that even when it grows is 
not producing new jobs .  . we 've increased the debt of our nation 
by four times over the last 12 years , and we do n't have much to 
show for it. we know that wages of most working people have 
stopped , that most people are working longer work weeks 
and that too many families can no longer afford the 
cost of health care. 

but we also know that , given the right tools , the 
right and the right , our workers and 
can make the kinds of products and our economy 
needs to expand opportunity and to make our communities better 
places to live. 

in many critical products today americans are the 
low cost , high quality  . our task is to make sure that 
we create more of those kinds of jobs .  . 

just two months ago i gave congress my plan for 
long term jobs and economic growth .  . it changes the old 
in washington and puts our emphasis where it needs to 
be on people 's real needs , on increasing and jobs 
and education , on cutting the federal , on stopping the 
waste which no , and our precious 
resources investment that creates jobs now and the 
for economic growth in the future. 

these new passed the congress in record 
time and created a new sense of hope and opportunity in our 
country. then the jobs plan i presented to congress , which would 
create hundreds of thousands of jobs , most of them in the private 
in 1993 and , passed the house of representatives .  . it 
now has the support of a majority of the united states senate .  . 
but it 's been held up by a of a minority in the 
senate , just 43  . they a vote that they know 
would result in the passage of our bill and the creation of jobs .  . 

the issue is n't politics the issue is people. 
millions of americans are waiting for this legislation and 
counting on it , counting on us in washington .  . but the jobs bill 
has been grounded by  . 

i know the american people are tired of business as 
usual and politics as usual .  . i know they do n't want us to spin 
or  . they want the to get moving .  . so i have 
taken a first step to break this and gone the extra 
 . yesterday i offered to cut the size of this plan by 25 
percent from 16 billion to 12 billion .  . 

it 's not what i 'd hoped for. with 16 million 
americans looking for full time work , i simply ca n't let the bill 
when i know that even a compromise bill will mean 
hundreds of thousands of jobs for our people. the is to 
act to achieve change and move the country forward .  . by taking 
this in the face of an senate , i 
think we can respond to your and achieve a significant 
portion of our original goals. 

first , we want to keep the programs as much as 
possible that are needed to generate jobs and meet human needs , 
including and road construction , summer jobs for young 
people , for children , construction of waste water 
sites , and aid to small  . we also want to keep funding 
for extended benefits , for people who 
have been for a long time because the economy is n't 
creating jobs .  . 

second , i 've recommended that all the other programs 
in the bill be cut across the board by a little more than 40 
percent .  . 

and third , i 've recommended a new element in this 
program to help us immediately start our attempt to fight against 
crime by providing 200 million for cities and towns to 
police officers who lost their jobs during the and put 
them back to work protecting our people. i'm also going to fight 
for a tough crime bill because the people of this country need it 
and it. 

now , the people who are this bill 
the republican say they wo n't vote for it because it 
increases spending , because there 's extra spending this 
year that has n't already been approved .  . that sounds reasonable , 
does n't it here 's what they do n't say. this program is more 
than paid for by cuts over my five year , and this 
is well within the spending limits already approved by the 
congress this year .  . 

it 's amazing to me that many of these same 
who are the bill voted during the previous 
for billions of dollars of the same kind of 
emergency spending , and much of it was not designed to put the 
american people to work. 

this is not about spending .  . we have offered 
a plan to cut the  . this is about where your 
are on people or on politics. 

keep in mind that our jobs bill is paid for dollar 
for dollar .  . it is paid for by cuts .  . and it 's the 
investment we can now make for ourselves and our 
children. i urge all americans to take another look at this jobs 
and investment program to consider again the benefits for all of 
us when we 've helped make more american partners working to 
ensure the future of our nation and the strength of our economy .  . 

you know , if every american who wanted a job had 
one , we would n't have a lot of the other problems we have in this 
country today. this bill is not a miracle , it 's a first 
step to try to set off a job creation in this country 
again. but it 's a step we ought to take .  . and it is fully paid 
for over the life of our  . 

tell your lawmakers what you think. tell them how 
important the bill is. if it passes , we 'll all be  . 

good morning , and thank you for listening .  . 

end 10 11 a . m .  . edt 




from  ( jim maurer ) 
subject re 50 , 000 reward ! 
organization inc. 
lines 10 

(a . j .  . teel ) writes 

if you are a united states  citizen and a resident of the 
state , then your citizenship is in d . c .  . and thus are a amendment 
citizen .  . are you a citizen of the state in which you live if you are 
a resident then you are not . 

so the only people who are citizens of a state are ones who do n't live 
in that state so am i a citizen of 49 other states since i live in 
california 

from  ( michal leah peri ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization california institute of technology , pasadena 
lines 11 
nntp posting host caltech . edu . 

did n't the new study asked have you engaged in homosexual intercourse 
within the last two years whereas asked have you ever engaged 
or thought about engaging in homosexual activity . sort of like the 
difference between did you have this morning and are you 
allergic to . 





impressive of material can be in this manner. 

from  ( phill baker ) 
subject re top ten comments in the secret service 
lines 36 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 


in article ,  ( bob rahe ) writes 

in article (a . j .  . teel ) writes 

ed , they are their humor .  . please take a break until they 
get funny again ( ) , if that is even possible. i liked a few of these , 
but that list is not even , just insulting and definitely not 
one of your best. i look forward to some better lists after a 


no , they must be working , they are getting lots of these   
that they are not funny .  .  .  .  . keep 'em coming , it they were n't funny or 
bothering them they 'd just ignore them .  .  .  .  . 

if a year old child does a funny trick and you say well done he will 
do it again and it may be funny .  . then they may repeat it over and over 
again you still have to pretend its funny even though it is n't any 
more. once they are older than you expect them to realise that doing 
the same thing over and over again is n't funny any more. 

ed fails to be amusing because he is merely  . he does not 
make that have any political content beyond attempting to 
their target. calling someone slick is not funny even if you put 
on a red nose while you say it , it was a good point used on the 
spur of the moment 12 months ago but now its use merely demonstrates that the 
user could n't think of anything original to say. 


in the uk there is a tradition of old who bore the 
with their descriptions of old  . ed is clearly one 
of this type of people who fails to see when a joke is spent .  . 



baker 

from  ( bob blackshaw ) 
subject re abortion to health reform is clinton nuts 
organization corporation for open systems 
distribution na 
lines 44 

in  ( simon e. booth ) writes 

in article  ( bob blackshaw ) writes 
in (j h woodyatt ) writes 

 ( simon e. booth ) writes 
 ( kent sandvik ) writes 
we already kill people  ( death penalty ) , and that costs even more 
money , so you could as well complain about this extremely 
way of justice. 

but the death penalty is right. 

and how expensive can an execution be i mean , i think , 
 ( for the gas ) , or the and ammunition to firing squads are 
affordable .  . 

now , perhaps lethal injection might be expensive , in that case , let 's 
return to the more efficient methods employed in the past. 

oh , sure , the death penalty is fairly , but the trial and 
can run millions .  . 

that 's assuming our attack is willing to grant people trials in 
his new order. 

and why the hell would i waste my time doing that 

 ( to a convicted criminal getting a death sentence ) 

 go directly to hell , do not pass go , do not 200  
 ( judge laughing ) 

hey , you are getting further around the every day. but 
i would n't miss your for the world , everyone 
needs a good laugh now and then. ) 

simon 







from  ( marc mueller ) 
subject re selective service 
nntp posting host 
organization university school of engineering , , , usa 
lines 61 

in article  ( fletcher p adams ) writes 
 ( kenneth c. mitchell ) writes 
dave  ( borden@head wrote 
the selective service should be abolished .  . to start with , the 
draft is immoral .  . whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now , 
and military agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior 
with a army than with  . finally , the government has us 
on many lists in many computers  ( the , social security and 
to name a few ) and it can find us if it needs to. 
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time. 
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the a little bit. 

i'm really surprised clinton has n't already tried to do this. he seems 
to want to other irrelevant issues first , so why not this one as well. 

considering that clinton received a draft notice and got out of it  ( he admits it) the political of him it is not something he would 
be inclined to risk any extra exposure on. 


let me say this about that , as a navy 

i agree. cut it. but let 's not stop there. 

eliminate the c 17 transport .  . 

wrong. we need its capability .  . sure it has its problems , very few 
have n't , but getting rid of something we need is not the 
answer. what do you want to do , start over a a new 
from it 'll have its problems as well and there will be calls 
again , for it to be  . the other option is to try to extend 
the life of the c and c that are getting extremely old .  . 

if you read week , the c 5 line can be and the c 
would be a year earlier and cost a billion less for the 
program .  . politically , though , the c 17 is popular  . 


the 21 nuclear  . 
ground the b 2 stealth bomber .  . 

it 'll cost jobs , but i'm for it. we especially do n't need a b 2. the 
21 , i know about. 

agreed. congress took money from nasa and to the second  . 
the are still building los class and there 
is a lack of foes to with. the navy is considering reducing 
the number of attack to 40  ( navy times ) and that would 
getting rid of or some of the current los class .  . 

politically , general is in and we will get 
whether we need them or not. 

in addition , more bases need to be closed. probably long beach station 
and others. the navy is talking about three main bases on each coast being 
required to home a total of 320  . 

the question is whether and clinton will be able to face down 
a happy congress .  . 




from  ( electronic maintenance ) 
subject incredible new b . b . s .  . 
organization site 
lines 39 
nntp posting host rose . com . 
x newsreader tin version 1 . 1 . 3 . 


wow ! ! ! ! 
did i discover a great bbs ! ! 
it 's called lies in the people 
bbs 14 . 4 . k  . free and 
! fictitious names ok ! subjects and files contained on the bbs 

find out how the government has been us ! ! ! ! 
state citizenship documents and issues. 
are you a california citizen or a u.s. federal citizen 
remember there were only state citizens before the amendment ! ! 
one is subject to federal tax , one is n't .  . 
did you to surrender your state citizenship when you got 
your social security number which one are you 
tax laws and issues. the 
traffic laws and issues. traffic  . can you answer this one 
what law allows a police to arrest you without a warrant when 
he issues you a 
religious truth issues. are all religions 
are all christian religions of the great creator god 
trust documents and issues. 

the told me that instructions to traffic 
will be on the bbs shortly .  . traffic 
without going to court ! ! ! the bbs is great , spread the word ! ! ! ! 
also how come i do n't hear more people talking about the 
federal reserve bank just ask yourself these questions 

1 ) why would anyone borrow money from themselves at interest 
the federal government does not not 
the federal reserve bank is private .  . the american people are 
being ripped off  . 100 of the tax goes to pay 
on the federal debt to the federal reserve  . not one 
goes for services .  . services like the military and 
welfare come from taxes and the like. 

2 ) why do we the american people stand for this 

check out the new bbs 

from  ( greg hennessy ) 
subject re the role of the national news media in 
organization university of virginia 
lines 25 

theodore a. writes 
ah , i know women who wear without wearing , and 
they are not  . 
no , i suppose they must be  . 

nope .  . they both are very nice women , whom i'm good friends with. 

or do you think its ok to rape anyone when you do n't like the way they 
dress 

gee , both clayton and engaging in ad hominem arguments .  . 
where 

calling someone names , as you did. are you ignorant of what an ad 
hominem argument is 

you provided absolutely no evidence ,  . 

i provided a quote from the judge. what else do you want 


greg , university of virginia 
mail astronomy department , , va 2475 usa 
internet 
uucp ... ! uunet ! virginia ! 

from  ( paul schmidt ) 
subject re employment  ( was re why not concentrate on child 
organization advocates for self government davy chapter 
x newsreader tin 1.1 
lines 50 

 ( xavier gallagher ) writes 

no. i make a distinction between working for yourself to survive and 
paying to mother nature in the form of and working for 
joe because you do not have the option of working for 
yourself. joe stands between you and the earth you 
work and expects you to pay him and mother nature for the right 
to survive. the property laws create a of parasites that get 
fat on the fact that people have no option except to work in 
 . 

i want people to be able to get the things they need in life. property 
ownership may not be ideal , but it is far better at letting people get 
what they need to live a , life. 

the first experiment in america , where property ownership was denied , 
caused , , , and death. few people know that the 
originally tried to have common property to grow food and a 
common food  . many people know the they suffered the 
first few because of it. after arriving , the made all 
property common .  . they all shared in the work and the resulting 
went into a common  . after much debate the new bradford 
the land to each family. according to perry 
d. the change was immediately justified by the increased 
industry of the and by the larger planted .  . 

bradford himself acknowledged this failure of communism .  . he wrote the 
experience that was had in this common course and condition , tried 
sundry years and that amongst and men , may well the 
of that of 's and other ancients by some of 
later times that the taking away of property and bringing in community into 
a commonwealth would make them happy and flourishing as if they were 
than god. for this community  ( so far as it was ) was found to much 
confusion and and much employment that would have been 
to their benefit and comfort .  . 

bradford did not blame this failure on the strangers , but on the basic 
selfishness in all men. he wrote seeing all men have this corruption in 
them , god in his wisdom saw another course for them. in other 
words , according to , bradford found private to be 
the most suitable economic policy for mankind in its fallen state. 

let 's not make the same mistake that the made. private 
property allows a society to flourish , the alternative brings 
, poverty and  . 

paul advocates for self government , davy chapter president 
drive , johnson city , ,  ( 615)283 ) , uunet ! ! 
freedom seems to have the creative of the people and 
leads to ever higher levels of and social progress. u . n .  . report 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re re 
lines 
organization university of computing center 

in article  ( phill baker ) writes 

in article ,  ( david veal ) writes 

if the senate was less powerful than the house of , than 
we 'd almost have to state that the house of representatives was also. 
 ( in fact , they both were , because the british government had much 
greater power than did the american  . 

in principle no , in practice yes. 

in principle no that they had less power of that they should have 
had less power 

the british in principle has absolute power. so does the  . 
much of the of the system rests on what is not defined clearly .  . 
in the case of a clear abuse by one side or the other the other side 
can act to the situation. 

two with absolute power.  . 

let 's talk practicality , shall we if the tried to 
do something , what would happen 

if they were to start from a social welfare model instead of the current 
no state motto they would be better placed .  . as it is there is 
plenty of state money being handed out. the problem is that it is 
on the basis of power in congress and not on the basis of 
actual need. 

 . the higher up the the less actual 
need matters , because political power can be at higher 
levels , while people with less cloud only find themselves reduced to 
in  . 

that was not my point. 

but you illustrated the problem very well. 

in order to set up a school project in new york state you have to pay off the 
other 49 states with defense contracts , etc. 
or to be precise 30 of the states since you need 60 to the  . 

then why not simply leave new york 's education to new york i 
remain that there is any state in the union which is not capable 
of its own children if that 's what they want to do. 

the point is of of cash from the poor areas of the 
to the rich ones. 

i am that there is no state in the union which does 
not have ample wealth , if they choose to spend it , to run a perfectly 
acceptable education system. (i further that the amount of money 
being spent now is more then sufficient , but is being spent ) . 

or vice if you are n't a republican .  . 

so , tell me  . were the also responsible for some 
of the huge increases in social programs or were they only 
responsible for what you do n't like. (i it is congress which 
is to blame .  . and republican alike . ) . 

if society 
simply writes off any areas of the country that is weak you 
end up with a case  . there are inevitable in any 
business. some of these act in to produce the business cycle . 
others are  . can experience to 
outside the national trend .  . to produce a strong you need to 
ensure that the areas do not fall the level where they 
cannot be  . 

most of our worst areas are still better off than most of europe .  . 
in any case , we 're talking about education . 

if the industry in an area collapses 
the us as a whole still has a responsibility to ensure that the children 
in that area get a good education. in some areas of the us schools are 
through the year for lack of money. 

yes , i live in once such area. you 're ignorant of the 
situation. 

at the same time some of 's school are 
down , the asked for 7 . 5 . million dollars for 
license  . in almost the same he wanted to raise 
and reduce taxes which paid into it. 

i do n't know about the rest of the country , but our education 
problems directly from two problems , neither of which are a lack 
of money in the state.  ( btw , is considered a tax heaven 
and our economy is one of the strongest in the country. i see 
a correlation . ) . 1 ) what money we spend goes to  . 
the average administrator makes two and a half times what the average 
teacher makes , and up an enormous amount of  . and 2 ) 
the is making a concerted effort to create an education crisis 
in order to push for his pet tax .  . some of the most idiotic 
programs get funded  ( like state funds for new art in the seat ) 
while schools are  . it 's not a lack of funds .  . it 's an 
to spend them on what is more appropriate. education 
is the hot  . education is always the first to 
but cut , because it 's easier to get people to pay for their children 
than art .  . 

the u.s. constitution is a nuts and document .  . the 
of independence was the high reasoning .  .  ( there are a couple of other 
examples , though , such as the reasoning for the power to tax , and the 
reasoning for the power to grant , both in article i , section 8 . ) . 

the declaration on independence a earlier and has not a line 
of justification for the us constitution .  . you could argue that it went 
into the broad concepts but little more. 

it spoke very eloquently on government being based on the 
consent of the governed .  . 

in fact it is little more than 
a  . more to do with the price of tea than the design of 
a government. it would be a pretty idea for a bunch of guys to 
sit the structure of the new government while the little 
matter of the british army remained to be  . 

they did it anyway. the congress had its own set of 
bylaws .  . it was n't quite a government , but a means of making decisions 
had to be created.  ( however low george washington 's opinion of them were . ) . 

to a certain extend i do believe the has become something 
it was n't intended .  . however , i also believe it is inevitable considering 
the congress  own abuse of their power to make say whatever they 
want them to say. unlike most people i think we should n't be worrying 
about the , which is fine , but of the problem in congress which 
almost its abuse .  . 

the congress is the most democratic body in the whole system. 

allow me again to speak heresy against the holy democratic orders .  . 
so what the government was built with a very non democratic 
with fairly broad powers , including the  . 

it has not only 
the system of election but the two year term means that the 
members have always got a recent  . 

yes , and the senate was intended to act as a to this. 
too much democracy was intentionally avoided .  . it was considered a good 
thing to place non democratic blocks to action. 

on the other hand if the period of election were to be made 4 years in 
to the presidential cycle there would be much less 
on from special interests than there is at present. 

so long as congress has something to sell , people will pay for 
it. most in more money than they need. 

why not what is inherently wrong with the system 
against action historically action in the u.s. when 
dealing with issues with a bare minority and a large minority have 
not been successful .  . when you 're in a position of federal 
power on people , why should the federal government not have to 
got through something more than a bare majority 

in other words david thinks that the should need only 41 
votes while should need 61 .  . 

no , if the do n't want the to move 
, they get the same benefit .  . 41 of the states is a lot of 
people. and historically laws with that sort of minority arent  
very effective , especially since it is usually 
 . 
when the federal big stick i do n't see why they should n't 
have to make a better argument than , more people than not , agree. 

now we know why nobody calls the  . 

i'm not a republican .  . i'm a republican .  . ) 

and no , i'm neither a nor a  . 

now , i 've asked several times , and all you 've done is answer 
it is n't democratic , which i knew before i said it. why should 
it be democratic we do n't have a true direct democracy , and few 
people advocate one. why , then , is this other of 
democracy to bias it against action so much worse 


david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( charles kincy ) 
subject re how many homosexuals are there 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
distribution usa 
organization university of missouri , , 
lines 13 

in article  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study 
 ( discrediting kinsey ) says so. 

wow , does this mean 2 out of 5 homosexuals will be at the march 
on washington how very interesting. 



it 's been 80 days. do you know where your is 

slick 's already got his hand in my  . i'm just afraid 
of what he might hold of. 

from  ( phill baker ) 
subject re the could win the  .  .  . clinton . 
lines 42 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 


in article ,  ( gary l dare ) writes 

 ( charles m kozierok ) writes 
 ( gary l dare ) writes 

secondly , any canadian who has worked and in the 
 ( it 's a negative option , you have to explicitly decline 
it) knows that the is ... 

yes , and some americans actually have a problem with having more 
of their money taken from them to pay for others  health care .  .  .  . 

but note again , the canadian and german health is voluntary 

not true. i am required to have by law. the method of collection 
effectively makes it a tax .  . 


... but like basic plus , you have to tell them that you do n't 
want it ... for example , in western canada are not 
part of it  ( mennon and were fundamentalist protestants from 
germany whose followers left for the new world ... are a 
very lot while are to the  . the 
american idea being today gives you no option but to live 
off the land ... 

the selfish that they are. unfortunately , that number has 
recently , but once president gets through 
with us , i hope for a of trend .  . 

well here we have the right for more selfish  . pity they 
do n't look at what 12 years of the bush selfish bastard 
has done to the country. 

elect a selfish bastard government and they will run the country for themselves , 
why they are selfish  . bush and gave tax breaks for the 
rich and paid for them by borrowing against the of the middle 
class .  . 


baker 

from  ( broward l. horne ) 
subject national sales tax , the movie 
x received by usenet . pa . dec . com . id thu , 15 apr 93 07 42 23 
x received by 2 . pa . dec . com . id thu , 15 apr 93 07 42 12 
x received by edu . 
6 . 16 . id wed , 14 apr 93 10 02 10 0600 
x to talk . politics . misc . usenet . 
x cc alt . politics . clinton . usenet . 
x mailer revision 66 . 25 . 
lines 54 



well , it seems the national sales tax has gotten its very 
own news logo ! 

cool. that means we 'll be seeing it often. 

man , i sure am glad that i quit working ( or taking this 
seriously ) in 1990. if i kept my ass , watching 
time go by , being , i 'd be pretty damn mad by 
now. 

yeah ! free health care ! oh , ! 



bill makes me feel like dancing ! 

more amazing predictions from the incredible ! 


we take you back to 20th , when the incredible 
predicted 

1 , 000 per middle class in new taxes 

a national sales tax 

now , for more predictions ! 

i ) the will be raised from 3 to 5 by  . 
 . they already did it. 

okay , then. the will be raised from 5 to 7 by  . 

ii ) will rise ! 

iii ) tax will decline .  . will increase ! 
we 'll get another by ! 
everyone will dance and ! 

yup .  . i'm gonna at watch out of here 
at 1 , on down to the  . out. sit 
in the sun and take it easy ! ) yeah ! 

i just wish i had the e mail address of total who 
was saying that clinton did n't propose a . 

to paraphrase clinton i will not raise taxes on 
the middle class to pay for my programs 

to paraphrase bill clinton i will not raise taxes on 
the middle class to pay for my programs 


from  ( ted frank ) 
subject re the state of justice  ( gm trial ) 
reply to 
organization university of chicago 
lines 40 

in article  ( not a boomer ) writes 
a judge denied 's new trial motion , even though says it has two 
new witnesses that said the of the was dead from the impact , not 
from the fire .  . 

thoughts 

it 's kind of scary when you realize that judges are going to start 
denying new trials even when new evidence that contradicts the facts that led 
to the previous ruling appear .  . 

on the other hand , it would be kind of scary if there were never a final 
verdict , because a party to could keep saying oops ! i forgot 
to bring up this evidence , and demand a new trial .  . you get one at 
the apple .  . 

or has the judge decided that the new witnesses are not to be believed 
should n't that be up to a jury 

it 's up to general to find those witnesses in the first  . 
you 'd be up in if a general the same 
and made them an issue that they already lost. it 's not 
as if general could n't file enough motions to delay the 
trial until they found all the witnesses they wanted .  . 

and what about members of the previous jury through the talk 
shows proclaiming their obvious bias against 

define obvious bias .  . 

should n't that be enough for 
a judge to through out the old verdict and call for a new trial 

did move for a new trial on those grounds no perhaps they had a 
reason 

frank 
i'm sorry , the card says  . 
the u of c law school 
standard disclaimers 

from  ( tree of schnopia ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of rochester rochester , new york 
lines 35 
nntp posting host cc . rochester . edu . 

in  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 


1 ) so what 

so this bolsters the contention that many homosexuals are liars .  . 

this statement is just so blatantly disgusting and free of any 
activity that i will almost completely ignore it. 



join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 

call the reform church bbs at . . . . 

the above of bigotry .  . 

sigh. it 's so amusing to watch bigots point fingers at what they imagine to 
be other bigots .  . i do believe this person meant counting . and are 
you trying to suggest that only eat or that they even have 
a monopoly on eating or that this person is seriously promoting what 
is obviously a tongue in  . sig . 

you must have a brain somewhere , if you can cause your fingers to type .  . use 
it. 



andrew d. ! 


words were n't made for happy 

from  ( not a boomer ) 
subject re capital tax increase loses money 
distribution na 
organization acme products 
lines 70 

in article ,  ( mark eckenwiler ) writes 
in , 
in article  ( not a boomer ) writes 

no , i'm saying any long term investor  ( the ones likely to have large 
capital gains ) would be foolish to sell in order to avoid a tax that a ) 
might disappear in any given year and b ) be overcome in a year or two by 
 . 

to which my response is so what not all people who pay capital 
taxes are long term  . more than enough of them are n't for there 
to be huge whenever capital taxes get raised .  . 
i never said that everyone would find this  . i said that 
more than enough would for the result to be readily and distort 
trends . 

even if brett 's eventual return were correct and they 
clearly were n't he 'd still be wrong about the cause for the  86 
because he fails to consider 2 basic factors 

you misunderstand .  . i'm not trying to prove a cause for anything. 
merely pointing out that 's assertion that the in was 
caused by selling to avoid the tax ca n't be proven .  . 

1 ) as notes , not everyone is a long term investor .  . one might find 
oneself , as i did in late 1986 , in the near term 
that require selling off  . given the choice between waiting a 
few weeks  ( and taking an extra tax hit ) or selling in december with 
tax treatment , only a fool would choose the former .  . 

not disputed .  . 

2 ) the fact that brett can now construct post hoc calculations of 
what would have been more beneficial to is in many respects 
beside the point. there was plenty of money style advice given to 
unsophisticated in late 1986 to sell now and save on 
taxes .  . in case anyone missed it , there was no of similar 
advice late last year  ( in the , e . g . ) . , even though that advice 
was based not on the conclusion of law  ( as in 1986 ) , 
but merely on the assumption that clinton would raise tax 
 ( without taxes , contrary to the current  . 

it works for any situation. if you believe the market is going up , 
do n't sell .  . 

if believe it 's not , sell .  . but then you 'd be selling anyways , would n't 
you 

so where is the evidence that a large number of people suddenly decided 
that the higher taxes meant they should sell before the year was out 

there is n't any. 

's saying that the increase over the previous year is proof of 
that proposition , but i'm saying you ca n't know that the trend of increasing 
capital would n't account for a lot of that increase .  . 
1986 was the of the housing , remember. people were 
trading up like mad. 

it 's nice to think that always behave in their 
economic interest .  . like assuming and 
, though , this sort of thinking often fails to describe 
accurately what happens in the real world. 

indeed. 

brett 

there 's nothing so as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . o in the white plague by frank  . 

from  ( dale cook ) 
subject re sexual proposition sexual harassment 
organization 
lines 59 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( william december starr ) writes 

in article , 
 ( dale cook ) said 

a real world data point a person has a much stronger legal claim for 
 ( sexual or otherwise ) if they make it clear to the 
offender that their behaviour is unwanted .  . if the behaviour , 
is much easier to demonstrate , due to the fact that the 
offender knew that the behaviour was unwanted .  . 

no argument here .  .  .  . my original regarded the question of why the 
first sexual proposition made by person a to person b would be 
considered to be sexual harassment by some many people.  ( assuming , of 
course , that there does not exist a power relationship between a and b 
such that the proposition carries strong implications of right 
from word one . ) . 

i can only say that those people are wrong. the word harass means to 
or i 'd hardly consider one time to fall 
under the definition of persistent .  . , there is no basis 
to assume the behaviour is unwanted , unlike an illegal proposition .  . 

of course , i think the original question of offering money for sex is 
, because the activity is illegal , and could be 
to be unwanted by the average citizen .  . 

i have to take issue with this viewpoint .  .  .  . given that  ( a ) prostitution 
is a crime and  ( b ) there are literally millions of americans 
who participate in some sort of activities which the state 
has defined to be criminal (e . g .  . , prostitution , , , 
using certain drugs , having non sex with persons 
not one 's spouse in certain states , having unnatural sex with people 
regardless of marital status or exchange of money in certain states , 
etc . ) . , i 'd have to say that the idea that an activity may be to 
be unwanted by the average citizen merely because it is illegal is the 
sort of that only a judge could indulge in with a straight 
face.  ( he said , speaking as a law student who 's read his share of 
judicial opinions in which reality was not only denied but , in fact , 
actually in order to make the universe conform to the writer 's 
politics . ) . 

i was speaking from a viewpoint .  . what you say is true , but 
the law , in order to make what little sense it manages to make , has to 
make some assumptions .  . assuming that an illegal activity is unwanted 
by the average citizen i think is reasonable .  . certainly , i would need 
a of evidence on the side of the that there 
was a reasonable belief that the proposition was welcome. 

the number of people who participate in crimes , 
the fact that under the law , the activity is illegal .  . to presume 
that the proposition is welcome simply because a large number of people 
indulge in it is the type of only a lawyer could indulge in 
with a straight face. 

 .  .  . any town having more churches than has a serious 
social problem. edward 
the opinions are mine only (i . e .  . , they are not my employer 's ) 


from 
subject re selective service 
organization dept of univ .  . , ny 
lines 19 
reply to 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article , edu .  ( dave borden ) writes 
the selective service should be abolished .  . to start with , the 
draft is immoral .  . whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now , 
and military agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior 
with a army than with  . finally , the government has us 
on many lists in many computers  ( the , social security and 
to name a few ) and it can find us if it needs to. 
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time. 
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the a little bit. 


dave 



you selfish little bastard. afraid you might have to sacrafice 
for your country. what someone not approve a lone for you to bad. 
what is immoral is people like you and the current president who do n't 
have any idea why this country still exists after 200 years. 

from  ( kenneth c. mitchell ) 
subject re selective service 
organization netcom on line services  ( 408 guest ) 
x newsreader tin version 1.1 
lines 34 

dave  ( borden@head wrote 
the selective service should be abolished .  . to start with , the 
draft is immoral .  . whether you agree with that or not , we do n't have one now , 
and military agree that the quality of the armed forces is superior 
with a army than with  . finally , the government has us 
on many lists in many computers  ( the , social security and 
to name a few ) and it can find us if it needs to. 
maintaining yet another list of people is an utter waste of money and time. 
let 's axe this whole department , and reduce the a little bit. 

let me say this about that , as a navy 

i agree. cut it. but let 's not stop there. 

eliminate the c 17 transport .  . , , , it was 
supposed to carry  . new are now too big for the  . 

the 21 nuclear  . the of the ussr has 
left us with a number of military problems , but none of them will 
require god 's gift to . 

ground the b 2 stealth bomber .  . i'm sure it 's a great that will do 
everything its said , but at half a a copy , we ca n't 
afford for even one to crash .  . and do crash .  . 

said it best 20 years ago high low . a mix of a few 
extremely capable weapons systems and a lot of , 
moderate capability systems. 


ken the powers not to the united states by the 
constitution , nor by it to the states , are 
heights , ca to the states respectively , or to the people. 


from  ( kerrigan john m ) 
subject re top ten ways slick could improve his standing with americans 
organization university , rochester mi .  . 
lines 40 
nntp posting host edu . 

in article  ( ed ipser ) writes 
top ten ways slick could improve his standing with americans 

10. institute a national sales tax to pay for the socialization of 
america 's health care resources .  . 

9. declare war on  . the draft .  . 

8. the economy with massive to 
 . 

7. appoint an like to the court. 

6. focus like a laser beam on gays in the military .  . 

5. put hillary in charge of the ministry of truth and move 
over to health care. 

4. the through  . 

3. everyone , again , how despite the holding the 
, the majority of in the house , and in the senate , 
the have still managed to block his tax and spend programs. 

2. go back to england and get a course in european socialism .  . 


snip 

and the number one way slick could improve his standing with 
americans .  .  .  . 

 ( drum roll anton ) 

1. get himself an with dr. and keep it ! 



john a.k.a. 


from 
subject e mail to the hill 
organization college , no. , ma , usa 
lines 4 

now , that clinton can get e mail , i'm wondering if congress is also 
going on line .  .  . if so , does anyone have the address to reach them 
i'm also looking for bill 's e mail address. 
please e mail me , i am not a reader of this  . 

from  ( mark wilson ) 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay in nc ) verdict 
organization engineering and manufacturing , 
lines 19 

 ( thomas farrell ) writes 
so you feel that the should have been convicted regardless of the 
evidence. now that would be a sad day for civil rights. 

i do n't know about everybody else , but to me , they should have been 
convicted because of the evidence , which in my mind was quite 
sufficient .  . 

what evidence are you aware of. what was reported in the media , or all of 
the evidence that was presented at the trial .  . 

this sounds to me a lot like the first rodney king 5 trial .  . a bunch of people 
who saw 10 to 15 seconds out of a several minute long video , decided that 
they knew more than people who had sat through a two week trial .  . 

rule is n't any merely because the calls itself a government 
it ai n't charity if you are using someone else 's money. 
's theory of relativity if you go back far enough , we 're all related .  . 


from  ( robert woodworth ) 
subject re ca 's laws 
organization open systems solutions inc. 
lines 54 
nntp posting host com . 

1 

clayton , my man .  .  .  . 

you are a out of touch .  .  .  .  . 

first , gay all over the country are in the process of excluding 
from etc. 

2 

nobody from is gonna get a job in a day care centre .  . the same you are 
upset about are also passing laws that make tough background for 
people. 

3 

tell me , how would you feel if your employer fired you for your post on the 
internet would you be upset bet you would be ! 
to some , your posts , make the company look bad. 
while your posts offend me i dont think it would be right for you to get fired over 
it. 

i dont believe the gay is asking for like the 
action laws of the 60 's did. 
my understanding is that the gay community just wants the same rights the 
have. i dont think people should have their cancelled when their landlord 
finds out they are gay. i dont think that when someone sees someone walk out of 
a gay business and then it all over work that the gay person gets fired .  . 
do you really think these are justified 

4 

clayton , i am told you are a parent a couple times over. 
have you been following the strip in the paper for better or for worse 

i honestly want your opinion as a parent on the strip .  . 

do you really care about your 
as much as friends of mine tell me how much do you care about your 
how much do you care about other people 's do you care about my 
do you care about my sister 's 

if one of your kids told you he she was gay , would you them out of your home 
in the middle of the night 

would you approve of your driving down to san francisco to 
at and up on gay people would you your beating up on someone 
elses 


i await your answers to these  . please no flaming .  .  .  . 
this is to be a civilised discussion , from one father to another. 


from node . org .  ( nigel allen ) 
subject reserve officers say ignored in to close , reserve 
organization r node public access unix 1 
lines 53 

here is a press release from the reserve officers association .  . 

reserve officers say ignored in to 
close , reserve 
to national , defense writer 
contact m. hart of the reserve officers association of 
the united states , 

washington , april 13 u.s. newswire the reserve officers 
association of the united states has the defense base 
and that the services failed to give 
sufficient weight to in made to close 
56 and corps reserve  . 
in letters to the and to all 86 members of 
congress with affected in their , including 
 .  ( d ) . , chairman of the senate armed services 
, charged that the of the navy list 
ignored of the civilian population , particularly prior 
service  . 
's director ,  . gen .  . l. , ) . , 
suggested concern that the only plausible alternative is that they 
are intentionally attempting to the reserve 
components from maintaining even today 's relatively low level of 
participation in their parent service 's total force of the future. 
he asked the to remove from consideration all 
without sufficient and convincing data to 
warrant approval of the requested action. 
only a few of the 56 and corps reserve 
on this list are large enough to have a significant 
impact on the community , if closed , wrote  . the major 
issue is the impact of moving or such a large 
percentage of the existing  . 
reminded the , the fact that the vast 
majority of the reserve on this list do not come 
close to meeting the minimal requirements for consideration in this 
process certainly supports the thesis that these actions are 
simply an attempt to a substantial role for the navy and 
corps reserve .  . 
also noted that at the end of the 1960s , when the number of 
was approximately the same as today , there were 
reserve facilities .  . if the navy are 
approved , there will be less than 200 reserve facilities .  . 
facilities on the list include seven air 
from south , mass .  . , to ,  . , 28 
reserve in ,  . , and , w . va .  . , to 
and great falls .  .  . corps reserve 
include four in san francisco , wayne ,  . , 
,  . , and , texas .  . 
a major reserve center on the list is that at 
,  . , plus others. 
30 

allen , , ontario , canada node . org . 

subject re why not concentrate on child 
from 
organization city council , public access. 
nntp posting host govt . 
lines 19 

 ( clayton cramer ) writes 

the liberal gov .  . it. which shows that do n't 
give a damn about best person for the job , it 's just a power 
play .  . 

women are only interested in clothes and shopping 
are 
blacks are lazy uneducated scum 
men are rapists 
homosexuals support child 

, my dear , are not an adequate for thought. 


tony , , new  . 
usenet is like a herd of elephants with massive , 
difficult to , , entertaining , and a source of mind 
of when you least expect it. gene , 1992 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton president 's remarks on trip to baltimore 4 . 5 . 93 . 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 74 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 






the white house 

office of the press 


for immediate release april 5 , 1993 

remarks by the president 
en route to for day game 

train 
en route to 



11 45 a . m .  . edt 

q mr. president , what do you think of 's 
today 

the president i think it 's an  . 
i think it 's fine. the owners put out a statement few days ago , 
which they say was the first step in , you know , efforts to increase 
minority ownership and minority increases in  . i think we 
should .  . i'm encouraged by 's out in  . 
and i think it 's time to make a move on that front .  . so , i think it 's 
a legitimate issue , and i think it 's like i said , it 's an 
and not an attempt to get people not to go to 
the game. so , i think it 's good. 

q do you think they 're moving fast enough 

the president well , i think that it was a good first 
step. and i think you 'll see some movement now. and i think it 's an 
issue that deserves some attention , and they 're obviously going to 
give it some. and i think that being out there will 
the issue. so i think it 's fine. 

q mr. president , how about the in the senate 
on the economic plan do you think they 'll be able to break 
that and get 

the president i do n't know , we 're working at it. i 
mean , it 's a classic there was an article in the paper today , one 
of the papers i saw , which pretty well it up. they said , you 
know , this is a it 's just a political power play .  . in the senate 
the majority does not rule. it 's not like the country. it 's not 
like the it 's not like the house. if the minority chooses , they 
can stop majority rule. and that 's what they 're doing. there are a 
lot of republican who have told people that they might vote 
for the program but there 's enormous political 
pressure not to do it. 

and , of course , what it means is that in this time when 
no new jobs are being created , even though there seems to be an 
economic , it means that for political purposes they 're 
willing to deny jobs to places like baltimore and and houston 
and pittsburgh and philadelphia and and seattle .  . it 's very 
sad .  . i mean , the block grant program was designed to create jobs in 
a based on local , and it 's one that the 
had always  . just about the only of the 
program were people like me who were out there at the 
level , and  . i just think it 's real sad that they 
have chosen to exert the minority in a way that will keep 
americans out of work. i think it 's a mistake. 

the press thank you. 

50 a . m .  . edt 

from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject from the 's 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random .  . 
distribution usa 
lines 40 

in article  ( gadfly ) writes 
now let me get this straight .  . after a nice , long rant about 
how people need to take personal responsibility for their 
economic and social lives , all of a sudden 's 
 ( such as me , i guess) are responsible for poor people 's 
tell me how that works or do you think that poor 
people are just too to think for themselves 

there are many reasons for the of the family 
and support systems in general among this nation 's poor. 
somehow i do n't think brown or is at 
the top of any sane person 's list. 

you want to go after my generation 's cultural 
revolution for a lasting change for the worse , try so called 
relevant or values education. hey , it seemed like a good 
idea at the time. how were we to know you needed a real 
education first i mean , we took that for granted .  . 

the 's generation were the most spoiled and  . 

the depression had create and fathers that were determined that their 
kids would not want for anything going overboard and creating a nation of 
 . 

consider the between two famous events in of  . 

11 and  . 

which group had large numbers of people that could not feed themselves and 
to the cultural level of  ( defecation in public etc . ) .  . 

and which group assembled , took care of itself , and with no damage , 
no deaths , no large numbers of drug problems .... 


there are actually people that still believe love was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from  ( vladimir kuznetsov ) 
subject re how many homosexuals are there 
organization netcom services  ( 408 guest ) 
distribution usa 
lines 22 

in article  ( theodore a. kaldis ) writes 
perhaps 1 , but most likely not more than 2 . a new study 
 ( discrediting kinsey ) says so. 


yes , i saw today in 6 o news on here in san francisco 
this statistic quoted .  . 

2.2 men had sex with another man. 
1 . 3 . homosexual .  . 

i understand of course that because this statistic goes against 
common believe and not pc correct it must be complete bs .  . 





 ( 408)252 ) 
natural intelligence 
, 


from  ( phill baker ) 
subject the lessons of the nazis re david fraud 
lines 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 


in responding to the post below i have considered issues far outside the 
of and have considered the political 
implications of a racist ideology and its inevitable outcome .  . thus it 
is relevant to soc . history . and alt . but i have directed 
followups to t . p . m . since it is consideration of the political 
lessons to be drawn from the history of the nazi party that i deal with. 


in article ,  ( ken mcvay ) writes 

as points out , in the and the ,  ( harvard 
university press , 34 38 ) 

 .  .  . the . in is reached by david 's hitler 's 
war. 34 an amateur historian , whose reputation as a german and 
as a writer without regard for accuracy or truth won him a measure of 
, 35 produced a page work intended to show that hitler 
was kind to his animals and to his , that he was probably the 
leader germany has known in this century , and that he did not 
murder the jews or even wish to do so , but that the murder was committed 
behind his back , without his knowledge or consent .  . 

let us assume for the sake of argument that this was indeed the case does 
this mean that would have been in any way less guilty of mass murder 
because he rather than participated as an active and ardent 
supporter 

one of the important things to realise about the nazis is that the system 
was far more evil than any single member. once created the nazi party 
itself was a murder machine that would inevitably commit genocide , there was 
noone within it strong enough to prevent it. remember that hitler did not 
lead the nazi party nor was he particularly powerful within it 
until his allowed the party to come to power. had hitler 
upon the expectations which he had created within the ranks of 
his he would have been replaced as he had himself replaced the 
old guard who he were unable to grasp the intellectual implications 
of their rhetoric .  . 

this is why all parties that espouse nazi style race ideologies must 
be considered as dangerous and as evil as the nazis .  . the idea that one race 
of people is inherently superior to another and that the greatest goal of 
humanity is to achieve racial has only one logical outcome , 
the gas of  . 

the nazi party is not simply the tale of a evil single man who 
lead an entire country astray , beyond the evil of individuals there was the 
evil of the system itself which was self and self  . 
hitler was an evil person who built his party an ego 
cult on the of his own power , this does not however 
mean that he was as entirely free from political as he and 
his worked so hard to assert .  . the myth that racism can 
produce a strong government that can a nations ills must be 
emphatically rejected .  . in the same way we must accept a distinction between 
a that demonstrates its strength and one that is able to 
decisively in the manner it is best. i would accept only the 
latter as a strong government since most of strength are made 
necessary by an essential weakness .  . 

it is important to understand that the nazis were not stupid nor were they 
amoral in the sense that they moral scruples .  . they acted in the 
same manner as the spanish inquisition murder and torture in the cause 
of morality .  . the fault of the nazis lies in their axioms , not in their 
logic nor in their implementation of those axioms .  . thus all such parties 
such as the national front or david klux klan front who assert 
the truth of those axioms must be considered for what they are , advocates 
of a system that would commit genocide .  . 

the conclusion that hitler was not only responsible but evil is 
from the historical record .  . it is important though to not let 
the conclusion be reached that the nazis a set of ideas that 
were basically correct but had an unfortunate  . the evils of 
the concept of race are primary .  . although this most 
does not excuse individual culpability this is nevertheless secondary .  . 

no matter what the promises made by a racist , party upon 
election those promises will be broken as soon as circumstances  . 
if this requires the replacement of the leaders that originally made 
the , that will occur .  . hatred is a supreme  . it also creates 
a of its own when those in government allow it reign .  . for many 
in government politics is a method of providing a justification for 
their own existence through a of their importance .  . a 
rhetoric of hatred inevitably develops the question of action since the 
continued existence of an object of hatred is inevitably a of the 
essential of the  . thus we have the us on tripoli 
which has little purpose beyond a of power. it is important 
to realise that there is no quantum jump between the politics of the right 
and those of the right but a progression from the 
of popular to action being taken on the basis of that  . 
in the same way the left trace their route to through 
their assertion of the of the individual to ideology .  . 

it is important though that in attempting to understand the 
of political systems that this is not used to excuse the participants .  . the 
leaders of a nation take on a supreme moral burden but not only do 
so voluntarily are required to to do so. thus to take on such a 
task without a fundamental examination of the logical progression of 
ones set of axioms to its conclusion in itself is a moral crime .  . furthermore 
in taking on such a duty one is to put the interest of the whole 
before personal concerns , even of personal security .  . 

although it was inevitable that a party such as the nazis , based upon hatred 
and an of the symbols of power should have to commit 
genocide it was not inevitable that they should succeeded .  . each member of 
the system had an ability to create a change within it that had a possibility 
of changing the  . realising that the individual cannot hope to 
control a system does not mean accepting that the individual cannot 
affect the system. 


baker 
baker 

from  ( dan s . ) . 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization university of illinois at urbana 
lines 51 

 ( brian stone ) writes 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . it 's a that we do n't have a for 
straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 


is n't is funny how someone who seems to know nothing about homosexuality 
uses a very flawed  ( imho ) source of information to pass on all 
homosexual and bisexual men. it would seem more logical to say that since 
the heterosexual group of men is larger then the chances of promiscuity 
larger as well. in my opinion , orientation has nothing to do with it. 

i do n't understand what you are getting at here. if the chances of 
promiscuity are larger , yet the rate of promiscuity is lower in the heterosexual 
community , does n't that imply that the sexual population is then 
even more than the raw statistics imply 
 ( no axe to here i'm just a scientist and i hate to see statistics ) . 

men are men and they all like sex. i am a gay male .  . i have had sex three 
times in my life , all with the same man. before that , i was a virgin .  . 

i am a man and have had sex with one woman in my life  ( my  . it is 
very to me to be able to say that. i hope you have the same feeling 
as i do. i also wish that you could  ( if you wanted ) experience the and 
trials of being committed to someone for life  ( there is something about marriage 
that makes the commitment much greater than one might  . 

so .  .  .  . whose 

just because someone is gay does n't mean they have no morals .  . just because 
someone is heterosexual does n't mean they do. look at the world .  .  .  .  . 
statistics alone prove that most criminals are by default  .  .  . 

do n't forget about the culture .  . sadly , we do n't  ( as a society ) look upon 
homosexuality as normal  ( and as we are all too well aware , there are alot 
of people who condemn it) .  . as a result , the gay population is not encouraged 
to develop non relationships .  . in fact there are many 
put in the way of such committed relationships .  . it is as if the heterosexual 
community puts these blocks there so as to perpetuate the claim that gays 
are immoral .  . my , if we allowed gays to marry , raise children ... we might 
just find out they 're as moral as we are , ca n't have that can we 

just some thoughts. flame away. ) 

dan 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re bush 's wi  ( was clinton 's 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 25 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article ,  ( the sky already  . now what ) says 

in article 2 . pa . dec . com . ,  ( broward l. horne ) writes .  .  .  . 
i guess your strength is n't in math .  . clinton has n't been president for 
6 months. in other words , it 's bush s  . 


you 're right , i out in  . nevertheless , i would 
suggest to you that there is a difference between a proposed bill , 
in congress and a order , down our 
. do you disagree 


i strongly urge you to consider moving any savings you 
have , into protected bank accounts , while 
you are still able .  . 

have you 

went to the post office on friday , got my in. 

my savings have already been converted .  . 



from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
summary more on limiting 
organization free the , inc. 
lines 100 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  . grinch ) writes 
in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 


okay , let me try to explain this. 

when one votes for such a creature as a or , worse yet , a president , 
one votes not for specific policies but for a general which must cover 
all issues for 4 or 6 years. as such , one 's influence is highly  . 
i might add that , even if one were free to vote on individual , 
the vast amount of time required for considering a particular , 
combined with the very small chance of one 's vote making a difference , would 
make it unreasonable to expect the voter to make an intelligent decision 
with respect to specific  . 

i'm afraid that i 've lost the thread here. i did n't suggest that all 
government be subject to  . so i do n't follow the 
comments above. 



sorry , but it strikes me that it is the only approach. what is 
not is a wholesale attack on all government and 
that treats cutting hair and practicing medicine as equivalent 
 . 

i'm not sure what you mean by in this case. do you mean that 
are impossible in , or merely that it would be undesirable in 
fact 

i mean that an ideology that treats all government as equally 
undesirable and seeks to all is unlikely to draw 
support among more than a portion of the  . 

furthermore , i am suggesting that such a plan is not in an 
industrial society because the weight of and or misery it 
would produce would effectively effort .  . 


actually , the only areas of public spending above that strike me as 
substantial support among are police and defense .  . 
 ( it is an interesting aside that as committed as claim to 
be to a principle of non coercion , the only areas of public spending 
that they frequently support involve people with guns .  .  .  . hmmm .  .  . ) . 

you say this as if it were surprising , yet in fact a necessary consequence 
of libertarian philosophy .  . all non functions should be dealt 
with privately , therefore it follows that the only functions remaining to 
the state are the ones. 

no , i'm not surprised .  . i just think it 's interesting that on one hand 
assume a limited government can be decreed , yet on the other 
posit an entire government made up of people who carry guns .  . (i realize 
that many assume that such a government will be 
by a fully armed , but it is worth that 
widespread civilian ownership of guns does not necessarily prevent the 
of government , e.g. iraq . ) . 


perhaps you have. may i suggest that you consider that 
frequently generate support by acting as of , 
and children. governments that ignore such people on the grounds 
that we do n't have much to fear from them do so at their own peril .  . 

much more likely it 's  . the groups in more 
likely to be worse off during and after a revolution than before. 
in the unlikely 
event that you missed my earlier sarcasm , let me say this directly 
the idea that such programs as social security or should be considered 
defense  ( an idea which has been advanced in and other newsgroups ) is 
so absurd a lie as to be unworthy of consideration .  . do you seriously 
dispute this 

yup , sure do. but since i also support the constitutional requirement 
that the government provide for the general welfare  ( article i section 8 ) , 
i'm willing to justify such programs on that basis. 


i do n't want to seem patronizing , but you still seem to be 
under the that under a economic system it is reasonably 
intelligent and honest persons  ( like yourself ) who make the decisions. 
i feel any third party added to a is every bit as likely to be 
ignorant or corrupt as the or  . i do n't expect you to agree 
with me , but you explain why you feel i'm wrong 

well , in the first place , i do n't support a economic system. 
i think within limits that capitalism is a fine idea. but it is not 
the case that any third party .  .  . is .  .  . as . likely to be ignorant or corrupt 
as the or  . there are multitudes of examples where such a 
statement is false .  . of stock market 
that provide a reasonable basis for to avoid fraud is only one 
example. 



mr. 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject new study out on gay percentage 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 27 


from the santa rosa ) . press , april 15 , 1993 , p. 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new study on male sexual behavior , the most 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

the on homosexuality in the study released 
by the institute are lower than 
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional 
wisdom since it was published in the report. 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 
compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . it 's a that we do n't have a for 
straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
nntp posting host top . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
lines 73 

in article  ( steve thomas ) 

in article state . edu . 
ohio . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 
no social problem , however great , is worth destroying the freedom in america 
. 
the destruction of freedom is never an answer to any social problem. 

you ca n't even walk down the street at night alone in america because of drug 
s. 
freedom my ass. 

ryan 

why ca n't you walk down the street safely it it because somebody 
will jump out from behind a , and , sell you drugs hardly .  . 

or me. 
on the 
other hand , it 's certainly possible that you are walking down the of 
a part of your area. and read 
economy .  . 

why must you pursue this fantasy that all crime is derived from 
. 

there , it may not be a very safe place to be at all. 
unless of course you 're there to buy some drugs .  .  .  . 

i explained how the is a major cause of large scale crime in america .  . the 
head of the guardian agrees with me legalize drugs and watch violent 



crimes  . 

as for me , well , i think i 'll go take a walk alone. i feel safe .  . i 
just hope the fbi is n't back at my apartment all my 
property because they found my phone number written on a phone that was 
also used by a drug  . 

yeah buddy , this happens all the time. tell me , has it every really happened 
to you that 's what i thought. 

in that sense , i do n't feel safe .  . i'm an honest , 
law citizen  ( drug laws included , ftm ) , why is it that i fear the 
government more than i fear criminals 


your foolish .  . 

freedom my ass. this is not what the founding fathers  ( some of whom would be 
thrown in prison under today 's drug laws ) had in mind. all of these problems 
you come up with pale in comparison to the fact that the very of our 
country the us constitution is being  . what good would it do 

must i ask again , what part 

even if the actually reduced crime we just created a new class of 
criminals , headed up the 's current leader bill clinton .  . the , etc. 
are private armies that answer directly to the president .  . they 
advanced weapons and technology. does this sound familiar to 
anybody 

do you support mein clinton you seem to have come out 
against the current why are you eager to it with 
even more power  ( power of the most dangerous kind , too) .  . 


all i ask is that drugs stay illegal .  . i do n't think it 's too much to ask. 


ryan 

from  ( xavier gallagher ) 
subject re employment  ( was re why not concentrate on child 
organization systems ltd public access news , london , uk 
lines 28 

in article  ( mark wilson ) writes 
in  ( xavier gallagher ) writes 

i have to disagree. you do not take your logic far enough. 

true , man did not invent the need for food , shelter , and the ilk , 
but man did invent the property laws and the laws of  . 

i guess has never heard of in animals .  . many animals , 
especially will stake out a territory and of any members of 
the same species that tries to invade their territory .  . 


yes , i have ! was n't there a case of a single lion ruling all the land 
from south africa up to egypt across to the if my memory serves 
me correctly there was enough game to feed some 100 , 000 or more lions but he 
would n't let the other lions hunt as he wanted it all himself. 

he died of a heart attack brought on by being  . 

good thing too as he had designs on europe , america  ( north and south ) , 
and the islands .  . 





 . 

from  ( mark walsh ) 
subject re age of consent child 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 20 

from article , by  ( roger b . a .  . klorese ) 
in article  ( mark walsh ) writes 

's presence in the sf gay pride says quite a bit. 
it says that either the want to show support 
for , or they themselves have a fundamental misunderstanding 
of their rights and  . i would really , really like 
to believe the latter , but i would need some help to do so. 

there are of examples of the latter is an especially 
one , but hardly the only one. 

perhaps , though the exclusion of the gay in the 
sf gay pride would make me think that they had some 
clue in this regard .  . of examples i do n't know .  .  .  . 

mark  ( walsh@optilink ) uucp uunet ! ! 
amateur radio 
what , me worry william m. , 1992 
i'm gonna you ! the giant , 1993 

from  ( gadfly ) 
subject re california federal legislation to protect from 
organization at t 
distribution usa 
summary about my g g generation .  . 
lines 41 

in article , 
 ( robert l. mcmillin ) 
the left likes to dodge the issues of morality and behavior , that 
anyone who raises them the victim .  . nonetheless , as a recent 
in the los times pointed out , the free love 
advocates of the 's have demolished the poor. it 's one thing to 
have children out of wedlock if you 're , say , brown  ( or someone 
like her ) , turning over a figure and quite another if 
you 're , have no , and no  . 

and how did the free love advocates of the 's to perform 
this forced breeding programs or something 

by accepting and even single , out of wedlock , the 
's free love set the stage for among 
the poor. they must account for this .  .  .  . 

now let me get this straight .  . after a nice , long rant about how 
people need to take personal responsibility for their economic and 
social lives , all of a sudden 's  ( such as me , i guess) 
are responsible for poor people 's tell me how that 
works or do you think that poor people are just too to think 
for themselves 

there are many reasons for the of the family and 
support systems in general among this nation 's poor. somehow i 
do n't think brown or is at the top of any 
sane person 's list. 

you want to go after my generation 's cultural revolution for 
a lasting change for the worse , try so called relevant or values 
education. hey , it seemed like a good idea at the time. how were 
we to know you needed a real education first i mean , we took that 
for granted .  . 


ken 
05 apr 93 16 an 


 .  .  . ! de l ! de l ! 

from  ( david veal ) 
subject re propaganda re re 
lines 
organization university of computing center 

in article  ( phill baker ) writes 

in article ,  ( david veal ) writes 

in article  ( phill baker ) writes 

or are they simply we ca n't know what really 
means because he 's obviously using arguments designed to convince .  . 

i make no secret of what i am up to , i have stated explicitly in posts 
that i am a political propagandist on numerous  . anyone posting 
to this group who is not probably has the wrong group. 

for example i have on numerous stated quite clearly that i 
beleive that certain factions of the gun lobby are the worst possible 
advocates of their cause and i am prepared to do anything in my power 
to provide them with a because they can convince people far 
better than i could hope that many people with a on lethal 
weapons are dangerous and  . 

if you happen to know a political position which does not 
have people advocating it who do more harm than good , please point it 
out. 

some people have even accused me of such advocates purely 
for the purpose of having them trash a set of political views. in 
fact this would be a futile tactic because i could never hope to 
invent a character as dangerous as athena . edu . , a man who i 
quite seriously believe to be ill and a potential  . 
unfortunately the local office have informed me that they 
are unable to act he attacks someone .  . 

one of the and draw backs of requiring proof 
on the part of the government before they may take action against 
citizens .  .  ( and part of the reason some of us believe weapons should 
be available . ) . 

so if you were to ask me what is the point that i am trying to make 
from this current argument on the absolute of the us 
constitution what would i answer 

we are not arguing the absolute of the u.s. 
constitution .  . in fact , the we 're talking about is n't 
in the constitution .  . i to your suggestion that the senate 
was n't intended to exercise the power it was clearly given. 

firstly i see that the current us political like the uk political 
has become to special interests .  . rather than the 
convenient put about by the media and polititians themselves 
for this gay rights , , (i . e .  . 
jews) , foreign whatever voting power they have etc. i 
that you look at who is really  . the inevitable conclusion 
is that it is the major owned by the that 
have  . and bush created what can only be described as a 
welfare state for the rich. 

i 'll point out again that reagan only had a republican majority 
in the senate during his first term , and his in the house 
came apart at about the same time. bush never had any real support in 
congress .  . 

the real point is that everybody , everywhere got their , 
from the big to the guy i saw last night leaving a 
convenience with an of junk food he 'd bought with 
food  .  ( he spent more in food on junk than i make in a week 
and i'm not on government ) . 

money was diverted from programs addressing 
social needs and into the weapons industry in the form of cost 
plus contracts .  . 

, let 's pull out the old  . 

in , total u.s. government were 9 . billion 
dollars .  . in 1992  ( est ) they were 1 . dollars , an increase of 
 . billion dollars .  . 

in , national defense cost 9 . billion dollars .  . in 
it was billion dollars , and increase of billion dollars .  . 
that leaves an increase of billion dollars 
for.  ( this represented an increase of 230 ) 

in , security  ( which includes programs , 
housing , and benefits , and i believe welfare ) 
cost 86 . 5 . billion dollars .  . in 1992 it was billion dollars , or 
more than national defense started .  .  ( this represented an increase 
of 230 ) 

in , the federal government spent 32 billion dollars on 
 . in 1992 they spent billion dollars .  .  ( an increase of 
) 

in , the feds spent 9 billion dollars on housing 
credits and of that like. in 1992 it was 87 billion .  . 

in , health care services and research was 23 billion 
dollars .  . in 1992 , it was 94 billion dollars .  . 

, up 9 billion to 17 billion .  . 

science , up 11 billion to 16 billion .  . 

resource up 7 billion to 20 billion .  . 

education up 14 billion to 45 billion .  . 

benefits up 12 billion to 33 billion .  . 

up 13 billion to 34 billion .  . 

about the only things i see which was seriously was under 
the energy category , primarily under supply , and community development , 
in the area of disaster relief , and between the two of them 
represent a loss of less than 11 billion dollars .  . 

where was this huge 

in order to this situation there must 
be constitutional revision .  . 

not that 's a stretch .  . if the current government was pushed by 
the president to create this mess , would n't one expect it to begin to 
once the pressure is gone 

secondly the form of this revision must take account of the changed 
of the role of the federal government. 

only assuming that the new role is a positive role we want 
to continue. i see very little positive about it. 

the constitution 
cannot be used to the democratic process. 

the constitution was designed to the democratic 
process , so that the voters could be absolutely sure they were getting 
what they wanted by the time it happened. nor do i see putting the 
on the democratic process an inherently bad thing. 's 
riding the and every time they pull their ballot nonsense 
it gets worse. 

if the want 
to have welfare spending by the federal government they will have 
it. 

sometimes , or perhaps most of the time , the people should be 
told , no , and pointed to their local government. 

attempting to prevent this through constitutional only 
leads to the constitution being brought into  . 

, would you do me the very great favor of repeating that 
in talk . politics . guns . 

methods will 
always be found to such and once the government gets 
used to those they will the others up to 
the first  . 

 . we can eliminate of the law by 
the law. 

this is a major reason why the right to own 
guns should be excluded , the implication that this right is equal to 
the right to free speech is dangerous. 

free speech alone is dangerous ,  . 

people know that mass ownership 
of lethal weapons causes thousands of murders a year , the dangerous 
conclusion they may reach is that the first may also be 
the same dangerous mistake. 

ok ,  . all you gotta show me is a clear pattern of 
in across several countries and that 'll 
be it.  ( not current , mind , you , ) . 

note however that this is not the slippery 
slope argument. it is because the right freedom of speech has been 
to the privilege to own that the danger  . the 
advocates of this must not be allowed to freedom of 
speech to their cause such that if they fall freedom of speech falls 
as well. such actions are not the actions of people interested 
in freedom .  . 


who 's anything to freedom of speech by calling 
it a freedom 

and most importantly i want to discover a mechanism i can 
intellectual debate as opposed to debate. i consider 
the grave threat to to be the loss of the ability to 
reason about the political debate at anything other than the superficial 
level. the objection i raise to your basing your case entirely on the 
assertion of the of the us constitution is that the currency 
of your argument is limited to the currency of the upon which it 
is based .  . the danger of is that they can be in 
different ways by different people. 

, you 're a master of subtly changing the subject. i have n't 
based my argument against raw democracy on the constitution .  . i 've 
tried to explain why it is n't a good idea. the only time i 've referred 
to the constitution is to point out it does n't contain the restrictions 
on the and the senate you appear to believe were meant , but 
just did n't make it in there. 

the constitution does n't contain the 41 rule. 
i only believe that the rule is a good idea. you c n't dismiss that 
as the constitution because it is n't in the constitution .  . 

david veal univ .  . of  .  . of  . education info .  . services group 
i still remember the way you laughed , the day 
your pushed me down the i'm beginning to think you do n't 
love me anymore. al 

from  ( xavier gallagher ) 
subject re using california 's the sort of case i predicted 
organization systems ltd public access news , london , uk 
lines 26 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( richard walz ) writes 
face it , clayton , he was not found guilty , and so what if gays sometimes 
make it with 16 year old boys. there are 16 year old gays , you 
know. and as i recall , the case of the state on the testimony of one 
victim who declined to testify , even under threat .  . i have had since 
i was 40 , and so have a lot of people. face it clayton , you 're just a jerk ! 


richard  ( 408 ) 1200 
street 1 without safe and free abortion women are 
santa , ca to unwanted parasites .  . 

i am always amazed to see people admit to breaking the law and 
putting their address in the signature .  . please tell us more about 
this. were they 13 14 would you like to make a statement for 
the district 

i had sex with a 13 year old boy , it was great , we did everything , 
well , a hell of a lot. it was fun anyway. oh , and before you turn 
with rage i was 12 at the time. 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 



from  ( david garrod ) 
subject aids immigrants 
organization university engineering computer network 
distribution usa 
lines 23 



in case you missed it on the news .  .  .  . the . first 16 
of many that tested positive for and were being held on a 
base in have been to the u.s. 
further a u.s. judge has ruled that they must receive 
medical treatment or be returned to a place where they could 
receive same. 

so guess what folks , we get to pick up the tab 
 ( just as you might have expected ) for people who have never 
contributed a to the u.s. society. 

i think this government has its all up. 
if they want to help  .  .  . how . about removing the illegal 
government , how about giving them development aid 
it does not make sense to waste resources on dying non citizens 
who will never be in either this country or their own. 
it does not make sense when the same resources applied or even 
just plain given to poor people in could 
help 100 people in per 1 aids non citizen  . 



from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization itc community access unix internet project 
lines 47 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 

in article  ( la 
c. foard ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 


from the santa rosa ) . press , april 15 , 1993 , p. 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new study on male sexual behavior , the most 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

the on homosexuality in the study released 
by the institute are lower than 
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional 
wisdom since it was published in the report. 

1 ) so what 

so there are less gays , then the gays claim .  . 

last i checked i was one person , i have n't even been elected 
as a representative for . should i ascribe every thing 
you say as every member of the straight community 

2 ) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2 . 
gather in washington  . after all if there are only of 
us then this is an event in history .  .  .  . 


dream on. abortion and african american civil rights rallies do n't even bring 
in half of that. 

the point. if there are several million in you had better 
start wondering about the validity of the study .  . 


join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the reform church bbs at . . . . 


from  ( matt austern ) 
subject re the state of justice 
organization lawrence berkeley  ( theoretical physics group ) 
lines 14 

bedfellow . mit . edu . 
reply to 
nntp posting host berkeley . edu . 
in reply to 's message of 16 apr 1993 21 05 46 gmt 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu .  ( john f carr ) writes 

i recommend the book adams v texas , the story of a man  ( adams ) who 
was sentenced to death for a crime he did n't commit .  . most of the book 
is the story of the long appeals process , and the problems and 
caused by not being able to introduce new evidence in certain courts .  . 

and i recommend the movie the thin blue line , which is about the 
same case. not as much legal detail , but still an excellent film .  . it 
shows how very easy it is to come up with seemingly conclusive 
evidence against someone whom you think is guilty .  . 

matthew maybe we can eventually make language a 
complete to understanding. 

from  ( michael p. anderson ) 
subject re from the 's 
distribution usa 
organization grass group , grass , ca 
lines 28 

ok , you 're right. so far the evidence suggests that nixon was a victim 
of and was a disgust o with 
a of megalomania .  . after the and fbi who 's to say 
would n't have created his own version of american friendly 

unfortunately however , we do n't have all the evidence. so far this nation 's 
citizens have been to about 12 hours of the total 4 , 000 hours of nixon 's 
 . what 's on the rest of those babies some have alluded that 
there is evidence to suggest that nixon and his , including george 
bush , were aware of the plot to murder before he was shot in  . 

ask your local d . a .  . what the charges are for the above crime .  . 


and so i must ask you , me , when all this shit finally comes out 
when you and i are old men , i would appreciate the privilege of a 
up your ass and you down main street with a sign on your 

i was an for the american regime 

 ( how 's that for a image ) 


there , that ought to get a reaction. unless i'm in his killfile this week .  .  .  . 





from state . edu . 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay in nc ) verdict 
organization the ohio state university , department of physics 
lines 27 

in article ,  ( matthew melmon ) writes 

yeah , yeah , yeah. anyway , i was under the impression that the 
in question invited clinton down for the same treatment .  . while a 
bar fight is a bar fight , threatening the in chief seems 
a rather thing for a to do .  .  .  . 


also , it appears that two of the three have some sort of charges 
pending against them from another fight they were in a week before. 
interesting. 

frank 




frank r. 
state . edu . 
department of physics the ohio state university 
 ( not just any ohio state university ) 

there is only one hard and fast rule about the place to have a party 
somebody else 's place. 
p . j .  . o 



from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re why not concentrate on child 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 42 

in article ,  ( xavier gallagher ) writes 
in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 
in article ,  ( harry benjamin gibson ) writes 
they believe that they have a right to force people to them , 
to them , and do business with them , regardless of the feelings 
or beliefs of the other person. 

, you are off your target again. the law forces no one to obey 
it. at every point any individual may stand up and say this law 
. even you could say this. gay men and women have not forced 

you mean they passed a law that does nothing at all no enforcement 
mechanisms as usual , you are wrong. 

any off this. changes in the law have been brought about by 
democratic processes , those same processes are the ones that protect 
you from certain abuses .  . 

yeah , right. i guess the next time a homosexual complains about 
laws , i can just your stupidity about democratic 
processes and he wo n't have any basis for complaint .  . 

i must admit that i never understood why it is referred to as an 
, until i started to read soc . motss . , and started finding 
evidence that homosexuality is a response to child 
which is done by homosexuals .  .  ( just to make 
brian happy 30 of is done by homosexuals and 
, but it is possible that this is because homosexual bisexual 
have far more victims than heterosexual ) . 

no it is n't .  . no it is n't .  . no it is n't and it depends on the subset 
 ( note subset ) of abuse you look at. 

repeating it three times makes it more correct 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

play 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 15 

in article ,  ( greg hennessy ) writes 
in article  ( phil ronzone ) writes 
tells you something about the politics being practiced .... 

ah , ending discrimination is now  . 

greg , university of virginia 

when you force people to associate with others against their will , 
yes. 



clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from  ( broward horne ) 
subject re clinton president 's remarks at town hall meeting 
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh  ( usa ) 
lines 19 
reply to  ( broward horne ) 
nntp posting host cwru . edu . 


in a previous article , clinton  ( clinton '92 ) says 

the president thank you very much , mr.  . 

kind of working together. and if you 'll forgive me a little home 
state pride , i want to say a special word of thanks to the 
corporation , in , , for providing 
several hundred of the sites for this town meeting  . i 



when did bill start doing 

will he do the ad 

tune in next week. 



from  ( phill baker ) 
subject re foreign media reaction april 1 12 , part 1 of 3 
lines 
reply to 
organization , experiment zeus 


in article node . org . , node . org .  ( nigel allen ) writes 

here is a press release from the united states information agency .  . 

digest of foreign media reaction from the united states information 
agency april 12  ( 1 of 3) 
to national 
contact anne of the united states information agency , 


washington , april 13 following is part one 
of a digest of foreign media reaction from april 1 12 , compiled 
by the united states information agency 

terrorism and world 

in recent , iran was universally recognized as 
source of the double threat of state sponsored terrorism 
and islamic extremism .  . but beyond this fear and condemnation , 
journalists found little common ground that would both 
north and south , and arab and non arab nations to work together 
to combat the threat of terrorism .  . for example , egyptian 
and papers were in the forefront in charging u.s. 
in the current in the middle east .  . those commentators 
asserted that the united states had islamic fundamentalism 
during the war and had further added to regional 
by encouraging iraq and iran .  . 

the ! the fact that this is precisely what the us was up to of 
course is not mentioned. it is a fact that and bush sold 
to iran , it is also a fact that they supported and armed iraq .  . 

still this is state dept propaganda so none too  . 

india 's papers weighed the pros and cons of helping the west to 
identify pakistan 's role in promoting terrorism , on the one 
hand that doing so could bring to 's 
cause but , on the other , could also bring india 's security 
close to the and the  . arab papers continued 
to iraq and as being treated by the un while 
israel remains for which it has violated .  . 

in the case of there is the problem that the us only decided 
that ordered the bombing after it needed to make peace with 
during the gulf war. one day the us is certain that its syria , 
the next  . for a strange reason the us will not provide evidence to 
courts for  . with similar demands the 
usa would reject them as would any other country. 


concerning northern ireland , president clinton 's message of 
consolation to the victims of the warrington bombing was seen in 
british tabloids as a stance by the american 
government against violence by the ira .  . 

the word is terrorism . 


the problem is that after the behaviour of george bush the usa has an 
image as doing precisely what it likes and is in its own interests 
then out with a justification repeating a 
fitting combination of the words freedom or 
of terrorism dictatorship etc as appropriate. 

the usa could go quite far to the with iran .  . the people there are 
rather off because the usa first supported the who they 
and then supported saddam when he mounted an unprovoked attack .  . 
hardly after the crisis but iran is meant to be 
the country run by unreasonable bigots not the usa so if there is to be 
movement it would be easier for the usa to move. 

first off they could recognise 's responsibility in the 
iran iraq war. providing technical assistance to iran to get it 's oil 
back up to capacity would also be a smart move , at the moment 
iran is above it 's  . if they had extra capacity they would 
use it and bring down the price further which is in our interests .  . 

the iranian would have an interest in seeking a 
simply because a permanent war is  . they also need 
western technology. 


baker 

from  ( phil ronzone ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization generally in favor of , but mostly random .  . 
lines 20 

in article writes 
it seems that are putting a lot of effort into 
showing up the 10 figure , but that really does n't make a 
difference. like i said , who cares how many there are would 
the fact that they 're only 1 of the population justify 
discrimination against them i do n't think so. 

uh , well , gee  . let me see , when the new president , as his first 
big policy act tries to force homosexuals  ( acceptance thereof ) on the 
military , despite showing a consistent 75 against it , and the 
minority is only 1 , well , gee , i sure think that is  . 

tells you something about the politics being practiced .... 



there are actually people that still believe love was some kind of 
environmental disaster .  . , eh 

these opinions are mine , and you ca n't have 'em !  ( but i 'll 'em cheap  .  .  . ) . 

from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re good neighbor political hypocrisy test 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 17 

in article  ( jeffry r beach ) writes 
in article  ( michael a. thomas ) writes 

from a pragmatic standpoint , there certainly is some justification 
if it is a vice people will commit anyway. shall we 
again if the re for were done from 

making you look bad is too damn easy .  . the vast social and historical 
differences between and other drugs make this comparison 
worthless .  . 

this meaningless statement makes you look bad. 






from  ( daniel r. , to be ) 
subject re tax case ! 
article i.d. 
distribution world 
organization university of 
lines 37 
nntp posting host edu . 
news software vax vms 1.41 

in article , 
 ( james a. donald ) writes .  .  .  . 
the tax are legally correct , but they are put in jail anyway. 

what the decision means is that the tax 
were wrong. 

the weakness of the governments legal position is shown by the fact that when 
someone protesting tax or gun laws on legal grounds gets a federal jury trial 
 ( very rare ) the feds blatantly stack the jury , with the same old faces turning 
up time after time. 

demonstrate , please ! the rules of procedure make this very 
unlikely .  . 

however should have mentioned that though his advice is legally sound , if 
you follow it you will probably wind up in jail .  . 

for discussion purposes only 

which makes it legally  . if i were mr. , 
i 'd try a approach if i could find one , or recommend 
he plea bargain .  . he 's setting himself up to be in hot water .  . 

daniel 

how not to write a deed 

one case involved the construction of a to , as 
in common , with equal rights and interest in said land , and to the 
thereof , in fee simple. . . . to have and to hold the same unto the 
said parties , equally , , as in common , with equal rights 
and interest for the period or term of their lives , and to the thereof 
at the death of the other. 

the court held that the indicated an intent to create a 
 . v. ,  . , so .  . 

from  ( not a boomer ) 
subject re supply side economic policy 
article i.d. desire . 1993apr6 . 
organization acme products 
lines 65 

in article ,  ( paul collacchi ) writes 
in article , 
 ( ashish arora ) writes 
excerpts from netnews . sci . 5 apr 93 re supply side economic po .  .  . 
by not a 
... 

the deficits declined from 9 , a low of 2 . 9 . of before 
the tax and spending of 1990 reversed the trend .  . 

brett 
is this true some more details would be appreciated. 

cheers 

actually not. brett himself has actually posted the data previously .  . 
what declined from to 89 , as i remember it , was percent 
increase in growth , i.e. the rate of growth of the 
 ( 2nd of total with respect of to time)  . 

would you please define of debt last time i asked 
you seem to have disappeared .  .  .  .  . 

and it 's the deficits themselves that came down to 2 . 9 . of  . the 
numbers are posted in the previous posting. 

brett apparently has himself into thinking that the 
declined .  . 

, paul , but with no numbers you still look foolish .  . 

if you keep spending more than you , the keeps 
growing .  . 

paul , like many others , is confusing the with the debt .  . 

if you keep borrowing at a lesser rate than you borrowed 
previously , the increases .  . you only deficits when your 
spending and you use the difference to pay off  . 

not in terms of , the one universally accepted measure of deficits 
 ( at least among rigorous ) 

... 
arguments were  . he confirmed , with data , what many of us know 
with common sense the of the 80 's has nothing to do with government 
policy , particularly supply side policy , since taxes do not cause 
economic activities. people cause economic activity. more can be 

semantics .  . proves otherwise. taxes make people change their 
economic activities. 
or shall we debate whether it is the gun , the bullet , or the person who 
does the killing 

explained by watching population roll through the years and 
create  . he has made models and predictions for years well into 
the middle of next century. it will be neat to see how accurate he 
is. 

or whether this can win the same praise as  . ) 

brett 

there 's nothing so as a vested interest disguised as an 
intellectual conviction .  . o in the white plague by frank  . 

from  ( clayton cramer ) 
subject re lincoln slavery  ( was re top ten  .  . ) . 
article i.d. 
organization corporation , , ca 
lines 37 

in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article  ( craig depken ) writes 
in article  ( gary hewitt ) writes 
labor is a tough one. labor is defined , economically , as the efforts , 
both mental and physical , of humans. capital is defined as 
used to create other and services .  . now , if a slave is considered 
an good , then the slave has now been and is 
simply a machine .  . not good for the anti slave (i . e .  . pro human rights ) 
argument. so , slaves are humans , and they produce labor .  . 

sorry. the question of defining slave labor is no  ( tough(er ) than 
defining the labor of a horse , an , or any other  . both 
legally and economically in a slave economy , slaves are  ( not ) humans , 
they are  . 

can you provide some evidence that the slave states regarded slaves as 
not humans they were outside our society and similar phrases that 
basically meant that they did n't have to recognized as having the same 
rights as a free person , but they were never considered not human to 
my knowledge. 

like a horse that a , a slave 's labor is the return on the 
capital required to and feed him. the parallel is so obvious 
i'm not sure how you missed it. after all , its was the liberty to 
use their property as they saw fit that motivated southern 
to the importance of states  rights. 

if that were the case , the slave states would not have passed so many 
laws that restricted the freedom of slave owners to do as they wished 
with their property .  . examples laws prohibiting without 
grant laws prohibiting teaching slaves to read write .  . 

craig .  . 
steve domain com . 

clayton e. uunet , pyramid ! ! my opinions , all mine ! 
relations between people to be by consent , or not at all. 

from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
summary response to paul 
organization free the , inc. 
lines 64 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  ( paul schmidt ) writes 
com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

as noted in another thread  ( limiting govt ) , the problem face 
is that the limited government they seek does not become the 
tool of private interests to pursue their own  . 

believe it or not , we are frequently as opposed to 
anti measures as you  . we do n't believe , 
however , that competition will necessarily be protected by the actions 
of business interests in a free market .  . after all , in the example 
you cite , it was not that pressed for such , but 
good conservative  . 

as adam smith so eloquently demonstrated , the free market is not 
something that seek to protect when they can profit from 
its elimination .  . the same point was made by a point of agreement 
between the two that should tell us something. 

i do not want the government to become a tool of private interests .  . 
limited government cannot that private interests will not use 
this government for their own  . 

agreed. 

but this is not a failure of  . it is the fact that 
utopia is not an option. there is no single system where everything 
is perfect. 

it is a failure of if the ideology does not provide any 
reasonable way to restrain such actions other than dreams .  . just 
as fails to how pure communism is to be achieved and 
the state is to away , frequently fail to show how 
weakening the power of the state will result in improvement in the human 
condition. 

so it is wise to look 
for the best solution .  . if you compare countries to see which ones 
people would rather live in , which ones have less , , 
poverty , and misery , you will find that they have a more 
government than countries with alot of poverty , misery and suffering .  . 
no , government cannot anything , but it sure is better 
than the alternative  ( big government . ) . 

this is a strawman argument and fails on several grounds .  . in this case , 
limited and big government are not defined .  . i would point out that 
, , and the former yugoslavia are by some definitions nations 
with limited government , while the us , canada , and nations in western 
europe  ( where people would rather live ) are often pointed out as 
nations with big government from a libertarian point of view. 

the argument is not between those who want limited government and those 
who want unlimited government. it is between those who believe 
government in a capitalist economy serves worthwhile ends and 
those who believe such is neither desirable on empirical 
grounds nor on ideological grounds .  . 



paul advocates for self government , davy chapter president 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( ervan darnell ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
originator 
reply to  ( ervan darnell ) 
organization rice university 
lines 35 


in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 
in article  . grinch ) writes 
in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 
..... 
of course , one again faces the question of how one government 
power  ( and keeps it circumscribed ) in a complex society when it is in the 
interest of neither nor to from using 
government power for their own ends. but apart from that little 
 .  .  . 


this is a difficult problem for which there is no obviously good 
solution .  . one approach is simply to try and move political opinion 
and hope a new more libertarian consensus for a while. another 
approach is to try and amend the constitution .  . the original 
constitution the u.s. government from economic intervention 
for 100 to 150 years , depending on just how one wants to count it. 
the first amendment , though in many ways , still restrains 
government  ( particularly state and local ) , even though on many 
particular issues the majority is in favor of censorship .  . i think 
would be happy with another 100 years of via 
an amendment or two  ( not that i think that 's likely to  . 

not necessarily mr. , but other posters seem to see this as 
a problem with , that it cannot be stable .  . that might 
be true , but it is not an objection to per  . if 
a libertarian political consensus forms for a or two and then 
falls apart again , we would just be back where we are now. this is 
unlike the case for socialism where a consensus that held 
for a while and then apart would not leave us where we are now , 
but instead with lots of that would be hard to get rid of , 
if not tyranny as the end condition of a strong consensus .  . 

darnell 

from  ( lawrence c. foard ) 
subject re new study out on gay percentage 
organization itc community access unix internet project 
lines 50 

in article  ( clayton cramer ) writes 


from the santa rosa ) . press , april 15 , 1993 , p. 

male sex survey gay activity low 

a new study on male sexual behavior , the most 
examination of american men 's sexual practices published since 
the report more than four decades ago , shows about 2 
percent of the men had engaged in homosexual sex and 
1 percent considered themselves exclusively homosexual .  . 

the on homosexuality in the study released 
by the institute are lower than 
the 10 percent figure that has been part of the conventional 
wisdom since it was published in the report. 

1 ) so what 

2 ) it will be interesting to see the reaction when 2 . 
gather in washington  . after all if there are only of 
us then this is an event in history .  .  .  . 

the article also contains numbers on the number of sexual partners .  . 
the number of sexual partners for all men 20 39 was 7 . 3 .  . 

do n't forget that 25 had 20 or more partners .  .  .  .  . 

compared to the table i have already posted from masters , johnson , 
and showing male homosexual partners , it is apparent that 
homosexual men are more than the general 
male population .  . 

and what did this study show for number of sexual contacts for those 
who said they where homosexual or is that number to for 
you .  .  .  .  . 

it 's a that we do n't have a for 
straight men vs. gay men that would show even more 
how much more gay men are. 

fuck off 


join the reform church ! . 
of your evil irrational numbers . . 
and eating ways. accept 10 into your heart ! . . . 
call the reform church bbs at . . . . 


from  ( charles kincy ) 
subject re clinton 's program 
nntp posting host cs . edu . 
organization university of missouri , , 
lines 18 

in article state . edu . state . edu .  ( ryan c scharfy ) writes 
excuse me for my nose in , but any parent parents who do not 
their children  ( especially if it is already free ) , do n't one 
of tax money for health care for themselves , or public health 
care service .  . 

(i know the program and the coming national health care issue are 
slightly issues , but anybody who would n't help their kids , do n't 
my tax  . 

 .  .  .  .  . what . about their kids 



it 's been 80 days. do you know where your is 

slick 's already got his hand in my  . i'm just afraid 
of what he might hold of. 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton press release on 
organization project , free software foundation , 
675 mass .  .  . , cambridge , ma , usa 1  ( 617 ) 
lines 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 



the white house 

office of the press 


for immediate release april 15 , 1993 



american university president joseph named to head , 
to chair board for international broadcasting 


washington , d . c .  . president clinton today his 
intention to american university president and former 
state department assistant joseph to be director 
of the united states information agency .  . the president also 
daniel chairman of the board for international 
broadcasting .  . 

joe 's expertise in the fields of education , 
communications and foreign affairs is vast and will serve him 
well as he takes the at and works to promote the ideals 
of democracy and freedom , the president said. 

president of american university in washington , d . c .  . since 
1991 , previously served years as chancellor and 
president of the university of at amherst .  . in 1977 
he served as assistant of state , education and cultural 
affairs in the state department .  . served as chairman of the 
national for the under both 
and reagan .  . 

in and , served as a united states 
to the general conference of the united nations , 
scientific and cultural organization .  . in 1991 , served as 
head of the u.s. observing national elections in 
 . 

, which its this year , is an 
independent foreign affairs agency within the branch 
that explains and supports u.s. foreign policy and national 
security interests through a wide range of information 
programs. among the agency 's programs are the academic 
program , voice of america , the television 
system and a network of and cultural  . 
the agency has more than posts in more than countries. 

 ( more ) 
press release 
 . 2 




becomes chairman of the board for international 
broadcasting after serving as a member of the board since 1991. 

dan has done an excellent job on the board of 
international broadcasting and i expect he will continue as 
chairman to promote the cause of democracy , the president 
said. 


biographical of the follow 


joseph has served as president of american university 
since 1991. prior to his at american , served as 
chancellor and president of the university of at 
amherst  ( 1982 91 ) and as a scholar at the 
institution  . he served as chairman of the national 
for the from 1977 and as assistant 
of state , education and cultural affairs with the 
department of state in 1977 .  . holds 14 honorary degrees 
from american and universities .  . in he was named 
of the order of the by the king of and he 
has been a member of the council of foreign relations since  . 
received a from marshall university in , a from 
the newton theological school in , a from yale 
university in and a d .  . from the 
foundation in  . is a member of the national business 
higher education forum and a founder and co chairman of the 
western economic development conference .  . is 
married to anne and has four sons .  . 


daniel is a former u.s. representative from the 
district of florida and has served on the board of international 
broadcasting since 1991. during his in congress from 
89 he served on the house on foreign relations and 
was by president reagan as the congressional 
representative to the united nations .  . 


30 30 30 




from  ( mark eckenwiler ) 
subject re capital tax increase loses money 
organization 
distribution na 
lines 46 

in , 
in article  ( not a boomer ) writes 

no , i'm saying any long term investor  ( the ones likely to have large 
capital gains ) would be foolish to sell in order to avoid a tax that a ) 
might disappear in any given year and b ) be overcome in a year or two by 
 . 

to which my response is so what not all people who pay capital 
taxes are long term  . more than enough of them are n't for there 
to be huge whenever capital taxes get raised .  . 
i never said that everyone would find this  . i said that 
more than enough would for the result to be readily and distort 
trends . 

even if brett 's eventual return were correct and they 
clearly were n't he 'd still be wrong about the cause for the  86 
because he fails to consider 2 basic factors 

1 ) as notes , not everyone is a long term investor .  . one might find 
oneself , as i did in late 1986 , in the near term 
that require selling off  . given the choice between waiting a 
few weeks  ( and taking an extra tax hit ) or selling in december with 
tax treatment , only a fool would choose the former .  . 

2 ) the fact that brett can now construct post hoc calculations of 
what would have been more beneficial to is in many respects 
beside the point. there was plenty of money style advice given to 
unsophisticated in late 1986 to sell now and save on 
taxes .  . in case anyone missed it , there was no of similar 
advice late last year  ( in the , e . g . ) . , even though that advice 
was based not on the conclusion of law  ( as in 1986 ) , 
but merely on the assumption that clinton would raise tax 
 ( without taxes , contrary to the current  . 

it 's nice to think that always behave in their 
economic interest .  . like assuming and 
, though , this sort of thinking often fails to describe 
accurately what happens in the real world. 



moral always choose the right sort of parents 
before you start in to be rough 
george 
mark ... ! cmcl2 ! ! 

from state . edu . 
subject re nc vs hunt  ( marine gay in nc ) verdict 
organization the ohio state university , department of physics 
lines 57 

in article bedfellow . mit . edu . ,  ( william december starr ) writes 
in article , 
 ( thomas farrell ) said 

a good case a f king good case the defense lawyer asked the victim 
questions like what kind of sexual do you participate 
in and you think he made a good case 

speaking as someone who 's only about weeks and a 6 , bill 
away from becoming an with a law degree , i 'd really like 
to see a of this trial .  . i 'd especially like to know what 
happened immediately after the defense asked that question 
 ( assuming that the reports that he did so are accurate .  .  .  . i'm not 
accusing tom of making anything up , but this is the sort of 
case that , false and legends like 
 . it 'd be nice to think that the 
 ( irrelevant , , inflammatory .  .  .  . take your pick ) and that the 
judge upheld the objection .  . 

i did hear this question asked during a radio news update of the case.  ( they 
were talking about the trial and had some  . immediately 
after the defense asked the question , there was an objection ! heard 
in the background .  . the clip ended at that point so i do n't know if the 
objection was upheld .  . i ca n't imagine nc is that bad. 

the said the told him they did it on 
purpose and hoped the victim would die , and you think the defense made 
a good case no wonder we 're ! we 're not trying 
to win ! 

again , i 'd like to see the  .  .  . i 'd read the latter bit of that 
in the news media  ( the that one of the 
asked him about the condition of the and said 
that he hoped he 'd die ) but this is the first i 've heard of the 
that one of the actually said that he did anything 
at all , let alone that he did it on purpose. 

this i did n't hear as an clip but heard it reported a number of times on 
news stories both during and after the trial .  . now the we did it on purpose 
thing is , i think it was something more like he had it coming .  . if 
somebody else better than i on this second point , feel free to 
clarify .  . 

frank 



frank r. 
state . edu . 
department of physics the ohio state university 
 ( not just any ohio state university ) 

there is only one hard and fast rule about the place to have a party 
somebody else 's place. 
p . j .  . o 



from  ( dave griffith ) 
subject re from the 's 
organization university of chicago 
distribution usa 
lines 14 

in article writes 
in article ,  ( phil ronzone ) writes .  .  .  . 
along with relations with the prc .  . 

relations with you must be  . we sponsored 
the of the government. after repeated failed attempts 
of course. 

prc people 's of china !  . go play .  . 


dave griffith , information resources , university of chicago , 
department of 
brain damage was what we were after. the damage was just  . 

from clinton  ( clinton '92 ) 
subject clinton president names at  . ,  . ,  . , 
organization mit artificial intelligence lab 
lines 130 
nntp posting host life . ai . mit . edu . 



the white house 


office of the press 


for immediate release april 14 , 1993 



president names at 
transportation , commerce , defense , and 



 ( washington , dc ) president clinton his intention 
today to albert to be administrator of the 
federal , dunn to be assistant 
of commerce for import , and 
finn to be vice president of the private 
investment corporation .  . 

, he has approved the of 
to be administrator of the federal 
, alice to be principal 
of the department of defense , and to be 
assistant of defense for command , control , and 
communications .  . 

we are continuing to move forward with putting together a 
government of excellent , americans who share my 
commitment to changing the way that washington works , said the 
president .  . these people i am today fit that bill. 

biographical of the are attached .  . 





biographical of 
april 14 , 1993 


albert , a thirty five year navy who 
with the rank of vice , is the vice president of 
the international planning and analysis center  . among the 
positions he held during his service were 
in chief of the u.s. transportation command , director of 
on for the atlantic in chief , and 
director of the military policy division for the office 
of  . a surface warfare expert and a 
with over years experience , 
is also vice chairman of the national defense 
transportation association 's  . he is a graduate 
of the u.s. and the 
school. 

dunn has served on the of the senate 
on commerce , science , and transportation since  . since 
she has been the 's trade counsel , responsible 
for trade legislation and reports , planning and 
conducting , managing legislation on the senate and 
in with the house , a variety of 
branch , including the department of commerce .  . she was 
previously a counsel for the  . dunn holds a b . a .  . 
in history from the university of , a j . d .  . from the 
university of college of law , and an l . m .  . from the 
university law center .  . 

finn is the vice president of 
for the american stock exchange .  . previous positions he has held 
have included vice president of the air and water 
corporation , chief of to daniel p. 
, of the new york state department of 
economic development , and chief to 
james r. jones .  . finn is a graduate of college. 

is a with over 17 years 
experience in community based planning , policy analysis , project 
design and , inter agency and government 
affairs .  . from , she was with the hawaii office of state 
planning as a on issues to natural resource and 
and public , 
among other issues. currently , she is with 
the firm of douglas .  . 
before going to work for the state , she was 
neighborhood for the city and of 
, and chair on the community planning  . 
a democratic national , holds a b . a .  . from 
college and graduate studies at the 
university of hawaii .  . 

 ( more ) 

april 14 , 1993 
page two 


alice is a member of the house 
armed services in defense issues. 
she previously worked as a national defense in the 
foreign affairs and national defense division of the 
congressional research service , and as an international risk 
for international .  . she has written 
on defense related topics. received her b . a .  . from 
mount college , and an m . a .  . from the school of 
law and diplomacy at university .  . she has also 
the service program at the national war college and 
's program for in national and 
international security .  . 

is currently on leave from , where she 
is a space and defense policy  . she was an to the 
clinton campaign on space , science and technology , and 
national security issues. prior to in 1989 , 
held engineering positions with the space and 
communications group , general , and , inc. she 
served as an in the air force from  . 
holds a b . s .  . in electrical and electronic engineering 
from california state polytechnic university , m.s. in electrical 
engineering from the california institute of technology , and m . a .  . 
in international studies from graduate school. 






from  ( scott w roby ) 
subject re getting off to an early start ! 
nntp posting host edu . 
organization university of 
lines 60 

in article writes 
so ... the jury will be making its announcement at 7 00 am saturday 
morning time .... 10 00 am eastern time. why such an 
hour 

i guess its because the news is not what the government wanted to hear 
either the police officers have been found innocent or after a week , 
the jury is ... neither good news from the government 's point of 
view , as they needed some in los  . 

wrong on both accounts. 

maybe by making the announcement at 7 00 am on the west coast , they 
figure all the will be , giving the troops time to move 
into place. 

no one is a until they participate in a , which is 
unlikely to happen , now. 

most of the people in l . a .  . are likely to have gotten up early to 
listen to the court announcement .  . 

i guess we can look forward to a of , eh 

sorry to you , but this seems unlikely .  . 

the of 
los , in a press conference about 3 00 am saturday morning , in 
that the jury would give its verdict later this morning 
 ( just an hour away as i write this) would not say what that verdict 
is , but i think he was told ... in his press conference he said 
anyone will be stopped dead in their ... 

i do n't think he was told .  . 
however , his statement was still appropriate. 

, following the announcement of the jury 's verdict , the 
judge , jury and assorted court will be evacuated from the 
building via landing on the roof of the  . they 
ca n't even walk out through the front door with their heads held 
high. 

jury duty is a duty to be taken seriously. it is not meant 
to be a source of pride or instant fame .  . 

wo n't the have a surprise waiting for them when they wake up 
later today ! 

well , the many people who got up early to go to the court to hear 
the verdict found that justice was served .  . given your and 
cynical predictions , i imagine that it is you who will be surprised .  . ) 



patrick 






from state . edu .  ( aaron c laramore ) 
subject re race and violence 
nntp posting host top . ohio . state . edu . 
organization the ohio state university 
distribution usa 
lines 29 

joe , 

as usual , this issue of , of bad values , of up culture 
is easily by non african americans when it comes to explaining 
problems in our community. from your post , you apparently find the idea that 
something is wrong with african americans , value wise , culture wise or 
something , very appealing .  . i never cease to be amazed at how eager non african 
americans are to embrace theories about our problems which basically assert 
that something is wrong with us. the socio economic factors which we know help 
to produce high crime levels , like poverty , which exists among us in large 
, i mean when it comes to discussion of african american problems , we 
somehow become exempt from all these types of factors , and the problem is 
laid at the of some we supposedly have. but 
nobody crime amongst white americans to  . no , that has 
factors to it , but for africa americans , its gotta be a 
 . 

basically , i think this tendency for non african americans to believe that 
something is wrong with us exists because non african americans do n't want to 
deal with the that the society is deeply biased against african 
americans , and that this is about 80 of the problem. it could not possible be 
that the society is so deeply racist and against us , that this has 
a very effective negative effect on us. no , something is wrong with us. 
non african americans are quick to disregard what we have to say , because they 
are so busy trying to find something wrong with us , instead of taking a good 
hard look at the thing we say are doing us damage. i would get angry if it 
 so damn typical .  . 

peace aaron 

from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re price for medical care  ( was re we 're from the govt .  .  . ) . 
summary loss leader argument does not 
organization not , just improving , inc. 
lines 76 
nntp posting host com . 

in article writes 
in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes 

thanks to kim for following up. i was that someone would bring up 
the issue of cost  . the problem with the argument is that it 
fails to explain why  ( rd ) services have expanded in 
the last  . after all , no one is forcing private to offer 
this service .  . if they are money on the treatment  ( which according 
to information i 've from several they are not ) why 
would they not simply limit their losses by cutting back on services 
 ( engage in effective rationing of supply ) rather than expand the 
to a larger market that must then be by in 
other areas 

perhaps there is a advantage in there after all. would 
not and dedicated prefer to with an 
institution that services would they not therefore 
tend to admit in greater numbers to an institution that 
offered a full range of and treatment options 

 . in fact , it is the fact that hospitals frequently 
for rather than for that  ( in part ) and 
a simplistic free market analysis of the market for medical care. 

hospitals tend to lose money on all sorts of high tech , high price 
machinery .  . they to make it up on other charges .  . 

once again , there is no evidence that this is true in regard to 
 . although price have an of services 
to a much greater volume of , is still a service .  . 
otherwise , one would expect to see evidence of rationing rather than the 
vast that has occurred .  . 


remember , the notion that you can lose a little on each treatment but 
make it up in volume is not good economics even in a free market .  . ) 

then how do you explain why stores routinely offer an 
of products at below cost are not stores 
embedded in a relatively free market 

can you loss leader i knew you could. stores do not 
attempt to make up the loss on an individual product by selling more of 
it. in fact , your argument above is that is a loss leader 
for other medical where lost can be  . 

but the evidence does not support this contention .  . rather , it appears that 
price have the market by forcing an of 
service and development of improved lower cost technology to provide 
comparable benefits. continue to profit from , they simply 
make less on each treatment than they would have if the price had 
risen at the rate that have. 

there is no question that had price forced the price of 
below its actual cost that some or all of the doomsday 
predictions of free market advocates would have been seen 
of service , development , etc. likewise , it appears 
that in the va and armed forces medical care systems , where 
are government , some of these negative may occur .  . 
 ( rd in the va system in , for example , must travel to 
seattle , away , for treatment . ) . 

the bottom line , however , is that this is an example of government 
intervention  ( of a rather extreme sort ) that appears to have had beneficial 
results for both and  . claims that government 
inevitably leads to undesirable in the 
should take such such cases into account. 




mark 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from com .  ( steve hendricks ) 
subject re limiting govt  ( was re employment  ( was re why not concentrate .  .  . ) . 
summary limited governments versus failed governments 
organization just a , inc. 
lines 49 
nntp posting host com . 

in article  . grinch ) writes 
in article com . , com .  ( steve hendricks ) writes .  .  .  . 


this is a strawman argument and fails on several grounds .  . in this case , 
limited and big government are not defined .  . i would point out that 
, , and the former yugoslavia are by some definitions nations 
with limited government , while the us , canada , and nations in western 
europe  ( where people would rather live ) are often pointed out as 
nations with big government from a libertarian point of view. 

well , let me help by explaining the difference between a government 
and a failed government. a limited government has its powers clearly 
, but is fully capable of enforcing its decisions within 
those areas .  . a failed government is incapable of 
enforcing its decisions except  . two completely different  . 

of course , one again faces the question of how one government 
power  ( and keeps it circumscribed ) in a complex society when it is in the 
interest of neither nor to from using 
government power for their own ends. but apart from that little 
 .  .  . 

it would seem that a society with a failed government would be an ideal 
setting for libertarian ideals to be implemented .  . now why do you suppose 
that never seems to occur ... 


the argument is not between those who want limited government and those 
who want unlimited government. it is between those who believe 
government in a capitalist economy serves worthwhile ends and 
those who believe such is neither desirable on empirical 
grounds nor on ideological grounds .  . 


... is such a word .  .  .  . 

i would n't call it vague .  . i 'd call it  . all is 
not necessarily the same. by all government , some 
treat every system from a command economy to those that 
relatively free as identical .  . that 's one reason 
many of the rest of us find their analysis to be simplistic .  . 


mr. 

steve domain com . 
one thing about data , it sure does cut uucp ... ! uunet ! ! ! 
the bulls t. r. ma bell 

from  ( theodore a. kaldis ) 
subject re supply joke 
organization univ .  . , new , n . j .  . 
lines 16 

 ( loren i. petrich ) writes 

there was once the following joke 

how many supply does it take to in a light 

none. they let the free market do it. 

if the free market places an attractive price on the screwing in of a 
light , you can bet your bottom dollar that the light will 
most certainly get in and most at that , too. 

the views expressed are theodore a. 
my own only .  . do you seriously 
believe that a major university ... ! ! edu . ! 
as this would hold such views 
