from sammons@mailer.acns.fsu.edu (david sammons)
subject re monitor turning off on its own
organization fsuacns
lines 29

in article gcohen.164.734712474@mailer.acns.fsu.edu ,
gcohen@mailer.acns.fsu.edu (gregory cohen) wrote

in article 1993apr13.142129.9491@rhrk.uni kl.de staudt@physik.uni kl.de (willi staudt ag linder) writes
from staudt@physik.uni kl.de (willi staudt ag linder)
subject re monitor turning off on its own
date tue , 13 apr 1993 14 21 29 gmt
kayc@leland.stanford.edu (k c ku) writes

i have a strange problem with my apple 13 monitor which hopefully
someone can shed some light on.

i would be using my computer for 5 minutes and then the screen would
go blank as if someone has switch the monitor off. after the screen
went off , i would not be able to turn the monitor off even if i turn
the power off and back on. i will have to let the monitor sit over
night and it usually turns on , although it doesnt stay on for very
long.

dooes anybody has similar experience with such a problem before \? is
there some fuse in the monitor that prevents it from turning on \? when
i try to turn the monitor on , it seems that the monitor tries to turn
on but it prevented by some mechamism.

in certain apple 13 rgb monitors there has been a problem with
the high voltage capasitor. apple knows about this problem and is
replacing the cap at no cost if it falls into the bad batch that
they got from their supplier. your local repair shop should know about
repair extension 3l0218.

from hsieh@ipld04.hac.com (julia hsieh)
subject how to reach micron
distribution na
lines 15


does anyone know how to reach micron \? i am interested in getting some
specifics about what types of monitors work with their micron xceed
card for the se 30. either e mail or phone number would be prefered.
or if you have the answers to my questions , i 'd appreciate a reply.

thanks.





julia hsieh my opinions are not intended to reflect
hsieh@ipld01.hac.com those of hughes aircraft company.


from jartsu@hut.fi (jartsu)
subject 512 kb vram simms \?
nntp posting host lk hp 20.hut.fi
reply to jartsu@vipunen.hut.fi
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
lines 12


hi there !

could some kind soul tell me what is the price of lc iivi iivx
compatible 512kb vram simms in the us nowadays \? the price over here
(finland) is so ridiculously high (about 185 each in usd) that i
think it is worth the trouble to try to get them overseas.

thanks


jartsu

from thomas kephart kephart@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message \?
organization case school of engineering
lines 17
distribution world
nntp posting host b62182.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxmessage id a7f766054b01f2e6@b62182.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate sun , 18 apr 93 20 09 41 gmt

in article ferch.735165123@swiss.ucs.ubc.ca les ferch , ferch@ucs.ubc.ca
writes
afterall , apple 's literature is not always 100 correct. a funny one i
noticed recently is that some of the brochures on the macs with cd
capability refer to the auto inkjet feature. this should have read
auto
inject feature (as it does on some other correct brochures i 've seen
from
apple). since it was correct on some older brochures , i can only guess
that someone edited the copy , saw inject and thought it was a typo and
changed it to the more familiar word inkjet .

hmmm , what would that be \? a printer built into the cd player \? a way of
writing information to a cd \? ) )

how do you think they get the cool images on the top serface of cd 's
anyway \? they gotta have something to do the top surface artwork...

from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re lciii powerpc \?
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 10

mirsky@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (david joshua mirsky) writes

hi. i own an lciii and i recently heard an interesting rumor.
i heard that the lciii has a built in slot for a powerpc chip.
is this true \? i heard that the slot is not the same as the pds
slot. is that true \?

do n't believe the hype. there is no such thing as a powerpc slot.

hades

distribution world
from david a. schnider@bmug.org
organization bmug , inc.
subject se pricing
lines 7

what is the value of an se (hdfd) 4 20 \?

david

from planet bmug , the firstclass bbs of bmug. the message contained in
this posting does not in any way reflect bmug 's official views.


from sven guckes guckes@math.fu berlin.de
subject re looking for free share wares
originator guckes@medusa
x mail reader elm 2.4 pl21
organization free university of berlin , germany
distribution comp
x news reader nn 6.4.13 13
lines 14

young@is.s.u tokyo.ac.jp (young shio hong) writes

i am looking for ftp sites (where there are freewares or sharewares) for mac.
it will help a lot if there are driver source codes in those ftp sites.
any information is appreciated.

f a q !

reference
newsgroups comp.sys.mac.apps , comp.sys.mac.misc , comp.sys.mac.system ,
comp.sys.mac.wanted , comp.sys.mac.hardware , comp.answers , news.answers
subject introductory macintosh frequently asked questions (faq)

sven )

from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re question 1024 x 768 on quadra 800
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 15

lecates@bach.udel.edu (roy lecates) writes

in article 1993apr5.015844.9491@pcnntp.apple.com dale adams@gateway.qm.apple.com (dale adams) writes
does anyone have information on acheiving 1024 x 768 resolution on a q800
using interanl video \? is this even possible \?

it 's most certainly possible.

is it possible to use this resolution on the apple 16 monitor \?
if so , i could probably rig a connector with the proper pins.

nope. the apple 16 monitor does not support multiple resolutions.
it is not a multi synching monitor.

hades

from ronaldw@sco.com (ronald a. wong)
subject re powerbook duo batteries
article i.d. ringo.ronaldw 050493173709
distribution na
organization sco developer relations
lines 32

in article c4vr7z.eb0@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu ,
kssimon@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (kenneth steven simon) wrote

hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes) writes

to my knowledge there is no way to fully discharge a duo battery.

the program powerstrip2.0 , which is freeware , has an option called
quick discharge. you can find it on the mac archives , probably
sumex aim.stanford.edu or mac.archive.umich.edu.

good luck !





kenneth simon department of sociology
kssimon@indiana.edu indiana university



is it a hidden option \? i'm using powerstrip 2.0 (by mr. caputo) right now
and ca n't find any quick discharge option. it definitely is on
mac.archive.umich.edu 'cause i submitted it !


ron wong the santa cruz operation 408 427 7128
net comm segment mgr 400 encinal street , po box 1900 fax 425 3544
devprogram marketing mgr santa cruz , ca 95061 1900
e mail ...uunet ! sco ! ronaldw ronaldw@sco.com


from rvenkate@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (ravikuma venkateswar)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
distribution usa
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 28

skok@itwds1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de (holger skok) writes

in article c5nq9c.llp@news.cso.uiuc.edu rvenkate@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (ravikuma venkateswar) writes
... stuff deleted

besides , for 0 wait state performance , you 'd need a cache anyway. i mean ,
who uses a processor that runs at the speed of 80ns simms \? note that this
memory speed corresponds to a clock speed of 12.5 mhz.

more stuff deleted...

how do you calculate that figure \? i 'd assume even in personal computers
the board designers would use bank switching to (optimistically)
quadruple the access speed or am i missing something here \?

the previous article referred to the fact that you could only use 20ns simms in
a 50mhz machine , but that you could use 80ns simms in slower machines. i just
pointed out that if you could only use 20ns simms in a 50mhz machine , you ca n't
use 80ns simms in anything faster than a 12.5 mhz machine. bank switching and
caches were not considered in either example (although both would help memory
access).

hsk

ravikumar venkateswar
rvenkate@uiuc.edu

a pun is a no' blessed form of whit.

from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re lc iii nubus capable \?
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 12

mmiller@garnet.msen.com (marvin miller) writes

my friend recently purchased a lc iii and he wants to know if there is
such a demon called nubus adapter for his pds slot \? compusa and
computercity supercenter says they do n't carry them.

does this mean lc iii is incapable of carrying a nubus board \?

yes. that is exactly what it means. the lc family of macs can only
use pds cards. they are not able to use nubus.

hades

from pkr@slacvm.slac.stanford.edu (patrick krejcik)
subject file server mac
article i.d. pkrmac.pkr 050493101102
organization slac
lines 3

i saw once an article about a new line of macs configured to
work more optimally as file servers.
anyone know any more details \?

from seanmcd@ac.dal.ca
subject powerpc ruminations was re lciii powerpc \?
organization dalhousie university , halifax , nova scotia , canada
lines 47

in article 186177@pyramid.pyramid.com , andrem@pyrtech.mis.pyramid.com (andre molyneux) writes
in article 1qksuq 1tt8@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu , mirsky@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu
(david joshua mirsky) writes
hi. i own an lciii and i recently heard an interesting rumor.
i heard that the lciii has a built in slot for a powerpc chip.
is this true \? i heard that the slot is not the same as the pds
slot. is that true \?

thanks
david mirsky
mirsky@gnu.ai.mit.edu

well , i also have an lc iii. popping the top revealed

one socket for an additional vram simm

one socket for a 72 pin ram simm

one socket for a flat pack fpu

a processor direct slot (pds) identical to the lc lc ii , but with
an additional set of connetions to one side (for the full 32 bit
data path that the lc lc ii lacked

that 's it. i guess a board with a powerpc chip could be made that would fit
in the pds , but that 's the only place.

so , will it be possible to have a nubus or pds powerpc upgrade , or will it
require a logic board swap \? it would be interesting for apple to come out with
a nubus powerpc that allowed use of the cpu 's 680x0 , like rocketshare. but i
guess that 's getting a bit fantastic !

i was wondering , since macweek reported that developers were 'seeded' with
powerpcs on a nubus card.

also , any word on machine arrivals or estimated speed \? last i heard , the
estimates were around 3 4 times the speed of a quadra in native risc mode. i
heard an apple employee mumble something about the arrival of powerpc machines
at a much earlier date that q1 94 , but i doubt it 's true.

finally , is the powerpc developer 's cd 'mini course' available \? i saw it
advertised in the developer 's university calendar , and i 'd like to know if it 's
at all interesting .

sean

seanmcd@ac.dal.ca

from jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov (jim jagielski)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
lines 34
reply to jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov (jim jagielski)
organization nasa goddard space flight center

noah@apple.com (noah price) writes

in article 1qm2hvinnseq@shelley.u.washington.edu ,
tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith) wrote

attention mac quadra owners many storage industry experts have
concluded that mac quadras suffer from timing irregularities deviating
from the standard scsi specification. this results in silent corruption
of data when used with some devices , including ultra modern devices.
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault...

that 's fine , but would you name the industy experts so i can try to track
this down \?

who knows... i just quoted what was written in scsi director...

this does n't sound right to me. do n't quadras use the 53c96 \? if so , the
mac has nothing to do with the scsi timing. that 's all handled by the
chip.

yup. that 's why i'm kinda curious... most scsi problems i 've encountered
are due to cabling.

i 've tried calling transoft corp about this and have either gotten the
response huh \? to yep to nah ... you would expect that a damaging state
ment like this would have some data to back it up...

anyone want transoft 's phone number \?

jim jagielski and he 's gonna stiff me. so i say ,
jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov 'hey ! lama ! how about something ,
nasa gsfc , code 734.4 you know , for the effort ! '
greenbelt , md 20771


from fhoward@hqsun7.us.oracle.com (forrest howard)
subject re need advice (about tech works etc.)
article i.d. oracle.1993apr6.185706.15033
organization oracle corp
lines 34
nntp posting host hqsun7.us.oracle.com
x disclaimer this message was written by an unauthenticated user
at oracle corporation. the opinions expressed are those
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle.

gregory welch writes

... i followed the instructions for
returning the old ram , expecting to see a credit on my visa within a few weeks.

well , months went by , and no credit. after many calls (almost none of which were
ever returned arghhh) i finally found someone who told me why we never
received your old chips. i then explained i the procedure that i had
followed to return them , to which the person replied you mean you sent them
us mail \? (which i had , per the original sales person 's instructions.) i was
told that they their loss of us mail shipments is not uncommon (come on) and that
i should have sent the stuff via fedex , etc. ...


i also returned pb memory last summer for credit , and the sales person warned
me not to use us mail. i did (although i did insure the shipment) , and
apparently techworks got it.

my minor grip with techworks is that they have different price lists for
different people. i ordered duo memory , thinking i got their best price
because of my employeer. i subsequently found out that apple was offering
developers memory for less than techworks charged , called up to complain ,
and was told i should have said i was an apple developer and they credited
my card for about 16 of the purchase price. i like techworks quality
and installation instructions (and they include powerbook tools) , but
for out of ca purchases (no sales tax) chip merchant seems to be a bit less.



forrest howard
oracle corporation
500 oracle parkway
box 65414
redwood shores , ca 94065

from erics@netcom.com (eric smith)
subject re pb100 memory upgrade
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 16

jeffe@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (george) writes

does the pb100 use different memory than the newer models \?
i am looking to buy a 2mb upgrade , so i need to know
which other powerbooks use the same 2mb card.

i think all powerbooks use the same 2 meg upgrade , but the
4 meg and 6 meg upgrades are different for the pb100 than
for the other pbs.


eric smith
erics@netcom.com
erics@infoserv.com
ci 70262 , 3610


from gmich@is.morgan.com (george michaels)
subject ntsc and the mac
nntp posting host idt114
organization morgan stanley company
distribution comp
lines 21


a question in general about displaying ntsc through a mac.

if i understand correctly , the video spigot can display ntsc
in a small window as well as capture the data in quicktime
format.

however , if i want to use a larger window , what are my options \?
perhaps i misunderstood the video spigot review...

also , i am not interested in quicktime. i would merely like to
use my mac as a television from time to time. i have a nice
sony 1430 monitor , and i would like to use it as a second tv
when my wife is watching sitcoms on our regular tv.

perhaps some of the video cards for the mac accept ntsc input \?
i have a iisi , and i am willing to buy a nubus adapter.

thanks in advance for any help ,

george micahels

from robert everett brunskill rb6t @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re to fix trackball
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 5
nntp posting host po2.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to 93105.152944br4416a@auvm.american.edu

the little blue roller on the trackball interior is probably rubbing
against its support , just push it down the pin so that it no longer
touches it. i had a similar problem.

rob

from (iisi owner)
subject iisi clock upgrades
organization cumc
lines 4

any new reports about iisi clock upgrade to 25 mhz , 33 mhz \?
any failures \?

a iisi owner with a slow mac and an itchcy soldering iron

from eer@world.std.com (eugene e rosen)
subject centris 610 tms 120 drive
article i.d. world.c5jq8a.3i9
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 14

i recently purchased a centris 610 and am having difficulty getting
my computer to recognize my hard disk drive (external) using both the
disk uitily of tms (diskwriter) and jasmine 's software , neither one
will show the drive. the drive is the only device connected to the
scuzzi port. i cant find the manual to the tms pro 120 and seem to
remember that it is terminated . is there something else that i am
doing (or not doing) that does not allow my 610 to recognize my external
disk drive \? .

thanks in advance for the information.

eugene e. rosen genie erosen
22 riverside road compuserve 74066 , 3444
sandy hook , ct. 06482 1213 aol gene rosen

from rcs8@po.cwru.edu (robert c. sprecher)
subject pc syquest on a mac \? \?
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 13
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


is it possible , ie via creative cable splicing or whatever , to
hook a syquest 44mb removable drive to a mac \?

is there any difference with the guts of the drive or is it
just cable differences \?

thanks.

rob

rob sprecher
rcs8@po.cwru.edu

from vincent.iannelli@launchpad.unc.edu (vincent iannelli)
subject accelerators for se
nntp posting host lambada.oit.unc.edu
organization university of north carolina extended bulletin board service
lines 8

the is a 3 4 week backorder , but they are shipping.



the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of
north carolina at chapel hill , the campus office for information
technology , or the experimental bulletin board service.
internet launchpad.unc.edu or 152.2.22.80

from hk.mlr@forsythe.stanford.edu (mark rogowsky)
subject re new apple ergo mouse
organization stanford university
lines 31
distribution usa
nntp posting host morrow.stanford.edu

in article c52qm2.on@dartvax.dartmouth.edu ,
geoffb@coos.dartmouth.edu (thumper) writes
in 5apr199312491648@utkvx.utk.edu nwcs@utkvx.utk.edu (schizophrenia means never being alone) writes

does anyone know how to open up the apple ergo mouse (adb mouse ii) \? mine
lives near a cat (true , really...) and picks up her fur. from what i can tell ,
it looks like apple welded it shut.


by rotating the plate around the mouse ball counter clockwise you can open
the mouse and clean it. it is n't as obvious as the desktop bus mouse i but
it opens quite easily once you see what has to be done.

geoff

geoffb@dartmouth.edu computing support consultant , tuck school of business

if you do n't vote... you do n't count.

i think the original poster meant opening the mouse , not just
releasing the ball and getting to the rollers. i found that on the
original adb mouse , sometimes unscrewing the two halves allowed for
easier cleaning.

if the original poster has his answer , i 'll ask how do you open the
new ergonomic mouse \? by open , i mean split the two halves to get at
the guts. it is n't obvious to me based on the 5 minute look i spent
with one at the office yesterday as there are no visible screw
heads.

mark

distribution world
from matthew j. wilson@mcontent.apana.org.au
organization maccontent bbs , doncaster , victoria , australia
return receipt to matthew j. wilson@mcontent.apana.org.au
subject colour card for the lc
lines 8

wouldany one know afair price for an lc color card in aussie dollars \? \?
just wondering...


the views expressed in this posting those of the individual author only.
bbs number (613) 848 1346 maccontent is victoria s first iconic bbs !



from erik@cheshire.oxy.edu (erik adams)
subject can i remove the 68000 under my daughterboard upgrade \?
organization occidental college , los angeles , ca 90041 usa.
lines 26

the subject says what i would like to do , here are the details

i have a 512ke with the macrescue upgrade board that makes it the
equivalent of a plus (system 7 and macenvy both identify it as such).

the macrescue board clips onto the 68000 on the mb. it also has
a 68000 itself. periodically i have to remove the clip (not an
entirely easy thing to do) and clean the legs of the 68000.
larry pina 's book asserts that this is occasionally a problem with
snap on upgrades the 68000 's legs will oxidize , causing
unusual system errors.

well , that 's me.

so , i would like to do something permanent , and i think it would be
fairly easy to put a socket in where the 68000 currently is , and
modify the macrescue board to plug in. what i'm not 100 sure of
is whether it will work. it seems to me that the two 68000s are n't
acting independently so removing one should n't have any effect on
the performance of my mac. i'm about 97 sure.

will someone provide the extra 3 \?

erik
erik@cheshire.oxy.edu


from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message \?
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 56

ubs@carson.u.washington.edu (university bookstore) writes
bunt0003@student.tc.umn.edu (monthian buntan 1) writes


does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for c650 regarding
fpu \? in all mac price lists i 've seen , every c650 has the message fpu
optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this newsgroup that all
c650 have the fpu built in except the 4 80 configuration. why would
they be so unclear about this issue in their price list \?

i think this is mostly the fault of the people who write up the
literature and price lists being confused themselves. since there are
two possible processor configurations and one of the them does n't have
an fpu it does seem to be an option , even though it really is n't.

i'm planning to buy the c650 8 230 cd pretty soon , but i'm now getting
confused with whether it comes with fpu or not.

well , then allow me to end your confusion. the c650 only come with
an lc040 in the base 4 80 configuration. if you are not getting this
configuration then you are getting an fpu.

why say optional if it 's built in \?

good question. i have been wondering that since feb. 10th.

if you get the centris 650 with cd configuration , you are getting a mac with
a 68rc040 processor that has built in math coprocessor support. my
understanding is that the optional fpu refers to your option of purchasing
the centris 650 4 80 without fpu or one of the other configurations with fpu.

this is possible , but an option is something that you are supposed
to be able to request when you want it. what apple has done is given the
buyer a choice between configurations and not an option.

apple does not offer an upgrade from the non fpu system to become an fpu
system. and , it is unclear whether the '040 processor on the non fpu system
(a 68lc040) can be replaced with a 68rc040 supplied by another vendor.

this is not unclear at all. in fact apple has included in the roms
of those machines with lc040s code to recognize the presence of the full
040 's fpu and use it. thereby making the upgrade as easy as switching
chips. you pop the lc040 out and pop in a full '040.

apple did send a memo out at one point sating that the centris 610 , which only
comes with a non fpu 68lc040 processor cannot be upgraded to support an fpu
the pin configurations of the two chips apparently do not match so you cannot
swap one for another (again , according to apple 's memo).

they did \? i think i would double check this. it has been stated
countless times in this newsgroup by two of the centris hardware
designers that the lc040 and the full '040 are pin compatible and that
the c610 can be upgraded to a full '040.

hades


from news@news.claremont.edu (the news system)
subject re dead mouse \?
organization harvey mudd college , claremont ca 91711
lines 1



from chairman@staff.tc.umn.edu (gene naftulyev)
subject for sale ethernet board 24 bit supermac combo
article i.d. news2.c51oh4.42y
organization u of m
lines 26
x xxmessage id a7e6634e48016506@dialup slip 1 6.gw.umn.edu
x xxdate mon , 5 apr 93 04 29 34 gmt
nntp posting host dialup slip 1 6.gw.umn.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17

gene 's stuff for sale...new prices ! ! !

the following items are for sale

qty. description list price


1 supermac colorlink sx t 24 bit nubus 10base t 750.00 549.00
this card is primo ! selling for 675 mailorder
it suports monitors up to 19 in. with 28 x 28
virtual desktop. accelerated , hardware pan , etc !
this quick sale price includes free 2nd day air !

1 seagate st1480 430 meg 3.5 in hd 2 mo. old 989.00 675.00

note all hardware is in normal working order. prices do not include
shipping. all items shipped cod (usa) or pre paid (anywhere)

sold
1 iisi nubus adapter card with fpu 189.00 115.00

for any items please contact

gene naftulyev
chairman@staff.tc.umn.edu
or call (612) 942 0134

from guykuo@carson.u.washington.edu (guy kuo)
subject re iisi clock upgrades
organization university of washington
lines 8
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

i have read one report of a brave soul who rewired the 40 mhz clock and a higher
speed clock oscillator 's outputs through a double throw switch to allow different
speeds. there was no mention of any attempts to switch speeds on the fly but
if the si uses timing loops anything like a quadra for accessing its floppy
drive , dynamic switching will wreak havoc. a quadra must reboot after having its
clock speed significantly changed or it will be unable to properly access its
floppy drive.


from nodine@lcs.mit.edu (mark h. nodine)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
keywords quadra scsi aps
organization mit laboratory for computer science
lines 9

i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your
message , but i definitely had scsi problems between my
q700 and my venerable jasmine megadrive 10 cartridge
drives. my solution was to get silverlining. none of
the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives
in fact the only loop that worked was the macintosh
software loop (whatever that means).

mark

from taihou@chromium.iss.nus.sg (tng tai hou)
subject adb and graphics tablet help !
organization institute of systems science , nus
lines 13

help ! ! !

i have an adb graphicsd tablet which i want to connect to my
quadra 950. unfortunately , the 950 has only one adb port and
it seems i would have to give up my mouse.

please , can someone help me \? i want to use the tablet as well as
the mouse (and the keyboard of course ! ! ! ).

thanks in advance.

tai hou tng
singapore

from dashley@wyvern.wyvern.com (doug ashley)
subject re se rom
organization wyvern.com
lines 31

seanmcd@ac.dal.ca writes

in article wgwc5pdl4.43y@netcom.com , wgw@netcom.com (william g. wright) writes

anyway , i was hoping someone knowledgeable
about mac internals could set me straight is it simply
impossible for a mac se to print grayscale , or could
someone armed with enough info and a little pro
gramming experience cook something up that would
supplement the rom 's capabilities \?

to use the grayscale features , i believe you need a mac equipped
with colour quickdraw. i was told this somewhere or other , but it 's
not mentioned in apple facts (guide for apple sellers) , in the
press release or in the technical specs.

sean

i think you will find that the mac se can print grayscale images , loaded
with the proper software. however , the mac se cannot display grayscale on
its screen or any attached video because that ability is not in the rom.

so , while you might be able to print grayscale , you 'd have a hard time
seeing the grayscale image you want to print.

doug

this signature under construction

wyvern technologies tidewater 's premier online information system
(804) 627 1818 , login guest , password guest to register

from ingemar@isy.liu.se (ingemar ragnemalm)
subject re stereo sound problem ( \? ) on mac games
organization dept of ee , university of linkoping
lines 45

steve bollinger buzz@apple.com writes


enter game developers. the sound driver and current sound manager are
inconveniently lame for making games.

the sound driver is pretty ok , since it 's fast. sound manager used by the
book is useless . disposing of sound channels as soon as sound has completed
is out of the question for games with smooth animation. (it 's too slow.)

the sound driver is so much snappier than sound manager. unfortunately ,
system 7 supports it poorly , making programs crash occasionally.

the more of the story is to developers don't cheat !
really , i am absolutely , positively not allowed to do what i am about to
do ,
but i'm going say it anyway.
stop cheating on sound !
really soon , you will be sorry , as even those without external speakers
will be disappointed with your sound on future hardware. the grace period
is about to end.
the sound manager is understandable now , and works pretty well and will
work
even better soon , so use it.

well , i want my code to work on old systems too. i do n't know about sys 7.1 ,
but at least on 6.0.7 , there are bugs in the sound manager that causes
channels to hang (with no error message). this happends when i keep a
channel open for long periods necessary for performance and play many
sounds , stopping sounds halfway. callbacks seems not to be reliable.
then only way i can safely tell if a sound has stopped playing is to
inspect private variables in the channel (qhead , i think it was) , and the
only way i have found to tell if a channel is hung is to inspect an
undocumented flag and modify it.

am i happy with this \? nope. i consider writing to soundbase simply to get
rid of the bugs.

any better suggestions \? (silent games is not among the acceptab e solutions.)


ingemar ragnemalm
dept. of electrical engineering ... ! uunet ! mcvax ! enea ! rainier ! ingemar
..
university of linkoping , sweden ingemar@isy.liu.se

from peter hansen pgmoffc@bnr.ca
subject re 72 pin simms , where \?
x xxdate tue , 20 apr 93 08 41 49 gmt
nntp posting host bcarm382
organization bnr
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 13

in article 1qulhsinnm22@charnel.ecst.csuchico.edu steven medley ,
smedley@ecst.csuchico.edu writes
i am looking for a 8 meg 72 pin simm for my centris 610. where is the
best place to purchase one (stock , shipping , warrenty) , and if
possible , phone numbers so that i can order one as soon as possible.

try goldstar. they make them , and they are available immediately in mac
configurations. i ordered a pair from computerland (8 meg variety) and
they work like a charm. i 've had them for two weeks.

peter hansen
bell northern research
pgmoffc@bnr.ca

from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re quadras vram question
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
lines 39
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info

daniel salber salber@imag.fr writes

i have a question regarding quadras vram. i have tried to find info on this
but i could not get precise answers.

on one hand , we have a quadra 950 with a 16 monitor , which is capable of
32 bit color. how much vram does it have \?

to display millions of colors on a 16 monitor you need 2mb of vram
in the q950.

on the other hand , we have a quadra 800 with a 16 monitor , which is capable
of 8 bit color only , so it must have 512 ko of vram.

correct. this is the amount of on board vram that the q800 comes
with.

i would like to take vram simms for the 950 and put them in the 800 so that
both machines have 16 bit color capability.
is it possible , and if yes , how many vram simms should i take from the 950 \?

yes this is possible. technically , you only need to take out 2 of
the vram simms but leaving in the other two will not get you anything
because the 950 cannot really do anything with 1.5mb of vram. it only
knows 1mb and 2mb.

from the documentation i have , the quadra 800 must get 1 mo vram to have
16 bit color , is that correct \?

yes , this is correct. you get to 1mb by putting 2 256k vram simms
into the vram simm slots on the q800 's motherboard.

bonus question where do vram simms hide \? from the 950 documentation , they
seem to be behind the power supply. do i really have to take off the power
supply to access the vram simms \?

yup. you have to take off the power supply. it 's only a couple of
screws so you should be ok. just make sure that everything is
disconnected from it and watch out for static discharges.

from jap10@po.cwru.edu (joseph a. pellettiere)
subject sigma designs double up \? \?
article i.d. usenet.1psdv2 gr5
reply to jap10@po.cwru.edu
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 8
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


i am looking for any information about the sigma designs
double up board. all i can figure out is that it is a
hardware compression board that works with autodoubler , but
i am not sure about this. also how much would one cost \?

joe
jap10@po.cwru.edu

from u8121520@cc.nctu.edu.tw ()
subject hi could i join \?
organization national chiao tung university
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 7

hi
does anybody known how much about to buy an ethernet card for mac se \?
besides , where do i goto buy.if i buy it by mail order , which brand is suitable for mac se(the network is coxial wire).thanks a lot.
could anybody tell me what to do \? thank you.




from glenn@network.ucsd.edu (glenn sueyoshi)
subject laserwriter pro 600 memory upgrade (4 8)
summary apple dealers provide free upgrade
keywords apple printer , memory upgrade
article i.d. network.1ps4a8 oi3
distribution world
organization university of california , san diego
lines 25
nntp posting host network.ucsd.edu

i 've got the official word on the laserwriter pro 600 memory
upgrade.

i just got off of the phone with the quite friendly donna rossi
at apple customer assistance. she tells me that those who
purchased the laserwriter pro 600 in a 4 megabyte (300dpi , no
greyscale) configuration should contact their original dealers
who are supposed provide the 4 meg memory upgrade. for those
who do n't know , the extra 4 meg will allow printing at 600dpi
or greyscale (at 300dpi).

if the dealers have questions , they should be directed to their
hardware support numbers and or apple customer assistance
1 800 776 2333 , 408 996 1010 (corporate number).

regards ,

glenn

p.s. personally , i'm annoyed at our school bookstore. they
really have an obligation to provide this information to all
of the customers who purchased the 600 in the original
configuration (they have the records...that 's why they ask for
things like a phone number). when i get my upgrade completed ,
i'm going to write apple and complain.

from salmon@cwis.unomaha.edu (david salmon)
subject re help scsi woes on mac iifx
organization university of nebraska at omaha
lines 16

according to the official documentation , failure to use the iifx terminator
can not only affect scsi bus performance but can also damage the bus.
whether this is your problem or not i do n't know. i have had sporadic scsi
problems with my iifx since i bought it. (i cannot connect more than three
devices , fourth one causes major problems).

first thing to do is to try to reformat your drive on someone elses system.
if you continue to get errors it is probably the drive. if it formats fine
then i would try to format it on your system with no externals. if this
fails then the scsi controller on your iifx needs repair replacement.

hope this helps.


david c. salmon
salmon@unomaha.edu

from johnston@me.udel.edu (bill johnston)
subject re apple tape backup 40sc under system 7.x
keywords backup , tape ,
nntp posting host me.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 22

in article 1pskkt 3ln@fnnews.fnal.gov b91926@fnclub.fnal.gov (david sachs) writes
in article generous.734035090@nova , generous@nova.sti.nasa.gov (curtis generous) writes

i need to get an apple 40sc tape backup unit working under
sys 7.0.x , but do not have any drivers software to access the device.

retrospect (dantz) works nicely with this combination.

i also use retrospect , but i noticed that central point software 's
mactools backup also supports the apple tape drive under 7.x.
the apple tape drive is quite slow , so the advantages of retrospect
relative to the simpler mactools backup are less significant than
might be the case for someone backing up a large server to a dat drive.

used apple tape drives are going for 100 , so it might make less
economic sense to pay an extra 140 for retrospect when mactools
is cheaper and includes other worthwhile utilities.

retrospect is nice , though , and i'm probably going to upgrade to 2.0.

bill johnston (johnston@me.udel.edu)
38 chambers street newark , de 19711 (302)368 1949

from anielsen@uniwa.uwa.edu.au (andrew nielsen)
subject versatec plotter ppd \?
organization the university of western australia
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host uniwa.uwa.edu.au
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5

hello world , does anyone know of a postscript ppd for a versatec
a0 size plotter , which is generally accessed via a zeh postscript
interpreter \? replies by e mail very gratefully received this is
proving to be quite a tricky one.


andrew d. nielsen internet anielsen@dialix.oz.au
advanced systems consultant applelink aust0278
applecentre perth
69 adelaide tce tel 61 9 2214511
perth wa 6004 australia fax 61 9 2212527

any opinions expressed are my own , not those of my employer.

from david anthony guevara@cup.portal.com
subject centris 650 math coprocessor option
organization the portal system (tm)
distribution usa
lines 21


sorry if this is a faq. i do n't normally read comp.sys.mac.hardware.
i am purchasing a couple of centris 650 's. i configured the systems
as follows

eight (8) mb ram
ethernet
1 mb vram
math coprocessor option

my purchasing agent told me about the math coprocessor option and sent
me the apple summary documentation to prove it. i ordered the coprocessor
option , but i'm really not sure that we needed it. i thought the '040 chip
had a math coprocessor built into it. has apple had a math coprocessor chip
architectured to keep up with the speed of the '040 chip in the centris 650 \?
i am concerned that i may have set up a hardware bottleneck. please send your
responses to david anthony guevara@cup.portal.com. i will summarize if there
is enough interest. thanks !

david guevara ,
internet david anthony guevara@cup.portal.com

from pino@gammow.berkeley.edu (jose l. pino)
subject re wrong ram in duo \?
organization u. c. berkeley
lines 53
distribution world
nntp posting host gammow.berkeley.edu

here is the macweek article describing the duo ram situation.
(w o permission. i hope that is ok)

jose

bad ram brings some duos down. (random access memory boards for apple
macintosh powerbook duos)
macweek v7 , n7 (feb 15 , 1993) 132.

copyright coastal associates publishing l.p. 1993

by raines cohen

austin , texas some third party memory expansion cards for powerbook
duos depart from apple specs in ways that could cause crashes , data loss
and other problems.

technology works inc. , a ram and network vendor based here , last week
issued a warning about three problems it said it had found in duo ram
products from some competing vendors , which it declined to identify.
other vendors and an apple spokeswoman confirmed that the problems exist.

self refresh. the duos require a kind of dynamic ram called
selfrefreshing , which can recharge itself while the system sleeps. but
technology works said some vendors have sold duo cards with
nonselfrefreshing dram , which can cause the system to lose data or fail to
wake from sleep.

most leading memory manufacturers include the letter v in the part
number stamped on their self refreshing chips nonself refreshing chips
instead have an l , according to techworks. the chip label , however , may
not tell the whole story. newer technology of wichita , kan. , said it uses
nonself refreshing chips but adds its own circuitry to keep them refreshed
while the duo sleeps.

speed. some ram card vendors have put 80 nanosecond dram on duo
cards rather than the 70 nanosecond type the 230 requires , technology
works said. however , some chips labeled as 80 or 85 nanosecond are
certified by the manufacturer to run at a higher speed.

kingston technology corp. of fountain valley , calif. , said it offers
duo ram cards with 80 nanosecond chips , but only for the duo 210 , which is
compatible with the slower chips.

space. technology works charged and apple officials confirmed that
some third party cards are too large to fit properly , forcing the corner
of the duo keyboard up and preventing the system from starting up normally
when in a duo dock.

lifetime memory products inc. of huntington beach , calif. , said it
originally shipped cards with this problem but has since offered all
customers free upgrades to cards that fit.


from andrem@pyrtech.mis.pyramid.com (andre molyneux)
subject re lciii powerpc \?
reply to andrem@pyrtech.mis.pyramid.com (andre molyneux)
organization pyramid technologies , mt. view , california.
lines 34

in article 1qksuq 1tt8@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu , mirsky@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu
(david joshua mirsky) writes
hi. i own an lciii and i recently heard an interesting rumor.
i heard that the lciii has a built in slot for a powerpc chip.
is this true \? i heard that the slot is not the same as the pds
slot. is that true \?

thanks
david mirsky
mirsky@gnu.ai.mit.edu

well , i also have an lc iii. popping the top revealed

one socket for an additional vram simm

one socket for a 72 pin ram simm

one socket for a flat pack fpu

a processor direct slot (pds) identical to the lc lc ii , but with
an additional set of connetions to one side (for the full 32 bit
data path that the lc lc ii lacked

that 's it. i guess a board with a powerpc chip could be made that would fit
in the pds , but that 's the only place.


andre molyneux ka7wvv insert your favorite disclaimer here

pyramid technology corp internet
3860 n. first street andrem@pyramid.com
san jose , ca packet
(408) 428 8229 ka7wvv@n0ary. nocal.ca.usa.na


from umsmith@mcs.drexel.edu (mathew scott smith)
subject axion serial port switcher good or bad \?
organization drexel university
lines 26

hi !

i'm looking into buying a serial port switcher , because while my mac has
two serial ports , i have appletalk , a modem , a printer , midi , and a sound
digitizer. (2 ! 5 , unfortunately.)

specifically , i'm looking at the axion electronic switcher , because it
seems to be fairly cheap. (about 128 at maczone.)

does anyone know anything about it \? i 've heard that with most of these
things you can still only use 2 serial ports at a time , it just prevents you
from physically swapping cables. although i 've also heard that programs
that use the comm toolbox may be able to use as many serial ports as they
want does anyone know if this is true with the axion switchbox \?

finally , if the axion stinks , or if you 're using something else that you
think is good , i 'd be interested in hearing about other products. i would
like to spend under 140 , if possible.

please reply through mail i'm not a regular reader of this newsgroup.
if there 's interest , i can post a summary of replies.

thanks a lot !

m. scott smith
(umsmith@mcs.drexel.edu)

from simsh@aix02.ecs.rpi.edu (hillel y. sims)
subject how often are simms bad (mail order) \?
nntp posting host aix02.ecs.rpi.edu
lines 19

hi everyone. just the other day , i ordered a vram chip for my new lciii from
mac connection. they sent it overnight (very nice) and i got it installed ,
and we found that it did n't work properly. when you put the computer in
thousands mode , the bottom of the screen (using the new chip) is all flickering
and fuzzy. so i called them up and i'm going to return it for a new one.

my question is , how often does such a thing happen with simm chips in general \?
do you often find when ordering chips that a large portion are bad \? is this
a rarity \? this is the first chip i 've ordered so i have no other experience
in this area. i'm just curious if anyone else has had the same type of
experience.

that 's about it. please email me , and if people want , i can post a summary.
thanks all.

hillel sims simsh@rpi.edu rensselaer polytechnic institute

is rot13 rotated 13 forward or backward \?
anonymous

from john.m.chung@dartmouth.edu (john m. chung)
subject powervision for pb 's
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
lines 10
x posted from internews 1.0b14@dartmouth.edu

hi ,

i'm in the market for an internal color video adaptor for my pb 145. i
was wondering if anyone has used the powervision adaptor made by
mirror. if so , can you tell me how feel about the speed and
compatability of it \? i might also be interested in other boards by
envisio etc. , so if you have such a board please e mail your opinion of
it. thanks in advance.

john

from franks@ntrc25.ntrc.ntu.ac.sg (frank siebenlist)
subject powerbook 170 freezes after 18 seconds help !
nntp posting host ntrc25.ntrc.ntu.ac.sg
organization home franks .organization
distribution comp
lines 20


a few days ago , my powerbook starts to freeze after appr. 18 seconds of inactivity.
it stays alive as long as a program is actively running or as long as the mouse is moved.

did anyone experience similar problems \?
any known fixes \?

please reply by email as i ca n't read this newsgroup normally.

regards , mike fisher (efisher@ntu.ac.sg)


frank siebenlist franks@ntu.ac.sg
senior research fellow
gintic institute of manufacturing technology (gimt)
nanyang technological university (ntu)
nanyang avenue
singapore 2263
tel 65 799 1215 fax 65 791 6377


from cph@quake.sylmar.ca.us (charles hobbs)
subject color inks for stylewriter
organization quake public access , sylmar ca
lines 9

i know that jet inc makes refills for the stylewriter and deskwriter
ink jet cartridges in several colors....but are pre filled cartridges
in color available from anyone (or do i have to use up one cartridge
before i have a chance to print in color \? )

also , are inks in process colors (cyan , magenta , yellow) available
to refill cartridges \?

thanks in advance....

from oueichek@imag.fr (ibaa oueichek)
subject cache card for iisi
nntp posting host gram3
organization imag institute , university of grenoble , france
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 20

i'm looking for a cache card for my iisi. i can spend 250 max for it ,
what i need is 64 kb cache with a fpu socket and a dual slot adapter.
or at least a passe through connector so i can keep my graphic card.
i need your advice about the best card i can buy. how much performance
increase i should expect , does the performance increase between the
32 and 64 kb cache worths the price difference \? . and what 's the best
price i can get for such a card (i really need to spare each possible
).
i have an ethernet card for the lc with fpu. i do n't think it would
work for the iisi but the fpu is socketed. do you think i can take the
fpu out of the card and put it in the empty fpu socket \? . would it work
at 20 mhz \? . if not , how much should i pay for an extra fpu \? .


sham(u) ya tha (s)seif(u) lam yaghib(i) ibaa oueichek. oueichek@imag.imag.fr
ya jamal(al) majd(i) fi(l) kutub(i) lab de genie informatique (lgi).
kablak(i) (t)tareekh(u) fi thulmaten imag , inpg.
baadak(i) staula ala (sh)shuhub(i) 46 , av. felix viallet , grenoble.



from djcohen@yalevm.ycc.yale.edu (daniel cohen)
subject re interesting adb behaviour on c650
nntp posting host yalevm.ycc.yale.edu
organization yale university
lines 20

in article 1993apr15.181440.15490@waikato.ac.nz
ldo@waikato.ac.nz (lawrence d'oliveiro , waikato university) writes

i 've noticed an interesting phenomenon on my centris 650. if i unplug the
keyboard and mouse and plug them in again without turning the power off ,
the mouse suddenly switches to about half its normal movement speed. i check
the mouse control panel , and there 's no change in its setting there it 's
still on full speed , the way i like it. restarting the machine restores the
normal mouse speed.

by the way , it happens with both the newer style mouse that came with the
centris , and the older style mouse from my iifx at work. thus i do n't think
it has anything to do with the resolution setting in the mouse it 's
definitely a quirk of the adb interface (either hardware or software) in the
centris itself.

i have noticed this exact same phenomenon occurs with my lciii. perhaps it is
a quirk of the new machines \?

dan

from root@ncube.com (operator)
subject accelaratores \?
nntp posting host admin
reply to root@ncube.com
organization ncube corp. , foster city , ca
lines 27

do the accelaratores make a lot of difference \?
as i understand , there is graphics and cpu accelaration.

does graphics accelarator help out with the scanner and
the photo shop \?

is combination of both practical \?

i have a mac iici. what kinds of accelaratores can i use \?








@
captain zod...
zod@ncube.com
0 0







from tthiel@cs.uiuc.edu (terry thiel)
subject re help ! how to test simms \?
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 13

ytwu@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (yih tyng wu) writes
hello ,
i just got some simms , at least one of which does not work. i do n't know if
there is a software that can test simms thoroughly or i could just rely on the
ram test performed by my computer during the start up. when i installed a dead
simm into an lc or an lc ii , there would be a strange music and no display on
the screen. why \? i need your help ! thanks in advance
yih tyng
ytwu@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu

there is a shareware ramchecker that i think is called ramcheck. it is
available at most ftp sites such as umich and sumex.
terry

from jbotz@mtholyoke.edu (jurgen botz)
subject reseting lw iig to factory defaults
organization mount holyoke college
lines 11
nntp posting host orixa.mtholyoke.edu

i have a laserwriter iig that has disappeared completely from the
network , i.e. it 's name does n't show up in any zone. (you can print
to it from it 's serial interface , tho ! ) i have seen some discussion
here about changing the zone a iig is in... including some ps code
that lets you change the zone. is there maybe some ps code you can
use to have it go back to all its factory default settings \? i have
a feeling that 's what needed to heal ours.

jurgen botz , jbotz@mtholyoke.edu vending machines should respond to a finger
south hadley , ma , usa request with a list of all items currently
unix is dead , long live unix available for purchase... rfc1288

organization university of maine system
from jon carr io91748@maine.maine.edu
subject re accelerator for se
lines 30

in article 1993apr15.114602.27275@ifi.uio.no , oec@ifi.uio.no ( ystein
christiansen) says

has anyone out there in netland any experience with accelerators
for se \? i am specially interested in
speed up rate ( or compared to e.g. se 30)
need for new simms (speed in ns)
maximum ram after upgrade
compatibility (i am mainly using framemaker)
can i use an additional , big b w screen (15 to 21 )
can i install the accellerator myself (no soldering)
price where to buy

i have no experience with this particular hardware , but
just about every month in macworld there is an add for
an combined se accelerator video board. this item sells
for about 1000 and comes with a 25mhz 68030 68882 pair ,
eight simm slots , and a grayscale 21 monitor.

this accelerator plugs into the se 's lone expansion port
and thus no soldering. you will however , need a long
torx wrench to get the case open (but that 's not really
a big deal).

does that sound like what you were looking for \?

jon jon carr
io91748@maine.maine.edu umaine '93
1993 ncaa champions ! how about those 42 1 2 black bears ! !
m a i n e go blue ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !

from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon wtte)
subject re position of 'b' on erg. keyboard
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 21
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se

in 1993apr19.143939.28983@informatik.tu muenchen.de probulf@informatik.tu muenchen.de (frank probul) writes

however , when i learned typing in school some years ago , i was taught
to write 'b' with my right hand. is this a difference between danish
and american typing , or what \? \? \?

in germany you usually use the left hand for the 'b'

same in sweden (the ergonomic keyboard is great , but !
the palm rests do not fix to the keyboard they just sort
of rests against the table. too bad when you have the
keyboard in your knee...

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe
you never hide the menu bar. you might go about and change the color
of it to the color of the background , but you never hide the menu bar.
tog

from f2ehg786@umiami.ir.miami.edu
subject disappointed by la cie
organization univ of miami ir
lines 52

approximately four months ago , i purchased a quantum 240lps hd from la cie for
649. after two months , the drive started having problems. first , there were
intermittent freezes , then corrupted files and resources , then silverlining
5.41 would n't even recognize the drive. so i got an rma from la cie and
exchanged the new drive for a reconditioned one.

well , about a month has passed now and the second drive is having problems.
often , when i boot up my iisi i get the flashing question mark. sometimes , if i
then insert the silverlining (5.42) program i can get it to recognize the drive
by making it scan over and over for drives. at that point i can restart the
iisi and boot from the hd. i 've called la cie again and they 've given me
another rma. their tech support people tell me that if silverlining does n't see
the drive there 's a definite hardware problem.

given that this is the second bad drive in four months , i asked la cie to send
me a new one , but they said no. also , within three weeks after i purchased
my original drive , la cie dropped the price on it by over 100.

i can accept that a drive (or two) may be bad. and i know that hardware vendors
make a practice of sending reconditioned replacements when they do repairs. and
i understand that the nature of the computer industry lends itself to sudden
price fluctuations. nevertheless , taken together , the convergence of these
facts events have left a bad taste in my mouth. (i should have added above that
when i asked la cie to transfer the contents of my current drive to the one
they will send i think the data is still in good shape and i 'll have to again
reinstall everything from floppies they said it would cost me 250 for data
recovery.)

it seems to me that reconditioned hardware should be sold as reconditioned at a
discounted price , and that replacements for new hardware gone bad (still
covered under a 90 day warranty) should be new.

i feel a little helpless about all this. i do n't mean to necessarily flame la
cie their support staff have always been friendly and sometimes even helpful.
but c'mon. sometimes a little extra customer service goes a long way. (i sent
a letter to la cie 's customer service when the first drive was returned and i
asked them for a credit on the price difference since i had purchased the drive
three weeks before they slashed the price. i told them i would like to apply
the credit toward the purchase of another la cie product. they did n't even
have the courtesy to reply one way or the other.)

what 's the moral of this story \? i'm not sure. but i do know i wo n't buy any
other products from la cie in the future.

bill krauthammer
f2ehg786@umiami.ir.miami.edu

ps please do n't email or post about how good your la cie product and service
has been. i'm not suggesting that they are not a good company or anything like
that. all i'm saying is that i 've had a disappointing experience with them and
i 'll be taking my business elsewhere in the future.


from lriggins@afit.af.mil (l. maurice riggins)
subject lciii cache card \?
summary rumors \? announcements \?
nntp posting host bat.afit.af.mil
organization air force institute of technology
lines 4

anyone seen any press releases or heard any rumors of a cache card
for the lciii , now that it has the full data bus width on the pds slot \?

maurice internet lriggins@afit.af.mil

from hlsw ltd@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (dave hollinsworth)
subject 2 questions about the centris 650 's ram
nntp posting host uhura.cc.rochester.edu
organization university of rochester (rochester , ny)
distribution usa
lines 18

with a little luck , i could own a c650 sometime in the near future , and
so i was just wondering if someone could clear these two questions up for me

1. what speed simms does the c650 need want \? (i know that it needs 80ns
vram...not sure for the main ram.)

2. i 've heard two conflicting stories about the total expandibility of the
c650 's ram...132 and 136 megs. which is true \? (perhaps another phrasing
would be better does the 8 meg version come with all 8 megs on the logic
board , or 4 megs a 4 meg simm \? )

just wondering....


dave hollinsworth hlsw ltd@uhura.cc.rochester.edu o
it 's astounding time is fleeting madness takes play
its toll. riff raff , rocky horror picture show pinball !
disclaimer they 're my opinions. are they yours \?

from hk.mlr@forsythe.stanford.edu (mark rogowsky)
subject re cd300 300i
organization stanford university
lines 45
distribution usa
nntp posting host morrow.stanford.edu

in article 1ps8d7innrc0@srvr1.engin.umich.edu ,
chyang@leghorn.engin.umich.edu (chung hsiung yang) writes

in article bauer 060493101758@134.60.68.23 , bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de (christian bauer) writes
in article afi9shs00vohmrylee@andrew.cmu.edu , donpaul c. stephens
deathbird @cmu.edu wrote

what is the difference \?
i want a double spin cd rom drive by may

looking into nec and apple , doublespins only
what is the best \?

nec toshiba and sony (apple) nearly deliver the same speed.
as apples prices are very low (compared to there ram simms)
you should buy what is inexpencive. but think of driver revisions.
it is easier to get driver kits from apple than from every other
manufacturer

christian bauer

bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de


i thought nec and toshiba cd rom mechanism have an average
access time of less than 200 ms. while the sony apple cd rom
drive has an access time of 300 ms for the doublespin models.

chung yang

the toshiba has a 200ms access time , the nec has a 280ms access
time , right around the sony apple. access time is , of course ,
somewhat important , but not as vital in the case of cds as data
transfer rate.

all the drives are double speed drives with maximum data transfer
rates of 300k second. any is a good choice. apple 's is very cheap
when included with new macs and i agree with christian 's comment
about drivers.

plus , apple 's is bootable on the centris and quadra 800. a very nice
feature if you need to install system software. i do n't know if the
nec or toshiba are bootable on those machines.

mark

from jimb@rcx1.csd.harris.com (jim burmeister)
subject re cache card for iisi
organization harris csd , ft. lauderdale , fl
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host rcx1.ssd.csd.harris.com

in article pebi.735242681@zephyr.aem.umn.edu , pebi@aem.umn.edu (peter a. bidian) writes
hi , i bought a while ago a cache card w fpu from techworks. it was 219 .
i think that was the cheapest i ever saw.

as of last week , mac 's place had the applied engineering quicksilver card
(32k cache , one pds slot , socket for fpu) on sale for 99.00 (without fpu).
regular price is 199.

no idea if this is still going on , but i can get the phone no. if anyone is
interested (i found their ad in macuser).

jim burmeister (no relation to mac 's place except as a satisfied customer ! )
jimb@csd.harris.com

from steveh@tasman.cc.utas.edu.au (steve howell)
subject re quadra 700 sound
organization university of tasmania , australia.
lines 23



the quadra 700 goes thru extensive initalize routines of its hardware ,
read 's pram , obtains all info from last session including the volume
setting , and then executes the sound procedure for the startup sound , and
wait 's on the scsi controller to respond to the boot up code.


if the dram produces an error , or a registers cannot be read from a device ,
or the device corrupts that address data or control paths , then if it is
possible , the firmware branchs to another sound routine that produces the
'sad mac' sound.


this is a general breifing of the start up procedure of a typical mac.
if you cannot control the volume of the quadra , even at boot up , then i feel
there is something incorrect with the logic board.

my quadra 700 does not show the problems you are having.


steve h


subject re mac os on a 486 ! ! !
from keith whitehead sir@office.acme.gen.nz
x mailer rnmac buggy , i mean beta , test version
lines 45


in article c508bj.6e2@imag.fr , you write

hillman (hillman@plk.af.mil) wrote
deathbird @cmu.edu (donpaul c. stephens)

kind of slated would n't you say \? ) who is going to throw all that to
the
side and get the mac os for 486 \? \? \?

not quite the point to be considdered here !
fact if when apple release system 7 (or what ever is current at the time
of release) then you will see shortly afterwards apple no longer producing
hardware...look at next with their nextstep486 to see what happens.
who is going to pay apples prices when they can get the same thing cheaper
else where ! (heck we can get a sun workstation cheaper than a quadra , and
infact we have a number of times ! ! ! , it all comes down to )

if apple released this before windows 3.0 was released i 'd be behind
them ,
they missed the boat. so why is apple continued development. will it
support the p5 to its fullest capabilities \? run faster than windows \?
it
must do something significantly better than windows and os2 to warrent
being released.


no the continued develeopment is because there is becomming less and less
profit in hardware , so the next step (no pun intended...well sort of) , is
to make the money in software (look at microsoft if you think it ca n't
happen ! ) , after all you can sell multiple pieces of software to one
hardware platform.

as you also said windows is a nightmare for programmers , so will the
temptation to sell system 7 to a couple of million dos users be too much
for apple ! (50 million copies @ 100 is serious money ! ).





sir@office.acme.gen.nz

be thankfull that we dont get all the government we pay for !


from scot@jlc.mv.com (scot salmon)
subject nutek email \?
organization john leslie consulting , milford nh
lines 9

does nutek (or anyone at nutek) have an email address \?

if not , why not \? )



good things books by robert heinlein , music by enya , computers by apple ,
humor by dave barry , thursday nights on nbc , and scotland.
scot salmon (scot@jlc.mv.com)

from mel shear@maccomw.uucp
subject adapter cable for vga monitors
lines 51

does anyone know who makes a cable or adapter that is wired according to
apple 's specs that forces the external output on lc 's and the powerbook 's
160 180 and duo 230 into a true vga style output signal \? the nec adapter does
not do this since their monitors are multisync they just route the signal into
the correct pinout but do not switch the macs output into vga mode.

do i have to make one of these or does someone already have one made up \? \?

the following is the apple spec for the lc cpu vga cable adapter. i'm assuming
that the powerbooks duos will work with the same adapter( \? )


macintosh lc to vga

the macintosh lc can supply a 640 x 480 , vga timed signal for use with vga
monitors by using an adapter cable. the standard macintosh lc supports vga to
16 colors , and with the optional 512k vram simm , the vga monitor is supported
to 256 colors.

note the macintosh lc supplies signals capable of driving ttl level
inputs. however , some low impedance input vga monitors do not work
with the macintosh lc.

to connect a macintosh lc to a vga monitor , you need to make an adapter cable
from the macintosh lc video connector to the vga monitor. following is the
pinout description for the adapter cable

macintosh lc vga
video connector pin signal name

1 6 red ground
2 1 red video signal
5 2 green video signal
6 7 green ground
9 3 blue video signal
13 8 blue ground
15 13 hsync
12 14 vsync
14 10 hsync ground
7 , 10 nc sense1 sense2 tied together

vga monitors are identified by shorting pin 7 to pin 10 on the macintosh lc
video connector. the macintosh lc grounds pin 7 on its video connector , which
results in pulling down pin 10 and gives the correct monitor id for a vga
monitor.


this message was created on mcw bbs a jointly supported by
new orleans mac user group national home school user group
user@maccomw.uucp the views expressed in this posting those of the individual author only.


from marcus bointon marcus@meridian.demon.co.uk
subject sony 1304s problems info please !
x xxmessage id a7f639ce3f010b8b@meridian.demon.co.uk
x xxdate sat , 17 apr 93 22 48 46 gmt
nntp posting host meridian.demon.co.uk
organization sound impressions
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 33

anyone out there have a sony 1304s \?

i have one , and it 's very nice , however if i run it in 16 mode , the
picture wo n't
go very big. i end up with about 1 gap either side , and .5 top
bottom. i suspect
an internal adjustment would fix this. anyone tried it \?

another problem is sub brightness areas that are meant to be black (or
off the main
raster) are not very black. the real raster is quite visible when the
screen is blanked.
this is not too severe , but it is just not as good as other trini screens
i have
used. if i turn the brightness contrast down so that the raster is not
visible , the
real image virtually disappears !

the raster size is just right if i use 1024 768 , but 100dpi is a bit too
much !

oh , and i am using a rasterops 24xli card.


thanks

marcus bointon
marcus@meridian.demon.co.uk

marcus bointon tel 081 852 6662
marcus@meridian.demon.co.uk fax 081 244 5422
i used windows for a week once , but i feel better now


from ns111310@lance.colostate.edu (nathaniel sammons)
subject price drop on c650 within 2 months \?
article i.d. yuma.apr06.184114.73926
organization colorado state u. engineering college
lines 12
nntp posting host casco.lance.colostate.edu

i am going to be getting a c650 soon , but i don t want apple
to come out with the cyclones and the tempest in a month
and have the price drop on the system i want. i have negotiated a
good deal with a supplier for a c650 8 80 and i would like to jump on it ,
but , again , i do n't want the price drop to smuther me. btw , the deal
i have is a c650 8 80 with mouse for 2295... does anyone know of a better
deal \?

thanks ,

nate
ns111310@longs.lance.colostate.edu

from ross@vorpal.ucsb.edu (richard ross)
subject powerbook with a math coprocessor \?
keywords powerbook , math coprocessor , pb160
lines 9


i really want to buy a powerbook and would like one that can run
mathematica. so i need a coprocessor but i can not afford a pb180.
(who can \? ) is it possible to put a mcp in a pb160 \? the guy at the
bookstore says no but i did n't think he had too much of a clue.

please respond by e mail ross@sbphy.physics.ucsb.edu

thanks in advance , richard

from horton@what.sps.mot.com (david horton)
subject re macs suck ! buy a pc !
nntp posting host 223.10.249.26
organization motorola inc. mmtg oakhill austin texas
lines 7

in article c5ouop.f9t@news2.cis.umn.edu horton@molbio.cbs.umn.edu (robert horton) writes

tests suck ! post a real message !
)

presumably erme maula is testing the size limits of his email account.
that 's erme@pobox.upenn.edu for those who missed it.

from glang@slee01.srl.ford.com (gordon lang)
subject please help find video hardware
article i.d. fmsrl7.1pqf9oinn88e
organization ford motor company research laboratory
lines 19
nntp posting host slee01.srl.ford.com
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5

article crossposted from comp.sys.hp
author was gordon lang
posted on 5 apr 1993 23 25 27 gmt

article crossposted from comp.sys.ibm.pc.hardware
author was gordon lang
posted on 5 apr 1993 23 19 01 gmt

i need a device (either an isa board or a subsystem) which will
take two rgb video signals and combine them according to a template.
the template can be as simple as a rectangular window with signal
one being used for the interior and signal two for the exterior.
but i beleive fancier harware may also exist which i do not want
to exclude from my search. i know this sort of hardware exists
for ntsc , etc. but i need it for rgb.

please email and or post any leads....

gordon lang (glang@smail.srl.ford.com or glang@holo6.srl.ford.com)

from simsh@aix02.ecs.rpi.edu (hillel y. sims)
subject what size vram simm is this \?
nntp posting host aix02.ecs.rpi.edu
lines 20

hi everyone. i recently posted about how i received a bad vram chip for my
new lciii , and someone responded that it may not actually be bad , but it may
be a 512k lc vram chip , and thus does n't work properly with my computer. so
i'm wondering if anyone can interpret these codes for me , so i can figure
out what type of chip macconnection sent me.

each chip says m518121a 80j
2515251

on the back of the card , it says 0593

i believe from the numbers that means it is an 80ns chip , but i ca n't figure
out what the size is supposed to be. if anyone can help , i 'd be grateful.
please email me your response. thanks a lot !


hillel sims simsh@rpi.edu rensselaer polytechnic institute

is rot13 rotated 13 forward or backward \?
anonymous

from james jim frazier@cup.portal.com
subject 5.25 mo sectors track \?
organization the portal system (tm)
distribution world
lines 8

on an iso ansi standard 5.25 magneto optical disc , how many sectors
are there per track (or disc revolution) , and how many tracks per
disc \?

thanks ,

jim frazier
73447.3113@compuserve.com

subject mac to laserjet iiip
from osterber@husc8.harvard.edu (richard osterberg)
nntp posting host husc8.harvard.edu
lines 12


i have a friend who has a mac (lc or lc ii i think) , and her family has an
extra laserjet iiip sitting around. is there any way to connect these
two and make them work without a postscript cartridge \? she told me that a
random friend of hers had mentioned something about some software package
that could do the translation...
rick


rick osterberg osterber@husc.harvard.edu 617 493 7784 617 493 3892
2032 harvard yard mail center cambridge , ma 02138 7510 usa


from u56149@uicvm.uic.edu
subject lciii midi
article i.d. uicvm.93096.135945u56149
organization university of illinois at chicago , academic computer center
lines 11

does anyone have any experience using lciii with midi \? do they get along ok \?
i have heard that the iivx is not suitable for midi , but i have not heard anyon
e say anything definitive about lciii and midi \? if you have had experience , wh
at midi interface have you used \? anyone used finale software in this setting \?
please e mail. i will summarize.

thanks ,

jerry bartlett
peoria , illinios
u56149@uicvm.cc.uic.edu

from bm967@cleveland.freenet.edu (david kantrowitz)
subject can you share one monitor w 2 cpus \?
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 6
nntp posting host slc4.ins.cwru.edu


i have a centris 610 want to get an ibm machine as well.
to save space on my desk , i would like to use one monitor
for both , with a switch box. does anyone know of a way to do
this \?


from kwgst @pitt.edu (mr. someone)
subject modem question
article i.d. blue.9061
organization pre ee
lines 2


art

from rsnyder@nyx.cs.du.edu (russ snyder)
subject re performa 450 internal modem \?
x disclaimer nyx is a public access unix system run by the university
of denver for the denver community. the university has neither
control over nor responsibility for the opinions of users.
organization nyx , public access unix at u. of denver math cs dept.
lines 10

in article lsrk94innr2s@news.bbn.com ado@quince.bbn.com (buz owen) writes
i hear that the performa 450 is really an lciii with an internal modem. can
the modem part be obtained and installed in an lciii \? it would be nice if it
were actually a powerbook internal modem , but that might be too much to hope
for.

i believe you were misinformed. i checked out one of the p450 's at sears
last week. the modem is external 2400bps data with send only fax.



from dleonard@wixer.cactus.org (dale leonard)
subject re wise to remove fan in classic \?
organization real time communications
lines 22

in article hansg.733929100@risken hansg@risken.vd.volvo.se (hans granqvist) writes
is it wise to even think about removing the annoying fan from my
classic \? i have no warranty to void.

and where do i get a screwdriver to fit in those funny screws \?

hans granqvist , volvo data corp. , gothenburg , sweden my opinions only
to every complex problem there exists an easy solution that 's not correct.

the screws are torx screws and the tool is n't to hard to find. it 's a
matter of finding one with a long enough shaft to do the trick.

no it is not a good idea to take that fan out. why because it will
cause stuff to over heat. internal hard drives , motherboard...you name
it and this can cause damage. i 've known people to have hard drive
failures because of fans that did n't work right....


dale leonard judy 's stamps (misc. topical stamps. from dogs..
dleonard@wixer.cactus.org to cats to baseball and many many other subjects
austin , tx 78727 for stamp information call tony leonard at......
(512)834 8770 (my number) (512) 837 0022 this is a business only number ! ! !

from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re help with simm configuration
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 22

rcs8@po.cwru.edu (robert c. sprecher) writes

can someone please help me understand the current situation
regarding simms \?

sure. i can give is a shot...

i have a iisi which i will probably keep for another 2 years.
i would like to add more memory , ie go from 5 mb to 17 mb.
i know that i will need 4 x 4mb , 80ns or faster simms.
which simms , 30 pin or 72 pin \?

you need to get the 30 pin simms.

would the simms i get today be usable in 2 years with a
newer , more powerful system \?

if you mean in a newer , more powerful mac system then the answer
is no. apple has stated that all new macs will use the 72 pin simms and
no longer use the 30 pin simms.

hades

from monty roscom@think.com (monty solomon)
subject powerbook 170 4 40
expires mon , 26 apr 1993 00 43 13 gmt
reply to monty solomon roscom ! monty@think.com
organization proponent
lines 8

the powerbook 170 4 40 with fax data modem is available thru citibank 's
citidollars catalog for 1995.00 19.95 s h ( 500 citidollars).

the modem is 2400 bps data , 9600 bps fax (send only).


monty solomon po box 2486 framingham , ma 01701 0405
monty roscom@think.com

from dleonard@wixer.bga.com (dale leonard)
subject trade mac se system for color mac \? \? \?
article i.d. wixer.1993apr16.181557.11264
organization real time communications
lines 31

ok i want to get a color mac i do n't care if it is an lc or a mac ii or
what but i want to go to a color machine. i 'd prefer to trade my
present mac se system plus some cash or other equipment for the color
system as right now i'm not full of the to buy a color system
outright.
here 's what my mac se system has...

mac se 4 20 with internal 800k drive
20 meg external
external 800k drive
imagewriter ii with 4 color ribbon

stuff that can go with it......
i 've got 3 modems and i 'd be willing to give 1 of the 9600 's and the
2400 with the system

multitech multimodem ii (9600 data fax)
u.s. robotics sportster (9600 data)
microcom qx 12k (normally will connect at only 2400 as highest
but it will do faster if connected to another microcom)

the usr and the multitech are both brand new

if interested send me e mail at dleonard@wixer.bga.com



primary judy 's stamps (misc. topical stamps. from dogs..
dleonard@wixer.bga.com to cats to baseball and many many other subjects
secondary for stamp information call tony leonard at......
dleonard@wixer.cactus.org (512) 837 0022 this is a business only number ! ! !

from ebodin@pearl.tufts.edu
subject screen death mac plus 512
lines 22
organization tufts university medford , ma

i have a (very old) mac 512k and a mac plus , both of which
have the same problem.

their screens blank out , sometimes after a minor physical jolt
(such as inserting a floppy in the internal drive) , sometimes
all by themselves (computer left to itself just goes blank).

i have replaced the wires connecting the logic boards and the
video board , because it seemed at first that jiggling the wires
made the screen come back on. this worked for a while , but the
blanking out has returned.

can i do anything \? do i need a new power supply \? a new crt \?
a new computer \?

thanks for any advice...


ethan bodin
tufts university
ebodin@pearl.tufts.edu


distribution world
from kris kauper@fourd.com
organization 4th dimension bbs
subject re a stylewriter ii question
lines 13

i just read an article on the swii. one thing puzzles me the article says the
swii is a serial only device. does that mean i 'll have to unplug my modem
each
time i want to print something \? \? \?

no. the printer port on the mac is also serial. it has the same interface as
the imagewriter ii.
kris

system fourd.com phone 617 494 0565
cute quote being a computer means never having to say you 're sorry



from swiers@chaos.aqeng.cdc.com (aaron swiers)
subject re increasing the number of serial ports
organization control data systems inc.
lines 16

slang@bnr.ca (steven langlois) writes
does anyone know if there are any devices available for the mac which
will increase the number of serial ports available for use
simultaneously \? i would like to connect up to 8 serial devices to my
mac for an application i am working on. i must be able to access each
one of the independently.

applied engineering makes a nubus card called the quadralink which is
a board that contains 4 serial ports , which i believe can be used
simultaneously. i'm not a user of one of these , but i have installed
a couple for people at work (i'm a technician). hope this helps.


aaron swiers
control data corporation , arden hills mn swiers@chaos.aqeng.cdc.com
electrical engineering student , u of nd swiers@plains.nodak.edu

from dudek@daeron.mcrcim.mcgill.edu (gregory dudek)
subject re iici q700 upgrade \?
nntp posting host daeron.mcrcim.mcgill.edu
organization mcgill research centre for intelligent machines
lines 28

in article c5ha0x.11oq@austin.ibm.com login@austin.ibm.com writes

a while ago i posted a note asking for specs on the quadra 700 , and opinions on
the q700 upgrade of a iici vs. an accelerator card. so far no responsed that
i 've noticed. please let me know what you think of these possible upgrade
paths cost , efficiency , pros cons , etc.. thanks !

complete q700 are best obtained from your dealer or some recent
copy of macworld or macuser. my foggy memory suggests that the most relevant
comparison factors vis a vis a iici are as follows

25 mhz 68040
16 mhz data path (do n't recall this for sure , but it 's slower
than q 950 style machines for sure).
ethertalk card on board
audio in out
4 mb ram on motherboard
4 simm slots
2 nubus slots.
more flexible build in video than the ci. uses vram.

in comparison , a iici with an accelerator wo n't give you
audio or ethernet or the same video options.
with a 68040 accelerator , cpu performance can be comparable but i
think it ends up costing more.

greg dudek

from ivancich@eecs.umich.edu (eric ivancich)
subject re 14 monitors
in reply to fredm@media.mit.edu 's message of wed , 31 mar 1993 20 39 45 gmt
organization university of michigan eecs department
distribution na
lines 37

in article 1993mar31.203945.8757@news.media.mit.edu fredm@media.mit.edu (fred g martin) writes

part of posting removed

the sony cpd 1304 has better video circuitry than either of the
other two monitors. it can display apple 640x480 , vga 640x480 , vga
800x600 (though this has 56 hz flicker) , and apple 832x624 (75 hz
refresh no flicker at all). it might be able to display apple 's
1024x768 , but i'm not sure about this , and the pixels would be real
small anyway so it might not be that useful.

note that with either sony monitor , you will need the proper adapter ,
which both connects the video signals properly , but also informs the
macintosh video hardware of which display mode to use.

part of posting removed


fred martin fredm@media.mit.edu (617) 253 7143 20 ames st. rm. e15 301
epistemology and learning group , mit media lab cambridge , ma 02139 usa

i'm assuming that the cabling tells the mac , at startup , what kind of
monitor is connected. now i think i 've seen ads in popular mac
magazines for products (i'm not sure if it 's just a monitor , just a
video card , or a package of both) that allow you to change resolutions
on the fly (w o restarting the mac).

if you were to buy a 1304 , would it be possible to switch back and
forth between apple 640x480 and apple 832x624 without restarting the
mac \? is this strictly a hardware startup function , or can software
intervene , or does the mac hardware occasionally probe the cable
setting and switch automatically \?

thanks ,

eric
(ivancich@eecs.umich.edu)

organization university of maine system
from jon carr io91748@maine.maine.edu
subject pin map for 8pin din cable \?
lines 26



1 2 3
facing
female plug end 4 5 6


7 8



anyone recognize this \? it 's my little layout of a eight pin female plug
connector used for many mac peripherals.

problem problem problem
printer (cheap) cables using this configuration switch a couple of
pins between one end and the other. i want to use cheap cables for an
a b box. anyone know which pins get reversed so i can do some
creative editing on the internals of my box \? any help would be
greatly appreciated.


jon jon carr
io91748@maine.maine.edu umaine '93
1993 ncaa champions ! how about those 42 1 2 black bears ! !
m a i n e go blue ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !

from bts@rock.concert.net (bruce t smith personal account)
subject disappearing hard drive in lc \?
organization concert connect public access unix
lines 31

the internal hd in my lc disappeared for a day last week , and i 'd like to
hear any (reasonable) theories folks can suggest for what happened.

it is an lc , with 10mb of ram and an 80mb internal drive , running system
7.1 , with a few scsi devices in a (so far as i know) properly terminated
chain.

i had shut down the system for a day i was out of town and we sometimes
have thunderstorms this time of year and upon restarting got a blinking
question mark. i booted from a floppy and saw that my external hd seemed
okay , but there was no sign of the internal.

i installed a system folder on the external and was , indeed , able to boot
from it. i tried things like disk first aid and silverlining , to inquire
about the internal drive. they either could not find it or got errors in
trying to talk to it. (silverlining claimed it was a connor drive , but it
is a quantum... )

well , i 'd backed things up , so i was able to work. but , at some point i
noticed that the internal had reappeared. now , disk first aid says that
all 's well , etc. things seem to be fine.

but , what happened \? was this a warning that something (the internal hd
or something else) is about to die \? i'm definitely nervous.

and , if this is a signal that the internal hd is sick , is it true that i
can only put up to a 127mb drive inside an lc \? some folks have claimed
there 's a limitation in the lc (other'n size or power) while others (and
that includes lacie , over the phone) say anything that fits is okay.

thanks for answers.

from kelleyb@austin.ibm.com (kelley boylan)
subject re screen death mac plus 512
originator kelleyb@kelleyb.austin.ibm.com
reply to kelleyb@austin.ibm.com
organization ibm austin , powerpc
lines 29


i have a (very old) mac 512k and a mac plus , both of which
have the same problem.
their screens blank out , sometimes after a minor physical jolt
(such as inserting a floppy in the internal drive) , sometimes
all by themselves (computer left to itself just goes blank).

i have replaced the wires connecting the logic boards and the
video board , because it seemed at first that jiggling the wires
made the screen come back on. this worked for a while , but the
blanking out has returned.

can i do anything \? do i need a new power supply \? a new crt \?
a new computer \?

i had the same problem with my 512 a long time ago. resoldering
the joints on the motherboard (all of them) fixed it. turns out
that continuous heating and cooling caused annular (ring shaped)
cracks to develop in the solder , effectively cutting the video
circuitry off. if you 're not a solder jockey you might want to
have someone else do it i took mine to an electrical engineer
buddy but it was a 20 minute job , tops.

kelley


thomas kelley boylan , powerpc , ibm austin , kelleyb@austin.ibm.com

i buy and pay for my own opinions

from peterco@eff.org (peter cohen)
subject re comparative scsi performance
originator peterco@eff.org
nntp posting host eff.org
organization the electronic frontier foundation
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 12

kurt tiedtke (ktiedtke@jarthur.claremont.edu) wrote
could someone direct me to information on scsi performance for each mac \?
(max throughput , etc.)

max thruput on a centris or quadra is about 3.3 mb sec.
max thruput on iici or iifx or equivalent is about 1.4 mb sec
max thruput on slower machines is slower.


peter a. cohen no , i do n't reflect my employer 's opinions.
peterco@eff.org heck ! my employer does n't even know i'm here !


from jmilhoan@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jt)
subject help need modem info for duo 210
nntp posting host magnusug.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 10


hi... what alternatives to the express modem do duo owners have (if
they want to go at least 9600 baud) \?

every place in town says they are back ordered , and part of the reason
i want a laptop mac is so i can use it as a remote terminal from
wherever i am , but i really would hate to have to wait 2 months to get
a modem in or have to settle with 2400 baud.

thank you ,

from pilon@aix02.ecs.rpi.edu (t.j. pilon)
subject re my iicx wo n't turn on...
nntp posting host aix02.ecs.rpi.edu
lines 7

i 've changed the battery in the thing (shortly after the problem first
happened) and i 've noticed an inordinate number of bus errors lately...


t.j. pilon
pilon@rpi.edu


from wgw@netcom.com (william g. wright)
subject se rom
keywords roms , grayscale , select 300
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 32


i just bought a select 300 and rushed home to print
some grayscale pictures for my kids , when i discovered that
grayscale(and photograde) are not available if you are
using an se...even if you are running with an '030 cpu.
you wo n't see this in the printer 's docs , and the apple
rep did n't mention it to our users group either. it seems
that se roms wo n't support those features . okay , i
guess i should have somehow known that this was the case.
let the buyer beware , huh apple \?
be that as it may , i have been thinking about the
problem and i'm puzzled. why ca n't a defencieny in the
rom be made up for in software. i write software for a living
(on unix platforms) and i do n't understand the it just
ca n't be done responses i 've gotten from those i have
asked so far. is n't mode32 , or somesuch piece of soft
ware , just such a fix.
anyway , i was hoping someone knowledgeable
about mac internals could set me straight is it simply
impossible for a mac se to print grayscale , or could
someone armed with enough info and a little pro
gramming experience cook something up that would
supplement the rom 's capabilities \?
also , how does one know if one 's mac can
support the grayscale and photograde that the select 300
is supposedly capable of \? ( short of buying the printer
and trying it out like i did)
thanks for your help.

bill wright
wgw@netcom.com


from kelleyb@austin.ibm.com (kelley boylan)
subject re iisi at 33mhz success story
originator kelleyb@kelleyb.austin.ibm.com
distribution usa
reply to kelleyb@austin.ibm.com
organization ibm austin , powerpc
lines 17


howdy folks. back in september or october '92 i posted instructions
on how to upgrade the iisi to 25mhz by doin' a little solderin'.
people bolder than me have reported that they 've done the same
procedure , but put in a 66mhz oscillator instead of 50. (thus running
the cpu at 33mhz instead of 25.) so i tried it and i 'll be darned if
it does n't work.

has anyone tried or does anyone know if this procedure will work on
an se 30 \? mine 's old , slow , and in need of either death or power.

kelley


thomas kelley boylan , powerpc , ibm austin , (512) 838 1869

kelleyb@austin.ibm.com

from wis@liverpool.ac.uk (mr. w.i. sellers)
subject re pds vs. nubus (was re lc iii nubus capable \? )
organization the university of liverpool
lines 42
nntp posting host uxd.liv.ac.uk
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8

bill higgins beam jockey (higgins@fnalf.fnal.gov) wrote
in article c5kzls.kkb@dartvax.dartmouth.edu , hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes) writes
mmiller@garnet.msen.com (marvin miller) writes
my friend recently purchased a lc iii and he wants to know if there is
such a demon called nubus adapter for his pds slot \?

the lc family of macs can only
use pds cards. they are not able to use nubus.

ah , but why \? can some technically hip macslinger tell us what the
difference is between pds and nubus \?

is it impossible to make a gadget that plugs into pds and ends in a
nubus card cage \? at least , marvin 's friend has not been able to
locate one and neither have i. what is the fundamental reason for
this \?

i think that there do exist nubus expansion cages (i'm sure i 've seen
them advertised occassionally) , but i think that the main problem is that
they cost much more than the difference in price between say a lc and iivx
so unless you need lots of nubus slots its not worth the bother.

(of course , it may be that these extra boxes are so expensive because
no one buys them because they are so expensive...)

nubus technology is n't a special apple proprietry thing (i have this
sneaky feeling that it is licensed from texas instruments \? \? \? ) so there
is no problem building an expansion box.

the difference between nubus and pds is that nubus is a clever interface
with lots of neat toys built in to make sure that lots of cards can work
together on the same computer. pds (processor direct slot) is just that
here are all the connections to the processor. you can do anything with
this and it is as quick as it can be , but there 's no cooperation. you
may be able to get double pds slot adaptors but you try plugging 2
video cards in , and just watch them conflict ! of course , the extra
electronics in a nubus slot makes it appreciably more expensive , so
guess why apple does n't put it in it 's cheaper machines \?

so , yah pays yer money and yah takes yah choice.

bill (wis@liverpool.ac.uk)

from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon w tte)
subject re whither quickdraw performance (across product line)
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 26

in daves 190493121505@129.228.20.182 daves@xetron.com (dave steele) writes

the fastest quickdraw color performing computer apple makes is the
(drumroll please) lciii. and the color classic ranks right up there with
the quadra line. the centris line pales in comparison.

does anybody know the differences in these computers that explains the
disparity in graphics processor performance \?

i think you are suffering from some alignment or color
table or whatever problems , if a color classic is as fast
as a quadra rendering to screen.

what screen card you use does of course matter much (built in
video is almost always faster than nubus)

or you measured scroll entire screen where the color classic
had a vram 10 screen in 4 bit color and the quadra had a
21 24 bit screen on nubus )

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe
this sig less than 3 lines improve the usenet s n ratio !

from drlovemd@jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu (steve liu)
subject re cd300 300i
organization homewood academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa
lines 89
distribution world
nntp posting host jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu

in article 1ps8d7innrc0@srvr1.engin.umich.edu chyang@leghorn.engin.umich.edu (chung hsiung yang) writes

in article bauer 060493101758@134.60.68.23 , bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de (christian bauer) writes
in article afi9shs00vohmrylee@andrew.cmu.edu , donpaul c. stephens
deathbird @cmu.edu wrote

what is the difference \?
i want a double spin cd rom drive by may

looking into nec and apple , doublespins only
what is the best \?

nec toshiba and sony (apple) nearly deliver the same speed.
as apples prices are very low (compared to there ram simms)
you should buy what is inexpencive. but think of driver revisions.
it is easier to get driver kits from apple than from every other
manufacturer

christian bauer

bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de


i thought nec and toshiba cd rom mechanism have an average
access time of less than 200 ms. while the sony apple cd rom
drive has an access time of 300 ms for the doublespin models.

chung yang


i have the a cd technology drive with the toshiba mechanism , and it is
supposedly the fast and best now. it has an access of 200ms and a data
transfer rate 300kb sec. it is multisession photo cd compatible. it is
available from educorp for 599 , the cd technology one , and comes with two
mail in coupons for two free cds. i'm not sure if the cd 's are good , since
i 've only had the drive a little less than a month and had the cd 's shipped
to my home address in california instead of here in maryland. the
cd technology drive has a separate power supply separated from the drive ,
which supposedly gives it a longer life , and keeps it cleaner with no fan to
attract dust. a toshiba brand drive is also available , but i think the
cd technology is better , since you get the same mechanism , and at a slightly
lower price with two free cds.

the apple 300 330i drive , sony mechanism , is around a 300ms access time i
think , and a data transfer rate of 300kb sec. i know it is the slowest of the
three mentioned here. it is not widely available , except through the apple
catalog , which is bad at a price of only 599. it is also multi session photo
cd compatible. i think the external model comes with 7 free cds , some of
which are pretty good.

the nec drive has been out the longest. it has an access time of 280ms and
a data transfer rate of 300kb sec. it is available from many vendors around
600 dollars , including educorp. it was n't multi sesssion photo cd compatible
before , but i hear that the current version that is shipping is. owners of
the older drives can get an upgrade. it does not come with any free cd 's
unless you buy it in a bundle.

of the three cd rom drives above , i think the best choices would be the
apple drive and the cd technology(toshiba) drive. the apple drive for it 's
compatibility with apple products and the cd technology(toshiba) for it 's
speed and performance.

btw , the models of the drives are

apple applecd 300 or applecd 300i (internal)

cd technology cd t3401 (the toshiba brand name model i'm not sure , but it
is also something like with 3401)

nec cdr 74


i'm very happy with my drive. and have had no compatibility problems
whatsoever. if i am wrong about any of the above , do correct me , but i am
pretty sure of myself , even when i think i'm not.

also , some of you out there might notice that i have the same last name as
the president of cd technology which happens to be in southern california ,
my hometown. however , i am not a relative nor do i know the guy. liu is
just a common chinese name , especially in southern california , with the
enormous chinese community. besides , one of my doctors in california has
three steve liu 's as patients and another steve liu comes to my school and
lives in the next dorm. this is to show that liu is very common.

steve )

steve liu i wish for a better .sig
drlovemd@jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu suggestions are very welcome !
drlovemd@jhuvms.hcf.jhu.edu

from horton@molbio.cbs.umn.edu (robert horton)
subject re macs suck ! buy a pc !
nntp posting host molbio.cbs.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5
lines 3


tests suck ! post a real message !
)

from bgrubb@dante.nmsu.edu (grubb)
subject mac ibm info version 1.7.7
organization new mexico state university , las cruces , nm
lines 753
distribution world
nntp posting host dante.nmsu.edu

send follow ups to comp.sys.mac.advocacy. sorry about the header but the
pnews here does not let one easily change the headers and i gave up after a
year of trying. this sheet is also available by ftp on sumex aim.stanford.edu
(36.44.0.6) in the info mac report as mac ibm compare177.txt.
mac ibm info version 1.7.7

the reason for this general data sheet is to consolidate and condense the
information out there , so that people in both camps can be clear and accurate
about what they are saying about their machines. since computer technology
is always changing there are always going to be points in which the sheet will
be lacking or incorrect on information. so , please just do n't say the sheet
is incomplete or incorrect but also give me clear and concise information to
make the needed corrections. all prices are in us dollars.
to keep this data sheet organized please provide , if possible , article
citations for the information provided or corrected and keep the opinions to
a minimum. as this is a general data sheet , keep the info provided simple so
i can understand what is being talked about and can explain it to others.
finally , keep the information relevant to the section corrected for example ,
os code in rom is software contained in hardware , so no more of the 'but it
is supported in os disk software' data for the hardware section , please .
thank you.
note for proper reading off line this document should be in 9 point monaco.

special thanks to andrew@aardvark.ucs.uoknor.edu (chihuahua charlie) ,
andrew@frip.wv.tek.com (andrew klossner) , bell peter@yale.edu (peter bell) ,
bcoleman@hayes.com (bill coleman) , cj00 @andrew.cmu.edu (carl b jabido) , d88
jwa@nada.kth.se (jon wtte) ephraim@think.com (ephraim vishniac) ,
fj05 @andrew.cmu.edu (faisal nameer jawdat) , gsidler@cafe.eecs.nwu.edu
(gabriel sidler) , julian@deepthnk.kiwi.gen.nz (julian harris) ,
erick.krueger@um.cc.umich.edu , krueger@engin.umich.edu ,
matt@wardsgi.med.yale.edu (matt healy) , mark@bilpin.co.uk (mark allerton) ,
jokim@jarthur.claremont.edu (john h. kim) , mem@jhufos.pha.jhu.edu (mel
martinez) , nan@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (nan zou) , pwagner us.oracle.com ,
s fuller@iastate.edu , strobl@gmd.de (wolfgang strobl) ,
jkirvin@pafosu1.hq.af.mil , phill@ichips.intel.com ,
shaikha@duvm.ocs.drexel.edu , sxjcb@orca.alaska.edu (jay c. beavers) , lewis
kawecki@novell.com , lamont@catfish16.rtsg.mot.com (bradley lamont) ,
cerro@mbcl.rutgers.edu ( cerro , joseph a ) , mpark@utmem1.utmem.edu (mel park) ,
logullo@applelink.apple.com (jeff logullo) , zrai02@hou.amoco.com (robert
irlbeck) , and mikew@apple.com for providing some of the information that made
this list possible.
contents
cpus
hardware
monitor support
expansion
operating system
os number crunching
networking printing

the cpus
note i am only showing motorola intel cpus used in mac and most ibm pc
clone machines. for example , since apple never used the motorola 68008 and
68010 in the mac these chips are not listed. years only appear with dead cpus
and indicate first to last year used as a cpu.
cache note both ibm and mac use caches external to the cpus. these external
caches increase the speed of the cpu but are not a part of it. in most of
the present macs there are external caches built in while with ibm they are
optional though machines are generally sold with them installed . since
there are many different external caches cpu mac and ibm scsi , video , disk
and static ram mac , each having a different effect on cpu performance , and
they are machine 32kb static ram cache in iici , iifx , and iivx , seller
cache card installed in some iicis or expansion iici cache cards go up to
128kb dependent , i have decided to leave them out of the list.
note alu is industry 's de facto standard for cpu bit classification.
ibm alu registers external cpu features
cpu bus address cache notes
8088(6) 16 16 8 (16) 20 none 1981 9 198 \? 9
80186 16 16 16 20 none 198 \? 9 \? segmenting
80286 16 16 16 24 none 80186 protected mode
80386 32 32 32 32 none mmu 32 bit protected mode
486sx 32 32 32 32 one 8k 80486 fpu
80486 32 32 32 32 one 8k 80386 fpu
486dx2 32 32 32 32 one 8k doubled internal clock rate
486dx3 being demoed. 20 60 mhz , 25 75 mhz , and 33 99 mhz planned.
pentium 32 32 64 32 16k code , cisc chip with risc like
5 16k data features , 2 issue superscalar ,
p 5 386 write back , 64 bit
fpu path , pipelining speed
specint92 64.5 specfp92
56.9

386sx 386 chip with 32 bit internal 16 bit external architecture.
286 and 386sx chips can address to 16mb maximum ram.
386sl low power(3.3v) 386sx with built in power management. used mainly on
laptops.
386slc ibm 5v 386sx with a 16k on chip cache added (john h. kim). as far as
john h. kim knows it is only used on ibm models.
486slc neither of two chips that have this name have a fpu. cyrix basically
486sx in 386sx socket with 1k cache and improved integer math speed. ibm
equivalent to the 486sx except it has a 16k on chip cache.

ex. for 486dx2 50 , chip runs 50 mhz rest of machine runs at 25 mhz.
(pc week 04 12 93 pc mag 4 27 93 138) the latest in a line of cisc chips
(pc mag 4 27 93 110) samples released march 22 , 1993 , but machines will not
be announced until at least may 1993 (pc week 2 08 93). 1000 a cpu systems
5000 and up (pc mag 4 27 93 110).

mac alu registers external cpu features
cpu bus address cache notes
68000 16 32 16 24 none 1984 1993 16mb limit
68020 32 32 32 32 256 code 1987 1992 parallel processing
68030 32 32 32 32 two 256 68020 mmu , 16k burst mode
68lc040 32 32 32 32 two 4k 68040 fpu
68040 32 32 32 32 two 4k mmu , fpu , pipelining , doubled
internal clock rate
68050 development discontinued in favor of 68060
68060 32 32 32 32 branch 68040 a better fpu ,
target superscaler pipelining , cache
line bursts , equivalent
capabilities speeds to
pentium

includes data and instruction code caches. the 68030 , 68lc040 , 68040
have built in caches for both.
68000 mac designs created a 4mb limit.
the 040 has 2 clocks , an internal processor clock pclk that is 2x freq of
external bus clock bclk which is the one used to rate the chips
(bradley lamont motorola 68040 data book). some compilers produce programs
sensitive to the pclk and so they act as if the 68040 was a clock doubler
chip , but this very compiler and program dependent. compliers maybe written
to allow programs to take consitant advantage of the 68040 's pclk in the
future. as it is now , studies such as one in a byte article which showed
040 25 486 50 and roughly 486dx2 50 are very dependent on the machine , os ,
and programs tested and as such are not representative of general performance.
motorola claims (pc week 09 07 92 09 14 92).

as the powerpcs are to be in both ibm and mac machines i have listed them
separately to eliminate redundancy. they are motorola cpu risc chips.

powerpc alu registers external cpu features
cpu bus address cache notes
mc98601 32 32 32 int 64 32k speed specint92 50
601 32 fp combined specfp92 80
i d
mc98603 low power mc98601 for desktop portable systems. out by end of 1993.
603
mc98604 high performance mc98601 for high end machines. out by 1st q 1994.
604
mc98620 64 64 32 int 64 32k out by mid 1994.
620 32 fp combined
i d

(pc week 04 12 93 pc mag 4 27 93 138). select venders were sent sample
mc98601 chips by motorola 2 93 (pc week 2 08 93) , and some nubus boards
containing early samples of powerpc 601 have been given to apple 's a list
developers (pc week 12 7 92 macweek 12 14 92). mc98601 50mhz 280
mc98601 66mhz 374 (pc week 4 12 93). systems 3500 with 2000 versions
out by mid 1994 (pc week 4 12 93).

cpus comparison list
as a general rule of thumb motorola chips are faster than intel chips at the
same frequency 030 25 386 33 040 25 486dx 50 , but intel has chips at
higher frequencies than motorola , so this evens out. the macintosh bible 4th
ed. supports the comparisons between intel and motorola chips for the 68020
and above.

80186 68000 16 bit vs 16 24 32 bit chip data path address
lines data address registers . the 4mb limit on the 68000 macs brings it
down to the 80186 and lower chips , otherwise it would compare to the 80286.

286 68020 hardware segmenting vs. 68020 's 32 bit alu and these chips
come have no usable built in mmu unlike their successors 80386 , 68030 . the
hardware segmenting 's protected mode is used by os 2 1.0 and windows 3.x.
the use of the hardware segmenting and their 16 bit nature put the 286 between
the 60000 and 68030 in features and the lc 's 16 bit data path strenghthens the
286 68020 comparison.

386 68030 two 32 bit chips with mmus , and protected memory. a ux 3.0
is at present the only mac os to use the 68030 's protected memory feature for
apps. system 7.x uses this feature to protect a ram disk created by the
memory control panel but this is supported only on powerbooks and quadras.
the color classic and lcii 16 bit hardware data paths makes the 68030s in them
comparative to 386sxs.

486sx 68lc040 same as 486 and 68040 without the fpu used as a low cost
solution for people who do not need the fpu. only with programs sensitive to
pclk pipelining does the 68lc040 behave like 486dx2 fpu or a '486dx2sx'.

486 68040 two 32 bit microprocessors with built in fpu , mmu , 8k
internal cache (which is implemented as two 4k caches in the 68040 and one in
the 486). only with programs sensitive to pclk pipelining does the 68040
behave like a 486dx2.

pentium 68060 both are planned to be superscalar but both have heat
problems. these chips may flounder against the cheaper (pc week 3 08 93
4 12 93 pc mag 4 27 93 110) , earlier released (pc week 12 7 92 macweek
12 14 92 pc week 2 08 93) , less leat producing 160 degrees f for pentium
(pc mag 4 27 93 118) , and partly ported to powerpc chips.

powerpc powerpc this cpu line is planned to run programs from dos ,
windows 3.x , os 2 and mac os on top of poweropen a ux 4.0 unix and later
pink taligent os by using emulators or , if necessary , the oses themselves in
a 'shell' a.k. how softpc or os 2 does dos.

hardware
in an effort to remove the 'reconfiguring the system almost every time you
add something' requirement for add in cards , drivers , video , and operating
systems in the ibm world , intel , microsoft and 12 other hardware and software
developers are working out 'plug and play' standards (pc week 03 08 93).
color support display
mac 30.24 mhz pixel clock standard. all present macs support the use of
32 bit color through 32 bit color quickdraw in rom. 32 bit color quickdraw
allows an almost transparent capability to display and edit x bit images in y
bit color and retain all the colors of y bit color where x and y
independently are 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , or 32 regardless of monitor resolution 63
dpi 12 color to 94 dpi palettebook or monitor type including
autosynchronous vga , mcga and svga monitors with ranges including 66.7 hz
vertically and 35 khz horizontally and only a hardware video adaptor (macuser
aug 1992 158 176). older machines that supported color se 30 , ii , iix , and
iicx had only 8 bit color in rom and needed a software patch to use 32 bit
color (macuser special 1993 28 29).
to keep costs down and speed up most macs have only 8 or 16 bit display
capability built in , but most of those can be expanded to display 24 bit
color. presently quickdraw is optimized for 72 dpi display quickdraw qx
will change this.
in addition , quickdraw allows , in macs with a nubus slot , more then one
monitor to be used in any combination , from two monitors showing the same
thing to multiple monitors acting as one large large monitor with any degree
of overlap of the pictures.
vram video ram. standard for present non powerbook mac 's handling of
built in video from a 32 bit color palette . vram provided runs a 8 bit
color 640x480 display expandable to 16 bit color or a 8 bit 832x624 display.
sound output standard in all macs since the 128k. stereo sound became
standard with the se 30.

ibm even though pcs have rom bios definitions of how the operating system
interacts with the video hardware (nan zou) , the use of drivers bypassing
bios , video hareware inconsitancies see super vga below and nonstanderzation
of clone bios have left resolution of video display hardware , os and program
interaction up to the os and video hardware in question (faisal nameer
jawdat). in addition , ibm and clone makers never bothered to provide a
standard hardware mechanism for software to determine what display mode is
actually present (matt healy) nor a standardized screen drawing toolbox like
mac 's qd . as a result the os must be very well written to detect some modes ,
especially with some third party cards or to use them consitantly at present
things are so dependent on the interaction of the program , os , print driver
and monitor card that editing 32 bit pictures regardless of color mode , os ,
and monitor type card combination as one can do on the mac is impossible with
an ibm. for example , one cannot edit a 32 bit color picture done on a os 2
486 with a svga monitor on a 386 with vga 18 bit color palette and dos 5.0
and still have all the colors one started out with .
later ibm machines will have integrated graphics accelerators , faster
processors , and modular upgradeability and may have built in sound cards , cd
rom , and ethernet (pc week 12 14 92).
mda monocrome display adapter
original character mapped video mode , no graphics , 80x25 text.
cga color graphics array
320x200 4 colors or 640x200 b w , 16 color palette , bad for the eyes.
ega enhanced graphics array
640x350 16 colors from 64 color palette and some lower res some versions
could run at 256 colors , bearable on the eyes.
vga video graphics array
320x200 at 256 colors , 640x480 at 16 colors , and some others , these two are
the most commonly used. all modes have a 256k clut , from a
18 to 24 bit ibm or a 32 bit mac color palette. 25.175 mhz pixel clock
(mel martinez). monitors use analog input , incompatible with ttl signals
from ega cga etc.
mcga multi color graphics array
subset of vga that provides all the features of mda cga , but lacks some ega
and vga modes , like vga 640x480x16 (dictionary of computer terms dct).
common on the initial ps 1 implementation from ibm and some ps 2 models.
svga super vga
this is not a standard in the way the others were , but instead was a 'catch
all' category for a group of video cards. as such , with each manufacturer
using their own implementation scheme , svga was chaos with people debating
as to what is svga and what is not. in an effort to make svga more of a
standard vesa was established and is used in the newer units , but things
are still a mess. video is either 512k 1990 or 1m today , resolution
of 800x600 and 1024x768 at 16 and 256 colors are common , newer ones since
1990 have the sierra hicolor ramdac , giving 15 bit 32 , 768 colors at 800x600 ,
some of the very newer ones 6 92 can do 24 bits per pixel usually
at 640x480 . speedwise , too much variation , some very slow western digital
paradise based , for example , some very fast s3 86c911 based , for example ,
some are so so like tseng et4000 , a very popular chipset . some limiting
factors overcome by 40mhz vl bus 386 's linear address mapping were
8.33 mhz isa bus , at architecture where the cpu looks at the card through a
64k window , etc.
other non svga standards
8514 a
ibm 's own standard , interlacing graphics accelerator with graphics functions
like linedraw , polygon fill , etc. in hardware. some clone implementations
from ati are the fastest video available today , though some clone models do
not have interlacing.
tms34010 34020 high end graphics co processors , usually 1000 , some
do 24 bit , speeds up vector oriented graphics like cad.
xga extended graphics array
newer and faster than 8514 a , only available for mca bus based ps 2s , clones
are coming out soon. emulates vga , ega , and cga (dct). max resolution at
1024x768x8b , same as 8514 a , also some 16 bpp modes.
xga 2
accelerates graphics functions up to 20 times faster than standard vga in
windows and os 2 , including line draws , bit and pixel block transfers , area
fills , masking and x y addressing. has an intelligent way to detect and co
exist with other xga 2 cards , so multiple desktops like on the mac may not be
far away. since this is an architecture , its resolution and color depth
is n't fixed ibm implements only 16 bit 65 , 536 color , while other
companies can have 24 bit color through ibm technical licenses . refresh
rates up to 75 hz , ensures flicker free , rock solid images to reduce visual
discomfort , and is vga compatible. up to 1280x1024 on os 2.
some monitor types usable by mac see mac section above for specific details.

expansion
both mac ibm
scsi only external device expansion interface common to both mac and ibm.
allows the use of any device hard drive , printer , scanner , nubus card
expansion mac plus only , some monitors , and cd rom.
main problem there are a lot of external devices which are internal
terminated which causes problems for more then two devises off the scsi port
a scsi chain is supposed to be terminated only at the begining and at the
end. any other set up causes problems for either mac or ibm .
scsi 1 7 devices per scsi controller. 8 bit asynchronous 1.5mb s ave
and synchronous 5mb s max transfers. difference is due to scsi 1 software
drivers. fast scsi 1 is a misname for 8 bit scsi 2 in scsi 1 mode
see scsi 2 for details .
scsi 2 10 devices per scsi controller in scsi 2 mode. scsi 2 is fully
scsi 1 compliant and 8 bit scsi 2 tends to be implemented as a very fast
scsi 1 since it does not require the different controller interfaces in
hardware and software that 16 and 32 bit scsi 2 do. transfer speeds are
4 6mb s with 10mb s burst 8 bit , 8 12mb s with 20mb s burst 16 bit , and
15 20mb s with 40mb s burst 32 bit wide and fast . since 8 bit scsi 2 can
use scsi 1 software drivers and hardware at 8 bit scsi 2 speeds and as such
is limited to 7 devices sometimes it is mistakenly called fast scsi 1 .
16 bit fast scsi 2 requires a scsi 2 software driver and scsi 2 electronics
but can still use the scsi 1 ports. wide 16 bit and 32 bit scsi 2 require a
different scsi port , electronics , and software driver from scsi 1 which
makes them more expensive than other scsi interfaces .
mac scsi asynchronous scsi 1 built in standard since the plus. even though
apple developed some specifications for scsi controlers , the os scsi manager
needs to be rewritten to take full advantage of the features of both scsi
interfaces. as a result present scsi 2 macs use 8 bit scsi 2 as a fast
asynchronous scsi 1. presently quadras are the only macs with a scsi 2
controller chip built in (digital review , oct 21 , 1991 v8 n33 p8(1))
though they lack some other parts of the hardware , like the wide scsi 2 port
interface. since other macs require a nubus card to use scsi 2 , older nubus
macs had a bottleneck due to the speed of the nubus and cpu. rumor some
cyclone macs june will come with a wide fast scsi 2 port standard
and have a rewritten os scsi manager.
ibm scsi scsi 1 is not too wide spread yet , generally not bundled with
systems , except as add on eisa and vesa local bus adapters avalable .
like the mac , 8 bit scsi 2 is used as a very fast scsi 1 by most controllers
out there. unlike the mac , ibm has no exact scsi controller specifications
which results in added incompatibilities for scsi.

mac
memory expansion with a few exceptions the mac has used non parity 30 pin
8 bit simm memory expansion since the plus. while 32 pin 9 bit parity simms
could be used in these macs , only special iicis could make use of the parity
feature by convension both simm types are called 32 pin simms . the iifx
used 64 pin parity simms. the lc iii , c610 650 and q800 all use a new
72 pin simm that is accessable by 32 bits at a time and is used in ibms.
the mac does a complete memory check at startup by writing reading every
memory location if something is seriously wrong with a simm the mac will
not boot and give a sound chord indicating what the problem is.
since macs made before feb 15 , 1993 managed memory baced on data path , simms
had to be installed in pairs 16 bit or in sets of 4 32 bit . the centris
650 and quadra 800 eliminate this with a new memory management setup that
allows memory to be upgraded one simm at a time. if the simms are the same
size are used then the memory is 'interleaved' across the two simms resulting
in a 10 15 performance boost on ram access (macworld apr 93 108 109).
printers , adbs , and modems built in interfaces standard.
monitor interface and sound input built in on most present macs.
pds available in se all present non powerbook macs. 16 bit se ,
portable , lc , lc ii , classic line and 32 bit. operates at cpu 's mhz.
maximum through put data path in bytes cpu 's mhz q700 900 c650
4 25mhz 100mb s q800 q950 4 33mhz 132mb s . standardized with
the lc and 040 bus designs. with an adapter one nubus card can be used in
iisi and c610. problem some cards have timing dependency which slows
through put down.
nubus mac ii 32 bit , 10 mhz bus clock , 1 to 1 transaction bus cycle ratio ,
and contiguous , hand shake transactions at 10 20mb s theoretical peak
40mb s. built in on all modular macs except the lc series , c610 , and
performa 400. the se 30 could be adapted to use this and there was even a
mac plus scsi nubus. supports every possible expansion from cpu to ethernet
to dma.
nubus 90 nubus mac ii back compatable. 20mhz bus clock , avg throughput
30mb s burst mode 80mb s. future card designs will be 7 instead of the
old 12 .
quickring a peer to peer bus used in parallel with nubus 90. apple 's
vlbus architecture is identical to that of vlbus (byte 10 92 128).
burst mode 350mb s (byte 10 92 128). in development.
cpu expansion handled either through the pds or the nubus. unlike pds ,
nubus cpu cards example radius rocket allow use of multiple processors at
the same time. this is like having two or more macs in the same box able to
dual task or joinly process depending on the card or software involved each
nubus card needs its own memory but most nubus cards of this type come with
8mb ram simms on the card standard .

ibm
memory expansion parity simms , non parity simms some newer models do a mac
like simm memory check , or a dozen or so different types of memory boards.

hd interfaces limited to hard drives by design or lack of development
mfm modified frequency modulation , rll run length limited
only used with smaller 60mb hard drives.
ide integrated device electronics
asynchronous 5mb s max and synchronous 8.3mb s max transfer.
currently the most common standard , and is mainly used for medium sized
drives. can have more than one hard drive.
esdi enhanced small device interface
1.25mb s throughput. generally considered better interface than scsi 1 in
many ways but not common enough for practical consideration. outside of
hard drives , device choices are very limited compared to scsi 1.

bus interfaces
new 'plug and play' isa and eisa compatable cards may have problems working
with old cards (infoworld pc week 03 08 93 vaporware 4 93).
isa
8 16 bit interfaces common. has 24 bit data path limit which produces a
16mb limit for which there are software workarounds (pc mag 4 27 93 105).
1.5 mb s (byte 3 93 132). uses edge triggered interrupts , ca n't share them ,
hence comes the irq conflict. limited busmastering capabilities , some cards
are n't bandwidth limited com ports , lpt ports , game ports , midi card , etc.
while others are video and disk controllers . dominant factor , but it 's
showing its age. most isa motherboard designs are 16 bit
(pc world feb 1993 144 5) .
mca micro channel
ibm 's 16 and 32 bit bus allows use of more than one cpu in a computer
(dct) and anything can talk to anything , as fast as the two components
involved can handle it. never took off because it was incompatible with isa
and eisa. planned to be bus interface of ibm powerpc 601 (carl jabido).
eisa nubus mac ii is closest mac equivalent
32 bit , 8.33 mhz , burst mode 33mb s. it also has the ability to
self configure cards like mca and allows multiple bus masters , sharable
interrupt and dma channels and multiple cpu use.
vesa local bus vlb sometimes mistakenly refereed to as pds
local bus standard. runs at cpu clock rate , burst modes 130 mb s 32 bit
250 mb s 64 bit (byte 10 92 128). limited to three slots but allows bus
mastering and will coexist with either isa or eisa. consitered ideal for
video and disk i o. dell has filled a claim that this violates one of
their patents (mel martinez).
quickring apple 's faster 350 mb s burst version of vlb architecture
(byte 10 92 132). might show up in some ibm and powerpc machines
(byte 10 92 132 133). in development.
pci
intel 's version of local bus that is intended to totally replace
isa eisa mca. in development.

oses assumes full installation print drivers , fonts , multifinder , etc.
and multiple application use.
mac
512k to 1mb of os and hardware commands have been put into rom. this allows
apple to control its machine by putting key hooks for the mac os quickdraw ,
menu commands , print , mouse , scsi sound drivers , etc in rom , which require
clone makers to use the rom chip or read rom on to disks which requires
access to the proper mac since different macs have slightly different rom
chips plus vs classic for example. with key hooks for the os support
interface in rom , programers do not have to worry as much whether the disk os
has the necessary hardware commands or that those commands are consitant and
therefore can write smaller programs. this also allows apple greater control
over hardware software standards and that the disk os can be smaller and , with
some of the tookbox command code in rom , with lower ram requirements then a
totally disk based os. macs use masked rom which is as fast as dram (jon
wtte).
6.0.7 single program usage base requirements 1 mb and dd floppy ,
cooperatively multitasking base requirements 2mb and hd floppy.
features a gui , cooperative multitasker multifinder , standard program
interface , standard stereo sound support snd . network receiving part of
appleshare software is bundled with the os. has a 8mb ram barrier and is a
24 bit os. some third party products allow 14mb of virtual memory as long as
real ram is below 8mb.
6.0.8 6.0.7 with 7.0.0 print drivers.
6.0.8l system 6 for some macs that require system 7.0.x.
7.0.x base requirements 2mb , 40mb hard drive , and 68000 de facto standard
to run all features well 4mb , 80mb hard drive , and 68030 lowest present
non portable mac configuration . using up to 10.08mb this is everything on
system disks of hard disk space this has 6.0.7 features plus program linking
within and between computers iac , built in server capabilities filesharing
can be used by older oses using appleshare client software and can be
accessed by 10 macs max 4 5 is more speed practical , iac requires 7.x ,
virtual memory in machines with mmu 1.6 times real ram for least noticeable
iisi speed degradation , drag and drop , quicktime built in truetype
support. supports sound input aiff and snd formats for most present
machines. can access up to 1gb of true ram and 4gb of virtual memory and is
both a 24 and 32 bit os. to use real ram beyond 8mb it must be in 32 bit
mode and on older machines requires the 'mode 32' extension. apple 's last
'free' os.
7.1.0 7.0.1 with worldscript support , speedier , and less ram usage than
7.0.dot (macweek 8 24 92 9 14 92 pc week 9 7 92). to run in 32 bit mode
on older machines it requires the 'mode 32' or '32 bit enabler' extension.
marks the start of apple saling its mac os instead of allowing free upgrades
bundled with new machines , 49 for 7.0.x upgrades , 99 otherwise .
the installer has a bug that when upgrading it may keep some old system
fonts from the previous system inside the system file. this can eat up any
ram benefits and cause other problems. apple itself recommends removing all
fonts from the system file.
a ux 3.0 unix needs 8mb ram 12 20mb suggested , 160mb hard drive , and
a 68030 or 68040 equivalent to run. this 32 bit preemptive multitasking os
is large due to being unix and needing translators between it and the mac
roms. price 709.
note sound output was supported in oses 3.2 to 6.0.5 by many formats
including the following snd , wave , asnd , fssd , qssn , smsd , soun , dc2d , and
dcfl. in 6.0.7 the sound manager was optimized for the sound standards 'snd'
and aiff which causes some playback problems for the old formats , though most
still play.

ibm
machiness have little gui code , data , and hooks present in hardware for
programmers to work with , so most of the coding must be provided in the os.
since hard disks were slow the disk os code is read into ram. in addition ,
what little rom code there is also read into ram a process called shadow rom
this results in faster implementation since ram is faster then proms or
eproms. having most of the os code on disk has the advantage of being able to
better optimize the code given a certain piece or collection of hardware which
is harder with a rom based system due to the 'patches' needed. in addition it
reduces the need for and size of patches if a major revision of the hardware
support is needed.
side note the ftc charged that microsoft formed a os trust by not providing
all feature documentation for its oses to developers outside ms and designing
its windows and dos apps to fail under os 2 ( undocumented windows ) and
there is deliberate code in windows nt beta which causes the install to
abort if os 2 boot manager is present (gregory hicks , info ibmpc digest v92
201). due to a conflict of intrest by one member the vote of the ftc
judicial council for action against microsoft was a tie which resulted in no
action. rumors the ftc will presue the matter , likely to the point of
choosing a new member or whole new council. in addition the government has
turned down microsoft 's copyright of windows which would allow it to charge
a fee for developers using their hooks (pc week 03 08 93).
microsoft oses
dos 5.0 has a 640k barrier with its own memory manager , a 1 mb barrier
with third party memory managers. this 16 bit os requires that each program
must provide its own print drivers and be 16 bit programs need to be dos
protected mode interface (dpmi) compliant and running on a 386dx 32 bit
protected mode to break these barriers . contains the gui shell present in
dos 4.0.
dos 6.0 dos 5.0 with the added features of a built in file compresion , disk
defragmenter , debugger for the config.sys file. it needs a 80 module for
networking cost 50 through 5 93 , after that 129.99
(byte april 1993 44 46).
dos 7.0 32 bit dos. in development (pc week 04 05 93).
window 3.0 runs on top of dos. breaks 640k and 1m barriers but still has to
deal with dos file structure. base requirements 1mb , floppy and 286 to
run well 2mb , hard drive , 386sx and fast display adapter 8 bit . has the
equivalent of mac 's qd called windows gdi graphics device interface .
this does not have a consistent application interface like early mac
programs (1984 1985) nor a very large program base compared to dos and
still tends to slow the machine down (info ibmpc digest v92 186) with speed
is more dependent on the display adapter then on the cpu (bill coleman).
window programs tend to be disk and memory hogs compared to their dos
counterparts (byte april 1993 98 108).
window 3.1 a faster version of window 3.0 with better memory managment. base
requirements 1 mb , hard drive and a 286 to run well 2mb , hard drive , 386sx.
apple plans to release its print drivers for this (pc week 12 28 92).
windows for workgroups to run well 4mb ram and 386dx (pc world feb 93 160).
intermediary between win 3.1 and windows nt. it is basically windows 3.1
with built in peer to peer networking support.
windows nt beta release takes about 50mb of disk space including the
swap file , and 12mb ram betas are notorious for ram usage especially in
the interaction between debuging code and program compliers , hence the
reports of 24mb requirements . released version supposed to need 8mb ram
but , gates himself now recommends 16mb ram (pc week 04 15 92).
this 32 bit os has protected mode multitasking , multithreading , symmetric
multiprocessing , a recoverable file system , and 32 bit gdi. has built in
networking that is osf dce compliant and can handle up to 4gb of ram. even
though some people see a july 4 release date (infoworld nov 16 92) , rumor
is that the final version will not be available before oct 1993
(infoworld may 25 92 july 6 92 vaporware 07 92 08 92) or 4th quarter 1993
(pc week 09 28 92). windows upgrades will be 295 , otherwise 495
(pc week 04 15 92 03 15 93).
other oses
pc dos 6.0 ibm 's version of dos 6.0. it runs windows much faster then dos
6.0 due to faster file i o and video handling (infoworld feb 1 , 93).
dr dos 6.0 same as dos 5.0 with some extras like built in data compression
and memory management enhancements. still has 640k 1mb barrier. a later
version novell dos of this may use a version of the mac finder and apple
file management system (pc week 12 14 92 infoworld dec 14 92).
os 2 2.0 unix like features and unix like requirements 8 16mb ram ,
60mb uses 17 33mb hard drive , and 386dx cpu. this 32 bit multithreaded ,
multitasking os can address up to 4gb of ram but has to use a fast swap file
to use more than 16 mb ram on isa systems using dma direct memory access .
ibm plans to use taligent 's oops in future versions of this
(infoworld oct 26 92).
aix ibm 's unix system , planned to be a subset of poweropen and taligent os.
nextstep gui unix to provide next features on ibm machines. beta out , final
version to be out by may 25 , 1993.
solaris os for x86 a sunsoft port. a 32 bit os with symmetric
multiprocessing and multithreading , built in networking capabilities with
tools to allow remote configuring and adminstration features , and
communication package. client 795 , 50 users server 1 , 995 , 1000s users
server 5 , 995. developer kits software 495 , hardware 195.
mac 7.1 working name star trek apple had system 7.0 running off intel
chips and is looking at making a 7.1 version available for ibm
(computerworld nov 2 92 macweek 03 22 93). at present this is planned to run
on top of novell 's dr dos , require a 486 or equivalent to run and that apps
will need to be recompiled (macweek 03 22 93). viewed as novell 's answer to
windows nt. the complexity of pc hardware set ups is one reason for slow
progress this seems to apple ibm 's way of leading to the powerpc line out in
late 1993 early 1994 and pink os in late 1994 early 1995.

powerpc
rumor ibm will build its powerpc 601 by late 1993 (infoworld june 8 15 , 92
macweek 7 13 92 pc week 3 15 93). it will have microchannel bus and xga
video (carl b jabido) , and will run native version aix and mac apps (pc week
3 15 93) there have been no comments on compatablity of dos or windows apps.
apple 's powerpc 601 machine tesseract is planned to be out jan 24 , 1994 and
to have mc98601 50 mhz , 4 8mb ram , a 2.8 mbyte floppy drive and expected to
sale near lc line prices 2000 , down from projections of 3000 (macuser
9 92 146)
(macweek 3 22 93).
poweropen a ux 4.0 a 32 bit preemtive multitasking os planned to run on
powerpcs and 68030 40 macs (macweek 7 13 92). intel compatibility uncertain
(see mac 7.1 above). planned base requirements 68030 , 8mb ram , 80mb hard
drive (macweek 4 19 93). rumor ahead of schedule could be out by mid 1993.
rumor this could be the os for ibm 's powerpc 601 which is due by late 1993.
pink taligent os expecting delivery in 1994 (wall street journal 1 12 92)
and may have some parts shipping in os 2 and aix in 1993 and mac os and
poweropen with the powerpcs (macweek 01 25 93).
windows nt possible port (macweek 04 05 93). see ibm os section for details.
solaris os version of this sun microsystems inc unix os to run on the
power pcs in 1994 (macweek 04 05 93). one of the few oses to directly state
that it will run windows dos programs. ibm os section for details
nextstep possible port see ibm os section for details.

os number crunching (mel park)
mac
arithmetic is done in a consistent numerical environment sane or standard
apple numerics environment . floating point numbers are 96 bits long when an
fpu is present and 80 bits otherwise. exceptions , such as dividing by zero or
taking the square root of a negative number , do not cause an abort but are
handled in a logically consistent manner. 1 0 produces the internal
representation for infinity (inf). 1 (1 0) produces zero. the above treatment
of 1 (1 0) occurs in an fpu equipped machine even when sane is bypassed and
the fpu programmed directly.

ibm
floating point numbers are 80 bits with a hardware fpu , 64 bits when
emulated. the way they are handled is dependent on the coding of whatever
compiler or assembler was used for a program. on older dos complilers
exceptions could cause program aborts 1 0 and 1 (1 0) would abort to the dos
prompt at the point where they occured. most present compilers handle this
better. result there is little consistent handling of numbers between dos ,
windows and os 2 programs nor between programs for just one os.

networking includes printing
wysiwyg printing can be a problem with either mac of ibm machines especially
if one sends truetype fonts to a older style postscript printer.
mac
hardware built in localtalk network port and a built in printer port.
localtalk has moderate speeds (230.4 kb s) requires special connectors for
each machine ( 15 and up) and can be run off of either the printer port to
include very old macs or the network port standard today . built in
ethernet is becoming common but many older macs require a pds or nubus card at
about 150 300 for each machine. these cards provide three connectors and
transceivers thick , thin , and 10baset for ethernet.
the macintosh quadra family and some centris models includes ethernet
interface on motherboard , with transceivers available. tokenring has been a
network option since 1989.
software appletalk the suite of protocols standard with mac os , which can
use variety of media types. appleshare client software included with the os
as well and can connect to file servers such as novell netware , 3com 3 open ,
banyan vines , dec pathworks , apple 's appleshare servers , system 7 file sharing
machines , and afp servers running on variety of unix hosts. mactcp allows
typical tcp ip communications (telnet , ftp , nfs , rlogin). a later version
will have unix x open transport interface (xti) built in by the end of 1993
(macweek 04 12 93). third party software to connect to nfs servers. dec
pathworks provides decnet support. peer to peer file sharing software
built in to system 7.1 (see os section). full server software is extra.
printing requires connection of the printer and the printer being selected in
the chooser. changing printers is by selecting a different name in the
chooser. the same is true of connecting to servers.
printing bugs monaco truetype font is different then the screen bitmap font.
quickdraw qx is suppossed to fix this and similar problems.

ibm
hardware localtalk not widely used , ethernet , and tokenring.
software novell netware , banyan vines , decnet , windows work groups , appletalk
protocols , and appleshare subset of appletalk .
each of the ms dos networking schemes are , in general , totally incompatible
with the others. once you have chosen one , you are pretty much locked in to
that product line from then on. windows work groups is a little more
forgiving and removes some of this problem. novell netware is the biggest ,
80 percent of the corporate market. and in general is more powerful and
offers better control management security than appleshare , but it 's also more
complex to set up and manage. this will change due to the use of the mac
finder and file management system by novell. (pc week 12 14 92 12 28 92
infoworld dec 14 92 macweek 3 22 93)
printing very os dependent
dos if it 's a single user , then you plug the printer into the parallel port ,
and do n't worry about it tweeking may be needed with poorly written
software . network printing is not controlled by the system , but is mostly
implemented by the actual program , therefore performance varies from one
software program to the next.
windows 3.x supports standard drivers and can do a good job of showing jobs
in the print queue , but it always lists printers as active ... even if they
are not. this becomes a problem if there are several incompatible printers
on the same net , because there 's no way for software to reliably determine
which printer is active right now. windows for workgroups is more mac like
and intelligent about this.
os 2 mac like the os deals with printers , with apps making calls to the os.
printing bugs due to poor programing some programs for all the above oses do
not have wysiwyg printing. this is the fault of the programs in question and
not that of the os involved.

price issue this is very dynamic with mac providing more build in features
than ibm and ibm being more 'get only what you need' then mac and price wars
by both worlds.
the ibm machines' modualar nature prevents any kind of true hardware
standarization , which in turn requires oses and programs to be very complex to
handle all the variation in hardware. when one adds all the standard mac
hardware features to an ibm built in input output sound support , scsi , pds ,
built in monitor support , built in networking , standard mouse interface , and
nubus 90 in higher machines the mac tends to be cheaper then an equivalent
equipted ibm machine especially since some ibm monitors can be used with macs
which cuts some more of the mac 's cost (macuser aug 1992 158 176) .
some prices using some of the info in this sheet and macuser april 1993.
all macs below come with a pds slot , vram , and scsi 1 built in. except where
noted , monitor is extra and a built in monitor interface is provided no card
needed except for 24 bit color display .
ibm planned a 1 , 200 386slc 25mhz model with a 60mb hard drive and color vga
monitor vram (macweek 8 17 92) sounds like a color classic without scsi 1 ,
sound support , built in network support , fpu socket , built in expansion to
16 bit color , etc .
color classic 1 , 389 030 16mhz with 16 bit data bus 386sx 20mhz
equivalent , 4 80 , fpu socket , and built in monitor.
lciii 1 , 499 030 25mhz 386dx 33mhz equivalent , and 4 160.
centris 610 2 , 899 68lc040 20mhz depending on the program 486sx 40 or
'486dx2sx' 20 40 mhz equivalent , 8 230 , built in ethernet , 300i cd rom , a
pds nubus 90 slot and vram for 16 bit color.
centris 650 040 25mhz depending on the program 486dx 50 mhz or 486dx2 50
mhz equivalent with a pds and 3 nubus 90 slots. 3 , 189 ethernet , 8 80
3 , 559 ethernet , 8 230 3 , 999 ethernet , 8 230 , cd rom , vram for 16 bit
color

bibliography notes
'vaporware' is available in the digest vapor directory by ftp on sumex
aim.stanford.edu 36.44.0.6 and was by murphy sewall last issue april 93.
'info ibmpc digest' back issues are available from wsmr simtel20.army.mil in
directory pd2 archives.ibmpc
'dictionary of computer terms 3rd ed.' (isbm 0 8120 4824 5)

these are the facts as they were known to me on 4 15 93 and may be changed by
new developments , announcements , or corrections. corrections to the
information are welcome.
please email corrections to
compuserve id 72130 , 3557
aol bruceg6069
internet bgrubb@dante.nmsu.edu

final note since there is no comp.sys.ibm.pc.advocacy group this has been
posted to the closest relevent groups comp.os.ms windows.advocacy ,
comp.os.os2.advocacy , and comp.sys.ibm.pc.misc . also since some mac vs ibm
articles have been showing up in comp.sys.mac.hardware i have included that
newsgroup in the posting. do n't site the comp.sys.mac. faq as a reason not
to post to comp.sys.mac.hardware , since the faq itself does not follow
internet guidelines , especially the de facto all the faqs for a newgroup
hierarchy should be posted to all newsgroups in the hierarchy standard.

eliminate the impossible and what ever remains , no matter how improbable ,
is the truth sir arthur conan doyle through sherlock holmes in the
adventure of the beryl coronet , the adventure of the blanched soldier , sign of
four and the adventure of the bruce partington plans.

the computer is your friend parinoia rpg

from jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey)
subject re quadra 900 950
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 26

hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes) writes

jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey) writes

b clark@nwu.edu (brian clark) writes

quarda 900 is a popular misspelling of quadra 900 , which has a 25 mhz 040
processor. the 950 has a 33 mhz 040 , and some local buses on the
motherboard run faster.

the video is different also. the 950 can run a 13 and i believe a 16
monitor in 16 bit color without a vram upgrade.

actually , you could put as much vram into a q900 as you want and you
still wo n't be able to get 16 bit color , on any monitor. it 's not part
of the on board video. the q950 , however , can use 16 bit video on
monitors up to 19 with 2mb of vram.

hades


yes , but if you upgrade the vram in a 900 you get 24 bit color. so
you really do n't care. my point is that out the box the 950 has
more video capability for the same size monitors. the 900 can
do 24 bit with both 13 and 16 , does n't support 19 , and
does 8 bit on 21 monitors.

from pilon@aix02.ecs.rpi.edu (t.j. pilon)
subject my iicx wo n't turn on...
nntp posting host aix02.ecs.rpi.edu
lines 14

anyone know what would cause my iicx to not turn on when i hit the keyboard
switch \? the one in the back of the machine does n't work either...
the only way i can turn it on is to unplug the machine for a few minutes ,
then plug it back in and hit the power switch in the back immediately...
sometimes this does n't even work for a long time...

i remember hearing about this problem a long time ago , and that a logic
board failure was mentioned as the source of the problem...is this true \?


thanks ,
t.j. pilon
pilon@rpi.edu


from especkma@reed.edu (erik. a speckman)
subject re educational pricing
article i.d. reed.1993apr15.234121.6655
organization reed college , portland , oregon
lines 36

in article 1993apr15.134938.1@jaguar.csc.wsu.edu f0975893@jaguar.csc.wsu.edu writes
in article c5iz7n.kyv@cs.dal.ca , hayes@ug.cs.dal.ca (kevin b. hayes) writes
you can find retail that is within the price of a keyboard of educational
prices.

i would be very wary of retail outlets selling as cheap as educational prices !
i went for a retailer , actually mail order (cda computers) , because its price
was better thant the campus computer store. i found out why later on when i
tried to get a repair done at an apple registered repair center the cpu was a
resale. the serial number had been removed and replaced with a non standard
number (probably from cda computers). consequently , the apple repair man could
not do any warrenty repairs. so i ended up with just a 90day warrenty from cda
over the apple 12month warrenty. boy , was i pi ed ! moral of the story , caveat
emptor.

apple does not authorise sales through mail order. as a result mail order
companies have to obtain their machines by the grey market.

this market is supplied with machines from authorised resellers who have
more machines than they can sell. they come into this state of affairs
by overordering either accidentally or deliberatly to get a better
wholsale price from apple. in either case they often obscure the serial
nunber to protect their identity. as a result the warranty is void.

you may save on sales tax but you have to pay for shipping.

i should also point out that mail order companies cannot get lower prices
thatn the high volume authorised dealers unless they buy below dealer
cost. as a result the only way they can sell cheaper is by cutting costs
and trimming margins. unfortunatly they dont seem to be doing too well.
the lowest prices i have been quoted mailorder do not beat the lowest
prices available from authorised local dealers.

they are even further away from educational prices.

erik speckman

from ubs@carson.u.washington.edu (university bookstore)
subject re ghost on apple 12 color user insane ! !
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 42
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article bettsc5nq84.6uu@netcom.com betts@netcom.com (jonathan betts) writes
dear netters ,

my sister has an apple 12 color display hooked up to an lc.

problem there is an annoying , horizontal , ghost like stripe that
precesses vertically about once per second. it is about 1 cm high.
she is in grave danger of going insane because of it.

any ideas of what it might be and how i might cure it for her \?

joe betts
betts@netcom.com

ps if i pick up the display (i thought it might be rfi from the lc) it
seems to get worse !


this can be caused by two one of two things. the first and easiest to fix is
interference from something around the monitor , such as another monitor or
other electrical device. try moving the system to another location to fix
that problem.

second , because of the scan rate of the monitor , it tends to synchronize with
room lights and can cause the interference you are seeing. try turning off
all lights in the room(s) around the system and see if that helps. if not ,
try moving the system somewhere else.

a third solution would be to get a 14 apple color display it should not
have the same problem the 12 color is more suceptible to.

you can try calling apple 's new support number (in the u.s.) at 1 800 sos apple.
this number is for anyone who has questions regarding macintosh setup and
compatibility and just went into effect for this extended support on monday ,
april 5 , 1993.

good luck


kevin lohman , buyer , university book store
university of washington , seattle
apple computers for education program

from lemay@netcom.com (laura lemay)
subject recommend me a ps printer
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 84



i'm in the market for a laser printer. used printers are fine , non apple
printers are fine , but whatever printer i get must fit the following

required features

postscript

300 dpi

emough memory to download fonts

the cheaper , the better. i 'd prefer under 1000.


nice things

anything over 4 pages per minute

scsi output for a font disk

smallish footprint



do n't care about

postscript level ii

networking (its just for me , and always will be)

color


i know about freedom of press , but i 've also heard that its painfully slow.
i can tolerate about 4 ppm , but anything slower than that and i'm not going
to consider the price savings worth it. i 'd be curious to hear people 's
experience with it , tho.

i also infinitely prefer laser over ink i used to use hp deskjets in
my last job and was n't impressed with the quality. i'm a laser bigot
and the first to admit it. )


i 'll be using the printer to layout pages of a book i'm writing. the
page will include multiple fonts , ps graphics , scanned line art and
maybe greyscale pictures (not sure yet). the quality does n't need to
be spectacular , but it needs to be clear and readable.


printers i 've been looking at


used laserwriters the plus , the nt , the ntr. its my understanding that
only the ntr has a scsi out for a disk. true \?

personal laserwriter (ls and ntr). i have access to the apple employee
discount (i work for one of apple 's spinoffs) , so i can get these reasonably
cheaply. i 've heard bad things about the ls comments \? i'm leaning
towards the personal ntr , cause it has a nice small footprint.

laserwriter select 300. i hear it does n't have postscript , but i have n't
seen anything for sure. i heard mumbles once about a postscript upgrade.
\? \?

used hp laserjets. i 've worked with the ii and iip on another platform , and
they were painfully slow. are they that bad on the mac \?

i 've seen ads for an epson ps laserprinter that is running quite cheap.
any comments on this printer \? i hate the styling (too many ouput trays) ,
but if its a decent printer i 'll consider it.


thanks for any comments...





laura lemay lemay@netcom.com
writer of trifles in shadows and blood



from mspace@netcom.com (brian hall)
subject re new duo dock with processor here 's why
article i.d. netcom.mspacec5315y.ewa
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 31

an780@cleveland.freenet.edu (travis grundke) writes

why would apple release a duo dock with a processor of its own \?

here 's why people have hounded apple for a notebook with a 68040 processor
in it. apple ca n't deliver that right now because the 040 saps too much
power , radiates far too much heat , and is too large for a notebook. how
does one get around that without designing a new chipset \? use existing
powerbook technology to your best advantage. the duo dock gives apple a
unique ability to give users that 040 power in a semi portable fashion.
by plunking the 040 into the dock , you 've got quadra power at your desk.
on the road , that 33mhz 68030 should be able to handle most of your needs.
okay , not the best solution , but its an answer to a no win situation. )
so , does this mean one will be able to use the powerbook 's processor in
parallel to the dock 's processor \? okay , we 're getting really hypothetical
now...

it would also be great for another reason when not docked , it could serve
as an ara server to the large internal hd , your corporate email , etc. in
a pinch , you would also have two machines , instead of 1.5.

if they could couple that thought with rocketshare , and let you use both the
'030 on the pb and the '040 on the dock , it would be a mighty powerful dock.



brian hall mspace@netcom.com
mark space softworks applelink markspace
america online markspace

do not disturb i'm on a mission from egghead.

from probulf@informatik.tu muenchen.de (frank probul)
subject re position of 'b' on erg. keyboard
originator probulf@hphalle2i.informatik.tu muenchen.de
organization technische universitaet muenchen , germany
lines 27


in article 1993apr6.134746.11972@daimi.aau.dk , viralbus@daimi.aau.dk (thomas martin widmann) writes
so far i have only seen pictures of the new ergonomic keyboard ,
but it seems that the 'b' is placed on the left part after the split.
however , when i learned typing in school some years ago , i was taught
to write 'b' with my right hand. is this a difference between danish
and american typing , or what \? \? \?

thanks a lot in advance !


in germany you usually use the left hand for the 'b'

yours
frankie


frank probul
emanuelstr. 17 , d 8000 munich 40 , germany

applelink probul.f@applelink.apple.com
internet probulf@informatik.tu muenchen.de

munich university of technology
department of computer science
germany


from mirsky@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (david joshua mirsky)
subject re desktop rebuild and datadesk keyboard \?
organization dis
lines 32
nntp posting host hal.ai.mit.edu

in article c5i77w.3oe@cs.uiuc.edu tthiel@cs.uiuc.edu (terry thiel) writes
ijust got a new datadesk 101e keyboard to go with my new centris 610 and have a
problem doing desktop rebuilds. i hold down the command and option keys and
restart but nothing happens. the dip switches are set the right way and the
command and option keys seem to work on anything else. i'm running 7.1 btw.
anyone know what the problem is \?
terry


i am resending this message because my news program may have goofed the first
time.

terry , i recently bought an lciii and a datadesk 101e. i do n't
remember trying to rebuild the desktop with it , however it did give me
a strange problem. when i held down shift during startup to disable
all extensions , nothing happened. i tried it with another keyboard , using
the same adb connector cable and it worked with the other keyboard.
the shift key on the datadesk keyboard worked well otherwise. i checked
the dipswitches and they are fine. try disabling your extensions and tell
me if it works.

i am annoyed with datadesk. i sent them the keyboard in the mail for
inspection repair replacement. the technician on the phone said they
have a 10 14 day turn around time meaning you should receive the
inspected repaired keyboard in that time. well , they have had the
keyboard for over 3 weeks and i still have gotten very little info
from them about it. it 's annoying because it cost me 12 to send them
the keyboard and their technical support line is not toll free. tell me
if you have a similar experience with them.

david mirsky
mirsky@gnu.ai.mit.edu

organization penn state university
from acm108@psuvm.psu.edu
subject daystar turbo 040 opinions \?
lines 6

i'm thinking about upgrading my 030 50mhz to the 040 33version. has anyone
had any experience with the accelerator , and if so what do you think \?
any problems , what are the speedometer results \? , is it much faster than
the 50mhz \? basically , i 'd appreciate hearing all about this product. please
respond via email , and i 'll summarize if there 's a big response. thanks
in advance , andrew

from jas@isi.edu (jeff sullivan)
subject iivx c650 upgrade question
organization usc isi
lines 10
distribution comp
nntp posting host tigger.isi.edu


if you get teh iivx c650 upgrade , does it include a new sticker to
cover the iivx identifier with a centris 650 indetifier \?

jas


jeffrey a. sullivan research scientist et al.
jas@isi.edu (internet) information sciences institute
72511 , 402 (compuserve) university of southern california

from rodc@fc.hp.com (rod cerkoney)
subject g4qxf , fekvh6
nntp posting host hpfcmrc.fc.hp.com
organization hewlett packard , fort collins , co
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8.5
lines 15






regards ,
rod cerkoney



rod cerkoney ms 37 email
hewlett packard rodc@fc.hp.com
3404 east harmony rd. hpdesk
fort collins , co 80525 hp4000 ux


from ejbehr@rs6000.cmp.ilstu.edu (eric behr)
subject buying a high speed v.everything modem
article i.d. rs6000.1993apr20.001127.4928
reply to behr@math.ilstu.edu (eric behr)
organization central illinois surfing club
lines 26

just a quick summary of recent findings re. high speed modems. top three
contenders seem to be at t paradyne , zyxel , and us robotics. zyxel has the
biggest cult following , and can be had for under 300 , but i ignored it
because i need something with mac software , which will work without any
tweaking.

the at t dataport earns nearly unanimous praises for reliability. they are
backordered at the moment , probably because of the special 299 price in
effect until may. its fax capabilities are worse than that of the other two
modems. warning at t ads say that the modem comes with a mac kit (cables
all) , and has lifetime warranty. this applies only when you order
directly from paradyne ! i called elektek (one of the distributors) , and
they wanted to charge me 16 for cable , and gave only 1 year warranty...

usr sportster for the mac is also highly (but not as highly) recommended
it 's only 250 from clubmac , and if you are willing to roll your own cable
and do n't care about the faxstf software , you can get the generic model
from pc outlets for 190.

all this assuming that you do n't have a rich uncle , and ca n't afford a
motorola codex... ( i ended up ordering the dataport we 'll see how
it works in two weeks or so.


eric behr , illinois state university , mathematics department
behr@math.ilstu.edu or behr@ilstu.bitnet (please avoid ! )

from sunnyt@coding.bchs.uh.edu
subject re price drop on c650 within 2 months \?
article i.d. menudo.1psm47 td
reply to ln63sdm@sdcc4.ucsd.edu
organization university of houston
lines 19
nntp posting host protein.bchs.uh.edu

in article apr06.184114.73926@yuma.acns.colostate.edu
ns111310@lance.colostate.edu (nathaniel sammons) writes
i am going to be getting a c650 soon , but i don t want apple
to come out with the cyclones and the tempest in a month
and have the price drop on the system i want. i have negotiated a
good deal with a supplier for a c650 8 80 and i would like to jump on it ,
but , again , i do n't want the price drop to smuther me. btw , the deal
i have is a c650 8 80 with mouse for 2295... does anyone know of a better
deal \?

thanks ,


is that the low end configuration \? if it is , it has the 68lc040 (no fpu) , as
opposed to all the other configurations with a 68rc040 (has an fpu). be sure
you know what you are getting before you buy ! ! ! the 68rc040 is around
350 400 right now , if you intend to upgrade it from a 68lc040.

sunny

from scotts@bbking.ftcollinsco.ncr.com ( scott sherman)
subject re computer engr vs. computer science
distribution usa
organization ncr microelectronics products division (an at t company)
lines 20

in article 1993apr10.210242.340@macadam.com , mike@macadam.com writes
i am a freshman in college and ca n't decide whether to major in computer
engineering or computer science. any advice or suggestions will be
appreciated.

thanks ,
mike

a professor of mine once said the difference between a computer engineer and
a computer scientist is about 5000 meaning the engineer makes 5000 more than
the cs.
seriously though the main difference is that most cs people write programs that
people will use , i.e. database , graphics , word processors , etc. , while an
engineer writes for machines or control systems , i.e. the computer in your
car , a flight control system , computer controled devices , etc. in other words
cs writes software while cse writes firmware.
these are generalizations but for the most part that is what the difference is.

p.s. the 5000 is not just a joke
scott

from robrick@erenj.com (bob brickman)
subject re when is apple going to ship cd300i 's \?
nntp posting host big geek.erenj.com
organization er e , clinton , nj. opinions solely the author 's , not the company 's.
distribution usa
lines 27

in article 1quod6 i3n@menudo.uh.edu , sunnyt@coding.bchs.uh.edu wrote

in article 1993apr19.164734.24779@newsgate.sps.mot.com
rjacks@austlcm.sps.mot.com (rodney jacks) writes
i would really like to get one of the new cd300i cdrom
drives for my c650 , but my local apple does n't know
when they will be available. he does n't even have a part
number yet. does anyone know what the part number
for this drive is and when it will be available \?

my apple dealer suggested i buy one of the cd300 external
drives , but i do n't want to pay extra for a case power supply
i'm not going to use.

rodney jacks
(rjacks@austlcm.sps.mot.com)

while there may not be a part number for the cd300i drive , i have seen
a part number for the bezel kit (a new front panel with the slot in it
through which you insert the cd). the document (which i got from the
2 10 93 announcement at our apple office) states the drive kit and bezel
kits are separate items and the bezel kit has an srp of 149 fro the c650.
the external unit may be a better deal after all.

bob brickman robrick@erenj.com
disclaimer the preceding represent my personal opinions and do not
reflect the opinions , policies , or practices of my employer

from bill@lhotse.hao.ucar.edu (bill roberts)
subject upgrading pb170 memory
organization high altitude observatory , boulder co 80303
distribution usa
lines 8

i have one of the original powerbook 170 's (with 4mb of ram) and find
that 4mb is a drag when trying to do my work. so , what is the best way
to get the maximum ram for this unit , and what 's it going to cost me \?
i'm hoping i can get the latest and best info from real users by posting
to this group.

thanks in advance ,
bill

from an780@cleveland.freenet.edu (travis grundke)
subject new duo dock with processor here 's why
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 22
reply to an780@cleveland.freenet.edu (travis grundke)
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


well folks , after some thought the answer struck me flat in the face

why would apple release a duo dock with a processor of its own \?

here 's why people have hounded apple for a notebook with a 68040 processor
in it. apple ca n't deliver that right now because the 040 saps too much
power , radiates far too much heat , and is too large for a notebook. how
does one get around that without designing a new chipset \? use existing
powerbook technology to your best advantage. the duo dock gives apple a
unique ability to give users that 040 power in a semi portable fashion.
by plunking the 040 into the dock , you 've got quadra power at your desk.
on the road , that 33mhz 68030 should be able to handle most of your needs.
okay , not the best solution , but its an answer to a no win situation. )
so , does this mean one will be able to use the powerbook 's processor in
parallel to the dock 's processor \? okay , we 're getting really hypothetical
now...

travis grundke macgames digest your 1 source for information ,
contributing editor , news reviews of gaming software and the gaming
macgames digest industry in the macintosh community. reply
an780@cleveland.freenet.edu for more information on macgames digest.

from dschen@corona.hsc.usc.edu (daniel s. chen)
subject re buying a high speed v.everything modem
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 2
nntp posting host corona.hsc.usc.edu

what is hardware handshaking and when do i want to use it \? dan


from fag2@cunixb.cc.columbia.edu (farul a ghazali)
subject pds cards for the lciii
nntp posting host cunixb.cc.columbia.edu
organization columbia university
lines 8


are there any pds expansion cards out there that specifically take
advantage of the lciii 's 32 bit data path and 25mhz clock speed \? if
they exist , are they significantly faster than the lc lcii versions \?

farul ghazali.
columbia university in the city of new york.


from shagberg@vm.cmp.ilstu.edu
subject converting keyboard for mac plus
organization illinois state university
lines 35


i have an old mac plus. a couple of years ago i bought a shiney new lc.
it came with apple 's new keyboard (with abd ports). i replaced it with
a mac pro plus extended keyboard (which i thoroughly enjoy , thank you
very much).

well , i have this extra keyboard which i would like to use on the plus
but there 's a little problem. the plus uses an rj 11 jack for keyboard
input and the new keyboards do n't. i got an extra adb cable from my
local apple dealer (they 're such nice people) , but they could n't tell
me the order of the wires.

there are four wires in the adb cables black , white , red , tan. i know
one 's a ground , one gets the serial signal , one supplies 5 volts , and
i forgot what the fourth one does. anyway , if you hook them up wrong
you 'll fry a board and i really do n't want to do that .

if any brave souls out there have done this before , please e mail your
experience directly to me. i would greatly appreciate it especially
since apple 's original keyboard is not . . . ergonomically correct.

btw , i did take apart my new keyboard to see if i could find the
correlation between the wires for the rj 11 jack and the adb since it
has both , but no such luck (the connections are soldered inside of
little boxes). oh , well . . .


tis the blink of an eye , tis the draught of a breath ,
from the blossoms of health , to the paleness of death ,
from the gilded saloon , to the briar in the shroud ,
o , why should the spirit of mortal be proud \?
william knox

shagberg@vm.cmp.ilstu.edu


from betts@netcom.com (jonathan betts)
subject ghost on apple 12 color user insane ! !
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 16

dear netters ,

my sister has an apple 12 color display hooked up to an lc.

problem there is an annoying , horizontal , ghost like stripe that
precesses vertically about once per second. it is about 1 cm high.
she is in grave danger of going insane because of it.

any ideas of what it might be and how i might cure it for her \?

joe betts
betts@netcom.com

ps if i pick up the display (i thought it might be rfi from the lc) it
seems to get worse !


from phil@csc.liv.ac.uk (phil jimmieson)
subject duo dock problems
organization computer science , liverpool university
lines 23
nntp posting host ama.csc.liv.ac.uk

has anyone had any problems with their duo dock not ejecting the duo
properly \?

when i first got it , the duo would come out of the dock a couple of inches
when ejected , and i had to pull it the rest of the way. nowadays (and i 've
had the system for 4 months) , the duo does n't come out at all despite
the fact that the mechanism makes all the appropriate noises , and i have to
grab hold of it and pull it out myself. is there a simple fix for this , or
do i have to return it to my apple dealer , where it will languish for weeks
while i have to make do with no colour display , no vram , no floppy or
scsi etc.

(btw , it 's not that the duo is locked into the dock it just does n't
want to slide out any more).



phil jimmieson ,
computer science dept. , janet phil@uk.ac.liv.csc
liverpool university , internet phil@csc.liv.ac.uk
po box 147
liverpool l69 3bx i was head over heels in love until i got cramp
(uk) 051 794 3689

from gmich@is.morgan.com (george michaels)
subject ntsc and th
nntp posting host idt114
organization morgan stanley company
distribution comp
lines 0


from nextug@ac.dal.ca
subject powerbook 140 180 batteries
organization dalhousie university , halifax , nova scotia , canada
lines 15

a quick query for powerbook gurus
tom spearman , in a post on alternative powerbook battery options
mentioned that there exist 3 versions of their powerbook 140 180
batteries a 2.5 amp hour one (m5545 a) , a 2.8 amp hour one ,
(m5545 b) and a 2.9 amp hour one (m5545 c). anyone out there
know how to determine which of these a battery is \? i looked at my
battery and there is no obvious exterior indication. i contacted
tom spearman who had gleaned the information from macuser and he
did n't know either. anyone out there know the answer \?
thanks !
christopher majka
nextug@ac.dal.ca

btw , if you can reply via email i would be grateful. i do n't
often read this newsgroup. i will post a summary of answers.

from dppeak@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (david paul peak)
subject for sale 2 4mb 80ns simms
organization kansas state university
lines 12
nntp posting host matt.ksu.ksu.edu

i have two 4 meg simms that i am trying to sell. i
had them in my lc. i would like to get 100 for
each one. they are only three months old and have a
lifetime warrenty. they are 80ns simms. i will also
consider other reasonable offers. please e mail me.

dave

internet dppeak@matt.ksu.ksu.edu
aol skibum7



from rutijoh1@chico.acc.iit.edu (users)
subject re re re 1024 x 768 video on q800 adaptor pinouts
in reply to gene 's message of wed , 14 apr 1993 18 06 15 gmt
organization illinois institute of technology , chicago
x news reader vms news 1.24
lines 17

this does not make sence...why would the 4fg work but the 3fgx not
work...it is the
same monitor without accucolor and digital controls...works fine at
1024x768 with
svga...what 's the deal....anyway you can get a svga 14 with .28mm and
1024x7 68
for 279 at damark...are you saing that it probably would work while a
600 nec wo n't \?
the 3fgx has a maximum horizontal scan rate of 49khz , so driving it
at 60.24khz to get 1024 x 768 on the mac is way beyond the tolerance the 4fg is spec'ed at 57khz , so going 60.24khz is only 5 6 above
the minimally guaranteed figure.

i too doubt if the damark monitor would sync to a mac at 1024 x 768. like most things , you get what you pay. that 's the deal.

john rutirasiri.

p.s. i would n't have posted if i was n't sure.

from thomas kephart kephart@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu
subject mac 800 numbers
organization case school of engineering
lines 90
distribution world
nntp posting host b62182.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxmessage id a7f8c6f92d02f2e6@b62182.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate mon , 19 apr 93 21 15 37 gmt

here 's a list of 800 numbers i have compiled from other sources...
anybody got anything to add \?

it 's formatted for alpha , and looks fine for me , so do n't complain if it
does n't look good to you.



adobe 1 415 961 0911
fax info 1 800 235 0078
aldus 1 206 622 5500
alladin 1 408 685 9175
altsys 1 214 680 2060
apda 1 800 282 2732
(apple prog dev assoc)
apple computer 1 408 996 1010
apple customer 1 800 776 2333
non tech assistance
aps 1 800 233 7550
(alliance peripheral sys)
asd softwae 1 714 624 2594
fax 1 714 624 9574
berkeley systems 1 415 540 5535
cayman systems 1 800 473 4776
ce software 1 515 224 1953
claris 1 408 727 8227
1 408 727 9054
claris software 1 800 3cl aris
compatible systems 1 800 356 0283
computer associates c.a 1 408 648 4000
connectix 1 800 950 5880
dataviz 1 203 268 0300
dayna 1 801 972 2000
deltapoint 1 800 367 4334
deneba 1 305 594 6965
dr.mac 1 800 825 6227
fifth generation 1 800 873 4384
greatwave 1 408 438 1990
icom simulations 1 708 520 4440
macavenue 1 800 926 6221
macconnection 1 800 334 4444
macland 1 800 888 8779
macromind 1 415 442 0200
mac 's place 1 800 367 4222
macwarehouse 1 800 255 6227
microcom 1 919 490 1277
microsoft 1 800 426 9400
educational 1 800 227 4679
general 1 206 882 8088
sales and services 1 800 426 9400
then punch
1 technical assistance
2 university
shiva 1 617 864 8100
silicon beach 1 619 695 6956
symantec 1 800 441 7234
the mac zone 1 800 248 0800
chip merchant 1 800 426 6375
clearpoint computers 1 800 253 2778
clubmac 1 800 clu bmac
delta research labs 1 800 999 1593
diamond 1 800 541 7126
dynamic electronics 1 800 845 8228
etc 1 800 882 2863
global village telecom. 1 800 736 4821
mac adb modems
lifetime memory 1 800 233 6233
llb 1 800 848 8967
macproducts usa 1 800 mac disk
macproducts 1 800 mac usa1
megabyte memory 1 800 748 5766
products
memory international 1 800 266 0488
memory plus 1 800 388 plus
micro electronic tech 1 800 766 7466
newer technology 1 800 678 3726
peripheral outlet 1 800 332 6581
psi 1 800 622 1722
quadmation 1 800 733 7887
shecom computers 1 800 366 4433
sii micros 1 800 424 1126
south coast electronics 1 800 289 8801
stratum technologies 1 800 533 1744
technology works 1 800 688 7466
texas macstuf 1 800 mac stuf
third wave computing 1 800 284 0486
third wave 1 800 284 0846
turbo technologies 1 800 542 7466

1 800 555 1212 directory assistance for 1 800 numbers

from especkma@reed.edu (erik. a speckman)
subject what is rom accelerated video \?
article i.d. reed.1993apr15.182206.12714
organization reed college , portland , or
lines 11

in the macuser article on the new centris and quadra machines mentioned
that the c650 and the q800 , and not the c610 , had rom accelerated video.

it did n't seem to make much difference in their benchmark test.

what is it \? i do n't recall seeing it in dale adams post.

erik speckman

p.s. could someone tell me if dale 's posts on video and memory are
archived somewhere.

from mantolov@golum.riv.csu.edu.au (michael antolovich)
subject re ethernet card that uses a rose \?
organization charles sturt university riverina , wagga wagga , nsw , australia
lines 11

in article aaron bratcher 140493082909@fpm mac 1.uchicago.edu aaron bratcher@fpm.uchicago.edu (aaron bratcher) writes
does anyone know if there is an ethernet card that takes advantage of the
a rose extension \?

hey what does the a rose extension do anyway \?
michael


michael antolovich in wagga wagga , a great place to be be...
mantolovich@csu.edu.au or antolovich@zac.riv.csu.edu.au


from lewallen@cis.ohio state.edu (stephen richard lewallen)
subject 68040 25mz for sale absolutely never used
organization the ohio state university computer science
lines 14
distribution usa
nntp posting host gecko.cis.ohio state.edu


i have a new 25 mhz motorola 68040 that i am willing to sell if i get
a good enough offer. it is still in its static free sealed package.

if i do n't get a good enough offer , i will use it to replace my 68lc040.

any takers \?

supposedly you can get one of these for 375. however , at the moment the
demand is higher than the supply so i think 400 is a good round number.
i will pay shipping , of course.

all offers should be send to lewallen@cis.ohio state.edu


from eacj@theory.tc.cornell.edu (julian vrieslander)
subject re recommendations for removable storage media wanted
organization cornell theory center
lines 21
nntp posting host theory.tc.cornell.edu

in article 1993apr14.115511.28278@kth.se d88 jwa@eufrat.nada.kth.se (jon wtte) writes
if you have no friends , buy a 128 mb optical

huh \? if i buy a 128m optical , i might lose my friends \? why do they
smell bad \?

)


and stop worrying about cartridge wear (bernoulli) or crashes (syquest)

on a serious note , i have heard the tales about syquest failures. but i
am curious about jon 's comments on cartridge wear for the the bernoullis.
can someone elaborate \? is there a general consensus that the 128m opticals
are the most reliable \? i am mostly concerned about media failures , as
opposed to drive mechanism failures.

julian vrieslander
neurobiology behavior , mudd hall , cornell university , ithaca ny 14853
internet eacj@theory.tc.cornell.edu bitnet eacj@crnlthry
uucp ..cornell ! batcomputer ! eacj

distribution world
from elenay creations@tcs.las vegas.nv.us (anthony d. saxton)
organization cyber sanctum bbs 702.435.2179
subject re how long do ram simm 's last \?
lines 10


does n't a 1 mb simm have about 1024 1024 8 moving flip flops \?

they do n't move , to anybody much bigger than an electron )

and they 're more like 1024x1024x8 charging discharging capacitors in a dram
simm )

anthony d. saxton
elenay creations

from avery@gestalt.stanford.edu (avery wang)
subject serial line connection between duo 210 and pc \? \? \?
organization dso , stanford university
lines 41

in article 19930419.062907.155@almaden.ibm.com petrack@vnet.ibm.com writes
i have tried almost everything under the sun to get a null modem connection
between a mac duo 210 and a pc. i have used mackermit and versaterm on
the mac side. i have used procomm , kermit , and softerm (on os 2) on
the pc (or ps) side. i have used non hardware handshaking and hardware
ahdshaking cables. and know my hands are shaking from the effort. nothing
has allowed file transfers from the mac to the ps.

..

could i hear from someone attesting that they can really pump information
out the serial port of a duo 210 fast \? like via a modem or via a
sys ex dump \?

could anyone with a duo help me out \? \? i am going absolutely insane.
i wanna know if the problem is my duo , or all duo 210s , or all duos ,
or just me.



hmmm... sounds vaguely similar to a problem i had a long time ago when i was
trying to use kermit. i was building a serial connection between my duo 210
and my next. i think the problem was in the handshaking. basically , you need
to make sure that the handshaking protocol is the same on both sides. a safe
place to start is by selecting no handshaking on either end. one problem is
that the zilog serial chip seems to get permanently wedged if you talk to it
wrong , and only a reset will clear it. i do n't know the specifics. but this
could be a nonlinearity that screws up your attempts at debugging the system.
it could very well be that you are doing things right eventually but one
wrong move (like trying a bad handshaking protocol) can screw up any further
correct actions , until the next machine reset. i have wedged my mac and also
my next that way.

now i can send files back and forth between the duo and the next without any
problem , and at pretty high speeds too.

i do n't know what kind of chip the pc uses , but i think the zilog 8530 is
pretty standard.

hope this helps ,
avery

from lgorbet@triton.unm.edu (larry p gorbet anthropology)
subject re floptical question
organization university of new mexico , albuquerque
lines 11
nntp posting host triton.unm.edu

in article bmyers 140493201843@slip x27.ots.utexas.edu bmyers@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (billy lee myers , jr.) writes
...the last time i looked , floptical disk
were n't all that cheap , ( 30 per floptical disk 1.40 per megabyte , 60
per sysquest is 1.36 per megabyte).

flopticals have been available since the beginning of the year at 25
per floptical ( 1.20 per megabyte) , and i have seen them advertised
in macweek at 20 ( 1.00 per megabyte). for someone on a tight
budget , the fact that the minimal dollar increment for more storage is
less 25 versus 60 sometimes matters.


from drlovemd@jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu (steve liu)
subject source for deskwriter ink carts.
organization homewood academic computing , johns hopkins university , baltimore , md , usa
lines 21
nntp posting host jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu

could someone please e mail or post a cheap source for ink carts for the hp
deskwriter \? original hp carts are preferred , but i will settle for
third party brands if they are of good quality.











tttttt eeeee vv vv eeeee
tt ee vv vv ee
tt eeee vv vv eeee steve liu
tt ee vvv ee .. drlovemd@jhunix.hcf.jhu.edu
tt eeeee v eeeee .. drlovemd@jhuvms.hcf.jhu.edu



from gnelson@pion.rutgers.edu (gregory nelson)
subject thanks apple free ethernet on my c610 !
article i.d. pion.apr.6.12.05.34.1993.11732
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 26


well , i just got my centris 610 yesterday. it took just over two
weeks from placing the order. the dealer (rutgers computer store)
appologized because apple made a substitution on my order. i ordered
the one without ethernet , but they substituted one with ethernet.
he wanted to know if that would be alright with me ! ! ! they must
be backlogged on centri w out ethernet so they 're just shipping them
with !

anyway , i'm very happy with the 610 with a few exceptions.
being nosy , i decided to open it up before powering it on for the first
time. the scsi cable to the hard drive was only partially connected
(must have come loose in shipping). no big deal , but i would have been
pissed if i tried to boot it and it would n't come up !
the hard drive also has an annoying high pitched whine. i 've
heard apple will exchange it if you complain , so i might try to get
it swapped.
i am also dissappionted by the lack of soft power on off. this
was n't mentioned in any of the literature i saw. also , the location
of the reset interupt buttons is awful. having keyboard control for
these functions was much more convenient.
oh , and the screen seems tojump in a wierd way on power up.
i 've seen this mentioned by others , so it must be a...feature...
anyway , above all , it 's fast. a great machine at a great price !

gnelson@physics.rutgers.edu

from jcav@ellis.uchicago.edu (johnc)
subject your opinion of the laserwriter select 310 \?
reply to jcav@midway.uchicago.edu
organization the royal society for putting things on top of other things
lines 10

this model is one of the two low cost laser printers that apple just
introduced. i'm thinking of getting one to use at home. have any of you
had any experience with this printer \? does it have level 2 postscript \?
if you 've bought one , are you happy with it \?


john cavallino email jcav@midway.uchicago.edu
university of chicago hospitals john cavallino@uchfm.bsd.uchicago.edu
office of facilities management usmail 5841 s. maryland ave , mc 0953
b0 f w c g k s e h p chicago , il 60637

from rick@howtek.mv.com (rick roy)
subject 8 24 card questions
organization howtek , inc.
reply to rick@howtek.mv.com (rick roy)
x mailer uaccess macintosh release 1.6v2
lines 31

i'm considering buying one of these to offload the internal video
in my iici and to get 24 bit color capability on my 13 monitor. what 's
the deal on them \?

1) do they come with varying amounts of ram \? if so , what is the max
and min \? how much do i need for 640 x 480 x 24 bits \?

2) what bit depths are supported \? one , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , and 24 \?

3) are all these cards accelerated or just some \? is it true that
modern accelerated video cards are (at least in general) faster \? what
bit depths are accelerated , all or just 24 bit \? i 've heard that some
applications actually run slower with this card if they write directly
to the screen (or something like that). is this a frequent problem \?
how much slower is it \?

4) did n't i read (when system 7 first came out) that the card was
incompatible \? if so , how was this corrected (finder patch , some init ,
or other) \? has it been kept compatible with 7.1 \? are there many other
apps that it is incompatible with (games or important (i.e. , non
microsloth) apps , for example) \?

5) if you have a strong opinion on it 's value for someone in my position ,
let me know what you think a reasonable price is to pay for it.

thanks a lot for you input.
rick


rick roy usenet rick@howtek.mv.com america online qed
disclaimer my employer 's views are orthogonal to these.
the early bird got worms.

from jbs5g@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (james b. sheire)
subject scsi ethernet converter for sale
organization university of virginia
distribution usa
lines 6

i have a strange piece of equipment to unload. it is a ether scsi interface.
apparently , it can be plugged into a scsi port and from there to an ethernet.
that way you save a slot. nifty. well , i assume you people know more about it ,
so , judging by the 350 price tag new , i 'll ask , say , 75 \? anybody interested \?



from altan j. stalker astalker@nickel.ucs.indiana.edu
subject se 30 hard drive problem
content type text plain charset us ascii
content transfer encoding 7bit
organization indiana university
mime version 1.0
content length 1161
lines 33


i have an se 30 with a 80 meg hd which dates back to april 1989. when i
originally purchased it , i experienced the failure to boot problem. this
was fixed soon after by a rom upgrade on the hard drive.

lately a similar problem has been occuring. when the computer is
powered on the hd light flashes a few times and then i am given
the no disk to boot from icon. however , upon turing the
computer off and on again the drive always boots up just fine.
furthermore , if instead of turning the power on and off i press the reboot
button the same problem occurs. but , as i said , turning the power
off and on always works.

this problem is different from the 1989 boot problem in that before
it often required several power off and ons to get it to boot.

does anybody have any suggestions as to what the problem is or how
it can be fixed \?

i'm wondering if it 's getting old and requires more time to
come up to speed now. is there a pram or scsi setting that
allows me to tell the computer to wait a little longer before
trying to access the hd \?

thanks !


altan j. stalker
astalker@nickel.ucs.indiana.edu
indiana university
computer science dept.



from mmiller@garnet.msen.com (marvin miller)
subject lc iii nubus capable \?
organization msen , inc. ann arbor , mi (account info 1 313 998 4562)
lines 21
nntp posting host garnet.msen.com
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl9



forgive me if this has been asked before... but here goes

my friend recently purchased a lc iii and he wants to know if there is
such a demon called nubus adapter for his pds slot \? compusa and
computercity supercenter says they do n't carry them.

does this mean lc iii is incapable of carrying a nubus board \?

much obiliged ,
marvin

mmiller@garnet.msen.com the more i deal with hearing
editor in chief co publisher of people , the more i understand
the deaf michigander terrorism.
22 a year for 11 by 17 marvin
monthly newspaper
(e mail me for a complimentary above quote does not apply to
copy today ! ) all hearing people , though.


distribution world
from david a. schnider@bmug.org
organization bmug , inc.
subject desi pb upgrade
lines 9

does anyone know exactly how digital eclipse does their upgrades \? someone was
suggesting to me that some chips may not be able to perform at 33mhz. is this
true , and if so , how does desi deal with that \?

david

from planet bmug , the firstclass bbs of bmug. the message contained in
this posting does not in any way reflect bmug 's official views.


from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon wtte)
subject re adb mouse ii (ergo) when \?
distribution comp
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 16
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se

in jas.93apr15161243@tigger.isi.edu jas@isi.edu (jeff sullivan) writes

when is apple supposed to start bundlign the new ergonomic adb mouse
ii with all cpus sold \?

as far as i know , they did my new mac came with one yesterday...
(and i got my ergonomic keyboard , on order for three months , the
other day , too ! )

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe

on a clear disc , you can seek forever.

from kssimon@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (kenneth steven simon)
subject re new duo dock info.
summary you do n't know the products
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 27

aw@camcon.co.uk (alain waha) writes

nazario@pop.cis.yale.edu (edgardo nazario) writes
the info i am about to give is not a rumour , it 's the truth. the new
macintosh coming in the second quarter , will have a cpu of their own.

excuse me but... have not all macs got a cpu ! ! !

alain

alain
get your facts straight before you post something like this. the duo
dock does not have a cpu of its own. it is a docking station with
ports connecting various components , including the portable powerbook
with its own cpu. i guess these rumored new duo docks have a built in
cpu to perform functions of their own. interesting ! if they 're not
compatible with the current duo models , i think you 'll be hearing a
lot more screwed by apple complaints. imagine a company obsoleting
(ooh , a new verb ! ) a virtually brand new computer... sheesh...

ken



kenneth simon dept of sociology , indiana university
internet kssimon@indiana.edu bitnet kssimon@iubacs


from cohen@ssdgwy.mdc.com (andy cohen)
subject re my iicx wo n't turn on...
organization mda w
lines 22
distribution world
nntp posting host q5022531.mdc.com

in article vv58kl@rpi.edu , pilon@aix02.ecs.rpi.edu (t.j. pilon) wrote

anyone know what would cause my iicx to not turn on when i hit the keyboard
switch \? the one in the back of the machine does n't work either...
the only way i can turn it on is to unplug the machine for a few minutes ,
then plug it back in and hit the power switch in the back immediately...
sometimes this does n't even work for a long time...

tj
this problem is most likely the same that all cx users are experiencing....
thanks to one very adventurous usenet reader (sorry i ca n't remember the
guy 's name ! somebody please post it....he deserves the credit for saving
us all ) it is easily fixed , if it is the same problem......


best i can figure it is due to time , heat and repeated warmup cool downs in
the power supply....i.e. , bad solder joints in the power supply circuit
card. go get a desolder tool from radio shack , a low wattage iron and some
good nonacid solder and resolder the lower left quadrant of the circuit
card with the ac plugs facing away from you..........or get someone to do
it for you. it took me less then 10 minutes and saved me at least 300 for
a new supply !

from dark1@netcom.com (steven seeger)
subject another res question !
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 14

i asked a question a week or so ago about getting more res. on my monitor. i have a magnavox magnascan 17 and am wondering what video cards it supports. also , does anybody have magnavox 's email id (if there is one) or maybe a phone number \? please reply by email as i do n't read much news.

thanks ,
steve




steven d seeger dark1@netcom.com

string , he 's going to blow us out of the sky !
then why do n't you hang your flabby behind out the window and blow him out of
the sky \? \? \? string dom , airwolf )


from jmk13@po.cwru.edu (joseph m. kasanic)
subject re how do you like the apple color onescanner \?
article i.d. usenet.1pt46r li6
distribution world
organization case school of engineering
lines 19
nntp posting host b63545.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxmessage id a7e78c567302f839@b63545.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate tue , 6 apr 93 03 36 54 gmt

in article 1993apr5.203903.12192@midway.uchicago.edu johnc ,
jcav@ellis.uchicago.edu writes
we 're all set to buy one of these for the office , to use for scanning in
color photographs and for optical character recognition. we 've played
with
the original grayscale onescanner and were very pleased. is the color
model
comparable in quality \?

also , what brand of ocr software would you recommend \? we 're leaning
toward
caere omnipage. any better ideas \? thanks.

i work in a campus bookstore and we had the opportunity to demo the color
one
scanner. i found it to be very impressive as well as affordable (with the
educational discount of course ! ). note also that it comes with ofoto
software
which is sufficient for our needs.

from egaillou@etu.gel.ulaval.ca (eric gailloux)
subject a stylewriter ii question
nntp posting host miniac.etu.gel.ulaval.ca
organization universite laval
lines 3

i just read an article on the swii. one thing puzzles me the article says the
swii is a serial only device. does that mean i 'll have to unplug my modem each
time i want to print something \? \? \?

from ad@dcs.st and.ac.uk (tony davie)
subject re nutek faces apple's wrath (article ! ! ! ! ! ! ) read
nntp posting host bruichladdich.dcs.st and.ac.uk
organization st.andrews university
lines 24

in article 1993mar31.221104.21890@leland.stanford.edu , tedebear@leland.stanford.edu (theodore chen) writes


there is n't any copyright equivalent of the res ipsa doctrine ,
but there 's something kind of similar. to show infringement , one
element you need to show is that the defendant copied from your work.
if you 're lucky , you 'll have direct evidence of copying the smoking
gun. normally , you do this through circumstantial evidence , by showing
evidence of access from which one might reasonably infer copying.
this evidence of access is considered along with the similarities
between the two works in deciding whether you copied. however , if
the similarities are so strong as to be striking , an inference of
copying may be drawn even without any evidence that the defendant had
access to your copyrighted work.

in that case , the burden will be on the defendant to rebut the inference
of copying. for example , evidence that he 'd been on a desert island for
the last ten years and had no contact with civilization.


wow ! now we know why lawyers are rich and computer scientists are poor !
lawyers have to (sound as if they) understand this stuff.



from ccw@lancelot.nosubdomain.nodomain (christopher wood)
subject re how long do ram simm 's last \?
organization bellcore , livingston , nj
distribution usa
lines 21

in article noah 160493095418@noah.apple.com , noah@apple.com (noah price) writes
in article 1993apr11.234818.1755@ultb.isc.rit.edu ,
jek5036@ultb.isc.rit.edu (j.e. king) wrote

does n't a 1 mb simm have about 1024 1024 8 moving flip flops \?

they do n't move , to anybody much bigger than an electron )

dynamic ram is not based on flip flops there 's basically a single
transistor and capacitor to store each bit ! static ram is based on
flip flops , and is much more expensive and much less dense. and
neither has any parts that move , if electrons and thermal expansion
are ignored...

noah

chris


chris wood bellcore ccw@ctt.bellcore.com


from tomj@pnet16.cts.com (tom jenkins)
subject lciii vs. centris 610 \?
organization people net pnet16 , nctams eastpac
lines 8

title says it all. i 'd be particularly interested in the performance
difference. just how much faster (50 \? ) is the centris 610 over the lciii \?

tom

uucp humu ! nctams1 ! pnet16 ! tomj
arpa humu ! nctams1 ! pnet16 ! tomj@nosc.mil
inet tomj@pnet16.cts.com

from mori@volga.mfd.cs.fujitsu.co.jp (tsuyoshi mori)
subject i want use deskjet on system7
organization fujitsu.ltd. , kawasaki , japan.
lines 15
distribution comp
nntp posting host ceres.mfd.cs.fujitsu.co.jp

i used hp deskjet with orange micros grappler ls on system6.0.5.

but now i update system 6.0.5 to system7 with kanji talk 7.1 ,
then i can not print by my deskjet.

is the grappler ls old \?
can i use deskjet on system7 \?

please tell me how to use deskjet on system7.

thank you


from japan mori@volga.mfd.cs.fujitsu.co.jp


from rcs8@po.cwru.edu (robert c. sprecher)
subject help with simm configuration
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 22
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


can someone please help me understand the current situation
regarding simms \?

i have a iisi which i will probably keep for another 2 years.

i would like to add more memory , ie go from 5 mb to 17 mb.

i know that i will need 4 x 4mb , 80ns or faster simms.

which simms , 30 pin or 72 pin \?
would the simms i get today be usable in 2 years with a
newer , more powerful system \?

any insight would be appreciated.

thanks.

rob

rob sprecher
rcs8@po.cwru.edu

from sloubtin@dsg.cs.tcd.ie (sylvain louboutin)
subject fpu in an se (probably a dumb question...)
organization dsg , dept. of computer science , trinity college dublin
lines 11

is it possible to fit an fpu in a mac se \? (not a se 30 , but the plain
old se) if possible , would i get any speed increase \? what would be
the reference of the chip \?

thanks in advance ,



sylvain r.y. louboutin , phone ( 353 1)7021539 , e mail sloubtin@dsg.cs.tcd.ie
distributed system group , o'reilly institute , room f.35 , fax ( 353 1)6772204
department of computer science , trinity college , dublin 2 , ireland ask 18

from petrack@vnet.ibm.com
subject disabling all power management interrupts
reply to petrack@vnet.ibm.com
disclaimer this posting may contain no views at all
news software usenet 3.1
lines 21

could someone please do one of the following
1. point to an init that allows me to turn off power management on my
duo 210.
1. write an init that would allow me to turn off all power management on
duo 210.
2. point me to documentation on power management so that i can write such
an init.
3. explain to me why such an init is totally or partially impossible.

ideally , of course , i would like to be able to turn in on and off on the
fly.

surely such an init would be very helpful to powerbook owners who want to
do midi... i cannot imagine why it is not possible to do , unless it requires
apple to divluge some secret. and if that is the case , the surely apple
could write the init. (unless apple brings out new models so fast these
days that even they do n't know how they work).

scott petrack
petrack@haifasc3.vnet.ibm.com


from jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey)
subject re what to put in centris 650 internal bay \?
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 24

hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes) writes

tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith) writes

jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey) writes
yes , you get internal mixing of the analog cd audio outputs with
the mac generated audio on the mac motherboard. also you can sample
the cd audio using the sound control panel by clicking on the options
button next to the microphone icon.

how do you click on the options button \? i 've never seen it undimmed.

the latest word on this is you have to disconnect the microphone
cable on the motherboard. then the button is supposed to un dim.


hades

sorry , i assumed that the the various new machines with the internal
cd rom bay worked the same as the quadra 900. obviously they do n't.
i can use any of three inputs by changing the radio button under
the sound cp on my quadra 900 , microphone , external , and cd rom. i
always leave the microphone plugged in (even though i never use
it).

from frodel@dhhalden.no (frode lundemo)
subject apple 13 giong brighter
nntp posting host pc138
organization ostfold regional college
lines 4

my apple 13 rgb monitor has over the past few months gone brighter and
brighter and the colors are not as rich as before. has anyone out there
encountered a similar problem \? dows anyone happen to know what this problem
may be due to \?

from dcb@wdl1.wdl.loral.com (david c blume)
subject cannot move data fast enough ! \?
summary disk buffer network card
keywords nubus , scsi , disk , throughput
organization gokuraku videos
lines 43

i want to achieve an overall throughput rate of around 5 megabytes sec
for very large data transfers. (around 5 mb.)

i have a quadra 950.
i have a nubus network card that can pump data in to mac memory at 8.5 mb s.
(using block mode transfers)
i have a high speed disk array (no asynchronous pb calls) that can
achieve 6.8 mb s.

let 's say all transfers go from disk to buffer to network card.

it is not enough to first transfer all the data from the disk to buffer ,
then transfer all the data from the buffer to card. (6.8 mb s then 8.5 mb s
result in an overall 3.8 mb s. too slow ! )

so i tried the following scheme for an n megabyte transfer ,

step 1 load the 1st mb from disk to buffer.
step 2 asynch send 1st mb out card , load the 2nd mb from disk to buffer.
step 3 asynch send 2nd mb out card , load the 3rd mb from disk to buffer.
...
step n asynch send the n 1 mb out card , load the nth mb from disk to buffer.
step n 1 send the nth mb out card.

even though the code apparently does execute the card transfer asynchronously ,
and the card does not use the mac cpu at all , (it is using the buffer , tho')
each of the steps 2 through n take as long as if the two transfers were
executed one after another. so there is no improvement in the rate.

why \?

is the mac ram dual port \? (so the nubus card and the disk driver can both
access data at the same time.)
is the problem that the two devices , card and disk driver , both have to use
the same bus to mac ram \?

is there anything i can do \?

david

david blume i get tired thinking of all the things i
dcb@wdl1.wdl.loral.com do n't want to do. bukowski , barfly


from bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de (christian bauer)
subject re cd300 300i
nntp posting host christian.informatik.uni ulm.de
organization university of ulm
lines 18

in article afi9shs00vohmrylee@andrew.cmu.edu , donpaul c. stephens
deathbird @cmu.edu wrote

what is the difference \?
i want a double spin cd rom drive by may

looking into nec and apple , doublespins only
what is the best \?

nec toshiba and sony (apple) nearly deliver the same speed.
as apples prices are very low (compared to there ram simms)
you should buy what is inexpencive. but think of driver revisions.
it is easier to get driver kits from apple than from every other
manufacturer

christian bauer

bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de

from sunnyt@coding.bchs.uh.edu
subject re lciii problems
organization university of houston
lines 32
reply to ln63sdm@sdcc4.ucsd.edu
nntp posting host transposon.bchs.uh.edu

in article 1993apr16.021225.19717@leland.stanford.edu ravi konchigeri
mongoose@leland.stanford.edu writes
finally got my computer fixed and i 'd like to sum up.

about hard drive companies the original 160 meg drive that was bad (bad
sector or something) was an ibm. the new one is a quantum. is the lciii
supposed to be shipped with ibms \? is there a quality difference \?
apparently ! )

second , about hard drive position. i 've put the lciii on its side and
the new 160 hd has had no problems at all. i 've even switched back and
forth between horizontal and vertical and there are no problems. as far
as i'm concerned i do n't believe hd position is important for drives up
to 160 meg , in any computer. do n't know about cd rom , though.


just like everything else in life , the right lane ends in half a
mile.

ravi konchigeri.
mongoose@leland.stanford.edu

ravi ,

its not a good idea to have a horizontally formatted hard disk in a
vertical position. if the drive is formatted in a horizontal position , it can
not completely compensate for the gravitational pull in a vertical position.
i'm not saying that your hard disk will fail tomorrow or 6 months from now , but
why take that chance \? if you want more detailed info on the problem , please
mail me at sunnyt@dna.bchs.uh.edu .

sunny

from johnston@me.udel.edu (bill johnston)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
keywords quadra scsi aps
nntp posting host me.udel.edu
organization university of delaware
lines 19

in article 1993apr16.144750.1568@mintaka.lcs.mit.edu nodine@lcs.mit.edu (mark h. nodine) writes
i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your
message , but i definitely had scsi problems between my
q700 and my venerable jasmine megadrive 10 cartridge
drives. my solution was to get silverlining. none of
the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives
in fact the only loop that worked was the macintosh
software loop (whatever that means).

i doubt this is a quadra specific problem. i had to get
rid of my venerable bernoulli 20 last year (with enough
cartridges purchased at 90 each to make the whole thing
worth more than my whole computer ). the tech support guys
at ocean microsystems suggested that some third party drivers
might fix the problem in my case the cartridges would n't
format mount partition for a ux.

bill johnston (johnston@me.udel.edu)
38 chambers street newark , de 19711 (302)368 1949

from ravi konchigeri mongoose@leland.stanford.edu
subject re lciii problems
x xxmessage id a7f36401930100ed@kimball pc 316.stanford.edu
x xxdate thu , 15 apr 93 03 12 01 gmt
organization stanford university
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 18

finally got my computer fixed and i 'd like to sum up.

about hard drive companies the original 160 meg drive that was bad (bad
sector or something) was an ibm. the new one is a quantum. is the lciii
supposed to be shipped with ibms \? is there a quality difference \?
apparently ! )

second , about hard drive position. i 've put the lciii on its side and
the new 160 hd has had no problems at all. i 've even switched back and
forth between horizontal and vertical and there are no problems. as far
as i'm concerned i do n't believe hd position is important for drives up
to 160 meg , in any computer. do n't know about cd rom , though.


just like everything else in life , the right lane ends in half a mile.

ravi konchigeri.
mongoose@leland.stanford.edu

from st890123@pip.cc.brandeis.edu (joe dropkin)
subject re apple announce 3 new performas (versions of the 400)
reply to st890123@pip.cc.brandeis.edu
organization brandeis university
lines 12

in article 1993apr12.151718.8485@desire.wright.edu , demon@desire.wright.edu (not a boomer) writes
apple announced that it will start selling three new vesions of its
performa 400. the new machines will have built in modems and bundled software.

the new models will be the 405 , 430 and 450.

prices are not set by apple , but by the retailer. the prices of the
new machines are expected to range from 1300 1900.

what kind of post is this \? if you have something substantial to tell the world ,
then at least give us details ! so what if they are coming out with new macs ,
they always do that... what 's new about these models \? etc...

from dale adams@gateway.qm.apple.com (dale adams)
subject re help install ram on centris 610
organization apple computer inc.
lines 23

in article c5115s.5fy@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu
jht9e@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (jason harvey titus) writes
i had asked everyone about problems installing a 4 meg
simm and an 8 meg simm in my centris 610 , but the folks at the
local apple store called the folks in cupertino and found that
you ca n't have simms of different speeds in one machine , even
if they are both fast enough ie my 80 ns 8 meg and 60ns 4
meg simms were incompatibable... just thought people might
want to know.....

there 's absolutely no reason why differences in the dram access time
alone would cause an incompatibility. there would have to be another
difference between the simms for there to be a problem. i 've often used
memory of different speeds with no problems whatsoever. as long as it 's
as fast (or faster) than the minimum requirement you should be fine.

just out of curiosity , did you actually try this and see a problem , or
were you told it would n't work and so never tried it \? also out of
curiosity , do you know exactly who in cupertino you dealer talked to (as
i 'd like to find out what they 're basing this recommendation on).

dale adams
apple computer , inc.

subject need advice (about tech works etc.)
from choo@ecs.umass.edu
lines 19



greetings ! !

i planning to upgrade my mac iisi

(1) from the present 5megs to 17megs
and (2) add a math coprocessor.

technology works , of austin (texas) comes quite highly recommended by
some mac magazines. i was just wonderring if anyone could share with me
anything about tech works (both good and bad experiences) or give any advice
about other mail order companies that i may consider.

your reply would be very much appreciated. thanks in advance.

sincerely
peter choo
choo@sigma.ecs.umass.edu

from lau@aerospace.aero.org (david lau)
subject re accelerating the macplus... )
nntp posting host michigan.aero.org
organization the aerospace corporation el segundo , ca
lines 17

also , if someone would recommend another
accelerator for the macplus , i 'd like to hear about it.

thanks for any time and effort you expend on this !

karl

try looking at the brainstorm accelerator for the plus. i believe it is
the best solution because of the performance and price. why spend 800
upgrading a computer that is only worth 300 \? \? \? \?
the brainstorm accelerator is around 225. it speeds up the internal
clock speed to 16mhz. that may not seem like much but it also speeds up
scsi transfers. i think that feature is unique to brainstorm.
check it out.

david lau
lau@aerospace.aero.org

from csp1dwd@mvs.oac.ucla.edu (csp1dwd)
subject re can i get more than 640 x 480 on 13 monitor \?
nntp posting host mvs.oac.ucla.edu
lines 12

in article carsona.734880998@sfu.ca ,
carsona@fraser.sfu.ca (debra carson) writes

would a virtual screen of larger size be of use to you \? i have been
using stepping out v \? . \? for some time. it still is working now on a
powerbook with system 7.1 , minor problem with menubar icons at right edge.

what 's the latest version of stepping out that works ok with s7.1 \?

denis



from rvenkate@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (ravikuma venkateswar)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 46

michael.ameres@f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org (michael ameres) writes

i believe it goes or will go
680060
powerpc
pentium

not quite. 66mhz pentium 65 specint92 , 57 specfp92 .
66mhz mc98601 50 specint92 , 80 specfp92 .

note that specint is more important for most real world applications.

680040
486

as far as the 486dx2 66 goes 32 specint92 , 16 specfp92 .

680030
386
680020
286 680000

in a resent article in one of the macmags i think a 50mhz 030 accelerator was
slightly slower than a 25mhz 040 accel. but , this is using a system designed
for the 030. so , it stands to reason that a system designed for an 040 ie
quadra) would do better. so overall i 'd figure 040 030 2.5 or so.
along the same lines the new powerpc stuff is supposed to run the system
at the level of a fast quadra , but system 8 or whatever will allow 3 times the
speed of a 040 in the powerpc based systems. and wait for the 680060. i think
it laps the pentium.

intel chips have traditionally been faster than their motorola equivalents
although the significance of chip speed in real world application performance
is something that is highly debatable.

pro life pro women




michael ameres internet michael.ameres@f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org

ravikumar venkateswar
rvenkate@uiuc.edu

a pun is a no' blessed form of whit.

from tecot@xenon.stanford.edu (edward m. tecot)
subject re computer engr vs. computer science
organization cs department , stanford university , california , usa
distribution usa
lines 21

a professor of mine once said the difference between a computer engineer and
a computer scientist is about 5000 meaning the engineer makes 5000 more than
the cs.
seriously though the main difference is that most cs people write programs that
people will use , i.e. database , graphics , word processors , etc. , while an
engineer writes for machines or control systems , i.e. the computer in your
car , a flight control system , computer controled devices , etc. in other words
cs writes software while cse writes firmware.
these are generalizations but for the most part that is what the difference is.

p.s. the 5000 is not just a joke
scott

for the most part , this is a bunch of bunk. i 've got a computer engineering
degree , yet i 've spent the last 7 years writing software that people actually
use. moreover , the salary distinctions are incorrect i received 3 job offers
upon graduation the two jobs that actually used my hardware experience were
7000 year lower ! my advice is to decide which classes and projects most
interest you , and pick the major that allows you to take them.

emt

from alexander samuel mcdiarmid am2o @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re help install ram on centris 610
organization sophomore , mechanical engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 22
nntp posting host andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to c5115s.5fy@murdoch.acc.virginia.edu

excerpts from netnews.comp.sys.mac.misc 5 apr 93 re help install ram
on cen.. by jason harvey titus@farad
from jht9e@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (jason harvey titus)
subject re help install ram on centris 610
date mon , 5 apr 1993 20 05 51 gmt

i had asked everyone about problems installing a 4 meg
simm and an 8 meg simm in my centris 610 , but the folks at the
local apple store called the folks in cupertino and found that
you ca n't have simms of different speeds in one machine , even
if they are both fast enough ie my 80 ns 8 meg and 60ns 4
meg simms were incompatibable... just thought people might
want to know.....
jason.



oh boy am i confused , i thought the entire point of the 72 pin simms was
that you could use diffrent size simms so you could avoid having to use
sets. all horror stories not withstanding.

a.

from peter hansen pgmoffc@bnr.ca
subject re help 2 internal hds in mac ii \?
x xxdate tue , 6 apr 93 11 16 56 gmt
nntp posting host bcarm382
organization bnr
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 54

in article 1993apr1.054820.3942@siemens.co.at kurt netzer ,
kurt@siemens.co.at writes
is it possible to install a 2nd 3 1 2 100 mb hd in a mac ii with a
5 1 4 40 mb qunatum hd \?
can i us a 50 pin cable with 3 connectors for the internal motherboard
scsi connector and the 2 scsi hd connectors. the first hd is'nt
terminated
the second will be.
whats about the power supply. where can i connect a 3 1 2 amp connector
to supply my 3 1 2 hd \?

it is very possible to connect another internal hard disk in any
macintosh if you can find the space to put it. i have a iisi that came
with a quantum 80 meg drive. when i ran into space problems , i slapped in
another 40 meg quantum that i had sitting on a shelf. here is what i did.

first off , i was concerned about space. since both drives are quantum
quarter height drives , i finally decided that the logical place for them
was stacked one upon the other. fine , they fit snugly. (i have not had a
problem with heat yet , and these drives have been running together for
over two months.

the next problem was connecting the drive. if you have a spare internal
hard disk power cable as i did , then half of your troubles are over. just
splice in the extra cable so that you get one square motherboard
connector and two hard disk power connectors. if you do n't have a spare
cable , you will have to buy the wires and connectors which can be found
in any good electronics store for about 10. i would suggest properly
soldering heatshrinking the connections to reduce the possibility of
shorts or bad connections.

next , you need a ribbon cable connection. again , i had a spare hard disk
ribbon cable , and i wanted to be careful in case this did n't word so what
i did was purchase a crimp on 50 pin cable connector that gave me another
male connector in the middle of my spare cable. the part cost 10 again ,
and is easily attached with any good wood vice. the theory behind using a
crimp on connector is that if this does n't work , my original cable is not
damaged , and i can go back to the original setup.

having done all that , i could n't be bothered to check the dev notes for
power consumption so i plugged it in and it works like a charm to this
day.

in a mac ii , everything should work the same. be careful with the id 's of
the drive , and ensure that the terminating resistors on both drives are
intact. i did not try this without the terminating resistors but it
seemed logical that if i am splitting the scsi chain , that the signal
should be terminated at all the ends.

let me know if you have any more questions.

peter hansen
bell northern research
pgmoffc@bnr.ca

from lian@mips.com (jeff lian)
subject monitor for lciii
keywords lciii monitor
organization mips technologies , inc.
lines 27
nntp posting host arctic.mti.sgi.com
originator lian@arctic.mti.sgi.com


hi folks

i'm planning to buy a lciii but need advice on choosing a monitor.
what do people recommend for a decent 14 15 monitor \?

i'v looked at some ads and the spec for nec 4fg 4fge and the price is
within my budget , but could lciii be able to use the various resolutions
available on 4fg (specifically the 1024x768 resolution) \? does lciii only
support one resolution \?

also any recommendations for a reliable mail order place for lciii or
monitors \? does anyone have experience with the following mail order places \?

syex express (houston , tx)
usa flex (bloomingdale , il)

thanks ,

jeff



jeff lian lian@mti.sgi.com or lian@mips.com
mips technologies , inc.
2011 n. shoreline boulevard
p.o. box 7311 m s 10l 175

from jkomp@leonardo.src.honeywell.com (john komp)
subject re price drop on c650 within 2 months \?
article i.d. leonardo.9304062132.aa00657
organization mailenteringnews at honeywell src
lines 36
to comp.sys.mac.hardware
posted date tue , 6 apr 93 16 32 51 cdt
received date tue , 6 apr 93 16 32 52 cdt


nathaniel sammons writes

i am going to be getting a c650 soon , but i don t want apple
to come out with the cyclones and the tempest in a month
and have the price drop on the system i want. i have negotiated a
good deal with a supplier for a c650 8 80 and i would like to jump on it ,
but , again , i do n't want the price drop to smuther me. btw , the deal
i have is a c650 8 80 with mouse for 2295... does anyone know of a better
deal \?

i do n't know how to say it best but you are gaurenteed that the
price of the c650 is going to drop this year. this week 's macweek
reports that apple is probably planning a drop in august. my guess
is that it may come sooner if apple decides to change the price
structure upon release of the multimedia units this summer.

your price looks pretty good at about 50 more then i payed for
mine last month. i would have rather waited for one of the new
machines this sommer (like the cyclone) but the resale value of my
iici would have not been squat by then. thus , financing forced me
to purchase now. i'm happy with the machine and wo n't feel
betrayed at all when apple cuts the price to less then 1000 next
week (heh).

bottome line if the c650 does what you want , buy it. if you wait
until the cylcones come out for a price break then you might as
well wait for the powerpcs to come out for another price break and
then the units which follow them. you may save some money but
you 've lost a lot of time when you could have been using the
computer. face it , apple 's prices are going to be in a continuous
state of flux. at least they are n't going to try raising them
again (grin).

john
komp@leonardo.src.honeywell.com

from guykuo@carson.u.washington.edu (guy kuo)
subject re half page hand scanners \?
organization university of washington
lines 12
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

the logitech scanman 32 is a nice unit , compact and effective it will
bring in graphics with surprisingly good quality. note that its effective
resolution in grey scale mode is only about 72 dpi. if you do n't intend
to magnify a graphic , it works fine. a true 256 level gray scanner would
work better for images.

i 've seen the scanman go for as little as 100 used. it is a reasonable buy
at that price. higher end hand scanners are almost as expensive as used
flat bed scanners. here is seattle , the paper shows occasional good bargains
in the classifieds. used color flat beds have been seen as lows as 500 lately.
grey scale flatbeds come in around 300 350.


from fhoward@hqsun7.us.oracle.com (forrest howard)
subject re duo 230 crashes aftersleep
nntp posting host hqsun7.us.oracle.com
organization oracle corp
x disclaimer this message was written by an unauthenticated user
at oracle corporation. the opinions expressed are those
of the user and not necessarily those of oracle.
lines 33

add me to the list of bugged 230 owners.

i had a bunch of problems regarding sleep wakeup restart with the 230 when
i first got it , both with and without the techworks ram. finally it died ,
would n't start , until i opened the docking door (which snaps open) and
the machine came up fine , but with the clock a few decades off. apple
replaced the processor board.

now ,
twice the machine has frozen (no mouse action)
twice the machine has refused to wake up. acutally , the backlighting
came on , and the disk spins when the power adaptor is plugged in
(but not with a good battery).
the first time this happened removing both power adaptor and battery
for 1 minute brought the machine back.
the second time this happened the machine would n't wake up until
powered down for about 30 minutes. the screen had what looked
like red horizontal lines accross it.
both timse the file fax modem preferences has been corrupted
according to disinfectent).

i have removed all the fax and modem software , and the third party memory ,
and am waiting to see if it happens again.

forrest



forrest howard
oracle corporation
500 oracle parkway
box 65414
redwood shores , ca 94065

from hulthage@morue.usc.edu (ingemar hulthage)
subject dead mouse \?
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 11
distribution usa
nntp posting host morue.usc.edu


my macclassic mouse died. i dissected it and determined that it is
the microswitch , that senses the click , that is stuck in the depressed
mode. this tragedy prompts the following questions

1. is it easy to find a microswitch that i could solder into the
place of the old switch \?

2. i have old mice (max , mac 512ke) , can they be used with some
adapter \?


from donovan@bnr.ca (marc donovan)
subject re i want use deskjet on system7
nntp posting host bcarh1ee
organization bell northern research ltd. , ottawa
distribution comp
lines 30

in article mori.93apr16133900@ceres.mfd.cs.fujitsu.co.jp mori@volga.mfd.cs.fujitsu.co.jp (tsuyoshi mori) writes
i used hp deskjet with orange micros grappler ls on system6.0.5.

but now i update system 6.0.5 to system7 with kanji talk 7.1 ,
then i can not print by my deskjet.
is the grappler ls old \?
can i use deskjet on system7 \?
please tell me how to use deskjet on system7.
thank you

from japan mori@volga.mfd.cs.fujitsu.co.jp

i currently use an hp deskjet with grappler ls ver 1.0 ,
and it works on system7. course , i only use the swa dutch
and swa swiss fonts that came with it , due to the 4x size
requirement to print to the hp. (ie must have 40pnt definition
to print a 10pnt font) when i upgraded , i talked to orange
micro , and they state that ver 1.2 of grappler ls definitely
works with system7. however , the upgrade was us 40 , so i
passed.

hope this helps \?

marc



marc donovan donovan@bnr.ca voice (613) 765 2868 fax (613) 763 9250
disclaimer i am the only one responsible for my opinions.


subject snooper..any opinions
from keith whitehead sir@office.acme.gen.nz
distribution world
organization apple source bbs
x mailer rnmac buggy , i mean beta , test version
lines 16


has anyone use snooper or macekg or any other similar diagnostic
software.any comparisons reviews on these products would be very much
appreciated.

thanks in advance for your help

cheers




sir@office.acme.gen.nz

be thankfull that we dont get all the government we pay for !


from s912013@minyos.xx.rmit.oz.au (douglas barry mcpherson)
subject laser writer iintx upgrade kit
organization royal melbourne institute of technology
lines 15
nntp posting host minyos.xx.rmit.oz.au

could someone please tell me what a

laserwriter iintx upgrade kit is.

its a small box , which has a bag inn it , seemingly
containing 6 chips (look like roms) and a iintx manual.
the installation instructions are most informative and say , in full ,
this product must be installed by an apple .........

so what does this do \? at first i thought it might be a nt to ntx
upgrade , but i thought that required an entirely new board.

any info appreciated.

doug.

from haase@meediv.lanl.gov (peter haase)
subject re upgrading pb170 memory
organization los alamos national laboratory
distribution usa
lines 18

in article 1993apr17.185806.7216@ncar.ucar.edu , bill@lhotse.hao.ucar.edu
(bill roberts) wrote

i have one of the original powerbook 170 's (with 4mb of ram) and find
that 4mb is a drag when trying to do my work. so , what is the best way
to get the maximum ram for this unit , and what 's it going to cost me \?
i'm hoping i can get the latest and best info from real users by posting
to this group.

well bill , there are 2mb soldered on the logic board and 2mb in the ram
expansion slot giving you 4mb. the only thing you can do to upgrade to
the maximum ram is to remove the 2mb expansion and install a 6mb expansion ,
giving you a total of 8mb which is the max on a 170....you can try calling
techworks , or any other memory vendors out of macweek , macworld...etc....


peter haase internet haase@meediv.lanl.gov
network manager los alamos national laboratory

subject lcd overhead projectors
from jan@camhpp12.mdcbbs.com (jan vandenbrande)
distribution na
organization m e (division of eds) , cypress ca
nntp posting host 134.244.49.156
lines 13

i am looking for one of those color lcd screens you
place on an overhead projector and control the presentation
with a mac.

can you recommend me a particular brand \?
what price are we talking about \?

thanks ,

jan vandenbrande
jan@ug.eds.com (new address)
jan@lipari.usc.edu (school address , forwards)
uucp uunet , uupsi ! ug ! jan

from glalonde@watson.ibm.com
subject re cache card for iisi
news software ibm os 2 pm rn (nr 2) v0.17h by o. vishnepolsky and r. rogers
lines 18
reply to glalonde@vnet.ibm.com
disclaimer this posting represents the poster 's views , not necessarily those of ibm.
nntp posting host xlalonde.torolab.ibm.com
organization ibm toronto lab


as of last week , mac 's place had the applied engineering quicksilver card
(32k cache , one pds slot , socket for fpu) on sale for 99.00 (without fpu).
regular price is 199.

no idea if this is still going on , but i can get the phone no. if anyone is
interested (i found their ad in macuser).


can some people with cache cards please post speedometer numbers they get
with the cards. i have only one report , which seems to indicate that
a 32k cache card gives you only about a 1 speedup ! ! access to memory takes
longer when you have a cache card(and get a miss) thus a small cache card
of 32k may be worth 0. i do n't know what kind of numbers 64k cards get
you. also i found it interesting that you can disable the cache cards
via software(read about it in the mac iisi tech notes from ftp.apple.com)

so is 99 a good deal or not , i still do n't know.

from jeffh@ludwig.cc.uoregon.edu (jeff hite )
subject re mac plus is constantly rebooting !
article i.d. pith.1qk7nu ra8
organization university of oregon network services
lines 25
nntp posting host ludwig.cc.uoregon.edu

in article c5hsyu.dxq@hpuerca.atl.hp.com russ@hpuerca.atl.hp.com (russ
hodes) writes
tae shin (tshin@husc8.harvard.edu) wrote

basically , the mac pluses are constantly rebooting themselves , as if
the
reboot button were being pushed. sometimes the mac is able to fully
boot
and display the desktop , but it is only a matter of time before it
reboots
again. at times , the frequency is as high as several times a minute.

i wonder if your mac has those little reset interupt switches
installed. they are plastic devices that push on the switches which
are inside the mac. or mabey those switches are bad and need
replacing.

this problem is usually a low 5 vdc from the power supply , there is an
adjustment for this on the supply. if the voltage is still unstable or low
then the culprit is probably a bad rectifier at cr20.

jeff hite
computing center
u of oregon
jeffh@ludwig.cc.uoregon.edu

from ellens@bnr.ca (chris ellens)
subject re hd setup partition (was ok to set 54 lbs on top of centris 610 \? \? \?
nntp posting host bcarm422
organization bell northern research
lines 21

in article 1993apr15.143516.17221@urbana.mcd.mot.com ,
feldman@urbana.mcd.mot.com (mike feldman) wrote


now if i can figure out if there 's any hope using the partition button
on the hard disk setup utility (do i dare just try it and see what happens \? ) ,
then maybe i can divide up the wealth among the family members a bit more
securly. the getting more information section of the manual suggested
trying other avenues before calling apple , but did n't mention the net.

mike feldman , motorola computer group , (217) 384 8538 , fax (217) 384 8550
1101 east university avenue pager in il (800) 302 7738 , (217) 351 0009
urbana , il 61801 2009 (mcdphx uiucuxc) ! udc ! feldman feldman@urbana.mcd.mot.com

the partition button in apple 's hd setup lets you set up a ux and other
types of partitions. it won't let you create more than one normal mac
volume. you need silverlining or something similar to do that. it will ,
however , allow you to take advantage of some possible unused space on your
hard disk , if you do n't mind reformatting the whole thing.

chris ellens ellens@bnr.ca

from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon w tte)
subject re what is rom accelerated video \?
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 18

in 1qknuq 9ut@agate.berkeley.edu c60b 3jl@web 4f.berkeley.edu (james wang) writes

addressing modes. commands that do fills should be slightly faster
since the new instructions fetch 2 bytes at a time versus one.

even the 68000 can fetch two bytes at a time.

the new instruction in the 68040 is move16 which fetches 16 bytes
at a time instead of 4 which the 68030 has that means 4 24bit
pixels instead of one.

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe

this article printed on 100 recycled electrons.

distribution world
from jim chow@edgeway.wimsey.bc.ca
organization edgeways !
subject re thunderscan got a spare imagewriter cover \?
lines 21

anyone have the replacement cover needed to use thunderscan
with an imagewriter i \? or can i fool the printer into
working without its own cover by sticking a suitable
magnet into its cover sensor \?

thanks for any help ,
ralph


the magnet trick will work. be careful when you apply the white tape to the
rubber carriage roller , it tells the scanner where the edge is and it can come
off.

jim


edgeways ! infolink
name@edgeway.wimsey.bc.ca gui bbs (604) 984 2777 voice (604) 984 6860
the views expressed here are of the individual author only.
from firstclass(tm) by postalunion lite(tm) from north vancouver , bc canada


from feilimau@leland.stanford.edu (christopher yale lin)
subject mac iisi power limitations
summary what are they \?
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
lines 9


i own a mac iisi and am considering upgrades (cards , hard drive , etc).
can you tell me what the power limitations are for 1) the pds slot
and 2) the hard drive power feed. secondly , can you tell me if there
is a separate limit for each , or if instead , there is a single limit
for both combined \?

felix lin , a new reader of comp.sys.mac.hardware
feilimau@leland.stanford.edu

from sven guckes guckes@math.fu berlin.de
subject re when is apple going to ship cd300i 's \?
originator guckes@medusa
x mail reader elm 2.4 pl21
organization free university of berlin , germany
x news reader nn 6.4.13 13
lines 18

sunnyt@coding.bchs.uh.edu writes

the cd300 (external) is already shipping and has been shipping for
quite awhile now.
demand for the units are high , so they are pretty rare.

hm , i 've got my cd drive since 921230.

i 've also heard rumors that they are bundled with a couple of cd 's ,
but i ca n't confirm it.

indeed , cds are bundled with it.
you usually get nine cds with demos of applications , games , photos , etc.

i have compiled a list of these and posted it to alt.cdrom.
i will post an updated version of this list rsn.

sven )

from b clark@nwu.edu (brian clark)
subject re high resolution adc for mac ii
nntp posting host elvex34.acns.nwu.edu
organization northwestern university
lines 28

in article b clark 160493183822@elvex33.acns.nwu.edu , b clark@nwu.edu
(brian clark) wrote

i do n't know about the instrutech boards (though i plan to check them out) ,
but you need to be very careful checking the monotonicity and s n ratio of
many of the 16 bit boards out there. the ni boards are very clearly
specified in terms of monotonicity , s n ratio , accuracy , etc and the
nb a2100 and nb a2150 have all the dyynamic range and freedom from
distortion that you 'd expect from a good , true 16 bit converter. this is
not true for the spectral innovations boards , for example.

to boorishly reply to myself , i found i did have the instrutech information
already. the specs (to use the term loosely) are as follows

a d 16 bit converter , with 14 bit accuracy to 100 khz , 12 bit accuracy to
200 khz. no specs for s n , monotonicity , linearity. there are 8 multiplexed
inputs sharing the single a d , so that all inputs are not samples at the
same time , and in the above conversion specs the all channel sample rate
must be used. thus , for two channels , you only have 14 unknown quality bits
at 50 khz per channel. this is poorer quality than the national
instruments , at the same sample rate.

d a 16 bit converter. no specs for s n , monotonicity , linearity. each of
the 4 output channels has its own converter.

the price for the external converter box (the itc 16) , the nubus interface
board (the mac 23) , plus c driver software and igor xop 's is 2695. rather
steep.

from ejbehr@rs6000.cmp.ilstu.edu (eric behr)
subject asante en sc hangs scsi devices
reply to behr@math.ilstu.edu (eric behr)
organization central illinois surfing club
lines 31

i just hooked up my mac iisi to a relatively old (1 year \? ) asante en sc
adapter. the 10base t connection works like a charm. i installed the
newest drivers from asante 's ftp server.

the problem begins when i attach one more device to the scsi chain
specifically a 50mb drive. i power up the drive , then the mac. the mac
tests memory , etc. just before the happy mac face normally shows up , the
power light on the en sc goes out , and the boot process stops. so i can use
the network , or the external drive , but not both at once. this makes the
asante box pretty much unusable.

it does n't look like a purely electrical scsi problem , because if i turn
on the drive just a second or so too late , so that it does n't get noticed
during the initial scsi polling , the mac boots normally and the adapter
works , even though the hard disk is powered on and connected. the mac has
never once failed to boot from its internal drive up to now (and i 've had
it for over a year).

here is what i tried changing the scsi id 's of the en sc and the disk
several permutations changing the order of devices , i.e. the en sc at the
head or tail of the chain overterminating with an external terminator
(both devices have internal ones) underterminating , i.e. removing internal
resistors from the hard disk trying another en sc box trying another
identical drive trying several different scsi cables.

has anybody seen this \? more importantly , does anyone have a solution \?
thanks a lot. e.


eric behr , illinois state university , mathematics department
behr@math.ilstu.edu or behr@ilstu.bitnet (please avoid ! )

subject re 68lc040 vs. 68rc040 in centris 650
from bruce@hoult.actrix.gen.nz (bruce hoult)
lines 16

zack t. smith writes
konpej@eua.ericsson.se (per ejeklint) writes

hm , maybe i'm missing something , but the centris 650 has the '040 with fpu.
at least the ones shipped here in europe.

you are indeed. the 4 80 model (shipped here) definitely does not have the
fpu. i own one i know.


no , he 's not missing anything. you 're right that some models of the 650 ship in
the usa without fpu or ethernet. per ejeklint is also right all , i repeat ,
all centris 650 's sold here in new zealand and , i assume , europe have the fpu
and ethernet.

i know. i bought a 650 4 80 and it has both fpu and ethernet.

from eapu174@orion.oac.uci.edu (wayne chen)
subject re disappointed by la cie
nntp posting host dialin33626.slip.nts.uci.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
organization uc irvine
lines 6
x xxmessage id a7e73c868e028eb7@dialin33626.slip.nts.uci.edu
x xxdate tue , 6 apr 93 05 56 22 gmt

in article 2bc1f81d.20078@news.service.uci.edu wayne chen ,
eapu174@orion.oac.uci.edu writes
industry. after all it does sound unfair to me for someone that
has

oops , i meant fair , not unfair.

from cameron lewis lewis@tanelorn.aod.dsto.gov.au
subject re video resolution switching
organization aeronautical research laboratory , dsto
lines 20
distribution world
nntp posting host who.aod.dsto.gov.au
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
x xxmessage id a7f8746be8041432@who.aod.dsto.gov.au
x xxdate mon , 19 apr 93 23 23 23 gmt

in article john shepardson.esh 090493161019@moose.slac.stanford.edu
john shepardson , john shepardson.esh@qmail.slac.stanford.edu writes
as the author of dpi on the fry i can tell you that there is no way
for a
graphics card to know what resolution its connected monitor will actually
support. that 's why we have these silly cables. the cable just
identifies
that monitor as supporting a given resolution.

therefore the software will support any multisync monitor. i 've heard
that
radius has a similar program for the quadra.

is this software available either commercially or public domain \? if so
where \?

cameron lewis email lewis@tanelorn.aod.dsto.gov.au
air operations division (melb.) gbb 61 3 647 7729
aeronautical research laboratory d.s.t.o fax 61 3 646 3433
506 lorimer st , fishermens bend , vic. , australia , 3207

from earl d. fife fife@calvin.edu
subject re printer , blp elite
x xxdate thu , 15 apr 93 01 02 42 gmt
nntp posting host 153.106.4.42
organization calvin college
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
lines 42

in article ghoetker.734703475@nova glen hoetker ,
ghoetker@nova.sti.nasa.gov writes
i'm in the market for a post script compatible laser writer. my needs
are pretty modest so 300 dpi , 4 pages a minute would be just fine.
my budget is also pretty modest , so inexpensive would also be good.
it will be working from a single mac , but networkability would
probably be a good investment for the future.

with that in mind...

1) anyone have comments about the suitability quality value of a gcc
blp elite printer \?

i just recently purchased the gcc blp elite and i really like it. my
needs
are much the same as what you describe. in addition , i wanted to get one
that
i could access via appletalk , so that eliminated the new line of
inexpensive
printers from apple. the print quality is good to excellent based on
what
font you 're using and what paper you use. i'm still experimenting with
different papers , but a medium grade laser printer paper seems to work
fine.

printing envelopes , transpariencies , letter head , or other single feed
jobs is
very easy. there is an adjustable , automatic centering , guide on top of
the
sheet feeder which aligns the paper properly (and does n't feed a sheet
from
the sheet feeder , as some do).

(i have no affiliation with gcc , just a satisfied customer.)



earl d. fife department of mathematics
fife@calvin.edu calvin college
(616)957 6403 grand rapids , mi 49546



from tthiel@cs.uiuc.edu (terry thiel)
subject re desktop rebuild and datadesk keyboard \?
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 15

smith@pell.anu.edu.au (michael smith) writes
similarly , i have trained myself to hold down the right hand pair of
command option for desktop rebuilds.

i tried the right set and it did n't work. i'm on the phone to their
tech support right now and the guys does n't know what a desktop
rebuild is ! ! ! he 's got me holding for someone else...............
and holding , and holding , and holding.

ok they finally got back to me and said basically it should work .
well it doens't and they do n't know why. guess it will go back to
macconnection and i 'll buy something else. i 've got better things
to do than play musical keyboards.
terry


from bchuang@css.itd.umich.edu (ben chuang)
subject tcp ip routing localtalk ethernet.
organization university of michigan itd consulting and support services
lines 27
nntp posting host stimpy.css.itd.umich.edu

here is the story
i have a network with 4 macs on localtalk. one of them has an
ethernet card , and is currently connected to a next (do n't laugh
i got it for the price of a mac iisi). the next is connected
to the internet over slip running on a 9600 baud modem.

currently , we can telnet from the mac w ethernet to the next ,
and then telnet out again to the rest of the world.

what we want to know is if there is some sort of hardware that
will route telnet sessions from the localtalk macs to the next
via the ethernet mac. from what we have heard , air does n't do
the trick.

software solutions would be good too , but my impression is that
there are n't going to be any.

our immediate interest is to be able to get to the next and telnet
out again. the slip connection does n't allow us to assign ip numbers
to machines , so everyone shares that 1 number...oh well...

thanks in advance.


benjamin s. chuang itd css consultant university of michigan a2
benjamin.chuang@um.cc.umich.edu (consulting referals here)
bchuang@css.itd.umich.edu (unix and long messages here)

from mbuntan@staff.tc.umn.edu ()
subject where can i get the cheapest price \?
nntp posting host staff.tc.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 9

hi all
does anyone know where i can get the cheapest price for
the teleport gold fax modem by global village \?
any answer will be highly appreciated.
thanks in advance.

regards ,

thian.

subject put ex. syquest in centris 610 \?
from kmoffatt@cstp.umkc.edu
organization um kansas city , computer science
nntp posting host vax2.cstp.umkc.edu
lines 17

i remember reading a thread a few days ago that mentioned removing an external
syquest drive from its case and dropping it in the internal drive of a centris.
. . i was going to do that with my 610 , but had a couple of questions. my
pli 80m syquest drive has a wire from the drive to an id switch on the
outside of the case. where do i connect this switch \? \? can the computer just
tell with internal drives \?
i noticed that the drive will lay over part of the motherboard (i
did n't look closely , but i seem to recall it laying over the ram that 's
soldered onto the motherboard \? would that cause problems \?
one last question ! is there anywhere to order a faceplate cover \?
the drive 's front panel is smaller than the space left in the case (the
drive 's panel is the same size as the spotsbm clone 's cases). should i just
cut a hole in the plastic panel that is currently holding tmpty place \?

ans are welcomed ! thanks !
keith moffatt
kmoffatt@vax2.cstp.umkc.edu

from push@media.mit.edu (pushpinder singh)
subject re centris 610 video problem i'm having it also !
organization m.i.t. media laboratory
distribution comp
lines 27

when the computer is set for 256 colors and certain operations are done ,
particularly vertical scrolling through a window , horizontal white lines
appear on the monitor (which generally but not always spare open
windows). these lines accummulate as the operation is continued. if a
window is moved over the involved area of the screen and then moved away
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not
observed if the monitor is configured for 16 colors or a 14 inch apple
monitor with 256 colors is used.

i suspect a bad video ram chip but cannot be certain. the problem has
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse.

i'm having exactly the same problem. again , it 's fine when i switch to 16
colors or a smaller monitor. my configuration is

model centris 610 with 4 mb 80 hd , 512 vram , no cards
monitor mag mx15f with 16 monitor adaptor (for resolution of 832 624)

i just discovered the problem a little while ago after plugging in my
new mag monitor. it seems to appear either when scrolling through a
window or when using alpha or word and i enter return .

my guess is bad vrams as well. i really hope it is n't a design flaw. is
anyone at apple listening \?

pushpinder singh
push@media.mit.edu

from dppeak@matt.ksu.ksu.edu (david paul peak)
subject for sale teleport adb 2400bps modem w send fax
organization kansas state university
lines 12
nntp posting host matt.ksu.ksu.edu

i am selling my global village teleport 2400 bps modem w send fax. it
connects to the mac through the adb port. the software for sending
faxes is included. i am asking 90. however , i will consider other
reasonable offers. please e mail me.

dave

dave peak
internet dppeak@matt.ksu.ksu.edu
aol skibum7



from dlc@umcc.umcc.umich.edu (david claytor)
subject re when is apple going to ship cd300i 's \?
organization umcc , ann arbor , mi
lines 43
nntp posting host umcc.umcc.umich.edu

in article 1r00fdinnddt@senator bedfellow.mit.edu thewho@athena.mit.edu (derek a fong) writes

interestingly enough , the cdrom 300i that came with my quadra 800 has
only 8 disks

1. system install
2. kodak photo cd sampler
3. alice to ocean
4. cdrom titles
5. application demos
6. mozart dissonant quartet
7. nautilus
8. apple chronicles

has anyone else noticed that they got less than everyone seems to be
getting with the external \? what i really feel i missed out on is what
is supposed to a fantastic games demo disk.

i have heard that people have gotten up to 9 10 disks with their drive.
i assume they get the 8 titles above plus cinderella and the games demo cdrom.

any comments and experiences \? should i call apple to complain \? )

derek


thewho@plume.mit.edu


what i did not get with my drive (cd300i) is the system install cd you
listed as 1. any ideas about how i can get one \? i bought my iivx 8 120
from direct express in chicago (no complaints at all good price good
service).

btw , i 've heard that the system install cd can be used to boot the mac
however , my drive will not accept a cd caddy is the machine is off. how can
you boot with it then \?

dave


dlc@umcc.ais.org 313.485.3394


from petrack@vnet.ibm.com
subject changing port buffer size in zterm
reply to petrack@vnet.ibm.com
disclaimer this posting may contain no views at all
news software usenet 3.1
lines 21

some kind soul told me that i could change the serial port buffer size
of zterm via resedit. he did not tell me how i could change it using
resedit , and i have lost his e mail address.

could he or any one else please tell me what to do \?

i assume that the relevant resource is zset , but i do not know , and
i have no template for that resource. if you have a tmpl for the correct
resource , i would be grateful to receive it. that way , i could play around
a bit and maybe get my duo to do something useful with its serial port.
(other than appletalk).

btw , i believe that when the port stats says that maximum in buffer is
3074 bytes , that that means increasing the buffer will help , if you are
using hardware handshaking. i can cram text data pretty fast into my duo ,
and can monitor that cts is being lowered , but the buffer never gets beyond
3074 (out of 4096) bytes. makes sense to me.

scott petrack
petrack@haifasc3.vnet.ibm.com


from orly@phakt.usc.edu (mr. nitro plastique)
subject help ! newly installed falcon 2.21 bombs my se ! (crashed internal hd)
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 30
nntp posting host phakt.usc.edu


help !

i just received my falcon 2.2.1 upgrade from spectrum holobyte today.
my se is running sys 7.0.1 with 4mb of ram. like the instructions said , i only
installed disk 2 (the program...no start up screen or music).

i just downloaded macsbug from ftp.apple.com like it said , and
installed it in my system folder. i restarted the mac an hour later , and it
would n't completely boot off the internal hd. i get the happy mac , then it
disappears , only to reappear and repeat the cycle continuously. i never even
get the welcome to macintosh message. norton utilities fixed about 12 new
problems , but the same thing still happened.

what do i do \?

please e mail to orly@aludra.usc.edu


thanks in advance ! ! !


victor orly



victor r. orly try to imagine all life as you know it ,
aka mr. nitro plastique stopping instantaneously , and every molecule
univ. of southern california in your body exploding at the speed of light
internet orly@aludra.usc.edu egon spengler , from ghostbusters

from ray@netcom.com (ray fischer)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
organization netcom. san jose , california
distribution usa
lines 30

rvenkate@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (ravikuma venkateswar) writes ...
ray@netcom.com (ray fischer) writes
040 486 030 386 020 286

how about some numbers here \? some kind of benchmark \?

benchmarks are for marketing dweebs and cpu envy. ok , if it will make
you happy , the 486 is faster than the 040. bfd. both architectures
are nearing then end of their lifetimes. and especially with the x86
architecture good riddance.

besides , for 0 wait state performance , you 'd need a cache anyway. i mean ,
who uses a processor that runs at the speed of 80ns simms \? note that this
memory speed corresponds to a clock speed of 12.5 mhz.

the point being the processor speed is only one of many aspects of a
computers performance. clock speed , processor , memory speed , cpu
architecture , i o systems , even the application program all contribute
to the overall system performance.

and roughly , the 68040 is twice as fast at a given clock
speed as is the 68030.

numbers \?

look them up yourself.


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth
ray@netcom.com than lies. friedrich nietzsche

from lingeke2@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (ken linger)
subject 32 bit system zone
organization purdue university
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 32

a week or so ago , i posted about a problem with my se 30 i have 20 megs
or true ram , yet if i set my extensions to use a large amount of memory
(total of all extensions) then my system will crash before the finder
comes up. what i meant was having a large amount of fonts load , or
sounds , or huge disk caches with a control panel other than apple 's
memory control panel. apple 's cache is at 64k , mode 32 is on , and
so is 32 bit addressing. all extensions work by themselves or with the
others until i increase the memory used by some of them (with methods
mentioned above).

well , here 's my latest followup... i ran nows system profile and got
this information

memory info

physical ram size 20480k.
logical ram size 20480k.
size of low memory area 8k.
virtual memory inactive.
addressing mode 32bit mode in use.
32 bit system zone absent.
parity ram not capable.
growable system heap true.
temporary memory support present.
tempory memory support real and tracked.

note that 32 bit system zone is absent. could this be the problem \?
how can i turn this on \? any ideas \?

can anyone help \?

ken

from ferch@ucs.ubc.ca (les ferch)
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message \?
organization the university of british columbia
lines 22
nntp posting host swiss.ucs.ubc.ca

in c5ngii.bgx@news2.cis.umn.edu bunt0003@student.tc.umn.edu (monthian
buntan 1) writes

does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for c650 regarding
fpu \? in all mac price lists i 've seen , every c650 as the message fpu
optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this newsgroup that all
c650 have the fpu built in except the 4 80 configuration. why would they
be so unclear about this issue in their price list \?

perhaps the reason is simple maybe the marketing people who put together
the brochures and price lists were n't clear on the fpu issue.

afterall , apple 's literature is not always 100 correct. a funny one i
noticed recently is that some of the brochures on the macs with cd
capability refer to the auto inkjet feature. this should have read auto
inject feature (as it does on some other correct brochures i 've seen from
apple). since it was correct on some older brochures , i can only guess
that someone edited the copy , saw inject and thought it was a typo and
changed it to the more familiar word inkjet .

hmmm , what would that be \? a printer built into the cd player \? a way of
writing information to a cd \? ) )

from gene@jackatak.raider.net (gene wright)
subject mac portable ram problems coprocessor not installed \?
organization jack 's amazing cockroach capitalist ventures
lines 18

i just recently bought a 4 mb ram card for my original mac portable
(backlit) and have since had some bizarre crashes. it happens when i put
the machine to sleep and wake the machine up. sometimes it will just
freeze the cursor and lock the machine up forcing me to push the reset
switch. other times it will give me the usual bomb box with the error
message of co processor not installed .

i know one solution is not to put the machine to sleep , but does anyone
have any ideas on what could be causing this or better yet what might fix
it \? the memory card is psuedostatic ram and goes into the pds slot. that
probably figures into the problem. the manufacturer is king memory (not
kingston) from irvine , ca. they say the problem is in my machine.

any ideas \? gene wright.


gene@jackatak.raider.net (gene wright)
jackatak.raider.net (615) 377 5980

from noah@apple.com (noah price)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
organization (not the opinions of) apple computer , inc.
lines 24

in article 1qm2hvinnseq@shelley.u.washington.edu ,
tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith) wrote

attention mac quadra owners many storage industry experts have
concluded that mac quadras suffer from timing irregularities deviating
from the standard scsi specification. this results in silent corruption
of data when used with some devices , including ultra modern devices.
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault...

that 's fine , but would you name the industy experts so i can try to track
this down \?

this does n't sound right to me. do n't quadras use the 53c96 \? if so , the
mac has nothing to do with the scsi timing. that 's all handled by the
chip.

yup. that 's why i'm kinda curious... most scsi problems i 've encountered
are due to cabling.

noah


noah@apple.com macintosh hardware design
... ! sun , decwrl ! apple ! noah (not the opinions of) apple computer , inc.

from firenza@vlsi2.wpi.edu (timothy mark collins)
subject performa 450 bundle here 's what 's in it.
organization worcester polytechnic institute , worcester , ma
lines 42
distribution na
nntp posting host vlsi2.wpi.edu

i went to staples in framingham , ma , today , and grabbed the info sheet on the
450 bundle.
for a mere 1897.00 , you get

25 megahertz 68030 microprocessor
4m of ram
120m hard disk
1.4m floppy disk drive
built in support for 256 colors , expandable to 32 , 000 colors
1 expansion slot
keyboard and mouse
14 display
0.29 mm dot pitch for extra sharp text and graphics
640 x 480 pixels
microphone and speaker
macintosh system 7 software for performa computers version 7.1p
at ease , macintosh pc exchange , and quicktime software
global village teleport fax modem , send fax only

service and support
1 year limited warranty
1 year of in home service
toll free help line support

pre installed software
wordperfect works
best of clickart collection
touchbase
datebook
bestbooks
the amereican heritage dictionary
correct grammar
apple special edition of american online with free trial membership
checkfree electronic bill payment software
spectre challenger
scrabble

editor 's note the spec sheet i have list 's the microprocessor as a 38030 ,
but i corrected that. did n't want to confuse anybody...

tim


from mueck@.adsdesign.analog.com (mick mueck)
subject re ok to set 54 lbs on top of centris 610 \? \? \?
reply to mueck@.adsdesign.analog.com
organization analog devices , inc.
lines 14

i had the same question for my 55lb nec 5fg monitor. the apple guy said that
their 50lb 16 monitor is ok to put ontop of the centris and had no coment
beyond that. i was going to just put the nec on the box but then i got to
thinking the monitor has a small tilt swivel base so maybe the weight
would be more concentrated than with apple 's (i do n't know the area of the
base of their tilt swivel). additionally , the cdrom drive is in the middle.
so i cut a piece of 3 8 thick wood to about 16.25 x 12 , covered it in a
cream covered cloth , and used it as a buffer layer between the centris 's top
and the monitor ! !

mick mueck mick.mueck@analog.com

i hate chipsoft's macintax


from mikael fredriksson mikael.fredriksson@macexchange.se
subject re re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
x mailer telefinder (version 3.0)
organization mac exchange bbs
bbs 46 31 948290 , fax 46 31 948294
pl 3813 , s 437 92 lindome , sweden
lines 5

the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives
format mount partition for a ux.
mark

disclaimer mac exchange bbs cannot be held responsible for the contents of this message

from adamsj@gtewd.mtv.gtegsc.com
subject rack mount 2ci , 650 prices.
organization gte govt. systems , electronics def. div.
lines 16

here 's a good one does anyone know of a product that allows
me to rack mount my 2ci (or maybe 650 if i blow some more
money...) \? \? \? my application is music , and would like to be
able to haul it around (would probably plan to get an mo drive
or something so i do n't have to depend on an internal fixed
hard drive i.e. , may be pretty rough on an internal hd...)

i'm in the san francisco bay area , if that matters.
also , anyone have any info on 650 's and midi \? and , would anyone
care to email me with the price they paid for their 650 \? or if
there 's a price list faq , never mind... just curious about the
difference between the best retailers and the local university
pricing...

thanks , jeff adams
adams@upse01.mtv.gtegsc.com

from carsona@fraser.sfu.ca (debra carson)
subject (q) buying advice
keywords ziffnet mac buy advice stack
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
lines 22

does anyone have a version of which mac do i buy \?
that is later than v 1.3.1 \?

i no longer have access the ziffnet mac , accessed
through compuserve , to check for myself.

which mac... is a hypercard stack that assists
in decision making based on budget , features , and
main software used.

please let me know if you can help me out. download
from compuserve should not cost much if a higher speed
modem is used. stack , compressed , is about 125kb \?

thanks for any help...

dale
carsona@sfu.ca

.



from kitchel@manta.dpsi.com (sidney w. kitchel)
subject re rumours about new duos ! ! ! ! !
article i.d. manta.kitchel.734892133
distribution comp.sys.mac.hardware , comp.sys.mac.comm
organization data parallel systems , inc
lines 27
nntp posting host manta.dpsi.com

jek5036@ultb.isc.rit.edu (j.e. king) writes


since we are on the subject of chip power consumption ,

i heard (from a very reliable source) that the dec alpha chip uses
1 2 the power that intel 's pentium chip does , and it still whips
the pentium 's butt. makes you wonder why intel ever made
a chip to begin with !

would n't you like a powerbook alpha running about 300 mips \? cool idea..


bzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzt ! ! sorry wrong. it would be an
extremely hot idea...at least with the current alphas. the available
alphas run up to 200 mhz. but they produce quite a bit of heat. in
fact so much that they need special mounting with extra large heat
sinks.
also apple looks pretty commited to the powerpc route instead
of a deal with dec.

sid

sidney w. kitchel kitchel@cs.indiana.edu , kitchel@dpsi.com
data parallel systems , inc. dpsi
4617 e. morningside drive (812) 334 8100
bloomington , indiana , 47408 usa fax (812) 334 8121

from brucet@extro.ucc.su.oz.au (bruce tulloch)
subject re duo 230 crashes aftersleep (looks like apple bug ! )
nntp posting host extro.ucc.su.oz.au
organization sydney university computing service , sydney , nsw , australia
lines 47

lreiter@jade.tufts.edu (lowell b. reiter) writes

my duo 230 crashe.

i close the lid. it goesto sleeplikenormal. then i open it press a key.
the screen showsthis wied pattern. you can berely make outthe menubar on top. , although there are no words on the bar. anditfrezzes. why \?

lowell


lowell reiter i need a vacation... now ! ! !
tufts university
internet account lreiter@jade.tufts.edu


i have the same problem and was about to post this....

hello duo owners (and apple technical people )

i have a new duo 230 which appears to have a problem waking up from
sleep when running on battery power. when woken (usually for the second
time) after sleeping , the wake fails and the screen appears with a
corrupted image of broken horizontal lines and control can only be
recovered with control command poweron or the reset key at the back of
the machine. the problem occurs even when the system is stock standard
(no extensions , no virtual memory , a fully charged new battery , system 7.1
etc). i have not had the problem when the machine is plugged in to ac.
i 've checked that the battery is properly seated (it appears to be fine).

what 's going on here \? anyone else had this problem \? is it software or
hardware \?

if you have a duo 230 and a bit of time , try repeatedly sleeping and
waking the machine on battery power and let me know if you see the same
behaviour (and let apple know too ! ).

many thanks to anyone who can clear this one up for me.

bruce






bruce tulloch sydney australia brucet@extro.ucc.su.oz.au
complex problems have straight forward , easy to understand wrong answers

from zxxst @pitt.edu (zhihua xie)
subject re duo 230 crashes aftersleep (looks like apple bug ! )
organization university of pittsburgh
lines 2

this is a test


from cmmiller@iastate.edu (c. m. miller)
subject re lciii vs. centris 610 \?
article i.d. news.c51s6w.9nr
organization iowa state university , ames , ia
lines 29

in article 1993apr5.221603.17245@nctams1.uucp tomj@pnet16.cts.com (tom jenkins) writes
title says it all. i 'd be particularly interested in the performance
difference. just how much faster (50 \? ) is the centris 610 over the lciii \?

tom

uucp humu ! nctams1 ! pnet16 ! tomj
arpa humu ! nctams1 ! pnet16 ! tomj@nosc.mil
inet tomj@pnet16.cts.com

when apple came with their demos to iowa state , i got a chance to run
speedometer3.1 on some of the new macs. both machines were running
system7.1 , had a 14 rgb. do n't know what the caches were set to.
neither machine had an fpu it appears that the centris610 is quite a
bit faster than the lc iii

centris610 lciii

cpu 13.01 6.92
graf 15.67 7.69
disk 2.22 2.44
math 25.57 10.19

p.r. rating 12.91 6.58

so , there is a comparison. there is definitely a very noticable speed
difference between these two machines according to speedometer3.1.

chad

from vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent fox)
subject noisy se what can i do \?
organization deep thirteen , gizmonics institute
lines 14
distribution usa
nntp posting host cae.cad.gatech.edu

there 's this old se here. it 's got the older style fans that remind
me of a house ventilator. a cylindrical drum instead of the bladed rotor
i usually see. anyway , the se makes this loud buzzing noise due
to vibration somewheres. if i remove the screws and loosen the front
from the back , it quiets down. i can only assume that the fan housing
from this goofy thing is touching the back of the case and vibrating
against it.

anyway , any suggestions for where to get replacement fans and how to
stealth this guy \? your experiences welcome.....


if everything had gone as planned , everything would have been perfect.
batf spokesperson on cnn 3 2 93 , regarding failed raid attempt in tx.

from dbell@coral.bucknell.edu (dave bell)
subject i need modem selection help ! (especially vocabulary)
organization bucknell university
lines 15
distribution world
nntp posting host macf61.bucknell.edu

i 've recently ordered a centris 650 and need to decide on which modem to
buy. i'm pretty sure i want to get a fax data modem that can run at 14.4k ,
but is it worth it \? i 'll primarily only be 'conversing' over compuserve or
some other link to the internet , but i'm not sure if those systems can
supply me with data at 14.4k. another question i have is in some of the
modem lingo out there. i understand baud rates , but what does v3.4 and
v3.4bis mean \? i could really use some suggestions as to what a good modem
for around 300 would be , and why it would be a good choice.

thanks for your time.

dave bell
dbell@coral.bucknell.edu

those who forget the past are condemned to re live it. duncan macleod

from peter hansen pgmoffc@bnr.ca
subject re help 2 internal hds in mac ii \?
x xxdate tue , 6 apr 93 11 17 54 gmt
nntp posting host bcarm382
organization bnr
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 54

in article 1993apr1.054820.3942@siemens.co.at kurt netzer ,
kurt@siemens.co.at writes
is it possible to install a 2nd 3 1 2 100 mb hd in a mac ii with a
5 1 4 40 mb qunatum hd \?
can i us a 50 pin cable with 3 connectors for the internal motherboard
scsi connector and the 2 scsi hd connectors. the first hd is'nt
terminated
the second will be.
whats about the power supply. where can i connect a 3 1 2 amp connector
to supply my 3 1 2 hd \?

it is very possible to connect another internal hard disk in any
macintosh if you can find the space to put it. i have a iisi that came
with a quantum 80 meg drive. when i ran into space problems , i slapped in
another 40 meg quantum that i had sitting on a shelf. here is what i did.

first off , i was concerned about space. since both drives are quantum
quarter height drives , i finally decided that the logical place for them
was stacked one upon the other. fine , they fit snugly. (i have not had a
problem with heat yet , and these drives have been running together for
over two months.

the next problem was connecting the drive. if you have a spare internal
hard disk power cable as i did , then half of your troubles are over. just
splice in the extra cable so that you get one square motherboard
connector and two hard disk power connectors. if you do n't have a spare
cable , you will have to buy the wires and connectors which can be found
in any good electronics store for about 10. i would suggest properly
soldering heatshrinking the connections to reduce the possibility of
shorts or bad connections.

next , you need a ribbon cable connection. again , i had a spare hard disk
ribbon cable , and i wanted to be careful in case this did n't word so what
i did was purchase a crimp on 50 pin cable connector that gave me another
male connector in the middle of my spare cable. the part cost 10 again ,
and is easily attached with any good wood vice. the theory behind using a
crimp on connector is that if this does n't work , my original cable is not
damaged , and i can go back to the original setup.

having done all that , i could n't be bothered to check the dev notes for
power consumption so i plugged it in and it works like a charm to this
day.

in a mac ii , everything should work the same. be careful with the id 's of
the drive , and ensure that the terminating resistors on both drives are
intact. i did not try this without the terminating resistors but it
seemed logical that if i am splitting the scsi chain , that the signal
should be terminated at all the ends.

let me know if you have any more questions.

peter hansen
bell northern research
pgmoffc@bnr.ca

from dtc@mlinknet.uucp (dennis cheung)
subject psi comstation 5
organization the modemlink network , long island , new york
lines 15


anyone have any expierience with psi 's comstation 5 \?

please contact me if you had (or have a suggesiton for a really good 14.4
modem with 14.4 fax for the macintosh).

via uci v1.35 (c net amiga)


dennis t. cheung
the dtc(tm) corporation of america
america online dtc
internet dtc mlinknet@hotcity.com

disclaimer you never read this message this message does n't exist.

from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re adding vram to quadra 800 \?
keywords vram quadra 800
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 15

wstuartj@lucky.ecn.purdue.edu (w stuart jones) writes

i want to go from 512k to 1m vram on my quadra 800. how many 512k simms do i
need to buy \?

none. you need to buy 2 80ns 256k vram simms. they cost about 30
each from your favorite memory distributor.

is the current 512k soldered on the board or do i need to take out the
current vram before i add more \?

the 512k is soldered to the logic board. there are 2 simm slots for
expansion.

hades

from young@is.s.u tokyo.ac.jp (young shio hong)
subject looking for free share wares
nntp posting host poplar
organization dept. of information science , univ. of tokyo , japan.
distribution comp
x bytes 285
lines 14

hi !

i am looking for ftp sites (where there are freewares or sharewares)
for mac. it will help a lot if there are driver source codes in those
ftp sites. any information is appreciated.

thanks in advance.

s. young
dept. of info. sc.
univ. of tokyo
email young@is.s.u tokyo.ac.jp


from gene@jackatak.raider.net (gene wright)
subject sound recording on mac portable answer (or lead)
organization jack 's amazing cockroach capitalist ventures
lines 7

whatever equipment will work on a mac plus or a mac se will work fine on
a mac portable. it does n't have a sound input , but there is equipment
that works fine with those models mentioned in macuser macworld.


gene@jackatak.raider.net (gene wright)
jackatak.raider.net (615) 377 5980

subject re monitor shut down on 13 hi res
from sadams@eis.calstate.edu (steven adams)
organization calif state univ electronic information services
lines 34

just my luck. i did however call my local apple dealer and he said that
the he thinks the serial numbers of the machines that are covered begin
with either 70 or 53 56 , and maybe one other. he also told me that apple
had extended the service on these serial numbers for another year ! ! !

so there is still hope get those monitor in ! !


jeffh@ludwig.cc.uoregon.edu (jeff hite ) writes
in article 1993apr15.183527.3365@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu
hew@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes
there is a defect in the 13 hi res monitors , bring it to a dealer and
they will replace the flyback for free , i think.


i just heard of this problem at work today and we are fixing
them for free.



o r r

the service notice on the 13 hi res monitors expired 3 23 93 after this
date apple will not reimburse service providers for the fix (replacement
of the hi voltage capacitor). all you folks that have been putting up with
intermittant shutdowns without getting it to your service provider missed
out on the freebie. it was in force for a year. if you got it free after
3 23 , you got a deal...
jeff hite
computing center
u of oregon
jeffh@ludwig.cc.uoregon.edu



from jacob@plasma2.ssl.berkeley.edu (nga throgaw shaygiy)
subject memory upgrades
organization ucb space sciences lab
lines 29
distribution world
nntp posting host plasma2.ssl.berkeley.edu


excuse me if this is a frequent question , i checked in
several faqs but could n't really find anything.

i have a iisi with the standard 5 meg memory and i want
(need) to add additional memory. but i'm on a budget.
i really do n't need more than 10 meg max , so what is
the best (performance wise) and most economical way
to do this \? someone told me that i should only use
simms of the same amount of memory , that is 4 1 meg ,
4 2 meg , etc. what if i just wanted to buy just 1 4 meg
and use the rest of what i already have \? the manual
has n't been very helpful with this.

thanks.

(respond via e mail if it is n't worth the bandwidth.)

common human laws and interests i would n't exactly call it a
and emotions have no validity a happy dogma , but it makes me
or signifigance in the vast feel better about not
cosmos at large... getting laid...
hp lovecraft r. carter



jacob@sunspot.ssl.berkeley.edu



from altheimm@nextnet.csus.edu (murray altheim)
subject re to fix trackball
organization california state university sacramento
lines 53

in article 93105.152944br4416a@auvm.american.edu br4416a@auvm.american.edu writes
the trackbal on my pb140 no longer moves in the horizontal direction. when i
called the nearest authorized apple service person i was told that it probably
needed replacing and that would cost me over 150 ! ouch !
can anyone recommend a less expensive way to fix this problem \? one strange
symptom of the problem is that when i take the ball out of the socket and shine
a light into the hole i can make the cursor move horizontally by moving the
wheel with my finger , it works fine that way but wo n't work if i turn off the
light. any suggestions or comments \?

ben roy .......just a poor college student.......internet br4416a@american.edu


ben ,

since you 're obviously adept enough to understand how the trackball works ,
the only thing short of repairing it that i can think of is a thorough
cleaning of all the parts , and then checking for the proper placement of
the little blue rollers. since they are n't fixed in position on their
stainless steel pins , you might try sliding them into a slightly different
position. on my powerbook 100 , i can slide them almost completely out of
contact with the trackball. in fact , one of the notes from sumex on fixing
the trackball advocates sliding the roller so that its edge contacts the
ball , not the center cylindrical area.

i 've done this with my pb100 , and it does seem to improve the feel , but
needs to be adjusted from time to time. i just popped open one of our
office 's pb170s , and while there is n't as much latitude for movement , one
could still adjust the roller slightly. if your pb140 is the same it might
help.

i would suspect the most likely culprit to be a slippery blue roller. if
you can take it out , clean it with a mild soapy solution , or isopropyl
alcohol. also , be sure the ball is grease free.

if you drop the ball in minus the retaining ring , roll the ball and see
if it is actually causing the axle to spin.

if all this still does n't solve it , then maybe a new one is in order. (
it could be an electrical connection , in which case replacement would be
necessary. but my experience with both mice and trackballs has been that
dirt has been the normal problem , not an electrical malfunction.

hope this helps ,

murray



murray m. altheim ils ont l'orteil de bouc , d'un chevreil l'oreille ,
instructional consultant la corne d'un chamois , la face vermeille
csu , sacramento comme un rouge croissant dancent toute nuict
altheimm@csus.edu dedans un carrefour , ou pres d'une eau qui bruict.

from jht9e@faraday.clas.virginia.edu (jason harvey titus)
subject re help install ram on centris 610
organization university of virginia
lines 8

i had asked everyone about problems installing a 4 meg
simm and an 8 meg simm in my centris 610 , but the folks at the
local apple store called the folks in cupertino and found that
you ca n't have simms of different speeds in one machine , even
if they are both fast enough ie my 80 ns 8 meg and 60ns 4
meg simms were incompatibable... just thought people might
want to know.....
jason.

from ubs@carson.u.washington.edu (university bookstore)
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message \?
article i.d. shelley.1qs4fjinn74f
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 37
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

in article c5ngii.bgx@news2.cis.umn.edu bunt0003@student.tc.umn.edu (monthian buntan 1) writes

hi there ,

does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for
c650 regarding fpu \? in all mac price lists i 've seen , every c650
has the message fpu optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this
newsgroup that all c650 have the fpu built in except the 4 80
configuration. why would they be so unclear about this issue in their
price list \?
i'm planning to buy the c650 8 230 cd pretty soon , but i'm now getting
confused with whether it comes with fpu or not.
why say optional if it 's built in \?
please , anybody help me understand this game.

regards ,

thian.

if you get the centris 650 with cd configuration , you are getting a mac with
a 68rc040 processor that has built in math coprocessor support. my
understanding is that the optional fpu refers to your option of purchasing
the centris 650 4 80 without fpu or one of the other configurations with fpu.

apple does not offer an upgrade from the non fpu system to become an fpu
system. and , it is unclear whether the '040 processor on the non fpu system
(a 68lc040) can be replaced with a 68rc040 supplied by another vendor.
apple did send a memo out at one point sating that the centris 610 , which only
comes with a non fpu 68lc040 processor cannot be upgraded to support an fpu
the pin configurations of the two chips apparently do not match so you cannot
swap one for another (again , according to apple 's memo).

hope that helps.

kevin lohman
university book store , university of washington
buyer for the uw apple computers for education program

from ado@quince.bbn.com (buz owen)
subject performa 450 internal modem \?
lines 10
distribution world
nntp posting host quince.bbn.com

i hear that the performa 450 is really an lciii with an internal modem. can
the modem part be obtained and installed in an lciii \? it would be nice if it
were actually a powerbook internal modem , but that might be too much to hope
for.







from andrew zelenetz azelenet@bigmac.mskcc.org
subject centris 610 video problem help
organization memorial sloan kettering cancer center
lines 25
distribution world
nntp posting host zelenetz.ski.mskcc.org
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxmessage id a7f2f208cf0260ca@zelenetz.ski.mskcc.org
x xxdate thu , 15 apr 93 16 05 44 gmt

we have recently obtained a centris 610 and it has developed an unusual
video problem.

model 610 with 8 mb 230 hd , 512k vram , no cards
monitor apple 16

when the computer is set for 256 colors and certain operations are done ,
particularly vertical scrolling through a window , horizontal white lines
appear on the monitor (which generally but not always spare open
windows). these lines accummulate as the operation is continued. if a
window is moved over the involved area of the screen and then moved away
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not
observed if the monitor is configured for 16 colors or a 14 inch apple
monitor with 256 colors is used.

i suspect a bad video ram chip but cannot be certain. the problem has
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse.

we were wondering if anyone has seen anything like this , and if so , how
to fix it. please also respond to azelenet@bigmac.mskcc.org. thank you
for your help.

andrew zelenetz
molecular biology program
memorial sloan kettering cancer center

from peter hansen pgmoffc@bnr.ca
subject re simm vs dram
x xxdate tue , 20 apr 93 08 39 46 gmt
nntp posting host bcarm382
organization bnr
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 24

in article 27988.2bd32f3f@zeus.ieee.org arthur greene ,
arthur.greene@p6.f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org writes
can anyone tell me what the difference is between a 256k dram chip and a
256k simm \? i need the former (i think) to add memory to my laserwriter
ls. someone is offering to sell me 256k simms he removed from an se , but
i have a feeling this may not be the correct form of memory. the sockets
in the laserwriter look like they want the spidery shaped chips (there
are 4 sockets , each with , as i recall , 20 pins , arranged in two rows of
10).
believe it or not , i 've never actually seen a simm. help appreciated.

a 256k dram chip is a 256 kilobit chip whereas a 256k simm is a 256
kilobyte memory module. the simm is a pcb with a 30 pin connector edge
and on the simm are 8 256 kilobit dram chips (making the total memory 256
kbytes.

you are correct assuming that simms will not fit into a laserwriter.
apple printers either require 64 pin simms like those in the mac iifx or
special memory chips. contact your apple dealer to find out exactly what
kind of chips you need.

peter hansen
bell northern research
pgmoffc@bnr.ca

from rich.rubel@launchpad.unc.edu (rich rubel)
subject ps 2 appletalk card question
nntp posting host lambada.oit.unc.edu
organization university of north carolina extended bulletin board service
lines 17


i have a chance to buy a used ps 2 appletalk card to create a network with
my home machines. however , the guy who has the card tells me there 's a
db 9 or db 15 (ca n't remember now) on the back of the card , rather than
the 8 pin (or 4 pin) mini din that i expect. this sounds more like a
thicknet ethernet card. should there be a transciever on it , like on the
quadras \? what would be a reasonable price to expect to pay for one of
these cards , keeping in mind that it 's micro channel architecture , which
means take your best guess and double it.
email replies would be appreciated , to here or to rrr@ideas.com
thanks.
richr

the opinions expressed are not necessarily those of the university of
north carolina at chapel hill , the campus office for information
technology , or the experimental bulletin board service.
internet launchpad.unc.edu or 152.2.22.80

from pmontan@nswc wo.navy.mil (paul montanaro)
subject re iici q700 upgrade \?
organization nswc
lines 44

in article 1993apr15.164053.29298@thunder.mcrcim.mcgill.edu ,
dudek@daeron.mcrcim.mcgill.edu (gregory dudek) wrote

in article c5ha0x.11oq@austin.ibm.com login@austin.ibm.com writes

a while ago i posted a note asking for specs on the quadra 700 , and opinions on
the q700 upgrade of a iici vs. an accelerator card. so far no responsed that
i 've noticed. please let me know what you think of these possible upgrade
paths cost , efficiency , pros cons , etc.. thanks !

complete q700 are best obtained from your dealer or some recent
copy of macworld or macuser. my foggy memory suggests that the most relevant
comparison factors vis a vis a iici are as follows

25 mhz 68040
16 mhz data path (do n't recall this for sure , but it 's slower
than q 950 style machines for sure).
ethertalk card on board
audio in out
4 mb ram on motherboard
4 simm slots
2 nubus slots.
more flexible build in video than the ci. uses vram.

in comparison , a iici with an accelerator wo n't give you
audio or ethernet or the same video options.
with a 68040 accelerator , cpu performance can be comparable but i
think it ends up costing more.

greg dudek

actually , an accelerator such as the daystar 33 mhz 68040 is cheaper than
upgrading to a q700 (25 mhz). the accelerator costs about 1400 whereas
the upgrade costs 2131 (just quoted from my dealer). however the q700
upgrade gives you very fast built in video that supports monitors up to 21
with 8 bit depth and up to 16 at 24 bit depth (with additional vram). it
also has a scsi port capable of a much faster throughput than the ci , which
makes a big difference if you have a fast hard drive.

if the improved video and scsi features are important to you , you 're
better off getting the q700 upgrade , otherwise save some money and get an
accelerator.

paul

from sukenick@sci.ccny.cuny.edu (syg)
subject re ad conversion
organization city college of new york science computing facility
lines 33

i am working a data acquisition and analysis program to collect data
from insect sensory organs.
another alternative is the use of the sound input port.

can you really make due with the non existent dynamic range of an 8 bit
converter , of probably dubious linearity and monotonicity , and perhaps
ac coupled as well \?

it would depend on the requirements of the poster 's data , for some
purposes 1 256 resolution (with or without calibration curve).


otherwise the other possibilities would be

1) get a digital voltameter with serial output connect to serial
port on mac , collect data with some communications program.

2) buy an a d chip from analog devices , burr brown , etc , connect to
a parallel to serial converter , use serial port for acquisition
(nah. too much soldering and trouble shooting )

3) get a board from national instruments , data translation , omega ,
etal. the finest solution , but possibly the most costly.



to the original poster if the signal is too large , why not
use a voltage divider \? two resistors , cost very cheap...


george
sukenick@sci.ccny.cuny.edu
212 650 6028

from cherkaue@ee.rochester.edu (brian cherkauer)
subject re iivx c650 upgrade question
distribution comp
organization univ of rochester , college of engineering and applied science
lines 18

in article jas.93apr16125049@tigger.isi.edu jas@isi.edu (jeff sullivan) writes
if you get teh iivx c650 upgrade , does it include a new sticker to
cover the iivx identifier with a centris 650 indetifier \?

i ca n't say for sure with the iivx c650 upgrade , but i wondered the
same thing when i ordered my lc lc iii upgrade. turns out the upgrade
is actually an entire cpu minus any disk drives. you pull the floppy and
hard drives out of the old one , stick them in the new one , and you 've got
an lc iii.

the iivx c650 may be the same thing.

it might be something to look into for those people who are unhappy that
apple only sells macs pre packaged with the drives. of course , the price
is quite a bit higher without the trade in...

( brian
cherkaue@ee.rochester.edu

from ebth@rhi.hi.is (eggert thorlacius)
subject monitors and video cards for se 30
lines 24
nntp posting host hengill.rhi.hi.is


hello all.
i am thinking about buying an external monitor for my se 30 and was
wondering if anyone out in netland has any advice for me.
i am mostly thinking about a 14 color monitor and an 8 bit card that
can switch between 640 480 and something higher (like 800 600). i read an
old report on a card from lapis that could do this , but could not use the
external monitor as the main screen (with menubar) which to me is a major draw
back. has this perhaps been fixed \? or can any other cards do this (like the
micron xceed) \?
also which monitor should i buy \? at the moment i am leaning towards
the sony 1304 , 1304s or 1320 (what exactly is the difference between these \? )
but are there any other good cheap monitors i should know about \? does n't the
monitor have to be multisync to support cards that can switch resolutions \?

please send me e mail and i 'll summarize.

i would also greatly appreciate getting the e mail addresses of any mail order
companys that sell monitors or cards.

thanks in advance

eggert thorlacius
university of iceland

from isaaci@ccsg.tau.ac.il (barash isaac)
subject spigot on lc iii
organization tel aviv university computation center
lines 16

a friend of mine has problems running spigot lc on an lc iii.
his configuration is

spigot lc lc iii , system 7.1
video spigot extension 1.0

i would appriciate if i can get any postitive negative experience with this
setup.

thanks ,

amir





subject re reseting lw iig to factory defaults
from robert grapes r.grapes@massey.ac.nz
organization massey university
x xxdate mon , 19 apr 93 08 03 45 gmt
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 21

in article 1qpir1 762@slab.mtholyoke.edu jurgen botz ,
jbotz@mtholyoke.edu writes
i have a laserwriter iig that has disappeared completely from the
network , i.e. it 's name does n't show up in any zone. (you can print
to it from it 's serial interface , tho ! ) i have seen some discussion
here about changing the zone a iig is in... including some ps code
that lets you change the zone. is there maybe some ps code you can
use to have it go back to all its factory default settings \? i have
a feeling that 's what needed to heal ours.

the following postscript works for laserwriter iig 's with version 2 roms

!
0 serverdict begin exitserver
factorydefaults true setsystemparams
systemdict begin
realtime 10000 add
dup realtime le pop exit if loop
quit

rob.

from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re installing ram in a quadra 800
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 55

truesdel@ics.uci.edu (scott truesdell) writes

this is an aside to brian hughes 's (please , let 's lose the cute phony names
everybody) posting about adding memory to a quadra 800.

what phony names \? my name is clearly visible in the headers , and i
sing the post with my account name. if you have a problem with that ,
then you will have to get over it. i 've used this account name for over
10 years and the people who have been reading newsgroups for the last 7
generally recognize hades as my account name. i have no intention of
changing the way i post.

i installed a couple of 16mb simms in my quadra and was somewhat dismayed
by the general complexity of the operation compared to , for example , the
wonderfully designed lc iii. it irritates me when apple refuses to tell how
to do it in the user 's manual so you have to guess at how to disassemble
the devise in question (it 's the same for adding memory to laserwriter
pro 's).

it is n't apple 's responsibility to tell its customers how to fool
around with it 's hardware. that is what apple service techs get paid to
do. i personally like the design of the q800 , and applaud apple for
coming up with a good way to make use of the front space for all of
those drive bays. i like it a lot better than the 900 950 design , except
for those people who need drive arrays. i do , however , agree with you
about the lw pro design.

the operation is n't very complicated if even a minimal amount of help were
offered but apple leaves you working blind.

again , its 's not apple 's place to make it easy for non certified
service people to fool around with apple hardware , even if they did buy
it. of course you are free to do what you want to your mac , just do n't
get upset when your apple service rep tells you that your warranty is no
longer valid.

after the memory was installed i was distraught that the top of the simms
came into contact with the plastic case frame. mine actually contacted the
framework with quite a lot of pressure enough so that the assembly of
the board back to the proper position was rather difficult and required
some force. i could have filed a little excess material off the top of the
simm boards but chose to let it stand as is. i have not had problems with
ram yet so i will consider the problem annoying but not catastrophic.

this sounds like the kind of problem i had when i installed 4mb
simms into an lc , back before low profile 4mb simms were readily
available. the standard 4mb simms would contact the top of the case and
make it a bit difficult to close the lc , but it did close and work just
fine. one of the nice things about logic boards is that they are
generally quite flexible and can withstand a fair amount of pressure.

hades




from b clark@nwu.edu (brian clark)
subject re dsp or other cards for fft 's , anyone \?
nntp posting host elvex33.acns.nwu.edu
organization northwestern university
lines 16

in article 1qjnpi bsj@nz12.rz.uni karlsruhe.de ,
ig25@fg70.rz.uni karlsruhe.de (thomas koenig) wrote

we are doing heavy duty image processing with some seriously
underpowered mac 's (mac iisi , for example). most of the cpu time is
burned in doing fft 's.

what cards are out there which would allow us to take away that part
of the load from the cpu \? any dsp 56001 or i860 cards out there ,
for example \? they 'd have to be callable from think pascal , to
replace the one and two dimensional fft 's routines in an already
existing program.

check out the national instruments nb dsp2300. this uses the texas
instruments tms320c30 chip , which is a true 32 bit floating point dsp. it 's
pricey , however.

from xor@clotho.acm.rpi.edu (joe schwartz)
subject re nutek faces apple's wrath (article ! ! ! ! ! ! ) read
article i.d. rpi.j3g5bwq
organization mapinfo corporation , troy , ny
lines 28
nntp posting host acm.rpi.edu

in article davea 120493231310@129.228.20.182 davea@xetron.com (david p. alverson) writes
i believe apple has a patent on the region features of quickdraw. a mac
clone would have to implement regions. this is why apple 's comment was
that
they believe it is not possible to make a mac clone without infringing
on their patents. they may have other patents like this.

apple has patented their implementation of regions , which presumably
includes the internal data structure (which has never been officially
documented by apple). apple cannot patent the concept of a region.

i'm guessing that either nutek reverse engineered apple 's internal data
structure for regions (i dunno if this would hold up in court) , or they
came up with their own data structure. if it 's the latter , then they
wo n't be able to draw pict files containing regions. besides pict files ,
there are n't many places where regions are stored on disk. (quicktime
movies , perhaps \? ) as long as the region is n't being stored on disk and
transferred from a mac to a nutek clone (or vice versa) , it does n't
matter if nutek uses a completely different internal data structure.

i remember reading that apple also has a patent on their adb hardware ,
and that the nutek clones would therefore be lacking an adb port. what
other patents does apple have on the mac \?

joe schwartz e mail xor@acm.rpi.edu or xor@clotho.acm.rpi.edu
mapinfo corp.
200 broadway these are my own opinions. any similarity to the
troy , ny 12180 opinions of mapinfo corporation is purely coincidental.

from vng@iscs.nus.sg
subject wyse 60 terminal emulator
reply to vng@iscs.nus.sg
organization dept of info sys and comp sci , national university of singapore , singapore
lines 6

is there a wyse 60 terminal emulator or a comms toolbox kit available on the
net somewhere \?

thanks.

vince

from asson@chacmool.stsci.edu (drew justin asson)
subject ext. hard drives for my se 30
organization space telescope science institute
lines 20


i'm interested in getting an external hard drive for my se 30. i 've
got an internal 40mb that 's pretty full , even with compression s w.
alot of people talk about mb , what 's a good ratio \? i'm thinking of adding
either an 80 or a 100 (or 105). what brands would people suggest \? finally ,
places to buy from \? are more popular mail order places better to order from
or the places that just sell hard drives (e.g. ones that advertise in the back
of macworld and macuser).

thanks in advance. if e mail replies are sent , i 'll compile them and post
them.

drew


drew j. asson space telescope science institute
ai senior software engineer 3700 san martin drive
advance planning systems branch baltimore , md 21218 , usa
internet asson@stsci.edu (410) 338 4474 338 1592 (fax)


from fredm@media.mit.edu (fred g martin)
subject re put ex. syquest in centris 610 \?
organization mit media laboratory
lines 54

i 've just installed a 5.25 tape backup in my c610 lot of the issues
are the same. so , to answer your questions...

in article 1993apr16.141820.1@cstp.umkc.edu kmoffatt@cstp.umkc.edu writes

my pli 80m syquest drive has a wire from the
drive to an id switch on the outside of the case. where do i connect
this switch \? \? can the computer just tell with internal drives \?

you probably want to hard wire the scsi id with shorting jumpers. put
it at a convenient number like 1 . you could cut a hole in the
back of the machine to route the id switch , but why go through the
hassle \? you probably wo n't be needing to frequently change the id of
your internal drive.

i noticed that the drive will lay over part of the motherboard (i
did n't look closely , but i seem to recall it laying over the ram that 's
soldered onto the motherboard \? would that cause problems \?

yeah , when i first installed the tape drive i was a little concerned
too. but it 's no problem , the device is designed to fit just fine
with the overhang. it should n't reach back beyond the rom ram vram
simms , though.

one last question ! is there anywhere to order a faceplate cover \?
the drive 's front panel is smaller than the space left in the case (the
drive 's panel is the same size as the spotsbm clone 's cases). should i just
cut a hole in the plastic panel that is currently holding tmpty place \?

you can special order parts to mount the device from your local apple
dealer. the relevant parts are

922 0358 blank bezel faceplate
922 0850 cd rom carrier i.e. , generic 5.25 device mounting bracket

note apple 's unfortunate choice of name for the slide in bracket to
mount a 5.25 device. the service techs i talked to said , oh sure ,
we stock those. of course they were thinking of the cd caddies to
hold a cd disk when you stick it in the drive.

as far as i can tell , apple does not sell a bezel faceplate already
cut out for a standard 5.25 device. (why not \? they advertise
these machines as being able to accept any standard device in the
5.25 bay , why not provide the faceplate \? ) they do sell a cutout for
their cd rom drive (of course) , but that 's of no use.

i'm going to hack up the extra bezel i ordered to make a cutout for my
tape drive , which is a standard 5.25 device.

good luck with your syquest.

fred



from chungkuo@umcc.umcc.umich.edu (shawn fitzgerald)
subject quadra 900 startup w out monitor...ya right.
organization umcc , ann arbor , mi
lines 11
distribution world
nntp posting host umcc.umcc.umich.edu

is there a fix for this \? we have a quadra 900 that will not finish startup
unless there is a monitor connected. this would be no problem , but since
we 're running it as a file server , there is no need to have a monitor
connected all the time.



horsefeathers \?
shawn fitzgerald umcc (u of m computing club) michigan
chungkuo@umcc.umich.edu whether you are quiet and alive , or
quiet and dead makes no difference to cerebus.

from jcox@x102a.harris atd.com (jamie cox)
subject re serial port problem
nntp posting host x102a.ess.harris.com
reply to jcox@x102a.ess.harris.com (jamie cox)
organization harris govt. aerospace systems division
keywords serial port , powerbook
lines 41

in article 1qcq4ginn2q7@calvin.usc.edu wls@calvin.usc.edu writes


a friend asked me to build a cable to connect an hp fetal heart monitor
to a maciontosh (se 30). no problem , sez i.

...
i wanted to demo it on my pb 170 , it wo n't work !

the pb has been used running zterm and kermit using both internal and external
modems so i do n't think it 's the powerbook per se.

when i send a 51 to the hp it responds with 55 aa a test of the serial
ports. it works on the se 30 but not on the pb170.

i thought that the se 30 is connected to earth ground and so is the hp. so i
connected from the chassis of the hp to the pw audio (ground) connector still
ng.

any thoughts \?

battery powered devices like the powerbook are sometimes more sensitive to
serial port weirdness. i had trouble with connecting my mac plus to an hp 95lx
handheld. everything else worked okay on that port , but not the hp. (it runs
on two penlite batteries). it turned out that the plus (by accident or by
design flaw \? ) was putting a 4 volt bias on the serial port that was doing
weird things to the hp (which has only 3v dc ! ). the hp worked fine when
connected to the printer port.

does your pb screen get dim or anything when connected to the device \? have you
tried using the printer port \?

good luck.

jamie


jamie cox jcox@ess.harris.com phone 1 407 633 5757 (work)
harris space systems corp. 1 407 723 7935 (home)
ms rock 2 , 295 barnes blvd. the macintosh meeting and drinking society
rockledge , florida usa speaking only for myself.

from zxxst @pitt.edu (zhihua xie)
subject for the poor owner of iisi
organization university of pittsburgh
lines 16

macintosh iisi , 3 40 , 80ns.
clock upgraded iisi works well at 25mhz , however , does not work with
nubus adaptor and 1400k disk even though it can read write 800k disk
at32mhz. interestingly , upgraded iisi overcomes basically the fighting
between the vedio and the system so that cpu never be reduced below 8 no
mater whether the cache is on or off. this is pretty useful when you
use the virtual memory of system 7.

20mhz 25mhz 32mhz
cpu 5.46(6.0.7) 6.81(6.0.7) 8.83(6.0.7) 8.74(7vm)
graf. 6.72 8.56 11.07 9.19
disk 1.44 1.50 1.56 1.49
math. 5.72 11.27(fpu) 9.36 8.84

speedometer3.1


distribution world
from ken m. kampman@bmug.org
organization bmug , inc.
subject re iisi question
lines 11

the si has a single expansion slot , that can be either pds or nubus , but not
both together. the card lies parallel to and above the motherboard hd and
requires an adaptor slot to do this. there are nubus and pds adaptort cards.
thus , what kind of slots you have depends on what kind of adapter card you
have. with the exception of the radius rocket , all nubus cards i know of work
in the si. pds slots and thus cards are mac specific , thus not all pds cards
work in all macs.

from planet bmug , the firstclass bbs of bmug. the message contained in
this posting does not in any way reflect bmug 's official views.


from josip@eng.umd.edu (josip loncaric)
subject re duo 230 crashes aftersleep (looks like apple bug ! )
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park
lines 7
nntp posting host orbit.src.umd.edu

i do not have this type of problem , but at one point an apple rep
told me that duo 's system enabler file version 1.0.1 fixes some
kind of sleep related problem. you may want to investigate this...

josip loncaric



from thewho@athena.mit.edu (derek a fong)
subject re when is apple going to ship cd300i 's \?
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 26
nntp posting host alfredo.mit.edu


interestingly enough , the cdrom 300i that came with my quadra 800 has
only 8 disks

1. system install
2. kodak photo cd sampler
3. alice to ocean
4. cdrom titles
5. application demos
6. mozart dissonant quartet
7. nautilus
8. apple chronicles

has anyone else noticed that they got less than everyone seems to be
getting with the external \? what i really feel i missed out on is what
is supposed to a fantastic games demo disk.

i have heard that people have gotten up to 9 10 disks with their drive.
i assume they get the 8 titles above plus cinderella and the games demo cdrom.

any comments and experiences \? should i call apple to complain \? )

derek


thewho@plume.mit.edu

from d2cheng@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (dominic cheng)
subject re centris cache bernoulli box
organization university of waterloo
lines 7

you will need driver ver 3.5.2 to work with quadra centris. you can download
it from iomega bbs 1 801 778 4400



dominic cheng (d2cheng@descartes.uwaterloo.ca)
computer science , university of waterloo , ontario , canada

from jartsu@hut.fi (jartsu)
subject good hard disk driver for non apple drives \? (sys 7.1 compat.)
nntp posting host lk hp 20.hut.fi
reply to jartsu@vipunen.hut.fi
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
lines 14


hi there !

what is your recommendation for a good hard disk driver software for
non apple drives \? i would mainly need it for a syquest removable media
drive , but maybe for some normal drives too.
i have heard and seen good things about silverlining , but do n't know
any competitors. it does not need to be fancy , filled with features...
i more like it affordable.

thanks


jartsu

from afung@athena.mit.edu (archon fung)
subject wrong ram in duo \?
organization massachusetts institute of technology
lines 9
distribution world
nntp posting host thobbes.mit.edu

a few posts back , somebody mentioned that the duo might crash if it has
the wrong kind (non self refreshing) of ram in it. my duo crashes
sometimes after sleep , and i am wondering if there is any software which
will tell me whether or not i have the right kind of ram installed. i
had thought that the problem was the battery connection.

thanks in advance ,

archon fung

from bm967@cleveland.freenet.edu (david kantrowitz)
subject re centris 610 video problem i'm having it also !
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 21
nntp posting host slc4.ins.cwru.edu


from push@media.mit.edu (pushpinder singh)
subject re centris 610 video problem i'm having it also !
date sat , 17 apr 1993 03 17 45 gmt

when the computer is set for 256 colors and certain operations are done ,
particularly vertical scrolling through a window , horizontal white lines
appear on the monitor (which generally but not always spare open
windows). these lines accummulate as the operation is continued. if a
window is moved over the involved area of the screen and then moved away
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not
observed if the monitor is configured for 16 colors or a 14 inch apple
monitor with 256 colors is used.

i suspect a bad video ram chip but cannot be certain. the problem has
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse.

etc.

has anyone not had these problems in the given configurations \?
(that would help eliminate design flaw as the explanation)

from jcav@ellis.uchicago.edu (johnc)
subject how do you like the apple color onescanner \?
reply to jcav@midway.uchicago.edu
organization the royal society for putting things on top of other things
lines 13

we 're all set to buy one of these for the office , to use for scanning in
color photographs and for optical character recognition. we 've played with
the original grayscale onescanner and were very pleased. is the color model
comparable in quality \?

also , what brand of ocr software would you recommend \? we 're leaning toward
caere omnipage. any better ideas \? thanks.


john cavallino email jcav@midway.uchicago.edu
university of chicago hospitals john cavallino@uchfm.bsd.uchicago.edu
office of facilities management usmail 5841 s. maryland ave , mc 0953
b0 f w c g k s e h p chicago , il 60637

from meharg@kits.sfu.ca (gersham william meharg)
subject re centris 610 video problem i'm having it also !
organization simon fraser university , burnaby , b.c. , canada
distribution comp
lines 16

i also suffer from these video artefacts . my configuration is a
centris 610 , 4 160 , 1mb vram with a nec 4fg. it only happens at
832x624 , in 8bit colour with virtual memory off during scrolling. this
occurs when the vram simms are installed as well as removed.
it seems that the 610 does not like 832x624.

does anyone not have these problems in the above mentioned
conditions \?

gersham meharg
sfu canada.


gersham meharg meharg@sfu.ca sfu vancouver canada



from ah301@yfn.ysu.edu (jerry sy)
subject how to boot from ext hd on power on \?
organization st. elizabeth hospital , youngstown , oh
lines 12
reply to ah301@yfn.ysu.edu (jerry sy)
nntp posting host yfn.ysu.edu


i have an external hard drive i wish to use as startup disk.
problem is , when i switch on the mac , it boots on the internal hd ,
but when i restart (warm boot) the mac , it boots from the external.
how do i make it boot directly from the external \?

please email replies if possible.

thanks in advance.

jerry


from d2cheng@undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca (dominic cheng)
subject centris 610 impression
organization university of waterloo
lines 15

i have been playing with my centris 610 for almost a week now. i must say
this machine is really fast ! the hardware turn on feature is annoying , but
i got powerkey from sophisicated circuits and it works like a charm.

however , i still have a few complaints
when i restart the machine every time , the screen image (the desktop
pattern) jerks up and down for a few times.
the quantum 170 drive is noisy

overall , i highly recommend it it is fast , affordable and looks great !



dominic cheng (d2cheng@descartes.uwaterloo.ca)
computer science , university of waterloo , ontario , canada

from ns111310@lance.colostate.edu (nathaniel sammons)
subject re 68lc040 vs. 68rc040 in centris 650
nntp posting host casco.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state u. engineering college
lines 4

i also use photoshop to edit photos , and do dtp work.

nate


from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re 2 questions about the centris 650 's ram
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 10

petere@tesla.mitre.org (peter d. engels) writes

according to the (seen several times) postings from dale adams of apple
computer , both the 610 and the 650 require 80ns simms not 60 ns. only
the centris 800 requires 60 ns simms.

you 're correct , except that 's quadra 800 not centris 800.

hades


from panlilio@acs.ucalgary.ca (victor p. panlilio)
subject re whats this thermal recalibration on quantum drives \?
summary thermal recalibration on hard drives
article i.d. acs.93apr06.172811.42754
distribution na
organization the university of calgary , alberta
lines 36
nntp posting host acs3.acs.ucalgary.ca


in article 1993mar26.195307.25146@midway.uchicago.edu gary@midway.uchicago.edu writes

whether the drive is hooked up to the computer or not , the lps240
makes a disk seek noise every 20 seconds. this is consistent
and will continue as lomg as the drive is powered up. even if
i disconnect the drive from the computer , this drive activity
continues at 20 second intervals.

someone tried to tell me the drive was doing a thermal recalibration .

not knowing beans about the internal physical workings of the lastest
disk drive technology.... i guess i might believe anything.

whats the scoop on this standalone drive activity every 20 sec \?

i can only comment on thermal recalibration in general. some new
drives perform it in order to increase overall integrity of data
writes. basically , the firmware instructs the actuator to perform
a test to see if the data tracks are within a certain physical
tolerance , since when the media heats up or cools down , some
track drift is inevitable , and the drive has to monitor it. this
becomes especially critical at very high recording densities , and
so was used primarily on very large capacity mechanisms , but it
seems to be finding its way into more smaller drives as a way of
boosting the drive 's long term reliability and mtbf ratings.

i first became aware of thermal recalibration when it was pointed
out that the technique conflicts with prolonged write times when
digitizing , say , audio or video to hard disk. some manufacturers
explicitly state that drives with thermal recalibration are not
to be used for applications that have prolonged disk writes.

hope this helps.

victor

from michael.ameres@f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org (michael ameres)
subject x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
organization fidonet node 1 2603 204 not even odd , forest hills ny
lines 26

i believe it goes or will go
680060
powerpc
pentium
680040
486
680030
386
680020
286 680000

in a resent article in one of the macmags i think a 50mhz 030 accelerator was
slightly slower than a 25mhz 040 accel. but , this is using a system designed
for the 030. so , it stands to reason that a system designed for an 040 ie
quadra) would do better. so overall i 'd figure 040 030 2.5 or so.
along the same lines the new powerpc stuff is supposed to run the system
at the level of a fast quadra , but system 8 or whatever will allow 3 times the
speed of a 040 in the powerpc based systems. and wait for the 680060. i think
it laps the pentium.

pro life pro women




michael ameres internet michael.ameres@f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org

from leapman@austin.ibm.com (scott leapman)
subject re half page hand scanners \?
originator leapman@junior.austin.ibm.com
reply to login@austin.ibm.com
organization ibm austin
lines 8


i have a lightening scan pro 256 hand scanner. it came with scanning editing
software , ocr software , and some plug in modules for photoshop et al. the
scanner was a tad on the pricey side ( 480) , but the scans are incredibly
accurate , in 256 level , 300 dpi grayscale. it also has dithered and line art
settings when grayscale is n't desired. great scanning software , easy to use. i
frequently write letters to my neices , and spontaneouly include a scanned image
in the note. hope this helps !

from zia@castle.ed.ac.uk (zia manji)
subject help powerbook 160 and caere typist plus graphics hand scanner
article i.d. castle.33950
organization edinburgh university
lines 43
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu



edited and forwarded by the csm.announce moderator
please respond to the originator by email also what he
needs , besides a cable that works , is a phone number and
applelink address for caere and a smile and a pat on the
back... )


please , i beg you. if you know anything about the caere typist plus
graphics hand scanner , please read and solve my problem. i will be
truely grateful for the rest of my life !

the problem is that my caere typist plus graphics hand scanner will not
connect to my powerbook 160. the cable on the scanner will not fit into
the scsi port on the powerbook.

i then got a cable assembled to adapt the original cable to fit the scsi
port. this , however , turned the computer into scsi mode and treated it
as a hard disk.

i have asked an engineer in london to assembled a new cable. the idiot ,
out of sheer laziness has taken 14 weeks and has yet to solve the
problem.

i am aware that caere co. in the us have a solution.

do you know of a cable that will solve this problem. please help me if
you know the solution. i will be forever grateful to you.

my e mail address is

zia@uk.ac.ed.castle


wrong side of the road syndrom ))

for us , that 's zia@castle.ed.ac.uk


thanking you in advance ,

zia.

distribution world
from thomas n.a. krebs@mcontent.apana.org.au
organization maccontent bbs , doncaster , victoria , australia
return receipt to thomas n.a. krebs@mcontent.apana.org.au
subject re lc ram upgrade will be slow !
lines 9

yes ! what you are saying is absolutey true , but what you fail to mention is the
fact that the lciii uses the new 72 pin simms which allow 32 bit access to
each simm. in the case of the lc iii , it only has one simm slot , but accesses will
be 32 bits wides.

the views expressed in this posting those of the individual author only.
bbs number (613) 848 1346 maccontent is victoria s first iconic bbs !



from guykuo@carson.u.washington.edu (guy kuo)
subject re adding int. hard disk drive to iicx
organization university of washington
lines 15
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu
keywords mac iicx , internal , hard disk drive , scsi

yes , it is possible to add a second hard drive to a mac iicx internally. this
is definitely not a recommended procedure by apple but i have done the equivalent to my cx after upgrading it to a quadra 700. the power supply is still the
stock cx 's and it was able to power two quantum lps drives , a pli scsi
accelerator , a micron technologies 24 bit video board , daystar quickcache ,
new technologies overdrive and 20 meg of ram simultaneously.

i added a new mount for the drive by attaching angle brackets to the drive
tower. the internal scsi cable was changed to a longer flat ribbon cable onto
which i added an extra connector about midway. the final hd was internally
terminated and the drive between the motherboard and final hd had its terminator resistor packs removed. cooling has not been a problem and no scsi problems
occur with either the pli scsi chain or motherboard scsi hooked into the two
internal hard drives.

it works very well for me , but proceed cautiously if you wish to do the same.


from narlochn@kirk.msoe.edu
subject more general questions...
distribution usa
organization milwaukee school of engineering , milwaukee , wi usa
lines 8

i have two questions

1) what would be required to create a macintosh pc network
including laser printers , line printers , etc. \?

2) what would be bare minimum to create a network for
the primary purpose of networking a laser printer by
approx. 3 mac 's \?

from ktiedtke@jarthur.claremont.edu (kurt tiedtke)
subject comparative scsi performance
article i.d. news.c51zdm.bf5
organization harvey mudd college , claremont ca 91711
lines 8

could someone direct me to information on scsi performance for each mac \?
(max throughput , etc.)


kurt tiedtke
ktiedtke@jarthur.claremont.edu

please email. thanks !

from aa341@freenet.carleton.ca (david a. hughes)
subject sound recording for mac portable \?
reply to aa341@freenet.carleton.ca (david a. hughes)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 14


does anyone know what hardware is required and where i could find it for
sound recording on the mac portable.

thanks

david hughes aa341@freenet.carleton.ca
secretary
national capital freenet ve3 tkp

from jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey)
subject re sampling cd audio (was re what to put in centris 650...)
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 28

ldo@waikato.ac.nz (lawrence d'oliveiro , waikato university) writes

in article bskendigc5h91i.fu3@netcom.com , bskendig@netcom.com (brian kendig) writes
jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey) writes

yes , you get internal mixing of the analog cd audio outputs with
the mac generated audio on the mac motherboard. also you can sample
the cd audio using the sound control panel by clicking on the options
button next to the microphone icon.

what 's this \? my iivx with an internal cd does n't have any cd audio
icon...

i ca n't find any such option on my centris 650 either. on the other hand , i
do n't see why i need one. if i try recording sound with the built in
microphone with an audio cd playing in the drive , i get the cd audio mixed
in with the microphone sound.

and i guess if i unplug the microphone , then i 'll get uncontaminated cd
audio (admittedly sampled at 8 bits through a d a d conversion).

sorry about the misinformation. i made a bad assumption about
the new machines behaving like a quadra 900 , see previous
post. about sampling the cd audio though , have you tried it \? i
found the aliasing to be really bad. like it needed a filter or something.
much worse than i expected. i installed the cd 300 in the
quadra myself so maybe i missed something. everything else
works great though.

from haase@meediv.lanl.gov (peter haase)
subject seeking fax for network access
organization los alamos national laboratory
lines 9

i am seeking recommendations vendors for a networkable fax. it would
mainly be used for outgoing fax 's from mac 's on our net. the ability
to fax from other platforms would be a plus. ethernet interface would
be preffered but localtalk would suffice. can anyone provide any info \?
thanks in advance , peter


peter haase internet haase@meediv.lanl.gov
network manager los alamos national laboratory

from adamsj@gtewd.mtv.gtegsc.com
subject apple cd300 cdrom freebies .
organization gte govt. systems , electronics def. div.
lines 19

in article 1quod6 i3n@menudo.uh.edu , sunnyt@coding.bchs.uh.edu writes
... reseller. i 've also heard rumors that they are bundled with a couple of cd 's ,
but i ca n't confirm it.

sunny sunnyt@dna.bchs.uh.edu

i 've got two cd300 's... the first one i ordered jan 15 , and i received it feb. 20.
the second one i ordered jan 20th , and i just got it april 2nd or so. anyway , they
both come with 10 misc. cdroms... things like a intro to nautilis , a sample cd
of kodak pictures , from alice to ocean (a story of a woman who treked across
austrailia) , 3 discs from apple , a games disc , an applications disc , and a titles
disc (have n't checked most of these out yet). also some cinderella thing for kids ,
a disc of mozart something or others , etc. etc. etc. if someone 's super interested ,
i 'll make a list of the exact titles and post them. they are all in the category of
interesting , but probably fairly useless... . it was rumored that the earliest
units shipped with some encyclocpedia (it may have) , but neither of my drives had
that.

jeff adams

from rrn@po.cwru.edu (robert r. novitskey)
subject pleeze help me buy a mac !
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 16
reply to rrn@po.cwru.edu (robert r. novitskey)
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


hey everybody

i want to buy a mac and i want to get a good price...who does n't \? so ,
could anyone out there who has found a really good deal on a centris 650
send me the price. i do n't want to know where , unless it is mail order or
areound cleveland , ohio. also , should i buy now or wait for the power pc.

thanks.
bob
reply via post or e mail at rrn@po.cwru.edu


robert novitskey pursuing women is similar to banging one 's head
rrn@po.cwru.edu against a wall...with less opportunity for reward


from walsteyn@fys.ruu.nl (fred walsteijn)
subject re built in video problems on mac iisi ! ! \? \? ! !
organization physics department , university of utrecht , the netherlands
lines 24

in 1993apr19.164611.1018@fys.ruu.nl walsteyn@fys.ruu.nl (fred walsteijn) writes

i 've seen the following problem om three mac iisi machines
all with 17 mb ram installed (70 or 80 ns simms).

if the contents of a window are being calculated and updated
a lot of strange horizontal lines are temporarily generated
on the screen. the lines translate to the top of the screen and
have a slightly lower brightness than their surroundings (they
are a few millimeters apart).
i admit that they are vague , but they can still be distinguished clearly ,
especially if the environment (i.e. the rest of the room) is a bit dark.
applications which produce this effect are
the previewer of directtex 1.2 (i.e. dvireader 1.2)
kaleidagraph 2.1.1 fpu

another program which produces this effect is
spyglass transform 2.1 (while contouring a big 257 257 array).

thanks for any information about this problem ,

fred walsteijn internet walsteyn@fys.ruu.nl
institute for marine and atmospheric research fax 31 30 543163
utrecht university , the netherlands phone 31 30 533169

from newton@cs.utexas.edu (peter newton)
subject re cache card for iisi
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin
lines 64
nntp posting host mohawk.cs.utexas.edu

can some people with cache cards please post speedometer numbers they
get with the cards. i have only one report , which seems to indicate
that a 32k cache card gives you only about a 1 speedup ! !

ok. i have a record that shows a iisi with and without a 64kb cache.
it 's small enough that i will attach it.

i have also measured some real programs with and without the 64 kb
cache. the speedup varies a lot from app to app , ranging from 0 to
40 . i think an average of 20 25 is about right. the subjective
difference is not great , but is sometimes noticable. a simple cache
card certainly does not transform a iisi into something enormously
better. i do not have an fpu.

the conventional wisdom says that cache cards from all of the makers
offer about the same speedup and that there is not much difference
between 32k and 64k caches. i bought mine from third wave for well
under 150. i have had absolutely no problems at all with it.

if you get complete speedometer runs for a 32k cache , i 'd like to
see them. let 's check the conventional wisdom ! the so called
performance rating numbers by themselves are of no interest.

cheers.

(this file must be converted with binhex 4.0)
@0kbfkp , q0`g ! 338083e 9 ! ! ! ! ! ! 'a ! ! ! ! ! qk3 a ! ! ! ! bgj cfgigfh(h
)ghq ! qsqbuc ! ! @squu(qscfphghl(h hcl kjqtu)ldh)hbl ucucj ! u@gq9hgik
hcakr9spij)qrq)quj n(j ! ucld u s ! ! s ! quutqc u dl3j) 3lt uu)quubut !
! s ! l3 ! ! uu ! qjs ut ! ! qjs ud tuuqcq3 ! ! ! ucfj ! ! c4acsl'd)l)d ! ! ! ) ! !
! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ) ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! j ! b8 9@9l0a i ! ! g` ! ! g`b ! ! (j) i b ! p us) , b )21z
1i k cqfm vxmhha ! irdjpcvr , lucvsz2si8j@ , l , jpi`f lzq0a al8xrhjf ,
6 lj09 az2tv6l ! 9ln@eap@rei8(vipiqkfdk zv b 9 t5lkc0xz6lghf(ik
a lkh q6 qhh2milc q2iq p( gesp(ejn ! bhmdhll qh'lr`e26c2(qbqsrmm
pa k()jpgxqcpr2ryr9eyd0 , mh0 , h1rj1 ha pclhrsg6pf2eiymc4ris60efp
cge@vr trafa(qka`pg8jks @fe1mcbikfqc( , (9k u h 0rr bddt(i xp3z
v04l8d82feu01v4k 9u jad@1 fza`ezr3 egtyknxh49sjf2ei g 5el3 vz'j
vf( btbhjlex3pe0kj8 , zkh ! 9cc3 fj khgzc bhhnv9 dc6xd s58dfd pj ei
q cxhkel`@d pyyy 1f0rg`jm0rjtcymi4b1kbb'pubq)pu9'q m1mihg yr`b
eung1'msap mr`i 1 k`l dinq'mqjza( , 4bq mimq(kc9@@( mc' f88e9u 0
f'y4u5exb( 6t8d@6(r3ae 10padk cak ! ea6sthlia9hf ! h da@ , 2ba2 ! p
2vir ti) ! 6v` s ! ej gs ! q ! ! qqd 2p ! m49m9idhhm2fruq2ek))g3e vi) rqj
c ` m e 0jf yi2ql`vi 0qhh ! r 339`'9hy46)tr zkxi ! pqrqkcu3 ed9r cr
! qciuk zmef)iyi bqmeffkt5bb`jhyl2k 0pxve0b@@2 @uam121d`a`h cc)xl
iejf8s 9`a6 p8p0zc 6h0ajcy1br jdm3`f lj1 5bi sc2jh( qetfvk961rr
zviq rb th3'b3f0r h''cp uy1'ju53jy@5p(rcdpaxafrl xrhf y dmv1i
9 dm@t f4nmlp5jd xn0(k5c91'r@)4qb9c5ke1h v kiara nta`b9(yyl5tm5
f2 bufflgj , d8qa 9r`euq29sj ! ! p0b' c5lefr4@ 9kpdgj1 , bijhnadh , 6mrm
(3qpjiteram0 0rhj aj f` hj ! r4jjxdk22e ! cab5dk)jkrq0r icrc` c ! krd(
m1vrbjcx ! nr)3frchypk(r1chjjij hk 'j84pq a2 r bz , ff1v , kg6qg9
mbmupg9xkuex 2gl ! gl ! gl ! ge ! k5hrx(f4ix4irnykb m rsbn4`8m8qpq2rad j
fhrc 4(pei2rfhy0 j gh' ! p s)h ! hn ! r6jjxb5f'b ! cljkfb121qgm2mclee , s
mhpf12b4arq q plk q(8@i8 qrmms5 l` 2fp ! 4cpjy0 , ddap2ale eipbd0c
rl1 , pexj39 9k`hf4z , zkgn4h9a b t23l)rdf'a13x ' vbkj ! 9me ! tlp2
qckrpm@j2e5bn f jhn vp f f(j)pqxjnlyrlpq3c , `cm0l3e mp cxz6`)b
mpvs0)p3y@xtb5f5qasr xrmrzf1ilxsv , ppvjicfmrrekxddi`0fhmt q ! 4vl`t
aalm336chgur@ me6yaridi y2lpe9hpai fhnfmq qlchvc(duajj eb (6ndih
p jqed x1cgdtvmdy965 @pi , mr1jer pq`q@ aacvkc 0lzi3 z 5pzk8 f vrd
hfr 1mci , 3 nqh9r e j5ve 0rn`abfb qqlk c`3@lkqrh0( mkhnya uc qhq
5kajhr1efqr , 2h5b8z ! slfg3 ! ! 2tpmif ! ! 3 ! 58pcd5emb@0sc3 ! ! ! ! )6@0s9(0
3c 1r )jjt`b 33 ! admicj ! ! ! ! 4a3 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! b9 ! ! ! ! ! , ap ! ! !


peter newton (newton@cs.utexas.edu)

from hk.mlr@forsythe.stanford.edu (mark rogowsky)
subject re powerpc ruminations was re lciii powerpc \?
organization stanford university
lines 97
distribution usa
nntp posting host morrow.stanford.edu

in article 1993apr16.214300.12920@ac.dal.ca ,
seanmcd@ac.dal.ca writes
in article 186177@pyramid.pyramid.com , andrem@pyrtech.mis.pyramid.com (andre molyneux) writes
in article 1qksuq 1tt8@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu , mirsky@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu
(david joshua mirsky) writes
hi. i own an lciii and i recently heard an interesting rumor.
i heard that the lciii has a built in slot for a powerpc chip.
is this true \? i heard that the slot is not the same as the pds
slot. is that true \?

thanks
david mirsky
mirsky@gnu.ai.mit.edu

well , i also have an lc iii. popping the top revealed

one socket for an additional vram simm

one socket for a 72 pin ram simm

one socket for a flat pack fpu

a processor direct slot (pds) identical to the lc lc ii , but with
an additional set of connetions to one side (for the full 32 bit
data path that the lc lc ii lacked

that 's it. i guess a board with a powerpc chip could be made that would fit
in the pds , but that 's the only place.

so , will it be possible to have a nubus or pds powerpc upgrade , or will it
require a logic board swap \? it would be interesting for apple to come out with
a nubus powerpc that allowed use of the cpu 's 680x0 , like rocketshare. but i
guess that 's getting a bit fantastic !

i was wondering , since macweek reported that developers were 'seeded' with
powerpcs on a nubus card.

also , any word on machine arrivals or estimated speed \? last i heard , the
estimates were around 3 4 times the speed of a quadra in native risc mode. i
heard an apple employee mumble something about the arrival of powerpc machines
at a much earlier date that q1 94 , but i doubt it 's true.

finally , is the powerpc developer 's cd 'mini course' available \? i saw it
advertised in the developer 's university calendar , and i 'd like to know if it 's
at all interesting .

sean

seanmcd@ac.dal.ca

radius speculated , publicly , that they could provide a powerpc based
rocket for existing macs. it would have the plus of rocketshare and
the minus of nubus accelerators no true boot off the accelerator ,
nubus bottleneck to video and other i o.

apple , it seems , will not compete with third parties here except
perhaps for not yet available macs like cyclone , where a powerpc
slot might be advertised. look for daystar and such to make powerpc
accelerators.

one potential problem with any accelerator , though , is that it will
need a rom companion and apple has licensed only radius , with
rocketshare , to use any of its proprietary code.

apple is , between the lines , trying to let us know that powerpc macs
will have simplified logic boards due to the magical nature of risc
and that these boards should be much cheaper to build than those in
existing 68040 macs. perhaps , then , we 'll see groundbreaking
prices in mac logic board upgrades , much the same way we 've seen
much cheaper high performance cpus this year.

first generation powerpcs , 98601s , will also hopefully have socketed
cpus so that they 'll be chip upgradeable to 98604s a year later.
this should be possible in much the same way that 486s can be pulled
for clock doublers. if there is too much technical baggage (which
i doubt since the external busses are the same size width) to do
this , perhaps we can have cpu daughterboard , a la powerbook , as
standard to facilitate better cpu upgrades. this is an area where
apple has fallen far behing the intel based world. perhaps catchup
is in order.

by the way , last week 's pc week had an excellent story on powerpc ,
pentium , mips r4000 , dec alpha (the big four on the microprocessor
front for the forseeable future). worth reading for technojunkies.
also , the latest pc has a cover story on pentium. read it , and all
the other stories about how intel is unstoppable and preeminent
right now.

once anyone is this secure , they are due to fall. intel 's market
position will never again be as dominant as it is today (especially
if amd gets the go ahead to sell its 486s this week as it appears it
might). the competition from all fronts is gearing up for an awesome
battle. apple users should be excited that powerpc , while not
guaranteed dominance , is a guaranteed winner , even if its one of
several.

mark

from noah@apple.com (noah price)
subject re what to put in centris 650 internal bay \?
organization (not the opinions of) apple computer , inc.
lines 31

in article c5jfnp.fcx@world.std.com , jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey)
wrote

hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes) writes
tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith) writes
jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey) writes
yes , you get internal mixing of the analog cd audio outputs with
the mac generated audio on the mac motherboard. also you can sample
the cd audio using the sound control panel by clicking on the options
button next to the microphone icon.
how do you click on the options button \? i 've never seen it undimmed.

the latest word on this is you have to disconnect the microphone
cable on the motherboard. then the button is supposed to un dim.

the audio will simply select the cd audio when the microphone is removed.
i do n't believe the button un dims , since there 's nothing to select. i
have n't tracked down a centris to check this on though.

sorry , i assumed that the the various new machines with the internal
cd rom bay worked the same as the quadra 900. obviously they do n't.

yup , i made the same mistake several months ago when this issue came up
before )


noah


noah@apple.com macintosh hardware design
... ! sun , decwrl ! apple ! noah (not the opinions of) apple computer , inc.

from robert everett brunskill rb6t @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re to fix trackball
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 7
nntp posting host po4.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to 93105.152944br4416a@auvm.american.edu

of course , if you want to check the honesty of your dealler , take it in
knowing what 's wrong , and ask them to tell you. )

of course he 'll probably know right a way , then charge you a 20 service
fee. )

rob

from zia@castle.ed.ac.uk (zia manji)
subject help e mail address of caere corporation
organization edinburgh university
lines 19


i'm looking for the e mail address of the caere corporation.
their address is

caere corporation
100 cooper court
los gatos
califonia 95030

if you know the address o have access to find it. please could
you send it to me.

my e mail address is

zia@uk.ac.ed.castle

thanking you in advance ,

zia.

from gt8798a@prism.gatech.edu (anthony s. kim)
subject syquest 150 \? \? \?
distribution usa
organization georgia institute of technology
lines 3

i remember someone mention about a 150meg syquest. has anyone else
heard anything about this \? i 'd be interested in the cost per megabyte and the
approximate cost of the drive itself and how they compare to the bernoulli 150.

from eric.choi@p5.f175.n2240.z1.fidonet.org (eric choi)
subject re mac portable vs. powerbook 100 answers ( \? )
organization fidonet node 1 2240 175.5 association mac bbs , grand blanc mi
lines 8

can the internal hard drive of the macportable upgraded to larger capacity \? what is the specs \? a 3 1 2 drive \? lps model \?

is there any third party modem greater than 2400 bps \? with fax option \?

p.s. i notice the macportable batteries are avalable thru the apple catalog.


eric choi internet eric.choi@p5.f175.n2240.z1.fidonet.org

from auerbach@batman.bmd.trw.com
subject accelerating the macplus... )
lines 15

we 're about ready to take a bold step into the 90s around here by accelerating
our rather large collection of stock macplus computers. yes indeed , difficult
to comprehend why anyone would want to accelerate a macplus , but that 's another
story. suffuce it to say , we can get accelerators easier than new machines.
hey , i do n't make the rules...

anyway , on to the purpose of this post i'm looking for info on macplus
acelerators. so far , i 've found some lit on the novy accelerator and the
micrmac multispeed accelartor. both look acceptable , but i would like to hear
from anyone who has tried these. also , if someone would recommend another
accelerator for the macplus , i 'd like to hear about it.

thanks for any time and effort you expend on this !

karl

from abea@az.stratus.com (art beattie)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
organization stratus computers , inc.
lines 63
distribution world
nntp posting host cababi.az.stratus.com

in article katinka@fenk.wau.nl (katinka van der linden) writes
i would like more info on this if anybody has it. our exabyte
8500 tapedrive has never been working from the quadra 950.
we have been trying it since september 1992 , replaced cabling ,
inits , i do n't know what all. all the industry experts we
phoned (the tapedrive dealer , our apple dealer , the software
dealer) all say it 's our fault , or they do n't know. the last
thing they said was that we needed a special quadra scsi terminator
( \? \? \? ). anybody know more \? thanks ,

in article 1993apr19.131311.25871@mintaka.lcs.mit.edu , nodine@lcs.mit.edu
(mark h. nodine) wrote

in article c5l39p.2qz@news.udel.edu , johnston@me.udel.edu (bill johnston) writes
in article 1993apr16.144750.1568@mintaka.lcs.mit.edu nodine@lcs.mit.edu (mark h. nodine) writes
i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your
message , but i definitely had scsi problems between my
q700 and my venerable jasmine megadrive 10 cartridge
drives. my solution was to get silverlining. none of
the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives
in fact the only loop that worked was the macintosh
software loop (whatever that means).

i doubt this is a quadra specific problem. i had to get
rid of my venerable bernoulli 20 last year (with enough
cartridges purchased at 90 each to make the whole thing
worth more than my whole computer ). the tech support guys
at ocean microsystems suggested that some third party drivers
might fix the problem in my case the cartridges would n't
format mount partition for a ux.

all i know is that the megadrives worked perfectly on both my
mac plus and my powerbook 140. it was for this reason i assumed
the problem had something to do with the quadra. even with the
quadra , they mostly worked ok. the problem occurred when i ejected
a cartridge from a drive it would start popping up dialog boxes
saying this cartridge must be formatted with jasmine driveware
even though there was no cartridge in the drive.

mark

i have been using the pli (sony) 3.5 mo drive and now a sharp color
scanner using standard scsi cables and standard 20 terminator on my q700.
no problems. if you were using a iifx , that might be another story.

make sure there is only one terminator in the cabling and it must be at the
end. some boxes have internal terminators some can be switched out and
others are socketted. these count. if the box with internal terminations
cannot be put on the end to terminate the cabling , they have to be
disabled , ie , switched out or pulled out of their sockets. if you have 2
boxes with internal terminations , the terminations in one box has to be
disabled.... , etc. i am sure that this has been covered by the experts .

my experience with scsi boxes that connect to the mac indicates that they
must have some software package for the mac to 'talk' to them. my pli mo
drive and sharp scanner has one for each.

good luck.

art beattie

i only speak for myself.


from steve bollinger buzz@apple.com
subject re stereo sound problem ( \? ) on mac games
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxdate mon , 19 apr 93 19 34 37 gmt
x xxmessage id a7f83ecd5e013847@pyd.apple.com
organization apple computer , inc.
lines 192

in article 1qsfak skc@network.ucsd.edu doug p. book ,
dpb@sdchemw2.ucsd.edu writes
hi. i think i have a problem with the stereo sound output on my quadra
900 , but i am not totally sure because my roomate has the same problem
on his powerbook 170. any info or experience anyopne has would be
greatly appreciated.

when i hook my quadra up to my home stereo system , the following types
of sounds (mono , as far as i can tell) all play fine through both
speakers

system beeps (already provided ones such as indigo and ones i record)

armor alley
spectre
spaceward ho !


but , the following games only play out of the left channel

lemmings
out of this world (awesome game , btw)
glider 4.0
oids


but still , stereo system beeps do play in stereo , through both speakers.
(the one i'm specifically referrring to is apocolyptic beginning , which
my roommate downloaded from some ftp site (sumex \? ))


all of the symptoms are the same on my rommates 170 (he ca n't run
ootw because he does n't have color).

we 're both running system 7.1



does anyone with lemmings or the other three games i mentioned above get
sound out of both speakers on a mac ii class , quadra , lc , powerbook 140
or
greater , centris , se 30 , etc... (stereo) machine \?

i used to have a mac ii , and i sort of rememeber lemmings playing in
stereo on that machine , not just on the left channel. (i could be
mistaken , though. if there were a problem with the quad 900 's and pb
170 's , i am wondering why the system beeps still play in stereo \? if
there
is n't a problem with our machines , i wonder why the 4 games above are
apparantly written to support only one channel of stereo when they
could just use mono sounds so the mono sound would at least come out of
both speakers (like spectre , etc. do) \?

quadra 900 's and powerbook 170 's have the same roms (to my knowledge) ,
so maybe this is a rom problem \? (if so , though , why would n't system 7.1
patch over this problem \? )




thanks for any help you can provide !

in article 1993apr18.213827.9974@kth.se jon wtte ,
d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se writes
mac sound hardware is diverse some macs play in stereo and
mix the output (the se 30 for instance) while others play in
stereo but only has the left channel for the speaker , while
some are truly mono (like the lc)

developers know that stuff played in the left channel is
guaranteed to be heard , while the right channel is n't. some
send data to both , some only send data to the left channel
(the first is preferrable , of course)

okay , i guess its time for a quick explanation of mac sound.

the original documentation for the sound hardware (im 3) documents how to
make sound by directly accessing hardware. basically , you jam values
into all the even bytes from soundbase to soundbase 0x170. this was
because
of how the mac 128 (and some later machines) generated sound was by
scanning
this block and d aing every even byte (the odd bytes went to the floppy on
some machines).

when the mac ii (and apple sound chip) was invented , it was designed to
generate stereo sound. it was also designed to be compatible with we had
once
documented. so storing bytes at the even values at soundbase meant i
want to
play a mono sound and so it was emulated. but apple had since retracted
the
documentation on soundbase and decided not to document the lowest layers
of
sound generation. so apple never explained where to stuff bytes if you
want
to make stereo sound.

enter game developers. the sound driver and current sound manager are
inconveniently lame for making games. furthermore , people who port from
the
ibm do n't want to learn more apis. so , it has become popular for game
writers to write to soundbase to make sound , since it is very easy.

since the mac ii , apple has had many different kind of sound output
hardware ,
and the only things they have in common are that writing to soundbase
works.
on some hardware , (mac ii , iix , iicx , iici at least) , writing to soundbase
gets you mono sound through both speakers. on some macs (quadra
700 900 950
at least) writing to soundbase gets you mono sound on the left channel
only.
both are technically correct interpretations of the original
specification ,
but one is obviously preferable for asthetic reasons.

if developers use the sound manager (and i think the sound driver) , mono
sounds will (typically) come out through both channels regardless of the
underlying hardware. it is possible to specify you want to generate left
channel only , but no one does. if developers write to sound base , their
games will only come out the left on some games.

the other problem , the original mac ii only producing left channel sound
on the internal speaker , while the se 30 mixes both , is n't really related.
it is due to the post generation amplification used on the motherboards of
the different machines. it only affects true stereo sounds. sounds which
are actually mono , will play on the internal speaker , no matter what
machine
you have.

now , to more directly address the question , the games you list
lemmings
out of this world (awesome game , btw)
glider 4.0
oids
and also
hellcats ,
super tetris
oxyd
(and many more , these are just what i 've tested)

cheat and write to soundbase and so are only left channel on quadras.


other games you list
armor alley
spectre
spaceward ho !
and also
pga tour golf
civilization
(and more , these are again only from personal experience)

use the sound manager and work fine on all machines.

the more of the story is to developers don't cheat !
really , i am absolutely , positively not allowed to do what i am about to
do ,
but i'm going say it anyway.
stop cheating on sound !
really soon , you will be sorry , as even those without external speakers
will be disappointed with your sound on future hardware. the grace period
is about to end.
the sound manager is understandable now , and works pretty well and will
work
even better soon , so use it.

in conclusion
to doug , it is n't a hardware problem , at least , not a bug.
to jon , it is n't a choice to developers as to whether they want to send
sound
to both channels. if they do it the right way , it is taken care of
automatically. if you cheat , there is not way to make it work on all
hardware.


have fun.

disclaimer number 1
i do n't work on sound here at apple , i'm just pretty well informed.
so do n't write me with sound questions.

disclaimer number 2
if it says up above that i wrote anything like the grace period is about
to end then it is a bug in your news feed , since i am catagorically not
allowed to say anything like that. you know what i mean.

disclaimer number 3
i do n't speak for apple , just me.

steve bollinger

from anthonyp@extro.ucc.su.oz.au (anthony pun)
subject re why hp printers rated so low \?
article i.d. extro.anthonyp.735036446
organization sydney university computing service , sydney , nsw , australia
lines 16
nntp posting host extro.ucc.su.oz.au

egaillou@etu.gel.ulaval.ca (eric gailloux) writes

i'm about to purchase a laser printer for my mac and i read the macuser
buying guide special issue. all hp printers (except iiisi) are rated very low
compared to other noname bargain priced printers. why is that so \? on the pc ,
hp printers are the standard amongst printer manufacturers.

ps my personnal favorite budgetwise would be the iiip.

the iiip has just been superseded by the 4m , which is the one i am using at
work. the quality of the print is execellent , beating 300 dpi printers hands
down. in australia the price of the 4m is about comparable with that of the
iii series , so hp are trying to get people to buy the new one ! ! !

anthony pun
anthonyp@extro.ucc.su.oz.au

from dmaluso@mtholyoke.edu (diane maluso)
subject quadra 800 configurations \? \?
article i.d. slab.1ps093 f0u
organization mount holyoke college
lines 19
nntp posting host slab.mtholyoke.edu
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl5


i 've noticed some of you mentioning owning a quadra 800 8 230 with cd300
and 1meg of vram. it seems that this configuration was purchased
complete that is , the cd300 and vram were already installed in the box.
i am interested in that exact configuration and will be buying with an
educational discount but have not found the cd300 bundled with any q800
smaller than the 8 500.
if you bought or know how to buy the 8 230 with cd installed , please let
me know what you know via email
send messages to dmaluso@mhc.mtholyoke.edu
thanks , all.
diane maluso

diane maluso internet dmaluso@mhc.mtholyoke.edu
department of psychology and education
mount holyoke college
south hadley , ma 01075
(413) 538 2107


from tpd6908@yak.com (tom dickens)
subject re iisi clock upgrades
organization boeing computer services
lines 22

i too have been watching the iisi speedup reports and plan to upgrade in
the next few weeks. the plan i have is to build a small board with a few
different crystals on it and to be able to switch between the different
speeds using a front pannel switch. this way i can get the speed when
i want but i can also run at slower (stock) speeds it i experience any
compatability problems with any applications. i do n't expect to be able
to switch clock speeds with the system running , but if i can switch
without any lock up problems , then i could switch to 33mhz when needed
and put it back to idle (20 mhz) when not needeed. this would further
reduce the wear and tear on the cpu even with a heat sink. of course
i would not want to run the different clock signals through the switch
but use a chip or two on the board to select the frequency desired and
route it directly to the mother board.

i have n't started probing around inside my si yet. does anyone know the
voltage level to power the crystal oscilators \?

thanks.
tom dickens boeing computer services tpd6908@yak.ca.boeing.com
these statements are mine and not boeing 's



from klein@math205.mathematik.uni bielefeld.de (john r. klein)
subject re what happens if you completely flatten your pb 's battery \?
nntp posting host math205.mathematik.uni bielefeld.de
organization universitaet bielefeld , rechenzentrum
lines 32

in article c5fodg.on@raistlin.udev.cdc.com swiers@chaos.aqeng.cdc.com
(aaron swiers) writes
schuyler@netcom.com (gabriel m. schuyler) writes
stanger@otago.ac.nz (nigel stanger) writes
can running a powerbook 's battery completely flat have any
detrimental side effects (other than the pb not going ) i ask ,

only two things i can think of.
1. although nicad (145 , 145 , 160 , 165c , 170 , 180) batteries should be
completely
discharged about once a month , leadacid batteries (100) should n't
ever be
completely discharged (well , maybe once in a while is okay).

this is a very common mis conception dealing with ni cad batteries. it
is
a good idea to completely discharge a ni cad cell periodically. it is
not a good idea to completely discharge a ni cad battery. the
difference
being that a cell is only one cell (nicad puts out 1.2 volts) like a
rechargeable aaa , aa , c , or d. a battery is defined as more than one
cell (9 volt , or 7.2 for nicad equivalent). due to differences in the
individual cells of a battery , complete discharge can actually harm
a nicad battery more than help it overcome the memory effect . the
most common problem is that over time an individual cell can develop
internal shorts , which will weaken other cells that are connected to
it , thus reducing the lifespan of your battery pack.

etc....

okay , naive question how does one discharge a cell without discharging
the entire battery \?

from censwm@cend3c7.caledonia.hw.ac.uk (stuart w munn)
subject macintosh lisa dot matrix parallel printer
organization dept of computing and electrical engineering , heriot watt university , scotland
lines 15

i have got a dot matrix printer that came with a lisa (i think) i wish to attach it to a pc , but have no manual. i have been told that it is some sort of c.itoh printer in disguise. can anyone help with manuals or info about codes to send to select fonts , italics etc. i want to write a printer driver for protext.

thanks in advance

stuart


stuart munn dod 0717
heriot watt university the sky is black . . .
edinburgh therefore god , he is a st mirren
scotland , eh14 4as supporter ! ! !
031 451 3265
031 451 3261 fax god may have a harley . . .
e mail censwm@uk.ac.hw.clust (janet) but the pope rides a guzzi !


from drlovemd@jhuvms.hcf.jhu.edu (steve liu)
subject what is the current rom version shipping in syquest drives \?
organization the johns hopkins university hcf
lines 4
distribution world
nntp posting host jhuvms.hcf.jhu.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

the title says it all. i need to know the 44 , 88 , and 88c rom versions.

steve )


from davisson@stein.u.washington.edu (gordon davisson)
subject re interesting adb behaviour on c650
organization university of washington , seattle
lines 34
nntp posting host stein.u.washington.edu

in article 1993apr16.091202.15500@waikato.ac.nz ldo@waikato.ac.nz (lawrence d'oliveiro , waikato university) writes
in article 1993apr15.181440.15490@waikato.ac.nz , i said
i know that plugging and unplugging adb devices with the power on is not
supported , and you can hit problems if you have multiple devices with
clashing addresses , and all that.

i 've had a couple of e mail responses from people who seem to believe that
this sort of thing is not only unsupported , it is downright dangerous.

i have heard of no such warnings from anybody at apple. just to be sure , i
asked a couple of our technicians , one of whom has been servicing macs for
years. there is no danger of damaging logic boards by plugging and unplugging
adb devices with the power on.

noooooooo ! i 've been servicing macs for years too , and i 've had to
repair a number of motherboards that had been damaged this way. it 's
rare , but it does happen.

mind you , this does n't mean you should n't do it. the parts that can
blow (the adb power fuse and rf filter) are n't too expensive , so if you
have a someone around who can do component level repair , it may be worth
the risk (especially if you 're around seattle , 'cause you might get to
pay me to fix it )).. on the other hand , if your only repair option
is the apple standard logic board swap (major ) , you should probably
play it safe.

scsi , yes , adb , no...

scsi yes , adb yes , floppies yes... they can all cause trouble.


gordon davisson davisson@stein.u.washington.edu
westwind computing (206) 632 8141
4518 university way ne , suite 311 , seattle wa 98105

from feilimau@leland.stanford.edu (christopher yale lin)
subject mac iisi power limitations
summary what are they \?
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
distribution usa
lines 17

readers ,

i own a mac iisi and am considering upgrades (cards , hard drive , etc).
can you tell me what the power limitations are for 1) the pds slot
and 2) the hard drive power feed. secondly , can you tell me if there
is a separate limit for each , or if instead , there is a single limit
for both combined \?

please drop me a line if you know the answers to these questions.
thanks ,

felix lin
feilimau@leland.stanford.edu





from kuan@netcom.com (kuan)
subject video display
organization netcom online communications services (408 241 9760 login guest)
lines 34


my mac monitor displays about 20 vertical lines when i use it.
it means that either my display memory goes wrong or monitor is bad
or video card is bad.
i checked my monitor , it works fine with other mac.
i checked my video card , it 's also fine.
i replaced all the rams , it still did n't give me right answer.
hence i assume something wrong with some part of my motherboard.

i do n't know hardware architecture of the macintosh.

can anyone tell me what 's the problem \? \? \? \?

it 's a mac iicx.


many thanks in advance.


kuan@netcom.netcom.com





my name kuan , yihpyng
born taichung , taiwan , r.o.c.
work phone 415 688 6774
company failure analysis associates , inc.
149 commonwealth drive , p.o. box 3015
menlo park , ca 94025
my philosophy
where there is a will , there is a way !


from arie@eecs.umich.edu (arie covrigaru)
subject re hp deskwriter 550c...opinions \? feedback !
in reply to phil@csc.liv.ac.uk 's message of 14 apr 93 14 22 39 gmt
reply to arie@eecs.umich.edu
organization ai lab , the university of michigan
c5h99r.ic9@compsci.liverpool.ac.uk
lines 16

i like it a lot. it is worth the additional expense. the only problem i
found is with ms word (5.1a). if you have a table the is longer than
a page and the cells have a visible border , the last (bottom of page)
line on the first page will be missing. it makes no difference how
the table is formatted. the worst is that it does n't show up in word 's
page view or page preview.



arie.


arie covrigaru university of michigan ai lab
phone (313)994 8887 room 149 , advanced technology bldg.
internet arie@eecs.umich.edu 1101 beal ave. , ann arbor , mi 48109


from ray@netcom.com (ray fischer)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
organization netcom. san jose , california
lines 11

d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon wtte) writes ...
but the interesting comparision is how fast clock cycle chips
you can get an alpha is way slow at 66 mhz , but blazes at
200 mhz.

the only problem is going to be finding someone who can make a 200mhz
computer system. could be tough.


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth
ray@netcom.com than lies. friedrich nietzsche

from ulf@kirsch.c3consult.comm.se (ulf lagerstedt)
subject a mouse
organization communicator c3consult ab
distribution comp
lines 12


in the bottom drawer i just found an old a mouse with a db 9 (9 pin) plug.
i assume that it belonged to a deceased plus or something.

could any simple modification turn it into a proper adb mouse \?

reply by mail , preferably.

thanks !


ulf lagerstedt , communicator c3consult , sweden ulf@c3consult.comm.se

from gsnow@clark.edu (gary snow)
subject re question 1024 x 768 on quadra 800
article i.d. clark.1993apr6.215836.27428
organization clark college , vancouver , wa. usa
lines 14

in article d2150026.u982nu@bostrauma.trauma.com ennui@trauma.com (n is for neville who died of ennui) writes
does anyone have information on acheiving 1024 x 768 resolution on a q800
using interanl video \? is this even possible \? i suspect that it is n't although
i 'd certainly like to know for sure.

of course its possible , i get 1024x768 on my centris 650. all you need is
a correctly wired video cable.

gary



gary snow
uunet ! clark ! gsnow or gsnow@clark.edu

from seanmcd@ac.dal.ca
subject re se rom
organization dalhousie university , halifax , nova scotia , canada
lines 23

in article wgwc5pdl4.43y@netcom.com , wgw@netcom.com (william g. wright) writes

anyway , i was hoping someone knowledgeable
about mac internals could set me straight is it simply
impossible for a mac se to print grayscale , or could
someone armed with enough info and a little pro
gramming experience cook something up that would
supplement the rom 's capabilities \?
also , how does one know if one 's mac can
support the grayscale and photograde that the select 300
is supposedly capable of \? ( short of buying the printer
and trying it out like i did)
thanks for your help.

bill wright
wgw@netcom.com

to use the grayscale features , i believe you need a mac equipped
with colour quickdraw. i was told this somewhere or other , but it 's
not mentioned in apple facts (guide for apple sellers) , in the
press release or in the technical specs.

sean

from hardwick@panix.com (paul hardwick)
subject re pc syquest on a mac \? \?
organization panix public access unix , nyc
lines 35

in 1qsk6u d8l@usenet.ins.cwru.edu rcs8@po.cwru.edu (robert c. sprecher) writes


is it possible , ie via creative cable splicing or whatever , to
hook a syquest 44mb removable drive to a mac \?

is there any difference with the guts of the drive or is it
just cable differences \?

thanks.

their should be no difference in the drive itself between ibm pc and mac.
the two main differences are the formatting of the disk itself (but with
the correct software each can read the others) and maybe the cable
(depends on your scsi board on ibm pc).

if you get some mac softawre to allow mounting of any ibm formatted disk
and the correct cable you should br able to mount and read your ibm pc
syquest.

good luck ,

paul



paul hardwick technical consulting internet hardwick@panix.com
p.o. box 1482 for mvs (sp xa esa) voice (212) 535 0998
ny , ny 10274 and 3rd party addons fax (212) pending



paul hardwick technical consulting internet hardwick@panix.com
p.o. box 1482 for mvs (sp xa esa) voice (212) 535 0998
ny , ny 10274 and 3rd party addons fax (212) pending

from c60b 3jl@web 4f.berkeley.edu (james wang)
subject re what is rom accelerated video \?
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 13
nntp posting host web 4f.berkeley.edu

in article 1993apr15.182206.12714@reed.edu especkma@reed.edu (erik. a speckman) writes

in the macuser article on the new centris and quadra machines mentioned
that the c650 and the q800 , and not the c610 , had rom accelerated video.

what is it \? i do n't recall seeing it in dale adams post.

of course it was in dale 's post , just not in the words that macuser
used. rom accelerated video just means that some quickdraw commands
has been rewritten (inside the rom) to take advantage of the 68040
addressing modes. commands that do fills should be slightly faster
since the new instructions fetch 2 bytes at a time versus one.


from alexander samuel mcdiarmid am2o @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re se serial port speed \? \? \? \?
organization sophomore , mechanical engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 14
nntp posting host po4.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to qfkd x200wbk0 ca0n@andrew.cmu.edu

excerpts from cmu.comp.sys.mac 5 apr 93 re se serial port speed \? \? \? \? by
samuel john kass@andrew.

sorry , i got a bit technical. to answer your question , your mac se will
have no problem whatsoever communicating with any modem that is 57 , 600
bps or less , and since modems that fast do n't exist yet (in a
standardized form) , there 's no need to worry.

actually a 14.4 kbps modem using standard compression (v3.2 v4.2.bis \? )
cna reach 57 , 600 bps , however i have not seen any server modems that
have hardware compression. i have been told the annex modems here break
up at 36k , but i have never seen faster than 14.4kbps.

a.

from welchg@cs.unc.edu (gregory welch)
subject re techworks what you say \?
organization the university of north carolina at chapel hill
lines 30
distribution world
nntp posting host sirius.cs.unc.edu

well , although this may be an uncommon occurrence (or not) i had a bad
experience with techworks. this past summer i upgraded (increased) the memory in
a powerbook and a ci. when i called to place the order for the pb ram , i was
told by the sales person that they would give me a 50 rebate if i would return
the original ram (which was also techworks ram.) i followed the instructions for
returning the old ram , expecting to see a credit on my visa within a few weeks.

well , months went by , and no credit. after many calls (almost none of which were
ever returned arghhh) i finally found someone who told me why we never
received your old chips. i then explained i the procedure that i had
followed to return them , to which the person replied you mean you sent them
us mail \? (which i had , per the original sales person 's instructions.) i was
told that they their loss of us mail shipments is not uncommon (come on) and that
i should have sent the stuff via fedex , etc. i reasoned that i had done exactly
what i had been told to , but they would not budge , the people i spoke with were
absolutely no help. i sent letters , copies of the original receipts , attempted
to trace the package through the us mail , made many more phone calls to
techworks , all to no avail (i would n't give up because i was so disgusted.)
sales support people , supervisors , there was nothing i could do to pursuade them
to make it right.

i finally (in total disgust) wrote a letter to my credit card company , asking
them to investigate the problem. three weeks later , the credit miraculously
appeared on my statement. i have not (in recent memory) been so disgusted with
the service that i received from a company. in all fairness , they had no way of
knowing that was not trying to rip them off , but i went to such great lengths
to prove to them that this really happened. oh well , c'est la vie. i will never
buy another product from them again.

(there had to get that off my chest ! )

from noah@apple.com (noah price)
subject re lc iii nubus capable \?
organization (not the opinions of) apple computer , inc.
lines 18

in article 1qkkq4 5ev@nigel.msen.com , mmiller@garnet.msen.com (marvin
miller) wrote

my friend recently purchased a lc iii and he wants to know if there is
such a demon called nubus adapter for his pds slot \? compusa and
computercity supercenter says they do n't carry them.

does this mean lc iii is incapable of carrying a nubus board \?

apple does n't make such a card , though i suppose a third party could. one
big problem is that there is n't room for a standard nubus card inside the
lc iii.

noah


noah@apple.com macintosh hardware design
... ! sun , decwrl ! apple ! noah (not the opinions of) apple computer , inc.

from mlobbia@sdcc13.ucsd.edu (kaneda)
subject summary zyxel strings
keywords zterm , firstclass , telefinder strings
lines 90
nntp posting host sdcc13.ucsd.edu


i write
i recently got a zyxel u 1496e modem. it 's great , but i'm still having
some problems figuring out what strings to use in what applications.
i basically need strings for z term , firstclass client , and telefinder
client. i 've been able to get firstclass and z term working by using
another modem 's settings in firstclass and copying them for z term.
however , it still has problems z term , for example , will list 'error'
the first time i try dialing after starting the problem. if i cancel and
try again , it works fine. telefinder is even worse i ca n't get it to
even wake up the modem. so , if anyone uses a zyxel for any of these
programs , i 'd greatly appreciate you sending me the setup strings you use
thanks in advance !

yoshio@cs.ucla.edu writes
for zterm , i initially did the following
atz4
at d0
at w0
then i set my init string to atz0.
that 's it !

rsmith@pearl.tufts.edu (rod smith) writes
i ca n't help you with firstclass or telefinder , but i 've been using zterm
and a
zyxel for close to two weeks now. here 's what i did

once in zterm , set hardware handshaking on and the bps rate to 57 , 600.
(you 've
probably already done this.) then i typed

at d0
at w

the first line sets the modem to ignore the dtr line (necessary for
hardware
handshaking with most , though not all , mac hardware handshaking cables).
the
second stores this setting in non volatile memory in the modem , so it 's the
default when the modem starts. in the modem preferences dialog , i have the
modem initialization string set to at z0 m , which just insures that the
stored setting is used (useful if starting zterm after using something like
the
fax software or macwoof , which change the settings in other ways).
alternatively , you could leave the factory default the way it is and just
set
the zterm initialization string to at d0 m , which would accomplish the
same
thing if the modem is always on before you start zterm , and if other
programs
do n't modify the settings. or at z0 d0 m would work even if other
programs
modify the modem 's settings. i do it the way i do because i sometimes
forget
to turn on the modem before launching zterm , and this way i'm assured of
having
the correct dtr handling when the modem 's powered up.

after comparing the above strings with my at commands reference guide , i
came up with
atz0l2n2x5 d0s11 50 m
this is entered in the 'initialize' box on the 'modem preferences' in zterm.
quick summary of each commmand
z0 reset modem to user profile 0.
l2 speaker volume at 2 (fairly quiet)
n2 ring volume at 2 (fairly quiet)
x5 display connect info according to setting 5 (see manual)
d0 assume dtr (computer) is always on
s11 50 dial speed at 50 (as fast as zyxel can handle)

in firstclass , i used this same string , with the addition of s0 0 right
before the s11 command , in the setup box. this disables the auto answer
function of the modem for firstclass. i based my modem setting on the supra
14.4fax , and just changed the above mentioned string.

in telefinder , i based my setting on the zoom v42 hh setting. i changed
the 'modem initialization' string to the same one i used for firstclass , and
everything seems to work fine.

sorry it took so long to get this summary out. if someone wants to forward
this to the info mac reports directory at sumex aim , it might save other
newbie zyxel users like myself the trouble of setting up their strings , and
also save the net some redundant messages. if anyone else has something
to add , feel free.

marcus
mlobbia@ucsd.edu

marcus lobbia
mlobbia@sdcc13.ucsd.edu

from walsteyn@fys.ruu.nl (fred walsteijn)
subject built in video problems on mac iisi ! ! \? \? ! !
organization physics department , university of utrecht , the netherlands
lines 30

dear mac friends ,

i 've seen the following problem om three mac iisi machines
all with 17 mb ram installed (70 or 80 ns simms).

if the contents of a window are being calculated and updated
a lot of strange horizontal lines are temporarily generated
on the screen. the lines translate to the top of the screen and
have a slightly lower brightness than their surroundings (they
are a few millimeters apart).
i admit that they are vague , but they can still be distinguished clearly ,
especially if the environment (i.e. the rest of the room) is a bit dark.
applications which produce this effect are
the previewer of directtex 1.2 (i.e. dvireader 1.2)
kaleidagraph 2.1.1 fpu

the machines use their built in video and drive the old
apple hires monochrome screen (two monitors cable sets tried).
the effect is independent of the settings in the following control
panels memory (adressing mode , disk cache)
and monitors (nr of greys colors).

have you ever seen this effect too \? is there a solution \?

thanks ,
fred

fred walsteijn internet walsteyn@fys.ruu.nl
institute for marine and atmospheric research fax 31 30 543163
utrecht university , the netherlands phone 31 30 533169

from mark@bilpin.co.uk (mark allerton)
subject for sale macintosh se 30
organization srl data
lines 26
x useragent nuntius v1.1

for sale

apple macintosh se 30
8mb ram , 80mb hd
system 7.1 installed
rasterops 264 30 24 bit video card for se 30
apple 13 monitor
targus carrying case

i'm after offers in the region of 1250 pounds. i'm in the
north london area.

contact mark allerton
e mail
pascal@cix.compulink.co.uk
mark@bilpin.co.uk

phone
081 341 6400 (evenings weekends)
071 267 2561 (office hours)

mark allerton
srl data
mark@bilpin.co.uk
pascal@cix.compulink.co.uk


from petere@tesla.mitre.org (peter d. engels)
subject re 2 questions about the centris 650 's ram
nntp posting host engels.mitre.org
organization the mitre corporation
distribution usa
lines 28

in article mcguire.1085350200f@newsserver.utcc.utk.edu ,
mcguire@utkvx.utk.edu (michael a. mcguire) wrote

in article 1993apr16.075822.22121@galileo.cc.rochester.edu ,
hlsw ltd@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (dave hollinsworth) wrote
with a little luck , i could own a c650 sometime in the near future , and
so i was just wondering if someone could clear these two questions up for me

1. what speed simms does the c650 need want \? (i know that it needs 80ns
vram...not sure for the main ram.)


60ns 72 pin simms.

2. i 've heard two conflicting stories about the total expandibility of the
c650 's ram...132 and 136 megs. which is true \? (perhaps another phrasing
would be better does the 8 meg version come with all 8 megs on the logic
board , or 4 megs a 4 meg simm \? )

2 configs 4mb 8mb. in each case the memory is soldered on the board
leaving the 4 simm sockets open. 132mb is the total addressable memory for a
650.

according to the (seen several times) postings from dale adams of apple
computer , both the 610 and the 650 require 80ns simms not 60 ns. only
the centris 800 requires 60 ns simms.

pete

from bchase@bigwpi.wpi.edu (bret chase)
subject re 68040 specs.
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 23
nntp posting host bigwpi.wpi.edu

in article rayc5myqo.o8@netcom.com ray@netcom.com (ray fischer) writes
patrickd@wpi.wpi.edu (lazer) writes ...
i 'd appreciate it greatly if someone could e mail me the following
(if you only know one , that 's fine)
stuff deleted

have you tried the library \?
since you go to wpi (so do i) , go to ak and look on the first floor , a
professor has posted an ieee (i believe) spec sheet on the 68060 which
is around 10 pages long. i'm sure the library has the info you request , it 's
just a matter of finding it.


hope this helps ,
bret chase




internet bchase@wpi.wpi.edu macintosh !
bellnet (508) 791 3725 smile ! it wo n't kill you !
snailnet wpi box 3129 ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )
100 institute rd. worcester , ma 01609 2280

from zia@castle.ed.ac.uk (zia manji)
subject help please hand scanner problem
organization edinburgh university
lines 29


if you know anything about the caere typist plus graphics
hand scanner , please read on and save my life.........

my problem is that my caere typist plus graphics hand scanner will not
connect to my powerbook 160.

the cable from the scanner will not fit the scsi port of the computer.

i managed to gaet a cabled assembled that adapted the cord to the
computer. however , this placed the computer into scsi mode , that is it
acted as an external hard disk whenever i switched the computer on.

i 've asked an engineer in london to assemble a new cable for me. but
he 's taken 14 weeks and has yet to find the solution , out of sheer
laziness. and i know that a cable exists to solve the problem.

if you know the solution. please let me know what cable i need and how i
can get hold of one.

my e mail address is

zia@uk.ac.ed.castle

i will be truely grateful for all your help.

thanking you in advance ,

zia.

from smith@pell.anu.edu.au (michael smith)
subject re desktop rebuild and datadesk keyboard \?
organization australian national university
lines 17
nntp posting host 150.203.22.65
in reply to mirsky@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu 's message of 15 apr 1993 19 35 58 0400


my datadesk mac 101e keyboard has similar problems. i have found that
holding down the right hand shift key at startup will work (disable
extensions) , but the left hand shift key wo n't (which is unfortunate , since
the left one is the one i instinctively reach for).

similarly , i have trained myself to hold down the right hand pair of
command option for desktop rebuilds.

i is irritating.

cheers ,
michael.

michael smith
smith@pell.anu.edu.au mathematics research section
australian national university

from smisra@eos.ncsu.edu (saurabh misra)
subject ethernet to localtalk on a quadra \?
article i.d. ncsu.1993apr6.135521.22501
distribution na
organization north carolina state university , project eos
lines 8

i have used both my serial ports with a modem and a serial printer ,
so i cannot use appletalk. is there a ethernet to localtalk hardware
that will let me use the ethernet port on my q700 as a localtalk
port. until they come out with
satellite dishes that sit on your window give you internet access
from your home , i wo n't at all be using that port.

saurabh.

from bunt0003@student.tc.umn.edu (monthian buntan 1)
subject re fax modem for the mac
nntp posting host student.tc.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 36

in article c5llpo.in2@news2.cis.umn.edu mbuntan@staff.tc.umn.edu () writes
hi all
thanks to you all who have responded
to my request for info on various kinds of fax modem.
i 'd like to ask a few more questions.
1. what are the advantages of buying a global village
teleport gold over other cheaper brands like supra , zoom etc \?
2. i heard that both supra and zoom use the same software.
why are there so many complaints about the incompatibility problems
of supra \? what kind of incompatibility is it \?
3. if i decided to buy the teleport gold , is there any
possibility to add a voice option in the near future \?
4. has anyone heard of a possible voice option that supra will offer
this coming summer \?
5. a person did mention a new at t modem. is it
getting good reviews from various mac magazines \?
6. if i want the best , fastest , most economically sound and
possible voice option , what fax modem should i buy \?

sorry for posting so many questions , but i think they 're necessary.
i promise to repost any answers if they 're not already posted by a responder.

thanks so much in advance.

regards ,

thian.


since i repost this message again for the second time , i hope to hear from
some folks on this topic. please reply.

regards ,

thian.


from akhiani@ricks.enet.dec.com (homayoon akhiani)
subject re recommendations for removable storage media wanted
lines 25
nntp posting host ricks
reply to akhiani@ricks.enet.dec.com (homayoon akhiani)
organization digital equipment corporation
x newsreader mxrn 6.18 2


in article 1993apr14.115511.28278@kth.se you write
after having used both syqyest and bernoulli 's , i most enthuiastically
recommend
bernoulli 's. syquests (although more popular) are much slower , prone to
cartridge

what does your friends have \? buy it.

if you have no friends , buy a 128 mb optical and stop

i bought a bernoulli 90pro drive last year after comparing it with lots of
diffrent storage solutions ,
optical drives are slow , very slow compared to 13 to 19ms access of bernoulli.

since i needed additinol online storage (rather than just a backup or archiev
e disk) , i choosed bernoulli drive. i use adobe preimere and quicktime movies
alot. you ran out of storage real fast.

imho , the best buy currently is the bernoulli 150multidisk. 150mb per cartridge

homayoon akhiani turning ideas into ... reality
digital equipment corporation alpha , the new beginning
77 reed rd. hudson , ma 01701 all rights reserved. copyright(c)1993
email akhiani@ricks.enet.dec.com the words are mine , and not my employer

from dnew@diana.cair.du.edu (shredder)
subject voice messaging
organization university of denver , denver , colorado
lines 16

you macinators who have used these voice messaging fax data modems. i
have a question. first what brand names do you recommend(i am mostly
interested in the voice messaging and fax part). is the voice part as
reliable and understandable as the sellers claim \? approximately , how
much hard drive space does an average day of callers take up , if they
speak for one minute \?
any feed back would be appreciated. my company is looking at buying
one or two. hey , i may buy one myself too.

thanks in advance
don

don new jr(dnew@du.edu) another great mind
university of denver ruined
chemistry department by
denver , co 80208 higher education

from hurh@fnal.fnal.gov (patrick hurh)
subject cache card and optimum memory settings \?
organization fnal
lines 25
distribution world
nntp posting host phurh.fnal.gov

here 's a question that may be simple enough to answer , but has stumped
myself and a few others

what does an external ram cache card do for you if you already have a large
cache set (through control panel) in your simms \?

ex i have a mac iici with 20 meg ram , an external video card (so i do n't
rob my simm 's) , and the default apple cache card (i believe this is 32k \? ).
say i have my cache set at 2 meg , what good does a measly 32k do me on the
cache card \? could it actually slow things down by dividing the cache
between the card and the simm 's \? or does it still speed things up by
providing a 'secondary staging' area for data normally passed directly into
the simm ram cache \?

i'm confused because it seems like cache cards are so low in memory to
really do any good compared to what you can set yourself. yet , daystar
fastcache has numbers which show around a 30 performance boost on some
operations. are the chips on the cache card simply faster than most simm
accesses \?

please help , i'm trying to find the optimum memory settings for the iici
system described in the ex above.

patrick
hurh@fnal.fnal.gov

from skok@itwds1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de (holger skok)
subject re how often are simms bad (mail order) \?
organization inst. f. thermodynamik u. waermetechnik (itw) , u. of stuttgart , frg
lines 14
nntp posting host itwds1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de

hi ,
i got a glimpse from the other side , talking to the technician at the
place i recently bought my mac from. the guy told me that they stopped
shipping simms to their customers and only install them themselves
those babies get zapped too easily by static electricity or so they
claim.

hsk


sie singen das alte entsagungslied , das eiapopeia vom himmel ,
womit man beruhigt , wenn es greint , das volk , den grossen luemmel.
ein neues lied , ein besseres lied , oh freunde , will ich euch dichten ,
wir wollen hier auf erden schon das himmelreich errichten. ... h. heine

from guykuo@carson.u.washington.edu (guy kuo)
subject re q700 at 34.5mhz , it 's fine...
organization university of washington
lines 11
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

i have had my q700 running with a 66.666 mhz osc for a few months. i have a
number of scsi devices connected (quantum lp52 , maxtor 213 , toshiba mk156f via
emulex adapter , pioneer drm 600) and have had no trouble.

is this being done with the motherboard 's scsi interface \? if this is possible
then a bit of experimenting with just plain old clock oscillators may be
in order. give us some more details please.

the mad clock chipper in seattle
guykuo@u.washington.edu


from rgonzal@gandalf.rutgers.edu (ralph gonzalez)
subject using 1.4 mb disks with mac ii \?
article i.d. gandalf.apr.6.13.20.40.1993.1397
organization rutgers univ. , new brunswick , n.j.
lines 11


do you need to get a rom upgrade to use a 1.4 mb floppy drive with
a mac ii \? or are there 3rd party drives which work with the mac ii 's
own roms \?

thanks ,
ralph

ralph gonzalez , computer science , rutgers univ. , camden , nj
phone (609) 225 6122 internet rgonzal@gandalf.rutgers.edu


from tpeng@umich.edu (timothy richard peng)
subject re duo 230 crashes aftersleep (looks like apple bug ! )
organization university of michigan ann arbor
lines 7
reply to tpeng@umich.edu
nntp posting host livy.ccs.itd.umich.edu
originator tpeng@livy.ccs.itd.umich.edu

if you have a memory card installed that 's not one of apple 's , this
may be the problem. for a couple of months after the release of
the duo , some memory manufacturers were shipping duo memory cards w
improper (non self refreshing) chips. if you have a third party
card , pull it and see if the sleep problem recurs.
tim


from patrickd@wpi.wpi.edu (lazer)
subject 68040 specs.
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 18
distribution world
nntp posting host wpi.wpi.edu

i 'd appreciate it greatly if someone could e mail me the following
(if you only know one , that 's fine)
1) specs for the 68040 (esp. how it compares to the pentium)
2) specs for the 68060 with estimated cost , release date , etc...

i'm interested in speeds , systems it can run (windows nt , risc , or whatever) ,
costs , bus info , register info. all the technical info.

i am hoping that the 68040 can win yet another battle against the intel people.

) thanks for any info you can give.

thanks.

lazer (patrick delahanty) warning ! mst3k star trek fan , macintosh user ,
internet patrickd@wpi.wpi.edu and co sysop of l a blues bbs !
lazer@lablues.uucp call l a blues bbs (207 777 3465 or 777 7782)
macintosh user for macintosh ms dos files free usenet !

from kssimon@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (kenneth steven simon)
subject re powerbook duo batteries
summary i goofed !
article i.d. usenet.c51so0.bdq
distribution na
organization indiana university
lines 31
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu


ronaldw@sco.com (ronald a. wong) writes

in article c4vr7z.eb0@usenet.ucs.indiana.edu ,
kssimon@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (kenneth steven simon) wrote

the program powerstrip2.0 , which is freeware , has an option called
quick discharge. you can find it on the mac archives , probably
sumex aim.stanford.edu or mac.archive.umich.edu.


is it a hidden option \? i'm using powerstrip 2.0 (by mr. caputo) right now
and ca n't find any quick discharge option. it definitely is on
mac.archive.umich.edu 'cause i submitted it !

my apologies ! i goofed. the quick discharge option is part of the
connectix powerbook utilities package (cpu). i installed it the same
day as powerstrip , and did n't pay enough attention. ) anyway , the
option does exist for those of you who buy cpu.



whadda goofball !
sheddap. you 're not even the real signature file.




kenneth simon dept of sociology , indiana university
internet kssimon@indiana.edu bitnet kssimon@iubacs


from alexander samuel mcdiarmid am2o @andrew.cmu.edu
subject driver \? \?
organization sophomore , mechanical engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 15
nntp posting host po4.andrew.cmu.edu


1) i have an old jasmine drive which i cannot use with my new system.
my understanding is that i have to upsate the driver with a more modern
one in order to gain compatability with system 7.0.1. does anyone know
of an inexpensive program to do this \? ( i have seen formatters for 20
buit have no idea if they will work)

2) i have another ancient device , this one a tape drive for which
the back utility freezes the system if i try to use it. the drive is a
jasmine direct tape (bought used for 150 w 6 tapes , techmar
mechanism). essentially i have the same question as above , anyone know
of an inexpensive beckup utility i can use with system 7.0.1

all help and advice appriciated.


from ua020@freenet.victoria.bc.ca (toby sinats)
subject accelerator for classic ii \?
nntp posting host freenet.victoria.bc.ca
organization camosun college , victoria b.c , canada
lines 4


does one exist , who makes it , and how much \?
thanks )


from feilimau@leland.stanford.edu (christopher yale lin)
subject mac iisi cache options
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
distribution usa
lines 15

readers ,

i have found that the cache upgrade options for the mac iisi include the
following 1) ae quicksilver
2) daystar fastcache iisi
3) daystar combocache iisi
4) logicache iisi 64k cache

i 'd be interested in hearing opinions on any or all of these options.
the other alternative is to upgrade to a cpu accelerator such as the
logicache 50 mhz. ideas , comparisions \?

felix lin
feilimau@leland.stanford.edu


from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon w tte)
subject re why the drive speeds differ \? \?
keywords quantum , lps , speed
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 19

in c5r70z.4gb@zimmer.csufresno.edu mmatteo@mondrian.csufresno.edu (marc matteo) writes

i just got a la cie 240 meg external hard drive. speed tests show that it 's
substantially faster that my internal 105 meg quantum hd. supposedly the 105
and the 240 (both lps drives) are roughly rated the same speed. why such a
large difference \?

could be better caching on the disk.
could be faster coil for seeks.
could be that the disk spins faster so data transfers faster.
could be that data is packed tighter so it transfers faster.
could be a faster scsi command decoder in the drive.

among other things...

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe
engineering how will this work \? science why will this work \? management
when will this work \? liberal arts do you want fries with that \?
jesse n. schell

from sven@beowulf.jpl.nasa.gov (sven u. grenander)
subject re increasing the number of serial ports
organization jet propulsion laboratory
lines 33
distribution world
nntp posting host mac4.jpl.nasa.gov

in article 1993apr18.134943.16479@bmers95.bnr.ca , slang@bnr.ca (steven
langlois) wrote

does anyone know if there are any devices available for the mac which
will increase the number of serial ports available for use
simultaneously \? i would like to connect up to 8 serial devices to my
mac for an application i am working on. i must be able to access each
one of the independently.

if such a device exists , are there are any limits to the number of
serial devices i can use \?

any information is appreciated.

steven langlois
slang@bnr.ca

the quadralink by ae is a possibly problematical solution to your needs.
i 've used one for the last 4 ( \? ) years on my personal system , but a fatal
bug has crept into their more recent s w. the bug only shows up during
heavy serial traffic but completely crashes the system (macsbug can not
reboot , time to hit the restart button).

ae told me in january that they were aware of and working on fixing the bug
which i described to them. since then they have not answered any of my
faxes asking them for a status of the bug fix.

the ql has been great , but for now i have mine sidelined. if you are only
going to be using 2400 baud or less , then you may have no , or very
infrequent problems ,


sven

from ldo@waikato.ac.nz (lawrence d'oliveiro , waikato university)
subject re interesting adb behaviour on c650
organization university of waikato , hamilton , new zealand
lines 20

in article 1993apr15.181440.15490@waikato.ac.nz , i said

i know that plugging and unplugging adb devices with the power on is not
supported , and you can hit problems if you have multiple devices with
clashing addresses , and all that.

i 've had a couple of e mail responses from people who seem to believe that
this sort of thing is not only unsupported , it is downright dangerous.

i have heard of no such warnings from anybody at apple. just to be sure , i
asked a couple of our technicians , one of whom has been servicing macs for
years. there is no danger of damaging logic boards by plugging and unplugging
adb devices with the power on.

scsi , yes , adb , no...

lawrence d'oliveiro fone 64 7 856 2889
computer services dept fax 64 7 838 4066
university of waikato electric mail ldo@waikato.ac.nz
hamilton , new zealand 37 47' 26 s , 175 19' 7 e , gmt 12 00

from root@ncube.com (operator)
subject re which fax modem is the best \?
nntp posting host admin
reply to root@ncube.com
organization ncube corp. , foster city , ca
lines 19

well i am using the home office. i bought it for arounde 350.
it does 14.4. i do n't know if it 's for data or fax. but the
feature i use is the voic mail box , which i really have liked.






@
captain zod...
zod@ncube.com
0 0







from dhk@ubbpc.uucp (dave kitabjian)
subject x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
distribution usa
organization unisys unix portation center , blue bell , pa
lines 36

i'm sure intel and motorola are competing neck and neck for
crunch power , but for a given clock speed , how do we rank the
following (from 1st to 6th)
486 68040
386 68030
286 68020

while you 're at it , where will the following fit into the list
68060
pentium
powerpc

and about clock speed does doubling the clock speed double the
overall processor speed \? and fill in the 's below
68030 @ mhz 68040 @ mhz

thanks very much. i 'd appreciate hearing any further explanations
from any experienced folks out there , too !


p.s. folks have been having trouble replying to me lately with the reply
command. try typing my address by hand and it should work. thanks !


dave kitabjian (kit ahb' jyin) vital statistics

k 10 east garden way favorite guitarist phil keaggy
@ @ dayton , nj 08810 favorite computer macintosh
c c (908) 274 0892 spaghetti preference semi broken
o tredysvr ! ubbpc ! dhk@ tp installation pref. over the top
gvls1.vfl.paramax.com favorite book bible
favorite rush limbaugh
commercial taxula , part iii
favorite contradiction pro child
pro choice.


from jonathan@rahul.net (jonathan heiliger)
subject re non apple mini docks available \?
nntp posting host bolero
reply to jonathan@mecca.epri.com
organization electric power research institute
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 13

a a deguzman (deguzman@after.math.uiuc.edu) wrote
my boss is considering the purchase of a powerbook or duo. he is leaning
towards a 180 , because of the math coprocessor (for mathematica) , but would
get a duo if he could find a mini dock with a coprocessor. have any
third parties announced such a beast \?

i believe that e machines might produce something of this nature.


jonathan heiliger .... electric power research institute
m m visualization integrator ....... 3412 hillview ave.
internet jonathan@mecca.epri.com ........ palo alto , ca
telephone 415 .855.2888 ..................... 94303

from rjacks@austlcm.sps.mot.com (rodney jacks)
subject when is apple going to ship cd300i 's \?
nntp posting host 223.8.248.12
organization motorola inc , austin , texas
lines 12

i would really like to get one of the new cd300i cdrom
drives for my c650 , but my local apple does n't know
when they will be available. he does n't even have a part
number yet. does anyone know what the part number
for this drive is and when it will be available \?

my apple dealer suggested i buy one of the cd300 external
drives , but i do n't want to pay extra for a case power supply
i'm not going to use.

rodney jacks
(rjacks@austlcm.sps.mot.com)

from jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov (jim jagielski)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
keywords quadra scsi aps
lines 13
reply to jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov (jim jagielski)
organization nasa goddard space flight center

jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov (jim jagielski) writes

what the heck is this \? is this true \? aps has no info , since they get their
formatter from apollyonics and they have n't been any help...


actually , it 's transoft now , and that 's what i meant )

jim jagielski and he 's gonna stiff me. so i say ,
jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov 'hey ! lama ! how about something ,
nasa gsfc , code 734.4 you know , for the effort ! '
greenbelt , md 20771


from kathy mctaggart@mindlink.bc.ca (kathy mctaggart)
subject sound input in se 30
organization mind link ! british columbia , canada
lines 19

a couple of questions for the multimedia set


1. does anybody have a phone or fax number , or e mail address , or name of a
principal in cedar technologies in dublin , new hampshire \? all i have is a
post office box number , and i want to ask a couple of questions before
sending
them some money. any info much appreciated.

2. i'm running an se 30 , which came with no microphone. is there any way ,
other than using macrecorder with soundedit or cedar 's digitizer with some
similar software , to input recorded sound into my mac \? i'm trying to play
some
very short interview clips in a hypercard stack.

thanks for any and all help.

kathy mctaggart


from umsoroko@ccu.umanitoba.ca (michael sorokowski)
subject request info on floptical drives.
keywords floptical , mac , drives
nntp posting host ccu.umanitoba.ca
organization university of manitoba , winnipeg , canada
lines 20

i'm considering adding a floptical drive to my current system.

what i would like to know is which floptical drives are recommended for
their quality and performance.

my preference would be floptical drives capable of handling both 800k and
1.4k floppies , but handling 800k floppies is not a necessity.

so far , i only know a bit about the iomega floptical and the infinity
floptical drives. are there any comments recommendations for either of these \?

are there any other floptical drives that are worth looking into and where
can they be purchased (i.e. which mail order places , etc).

thanks in advance.

please send replies directly to umsoroko@ccu.umanitoba.ca


mike sorokowski (umsoroko@ccu.umanitoba.ca)

from wirehead@cheshire.oxy.edu (david j. harr)
subject any nanao 750i compatible mac video cards \?
summary i can get ehe monitor , but can i drive it \?
keywords 21 monitor , 24 bit video , macintosh
organization the programmers who say nee !
lines 15

does anyone know if a nanao 750i is compatible with any
popular mac video cards \? i have an oppurtunity to get a brand
new one , cheap , and i am very tempted , but it will be a waste
of time if i ca n't drive it using a standard video card.

while i'm on the subject , what 's everybody 's reccomendations for
a 21 color monitor. i 've heard good things about the nec 6fg , and
of course , there is always the reliable old macintosh 21 display ,
but what are your experiences.

david j harr
cyberpunk software.

my definition of happiness is being famous for your financial
ability to indulge in every form of excess. calvin

from andy@ie.utoronto.ca (andy sun)
subject re centris 650 to decstation e net adapter
organization university of toronto , department of industrial engineering
lines 86

pnsf01dw@smucs1.umassd.edu (dennis j. wilkinson) writes
not necessarily a thrid party adapter apple does manufacture transceivers
for thinwire and 10baset (twisted pair) cable media , as well as an aui
(attachment unit interface) transciever. they run at 100 each. if you use
thinwire or 10baset , you 'll probably also need terminators (apple 's
transceivers are self terminated , if i remember correctly , but i have no
idea about decs).

the third party media adapters are usually cheaper (at least in toronto) than
apple 's. i bought the adapters from asante instead of apple.

gurman@umbra.gsfc.nasa.gov (joseph b. gurman) writes
the decstation 5000 models 200 and 240 come with thinwire only
(ca n't say for certain about the models 125 and 133) , so your best bet

that 's not true. only the decstation 5000 200 comes with a thinwire
(bnc , coaxial) ethernet connector. the 5000 25 , 5000 133 and 5000 240
all have a single 15 pin aui ethernet connector only. i distinctly
remembered this because when got the 5000 200 first and i thought all
of them are going to be thinwire. i eventually had to go back and ordered
destas (dec 's oversized version of an aui to bnc adapter that must be used
with a transciever cable) for the rest of the stations.

my advise to the very original poster (beverly \? ) is

(1) if all you want is to create a lan with two workstations and wo n't add
machines to it ever , go for thinwire regardless of the media type. going
for utp (unshielded twisted pair) wiring requires a concentrator which
means extra money and i believe these units come with at least 6 ports.
as for thicknet , it 's a nightmare and cabling is expensive. avoid it
unless you have no choice (e.g. the two machines are two floors parts).

(2) on the mac side , you will need
one thinwire media adapter (from apple or third party).
macx (make sure you get version 1.2 1.1.7 wo n't run on system 7.1).
mactcp (which comes with macx if you get macx v1.2 , you should be
getting mactcp v1.1.1 with it. do n't use earlier versions on a centris).
you may or may not need a 25ohm terminator depending on the
thinwire media adapter. so just ask the sales if the adapter is
self terminated or not.
configure mactcp to use ethernet .

(3) on the decstation side , you will need
for a model 200 , you will only need a t connector.
for models 25 , 125 , 133 , 240 , you will need an aui to bnc adapter.
get one that can be plugged in directly to the aui port of the
decstation. this way you save the cost of a transciever cable
(a 15 pin aui male to a 15 pin aui female cable).
get a 25ohm terminator.

your two machine network will look like this


t





decstation centris
5000 200 650
or

t





decstation centris
5000 25 , 125 , 133 , 240 650

25ohm terminator
t t connector
thinwire (rg58 coaxial cable)
aui to bnc (i.e. thick to thin) adapter
thickwire media adapter (assuming self terminated)



andy

andy sun (andy@ie.utoronto.ca) 4 taddle creek road , toronto
computing coordinator ontario , canada. m5s 1a4
department of industrial engineering phone (416) 978 8830
university of toronto fax (416) 978 3453

from gene@jackatak.raider.net (gene wright)
subject mac portable internal fax modems
organization jack 's amazing cockroach capitalist ventures
lines 8

does anyone know where i can still get an internal fax modem for the
original mac portable \? i know they were made for a while by several
manufacturers , but i ca n't find them now. thanks for your help.
gene wright


gene@jackatak.raider.net (gene wright)
jackatak.raider.net (615) 377 5980

from robert everett brunskill rb6t @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re jump starting a mac ii
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 3
distribution na
nntp posting host po5.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to 1993apr14.144142.9061@mailbox.als.com

did you remember to clamp ground to the engine block first \?

rob

from maennig@veronica.informatik.uni dortmund.de (olaf maennig)
subject problems with a rose
organization cs department , dortmund university , germany
lines 28
distribution world
reply to maennig@veronica.informatik.uni dortmund.de
nntp posting host veronica.informatik.uni dortmund.de

does anyone work with the a rose card \?

we have the problem that after certain crashes the card disappears from the
system , and lets crash the mac then.

okay , we do n't use the card quite like one should , because we simulate
errors in the 68000. before every instruction some specified registers are
masked , eg. to simulate a stuck at 1 error in certain bits.

normally , the crash instance of a rose notices a crash , sets a flag and
stops working. by reading the mentioned flag the mac can notice a card
crash. that works fine for almost all crashes , but as said , sometimes the
card does n't set the flag and disappears from the system.

the documentation of a rose does not tell us anything about its behavior
when crashing , and so at the moment we are trying to understand by analyzing
the assembler code , and that 's both frustrating and lengthy.

so , can anyone help \?
please only reply via email , as i do n't read this group.


department of computer science iv
university of dortmund , germany
laf aennig e mail maennig@veronica.informatik.uni dortmund.de

in the beginning god created adam ... ahem ! ... atoms. atoms of hydrogen.


from tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
organization university of washington school of law , class of '95
lines 21
nntp posting host stein2.u.washington.edu
keywords quadra scsi aps

attention mac quadra owners many storage industry experts have
concluded that mac quadras suffer from timing irregularities deviating
from the standard scsi specification. this results in silent corruption
of data when used with some devices , including ultra modern devices.
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault , an
example would be a sony 3.5 inch mo , without the special mac compatible
firmware installed. one solution , sometimes , is to disable blind writes

this does n't sound right to me. do n't quadras use the 53c96 \? if so , the
mac has nothing to do with the scsi timing. that 's all handled by the
chip. about the only the timing could be wrong is if apple programs the
clock registers wrong on the 96. that , however , should only really hurt
synchronous transfer , which is not used by the mac scsi manager.

furthermore , disabling blind writes should be meaningless on a quadra.
on macs that used the 5380 , which is a much lower level scsi chip , the
mac was responsible for the handshake of each byte transferred. blind
mode affected how the mac handled that handshake. on the 5396 , the
handshake is entirely handled by the chip.

tim smith

from narain@ih nxt09.cso.uiuc.edu (nizam arain)
subject floptical question
article i.d. news.c519mm.m2l
reply to narain@uiuc.edu
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 17

hi. i am looking into buying a floptical drive , and was wondering what
experience people have with the drives from iomega , pli , mass microsystems ,
or procom. these seem to be the main drives on the market. any advice \?

also , i heard about some article in macworld (sep '92 , i think) about
flopticals. could someone post a summary , if they have it \?

thanks in advance. (reply by post or email , whichever you prefer.)

nizam



nizam arain what makes the universe
(217) 384 4671 so hard to comprehend
internet narain@uiuc.edu is that there is nothing
nextmail narain@sumter.cso.uiuc.edu to compare it with.

from horton@what.sps.mot.com (david horton)
subject re centris 610 video problem i'm having it also !
nntp posting host 223.10.249.26
organization motorola inc. mmtg oakhill austin texas
lines 27

in article 1qqf6b oc6@usenet.ins.cwru.edu bm967@cleveland.freenet.edu (david kantrowitz) writes

from push@media.mit.edu (pushpinder singh)
subject re centris 610 video problem i'm having it also !
date sat , 17 apr 1993 03 17 45 gmt

when the computer is set for 256 colors and certain operations are done ,
particularly vertical scrolling through a window , horizontal white lines
appear on the monitor (which generally but not always spare open
windows). these lines accummulate as the operation is continued. if a
window is moved over the involved area of the screen and then moved away
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not
observed if the monitor is configured for 16 colors or a 14 inch apple
monitor with 256 colors is used.

i suspect a bad video ram chip but cannot be certain. the problem has
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse.

etc.

has anyone not had these problems in the given configurations \?
(that would help eliminate design flaw as the explanation)

as a data point , i'm using a centris 610 4 80 with the apple 16
monitor and do not have these problems.
dch


from hmarvel@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (howard p marvel)
subject re your opinion of the laserwriter select 310 \?
article i.d. magnus.1993apr5.231721.1272
organization the ohio state university
lines 12
nntp posting host bottom.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu


my wife has one of these. i have not had much chance to fiddle with
it , but in comparison to our laserwriters with canon engines , she
complains that the print is too light for her taste. the difference
is quite apparent even when the print setting on the select 310 is
adjusted to the darkest possible level. i do n't find it
objectionable , and indeed rather like it , but be warned that some
people do n't care for it and it is considerably different.

i recall that years ago there were lots of debates over write black
vs. write white engines when dealing with tex drivers. is something
like that going on here \?

from eapu174@orion.oac.uci.edu (wayne chen)
subject re disappointed by la cie
article i.d. news.2bc1f81d.20078
organization uc irvine
lines 12
nntp posting host dialin33626.slip.nts.uci.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
x xxmessage id a7e737a8c3018eb7@dialin33626.slip.nts.uci.edu
x xxdate tue , 6 apr 93 05 35 36 gmt

in article 1993apr5.173853.14752@umiami.ir.miami.edu ,
f2ehg786@umiami.ir.miami.edu writes
it seems to me that reconditioned hardware should be sold as
reconditioned at a
discounted price , and that replacements for new hardware gone bad
(still
covered under a 90 day warranty) should be new.

well , sounds like we need some kind of a lemon law on the hardware
industry. after all it does sound unfair to me for someone that has
paid the price of a new drive for a reconditioned one. what do you
guys think \?

from dale adams@gateway.qm.apple.com (dale adams)
subject re q800 video ram questions
distribution na
organization apple computer , inc. , cupertino , ca
lines 45

in article 1993apr5.192833.19102@cbnews.cb.att.com
jbr0@cbnews.cb.att.com (joseph.a.brownlee) writes
could someone post a definitive answer about the vram configuration
for the
q800 (and presumably the c610 and c650 as well). there seems to be a
lot of
confusion about this issue. i 'd like to know

. what kind of simms are the vram simms (i.e. 30 pin , etc.) \?

there 's only one physical size for vram simms (unlike dram simms which
come in many , many sizes and pinouts) , although they do come with
differing amounts of vram on them. the ones you need are 256kb simms , are
organized as 128k x 16 , and have two 128k x 8 vram chips on them. this is
the only size which the quadra and centris machines can use.

. how many vram simm slots are there \?

two.

. what rules (if any) must be followed in filling the slots (e.g in
pairs , sizes must match , etc.) \?

both simm slots must be filled putting a simm in only one slot does
nothing for you.

. how fast must they be \?

80 ns for the q800 and c650 , 100 ns for the c610.

. is there any other relevant information \?

there are certain vram chip manufacturers whose parts are not compatible
with the quadra and centris video hardware. make sure that the source you
get them from guarantees compatiblity. in general , if it works in a q950 ,
it will work in a q800.

please do n't reply unless you have the correct information. many
thanks in
advance for helping to eliminate some noise from this group.

trust me. )

dale adams
apple computer , inc.

from rvenkate@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (ravikuma venkateswar)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
distribution usa
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 40

dhk@ubbpc.uucp (dave kitabjian) writes

i'm sure intel and motorola are competing neck and neck for
crunch power , but for a given clock speed , how do we rank the
following (from 1st to 6th)
486 68040
386 68030
286 68020

not a good idea to compare processor power. does n't make sense for real
world applications. at least not for totally different lines of processors.

while you 're at it , where will the following fit into the list
68060
pentium
powerpc

and about clock speed does doubling the clock speed double the
overall processor speed \? and fill in the 's below
68030 @ mhz 68040 @ mhz

at least for x86 systems doubling the clock speed increases performance
by about 70 .

thanks very much. i 'd appreciate hearing any further explanations
from any experienced folks out there , too !


p.s. folks have been having trouble replying to me lately with the reply
command. try typing my address by hand and it should work. thanks !


dave kitabjian (kit ahb' jyin) vital statistics
stuff deleted


ravikumar venkateswar
rvenkate@uiuc.edu

a pun is a no' blessed form of whit.

from guykuo@carson.u.washington.edu (guy kuo)
subject si clock poll final call
summary final call for si clock reports
keywords si , acceleration , clock , upgrade
article i.d. shelley.1qvfo9innc3s
organization university of washington
lines 11
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

a fair number of brave souls who upgraded their si clock oscillator have
shared their experiences for this poll. please send a brief message detailing
your experiences with the procedure. top speed attained , cpu rated speed ,
add on cards and adapters , heat sinks , hour of usage per day , floppy disk
functionality with 800 and 1.4 m floppies are especially requested.

i will be summarizing in the next two days , so please add to the network
knowledge base if you have done the clock upgrade and have n't answered this
poll. thanks.

guy kuo guykuo@u.washington.edu

from c60b 3jl@web 3h.berkeley.edu (james wang)
subject re calling all mac gurus
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 17
distribution world
nntp posting host web 3h.berkeley.edu

in article 1qvs9t q3f@usenet.ins.cwru.edu charles p. cox , jr. cox@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu writes
question for those familiar with quadra vram

i put 2 256k vram simms in my quadra 700 (in the 2 slots closest to the
ram simm slots) and i got no results whatsoever. i have been told that
the built in video should support at least 16bit and maybe 24bit color on
a macintosh color display. however , the monitors control panel still
lists 8bit (256 colors) as the highest possible.

the q700 will only do 8bit or 24bit color. if you want the higher
color depth , it 's 2mb 's of vram altogether for a monitor up to 16 .

for a 21 monitor , you can get 8bit max.

hope this answers your questions.

james wang.

from klepa@leotech.mv.com (kristen lepa)
subject new duo dock with process
lines 15


seth i fail to see any advantage whatsoever with this kind of
set up.
seth what a dumb idea.

so do n't buy one.

kristen


this copy of freddie 1.2.5 is being evaluated.


origin leo technology (603)432 2517 432 0922 (hst v32)
(1 132 189)

from mantolov@golum.riv.csu.edu.au (michael antolovich)
subject re torx t 15 screwdriver
organization charles sturt university riverina , wagga wagga , nsw , australia
lines 18

in article c5j2k2.2o94@austin.ibm.com login@austin.ibm.com writes

a while ago when i owned a plus and wanted to upgrade its memory , i just ordered
the toolkit from macwarehouse for something like 9. it included an anti static
wrist strap , the clamp used to split the clamshell case , and the torx
screwdriver. they might not be selling it anymore , but give 'em (and any other
company that sells memory upgrades suitable for a plus style box) a call. i 'll
bet that they still offer the kit. next day air is usually the shipping method
used , too !

i'm told that some of these companies often sell a plastic , throw
away after one use , version of the torx driver , so ask before you buy...
michael


michael antolovich in wagga wagga , a great place to be be...
mantolovich@csu.edu.au or antolovich@zac.riv.csu.edu.au


from jtrascap@nyx.cs.du.edu (jim trascapoulos)
subject re can i put a 1.44 floppy in an se \?
organization university of denver , dept. of math comp. sci.
lines 24

ericr@solbourne.com (eric robison) writes

i 've got a mac se , i 've got a spare 1.44mb floppy drive. i 've seen se 's
ith
a 1.44 floppy drive. can i put my floppy drive into my se and get it to
ork \?
if so , how \?

thanks !

eric


eric robison disclaimer i claim dis.
ericr@solbourne.com
get me offa this planet ! !

sure thing you 'll have to get an fdhd upgrade kit from apple , which
includes a hd floppy drive , 2 different chips (the swim chip was mentioned
in another post) and a different floppy drive cable. get the apple kit
through your dealer.

jim trascapoulos jtrascap@nyx.du.edu what size id do you wear \?


from deguzman@after.math.uiuc.edu (a a deguzman)
subject non apple mini docks available \?
reply to a deguzman@uiuc.edu
organization calculus mathematica at uiuc
lines 10

my boss is considering the purchase of a powerbook or duo. he is leaning
towards a 180 , because of the math coprocessor (for mathematica) , but would
get a duo if he could find a mini dock with a coprocessor. have any
third parties announced such a beast \?


alan a. deguzman genius is never understood in it 's own time.
calculus mathematica
disclaimer the university calvin to hobbes from
ca n't afford my opinions. 'the indispensible calvin and hobbes'

from lord@andersen.com (bob lord)
subject re duo dock problems
organization andersen consulting cstar
lines 37
distribution usa
nntp posting host grant.cstar.andersen.com

in c52ge9.8ks@compsci.liverpool.ac.uk phil@csc.liv.ac.uk (phil jimmieson) writes

has anyone had any problems with their duo dock not ejecting the duo
properly \?

when i first got it , the duo would come out of the dock a couple of inches
when ejected , and i had to pull it the rest of the way. nowadays (and i 've
had the system for 4 months) , the duo does n't come out at all despite
the fact that the mechanism makes all the appropriate noises , and i have to
grab hold of it and pull it out myself. is there a simple fix for this , or
do i have to return it to my apple dealer , where it will languish for weeks
while i have to make do with no colour display , no vram , no floppy or
scsi etc.

(btw , it 's not that the duo is locked into the dock it just does n't
want to slide out any more).



phil jimmieson ,
computer science dept. , janet phil@uk.ac.liv.csc
liverpool university , internet phil@csc.liv.ac.uk
po box 147
liverpool l69 3bx i was head over heels in love until i got cramp
(uk) 051 794 3689


also , has anyone heard any rumors that the new docks (the ones with the cpu
) will be better designed that this first batch \? i love my duo , but
installing cards in the dock is not much fun.

bob

bob lord 100 south wacker room 932
network manager chicago il , 60606
cstar group , andersen consulting 312 507 5353
lord@andersen.com

distribution world
from david a. schnider@bmug.org
organization bmug , inc.
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
lines 11

the real question here in my opinion is what motorola processors running system
7 on a mac are comparable to what intel processors running windows on a pc \? i
recall there being a conversation here that a 486 25 running windows benchmarks
at about the same speed as 25mhz 030 in system 7. i do n't know if that is
true , but i would love to hear if anyone has any technical data on this.

david

from planet bmug , the firstclass bbs of bmug. the message contained in
this posting does not in any way reflect bmug 's official views.


from ferch@ucs.ubc.ca (les ferch)
subject re when is apple going to ship cd300i 's \?
organization the university of british columbia
lines 5
nntp posting host swiss.ucs.ubc.ca

note that if you get the external cd300 for your centris or q800 you will
miss out on the sound mixing feature unless you are willing to run a wire
from the motherboard sound input connector to the stereo output on the cd.
connecting to the sound input port on the back of the computer wo n't do
unless you can live with mono.

from mbeale@groucho.mrc.uidaho.edu (mark beale)
subject re quadra acceleration
article i.d. moscow.c5g4mm.6xi
distribution na
organization microelectronics research center
lines 7
nntp posting host groucho.mrc.uidaho.edu

about this quadra 700 , 800 clock acceleration has anyone heard
of anything like it for the quadra 950 \?

please reply e mail , i do n't get to the news very often. thanks ! !

mark beale
mbeale(at)wallaby.mrc.uidaho.edu

from djk@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (dan keldsen)
subject sony 1304 rasterops 24sx(si) for sale ! update ! !
article i.d. geraldo.1qoddq 2p7
reply to djk@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (dan keldsen)
distribution usa
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 64
nntp posting host tramp.cc.utexas.edu
originator djk@tramp.cc.utexas.edu

hello fellow humans , and other net creatures...

if you 're at all interested in this merchandise , please e mail me
djk@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu

i'm compacting my system and moving to a single monitor system , so i have
two monitors and cards for sale. nothing at all is wrong with these pieces ,
i'm just wanting to conserve desk space , and get all of my info from one
screen.

i 'd prefer to sell to people near austin and surrounding areas (within
driving distance like an hour away perhaps) , but i can ship to you if you
do n't live near here. only problem is that i did n't keep the original boxes
for the monitors , but i'm confident that my few months of full time service
in the shipping room will enable me to safely package the monitors and
flip it in your direction.

details

mirror full page display (monochrome) w nubus card


sold

sony 1304 14 color monitor

what 's to say \? it got top ratings in last year 's macuser report. it 's a sony ,
trinitron , arguably the best (but i 'd rather not argue that point).
it 's a great monitor , in great shape , but i'm going to a bigger screen ,
and although i 'd like to keep it , finances do n't justify it.

still selling for 599 at macland (where i bought it originally not
including shipping) , will sell for 475 (plus shipping). again , make an
offer if that sounds unreasonable.


rasterops 24si (24 bit accelerated , hardware zoom pan , 4 meg ram)

renamed the 24sx a few months after i bought it , this board is for 13
monitors , providing accelerated 24 bit , hardware zoom pan , ntsc mode
(you can plug it into something like the rasterops video expander and output
ntsc) , and 4 ram slots that use 1 meg or 4 meg simms for gworld ram , or a
ram disk. software included for such functions. 4 meg of ram included (1 meg
simms).

selling for 605 at bottom line (without the ram add 100) , i'm asking
525 (shipping included this time , it 's just a card). original box and
packaging. i 'd actually prefer to sell the sony monitor and this card
together , so if you want both , drop me e mail and make a bundled offer
for these items.



cheers.

dan keldsen djk@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu



dan keldsen are you now , or have you ever been
djk@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu a. a berklee college student \?
univ. of texas , austin b. a member fan of billy death \?
music composition , mm c. a max programmer \?
m m consultant (ask) d. a think c midi programmer \?

from ravi konchigeri mongoose@leland.stanford.edu
subject video cable options
x xxmessage id a7f4a7e9ff0200ed@kimball pc 316.stanford.edu
x xxdate fri , 16 apr 93 02 14 01 gmt
organization stanford university
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 11

there was a discussion a couple of weeks ago about using different
cables to
achieve different resolutions on the quadra and centris series. a
company that sold the cables was mentioned. can someone please e mail me
the companies name , address , etc , and any other info that may be relevant \?


just like everything else in life , the right lane ends in half a mile.

ravi konchigeri.
mongoose@leland.stanford.edu

from lex@optimla.aimla.com (lex van sonderen)
subject re cd rom multisession
nntp posting host emerald
organization philips interactive media of america
lines 19

in article 1pgifo efb@msuinfo.cl.msu.edu gary@ah3.cal.msu.edu writes
as i said i know a multisession cd rom is necessary if you do more photos...
but what if it is just a writable cd rom drive and do a second session
do you need one for that too \?

if you write a second time to a cd you need to have multi session capability to
read the second session. whether it is photos or just data or whatever.

here is a simplified way of looking at it
the first session has the directory structure burned at some tracks. the
second session has a newer directory structure , but the first directory still
exists , because you cannot change , only add. so if you put that in a 'normal'
drive and it will only look to the first directory and think it has found all
data. multisession kindof means that the drive will look for the last
directory written to the disc , older systems look only for 'the' directory , not
taking multiple directories into account.

lex van sonderen
philips interactive media

from tpeng@umich.edu (timothy richard peng)
subject re apple 14 monitor
organization university of michigan ann arbor
lines 4
reply to tpeng@umich.edu
nntp posting host livy.ccs.itd.umich.edu
originator tpeng@livy.ccs.itd.umich.edu

this must be a faq from the very first days of the 13 rgb ! ! ! !

and as for a better monitor for your , well , the nec 4fg 3fgx are
pretty nice...

from hk.mlr@forsythe.stanford.edu (mark rogowsky)
subject re pds vs. nubus (was re lc iii nubus capable \? )
organization stanford university
lines 42
distribution usa
nntp posting host morrow.stanford.edu

in article 1993apr16.191259.1@fnalf.fnal.gov ,
higgins@fnalf.fnal.gov (bill higgins beam jockey) writes
in article c5kzls.kkb@dartvax.dartmouth.edu , hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes) writes
mmiller@garnet.msen.com (marvin miller) writes
my friend recently purchased a lc iii and he wants to know if there is
such a demon called nubus adapter for his pds slot \?

the lc family of macs can only
use pds cards. they are not able to use nubus.

ah , but why \? can some technically hip macslinger tell us what the
difference is between pds and nubus \?

is it impossible to make a gadget that plugs into pds and ends in a
nubus card cage \? at least , marvin 's friend has not been able to
locate one and neither have i. what is the fundamental reason for
this \?


o ) ' ' , , ' ,
) ( ) ( ) zap !
( ) ( )
bill higgins fermi national accelerator laboratory
bitnet higgins@fnal.bitnet
internet higgins@fnal.fnal.gov
span hepnet 43011 higgins
second wave makes nubus card cages that work on the pds slots of at
least three macs the se 30 , iisi and centris 610. they have not , to
my knowledge , announced such a device for the lcii , but they could
make one , technologically.

the pds card that goes to the cage simply needs the nubus controller
circuitry present on nubus macs.

why , though , does anyone care about this \? dgr has a three pds
adapter for the lc lcii. they will soon have one for the lciii. pds
is better than nubus for most people in most applications. granted ,
there are more nubus cards. but , most applications that require a
nubus card (like full motion video capture) should n't be done on an
lc lcii lciii anyway.

mark

from arthur.greene@p6.f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org (arthur greene)
subject simm vs dram
organization fidonet node 1 2603 204.6 not even odd , forest hills ny
lines 9

can anyone tell me what the difference is between a 256k dram chip and a
256k simm \? i need the former (i think) to add memory to my laserwriter
ls. someone is offering to sell me 256k simms he removed from an se , but
i have a feeling this may not be the correct form of memory. the sockets
in the laserwriter look like they want the spidery shaped chips (there
are 4 sockets , each with , as i recall , 20 pins , arranged in two rows of 10). believe it or not , i 've never actually seen a simm. help appreciated.


arthur greene internet arthur.greene@p6.f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org

from kluskens@radar.nrl.navy.mil (michael s kluskens)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
organization naval research laboratory
lines 39

in article 1993apr19.131311.25871@mintaka.lcs.mit.edu , nodine@lcs.mit.edu
(mark h. nodine) wrote

in article c5l39p.2qz@news.udel.edu , johnston@me.udel.edu (bill johnston) writes
in article 1993apr16.144750.1568@mintaka.lcs.mit.edu nodine@lcs.mit.edu (mark h. nodine) writes
i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your
message , but i definitely had scsi problems between my
q700 and my venerable jasmine megadrive 10 cartridge
stuff deleted

i doubt this is a quadra specific problem. i had to get
rid of my venerable bernoulli 20 last year (with enough
stuff deleted
might fix the problem in my case the cartridges would n't
format mount partition for a ux.

all i know is that the megadrives worked perfectly on both my
mac plus and my powerbook 140. it was for this reason i assumed
the problem had something to do with the quadra. even with the
quadra , they mostly worked ok. the problem occurred when i ejected
a cartridge from a drive it would start popping up dialog boxes
saying this cartridge must be formatted with jasmine driveware
even though there was no cartridge in the drive.

mark

the problem mentioned last is a known quadra scsi problem , it was heavily
discussed last year and an apple employee pointed out that there was a
one byte error in the scsi driver routine for the quadra 's (at least the
700
and 900). system 7.1 should not have that problem , for most people the
solution was to get an updated driver from the drive manufactor. in my
case mass microsystems wrote a new driver which fixed the problem on my
quadra
700 , all that occured early last year.

michael s. kluskens
kluskens@radar.nrl.navy.mil
opinions expressed are the author 's and not those of his employer.

distribution world
from pamela e. mullen@dbug.org
organization seattle mac dbug
return receipt to pamela e. mullen@dbug.org
subject pb 100 to non apple printer
lines 8

is there a workaround which will enable me to print to a hplj4 from my
powerbook 100 \? (actually i'm going to a 4m which will have an ethernet card in
the localtalk slot ! ! ! grrrrr). is there some hardware which will enable me to
this easily (kind of plug and play ! ).

thanks , pam mullen
this message was sent by a member of seattle mac dbug 's exchange bbs
po box 3463 , seattle , wa 98114 usa infoline (206) 624 9329

from peirce@outpost.sf bay.org (michael peirce)
subject re sales of powerbook slowing down...
reply to peirce@outpost.sf bay.org (michael peirce)
organization peirce software
lines 27
x mailer uaccess macintosh release 1.6v2


in article martin.733762199@tohi (comp.sys.mac.hardware) , martin@tohi (jean francois martin) writes
first , this is not an april 1 joke.

a dealer in my town told me that the powerbook do n't sell as they use to sell.
the guy told me that apple is having the same problem it has when the desktop
mac was too expensive the powerbook are too expensive in comparison to what
you can get on the dos side. what do you think of this \? do you feel the same
thing about it \? just curious.

sounds about right.

if there is high demand for a product there is little incentive to
aggresively cut prices. once the demand fall off a bit , then is the
time to start getting aggressive with pricing. waiting too long can
really hurt your business though )

the powerbooks have sold very well up to now , if they are slowing
down apple needs to come out with some lower priced versions (the
only reason i own a powerbook is that i could spring for a 900 pb100 ,
the rest of the lineup is way to pricey for me). i 'd bet they 'll
be coming out with more power versions too.

michael peirce peirce@outpost.sf bay.org
peirce software suite 301 , 719 hibiscus place
san jose , california usa 95117
makers of voice (408) 244 6554 fax (408) 244 6882
smoothie applelink peirce america online afc peirce

from roes@vax.oxford.ac.uk
subject re ad conversion
organization oxford university vax 6620
lines 36

b clark@nwu.edu (brian clark) writes

in article 1993apr13.181720.13214@vax.oxford.ac.uk , roes@vax.oxford.ac.uk
wrote

i am working a data acquisition and analysis program to collect data
from insect sensory organs.

(stuff deleted)

another alternative is the use of the sound input port.

can you really make due with the non existent dynamic range of an 8 bit
converter , of probably dubious linearity and monotonicity , and perhaps
ac coupled as well \?

it clearly depends on the type of questions you are asking but in many
cases it will do fine. the critical information from the neuron is in
the firing frequency (maximum about 100 action potentials per
seconds) , and not in the amplitude of the signal or in details of the
signal shape. so the resolution of about 0.4 you get with an 8 bit
convertor is more then sufficient.

ac coupling does not have to be a problem either , since in many cases
you are not interested in the dc level. my pre amplifier is ac coupled
also. the critical point is the lowest frequency that will pass. if
the cutoff point is to high , the action potentials will be slightly
distorted. but even that normally does not matter since it is the
occurrence of the spike that is important.

however , i do want to know what exactly i can expect before i start
battling with the toolbox to get it going. as yet i have no clue were
to start looking for the technical specifications.

peter.
roes@vax.oxford.ac.uk

from katinka van der linden katinka@fenk.wau.nl
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
x xxdate mon , 19 apr 93 13 30 08 gmt
nntp posting host mac244.fenk.wau.nl
organization wageningen agricultural university
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 10

i would like more info on this if anybody has it. our exabyte
8500 tapedrive has never been working from the quadra 950.
we have been trying it since september 1992 , replaced cabling ,
inits , i do n't know what all. all the industry experts we
phoned (the tapedrive dealer , our apple dealer , the software
dealer) all say it 's our fault , or they do n't know. the last
thing they said was that we needed a special quadra scsi terminator
( \? \? \? ). anybody know more \? thanks ,

katinka van der linden katinka@fenk.wau.nl

from dale adams@gateway.qm.apple.com (dale adams)
subject re adding vram to quadra 800 \?
organization apple computer , inc. , cupertino , ca
lines 13

in article wstuartj.735273842@lucky.ecn.purdue.edu
wstuartj@lucky.ecn.purdue.edu (w stuart jones) writes
i want to go from 512k to 1m vram on my quadra 800. how many 512k simms
do i
need to buy \? is the current 512k soldered on the board or do i need to take
out the current vram before i add more \?

you need to add two 256k vram simms 512k vram simms will not work in any
of the quadra or centris machines. there is already 512k of vram soldered
to the logic board. you add the two 256k simms to this to give you a
total of 1 mb.

dale adams

from jmk13@po.cwru.edu (joseph m. kasanic)
subject re 14 monitors
article i.d. usenet.1pt3oe li6
distribution world
organization case school of engineering
lines 16
nntp posting host b63545.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxmessage id a7e78a881501f839@b63545.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate tue , 6 apr 93 03 29 12 gmt

in article 1pco6einn99i@corona.hsc.usc.edu daniel s. chen ,
dschen@corona.hsc.usc.edu writes
i'm interested in getting a 14 color monitor for my new lciii.
unfortunately , i'm really quite confused with the sony monitors.
could someone please compare the sony 1320 , 1304 and the apple 14 \?
thanks. dan

just thought i would mention that sony no longer manufactures the cpd
1304 because of several manufacturing flaws. the new model is now the
1430 , which just like apple 's new sony trinitrom claims to be 14 inches.
i'm not sure of the details on the defects , but i work at our schools
bookstore
and can tell you that nearly half of them were returned with some kind of
defect or another.

just my two cents worth.

from alexander samuel mcdiarmid am2o @andrew.cmu.edu
subject re centris 610 video problem i'm having it also !
organization sophomore , mechanical engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 40
distribution comp
nntp posting host po3.andrew.cmu.edu
in reply to push.93apr16221745@media lab.media.mit.edu

from push@media.mit.edu (pushpinder singh)
subject re centris 610 video problem i'm having it also !
date sat , 17 apr 1993 03 17 45 gmt

when the computer is set for 256 colors and certain operations are done ,
particularly vertical scrolling through a window , horizontal white lines
appear on the monitor (which generally but not always spare open
windows). these lines accummulate as the operation is continued. if a
window is moved over the involved area of the screen and then moved away
the line disappear from that area of the screen. this problem is not
observed if the monitor is configured for 16 colors or a 14 inch apple
monitor with 256 colors is used.

i suspect a bad video ram chip but cannot be certain. the problem has
been apparent since day 1 but has gotten worse.

i'm having exactly the same problem. again , it 's fine when i switch to 16
colors or a smaller monitor. my configuration is

model centris 610 with 4 mb 80 hd , 512 vram , no cards
monitor mag mx15f with 16 monitor adaptor (for resolution of 832 624)

i just discovered the problem a little while ago after plugging in my
new mag monitor. it seems to appear either when scrolling through a
window or when using alpha or word and i enter return .

my guess is bad vrams as well. i really hope it is n't a design flaw. is
anyone at apple listening \?

pushpinder singh
push@media.mit.edu



try finding an init called basic color monitor. this should clear
up some probs with centris 610 's and vga type monitors. i know it
exists , somewhere i have a binhexed copy , but i do n't know where and
never got around to installing it. i have this problem on my sony 1604.

a.

from especkma@reed.edu (erik. a speckman)
subject re pds vs. nubus (was re lc iii nubus capable \? )
article i.d. reed.1993apr19.184256.8664
distribution usa
organization reed college , portland , oregon
lines 26

in article 1qt3vd 802@morrow.stanford.edu hk.mlr@forsythe.stanford.edu (mark rogowsky) writes

second wave makes nubus card cages that work on the pds slots of at
least three macs the se 30 , iisi and centris 610. they have not , to
my knowledge , announced such a device for the lcii , but they could
make one , technologically.

the pds card that goes to the cage simply needs the nubus controller
circuitry present on nubus macs.

why , though , does anyone care about this \? dgr has a three pds
adapter for the lc lcii. they will soon have one for the lciii. pds
is better than nubus for most people in most applications. granted ,
there are more nubus cards. but , most applications that require a
nubus card (like full motion video capture) should n't be done on an
lc lcii lciii anyway.

mark


nubus is a much more robust system for system for installing multiple
cards without configuration problems. i know that when i was checking
into expasion options for an si there were a number of pds video cards
that would not work with certian dual slot cache adapters.

erik speckman

from ns111310@lance.colostate.edu (nathaniel sammons)
subject 68lc040 vs. 68rc040 in centris 650
nntp posting host casco.lance.colostate.edu
organization colorado state u. engineering college
lines 28

i would like to know what people 's opinions are about the
real world differences are between a c650 with and without
a coprocessor...

i do n't use anything like mathamatica , maple , etc. i do n't use
spreadsheets (at least no sheets with complicated anything) , i
do n't use 3d cad apps (although i used to) ,

i do use 3d renderers , extensive communications , i run a bbs ,
i write software , i write papers , etc...

btw , just for kicks , this is what i was told by my local apple
rep about upgrading a 68lc040 to a 69rc040 on a c650
well , apple built in an extra socket for the coprocessor chip.
that way , you just plug in the coprocessor , and it works.
i then heartily laughed and hung up the phone.

thanks ,

nate


o o
i hate quotations. this message brought you by
tell me what you know. nate sammons , and the number 42.
ralph waldo emerson ns111310@longs.lance.colostate.edu
o o


from bunt0003@student.tc.umn.edu (monthian buntan 1)
subject why does apple give us a confusing message \?
nntp posting host student.tc.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 18


hi there ,

does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for
c650 regarding fpu \? in all mac price lists i 've seen , every c650
has the message fpu optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this
newsgroup that all c650 have the fpu built in except the 4 80
configuration. why would they be so unclear about this issue in their
price list \?
i'm planning to buy the c650 8 230 cd pretty soon , but i'm now getting
confused with whether it comes with fpu or not.
why say optional if it 's built in \?
please , anybody help me understand this game.

regards ,

thian.


from skok@itwds1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de (holger skok)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
organization inst. f. thermodynamik u. waermetechnik (itw) , u. of stuttgart , frg
lines 19
distribution usa
nntp posting host itwds1.energietechnik.uni stuttgart.de

in article c5nq9c.llp@news.cso.uiuc.edu rvenkate@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (ravikuma venkateswar) writes
... stuff deleted

besides , for 0 wait state performance , you 'd need a cache anyway. i mean ,
who uses a processor that runs at the speed of 80ns simms \? note that this
memory speed corresponds to a clock speed of 12.5 mhz.

more stuff deleted...

how do you calculate that figure \? i 'd assume even in personal computers
the board designers would use bank switching to (optimistically)
quadruple the access speed or am i missing something here \?

hsk

sie singen das alte entsagungslied , das eiapopeia vom himmel ,
womit man beruhigt , wenn es greint , das volk , den grossen luemmel.
ein neues lied , ein besseres lied , oh freunde , will ich euch dichten ,
wir wollen hier auf erden schon das himmelreich errichten. ... h. heine

from durtralp@ux1.isu.edu (ralph durtschi)
subject re iisi clock upgrade
organization idaho state university , pocatello
lines 47

hi , i have been getting a lot of requests for this information so i thought
i would post it for those interested parties. (sorry for length).

to increase the maciisi speed to 25mhz or 33mhz the clock must be changed
from 40mhz to 50mhz or 64mhz respectively.
this is done by going to a static free work station or putting some
aluminum foil down to work on.
1. open up the si by lifting the tabs at the back of the case.
2. remove the hard disk by disconnecting the power and scsi cables ,
spreading the tabs , and lifting the drive out.
3. remove the flopy drive.
4. remove the power supply by spreading the tab in front and lifting
the supply straight up and out.
5. remove the fan by pressing the ears together at the back , bottom
side of the fan and lifting straight up and out.
6. remove the mother board by spreading the tabs on the left and
right side of the board and sliding the board forward then
lifting the board out. (all connectors on the back of the
board must be removed first)
7. desolder the 40mhz clock (the one closest to the memory modules).
this is not easy even for a skilled solderer.
8. get an ic socket with the round pins and remove four of the pins
by pushing them up from the bottom with long nose pliers.
9. put the four pins in the holes vacated by the clock and solder
them in.
10.insert a 50mhz or 64mhz clock.
11.put large power transistor heat sink 's on the processor chip and
the other large chip just to the right of the processor and
figure some way to hold the heat sync 's in place. i made a
simple clamp by putting a four inch screw up through the hole
in the board between the two chips. mount the screw using
insulated washers. screw a cross member down over the heat
sync 's to hold them in place. do n't use too much pressure.

12. put it all back together and go for it.

disclaimer this is only the procedure i used and is not authorized by anyone.
you are on your own for this procedure. i'm quite sure it will
void your warentee.

bye for now ,

ralph durtschi (208) 236 3256
idaho state university
email durtralp@ux1.isu.edu



from jmacphai@cue.bc.ca (james macphail)
subject re q700 at 34.5mhz , it 's fine...
nntp posting host cue.bc.ca
organization computer using educators of b.c. , canada
lines 15

in article 1993apr13.090638.14653@informatik.tu muenchen.de menes@informatik.tu muenchen.de (rainer menes) writes

i wonder why nobody has ever tried to replace the oscilator only , like on a
mac iisi.

i have had my q700 running with a 66.666 mhz osc for a few months. i have a
number of scsi devices connected (quantum lp52 , maxtor 213 , toshiba mk156f via
emulex adapter , pioneer drm 600) and have had no trouble.

i am using the stock cooling facilities , i considered adding a fan heat pump ,
but do n't feel they are necessary (for my box anyway). i have a temp meter on
order and plan to do some measurements when it arrives in a few weeks. email me
if you want to see the results.

james macphail jmacphai@cue.bc.ca (on bounce , try james@mirg2.phy.queensu.ca)

from viralbus@daimi.aau.dk (thomas martin widmann)
subject position of 'b' on erg. keyboard
organization daimi computer science department , aarhus university , denmark
lines 12

so far i have only seen pictures of the new ergonomic keyboard ,
but it seems that the 'b' is placed on the left part after the split.
however , when i learned typing in school some years ago , i was taught
to write 'b' with my right hand. is this a difference between danish
and american typing , or what \? \? \?

thanks a lot in advance !



thomas widmann lernu esperanton
viralbus@daimi.aau.dk solidvm petit in lingvis

from aep@world.std.com (andrew e page)
subject using setwutime() with a pb170
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 16


i seem to be having some trouble with this...

i can get the mac to go to sleep , but i ca n't make seem to
make it wake up with setwutime(). i am aware of the error in
the header files and im vi. i am setting the wu time to be
about two minutes , then putting the mac to sleep , but it does n't
wakeup at the appointed time....

does it require a call to systemtask in order to make sure that
everything is setup \?


andrew e. page (warrior poet) decision and effort the archer and arrow
mac consultant the difference between what we are
macintosh and dsp technology and what we want to be.

subject word printing to iig
from gary@marshall.wvnet.edu (gary 's news)
organization marshall university
lines 39

we have a user that has word 5.0 and is using symbols such as pi and
other mathematic sysmbols , plus doing fractions , etc.

the document shows up on the screen with no problems , looks fine.

when she tries to print it on a iig the pi changes to an upside down
caret , and several other symbols change to double quotes at bottom of
character , plus some little circles appear between words of the fractions
instead of spaces.

this happens on a iig laser printer. tried it on serveral macs and two
different iig 's.

prints fine on an nt and ntx laser printers.

what 's wrong \? \? \?

thanks for any help in advance ,

gary





gary weis
university computer center
400 hal greer boulevard
huntington , west virginia 25755 5320

phone (304) 696 3205
fax (304) 696 3601

internet gary@marshall.wvnet.edu
bitnet gary@marshall
ucc net gary




from guykuo@carson.u.washington.edu (guy kuo)
subject si clock reports
summary request for si clock poll
keywords si , clock , upgrade , oscillator , chip
article i.d. shelley.1qokppinnree
organization university of washington
lines 18
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

i am continuing to collect user results to produce a more comprehensive
report on iisi clock oscillator upgrades. i you have attempted the modification
please drop me a note with details of your experience. the more reports
obtained , the more accurate the numbers i will generate.

if possible , please include the following
1) top speed achieved
2) system configuration at top mhz setting
a) speed rating of the cpu (the last two digits printed on cpu )
b) presence of additional heat sinks
c) nubus fpu cards used
d) floppy drive functionality on both 800 and 1.4 m disks
3) damage incurred during modification
4) damage due to higher speed use
5) average length of time the cpu is on. (i.e. 8 hours a day)
6) unusual other modifications to the usual procedure

guy kuo guykuo@u.washington.edu

from root@ncube.com (operator)
subject photo shop scanner \?
nntp posting host admin
reply to root@ncube.com
organization ncube corp. , foster city , ca
lines 23

i have a macc iici and a color scanner.
i scanned a picture at 600 dpi. when i try to print
it on my hp500 color printer , after 10 minutes of
making noise , the mac hangs. i would need to reboot it.
what does this mean \? do i need to buy more memory \? i have
5.0 mb now. i also have about 50 mb of disk free , and the
scanned picture is about 12 mb.






@
captain zod...
zod@ncube.com
0 0







from russotto@eng.umd.edu (matthew t. russotto)
subject re interesting adb behaviour on c650
organization project glue , university of maryland , college park
lines 22
nntp posting host tea.eng.umd.edu

in article 1ql7nainn2l8@shelley.u.washington.edu davisson@stein.u.washington.edu (gordon davisson) writes

mind you , this does n't mean you should n't do it. the parts that can
blow (the adb power fuse and rf filter) are n't too expensive , so if you
have a someone around who can do component level repair , it may be worth
the risk (especially if you 're around seattle , 'cause you might get to
pay me to fix it )).. on the other hand , if your only repair option
is the apple standard logic board swap (major ) , you should probably
play it safe.


scsi yes , adb yes , floppies yes... they can all cause trouble.

otoh , some of us get lucky i 've unplugged and replugged scsi and adb
quite often , and never blown anything. i blew out the adb by shorting
the cable , though.


matthew t. russotto russotto@eng.umd.edu russotto@wam.umd.edu
some news readers expect disclaimer here.
just say no to police searches and seizures. make them use force.
(not responsible for bodily harm resulting from following above advice)

from matt harrop@magic bbs.corp.apple.com
distribution na
organization macintosh awareness group in canada
subject re internal scsi installation , how \?
lines 9

but apple hd sc says unable to locate a suitable drive on scsi ...
what 's he doing wrong \?

apples hdsc will only format a hard drive that apple sold. you need to use
a third party formater like drive7 or spoton.





from chrism@col.hp.com (chris magnuson)
subject forsale radius precision color 24x video card
organization hp colorado springs division
lines 22
nntp posting host hpcsrc13.col.hp.com

i have a radius precision color 24x video card for the mac that fits in a
nubus slot. the card has 3 mb of vram on it , which means that 24 bit color
is possible on the card ! the card supports just about any monitor scan
rate you can think of (i used it at 640x480 , 800x600 and 1024x768 , but it
can go higher). you can switch resolutions and depth on the fly with a
software control panel.

this is the accelerated version of the card , which means all quickdraw
calls are not executed by the cpu but taken over by the video card , freeing
up the mac processor for other tasks.

the cheapest i could find this card for when i called around last night
was 1738 at mac 's place. i will sell it for 1250 shipping. it is just
over a year old and never been any problem. it comes with software and the
original manuals.

hurry !

chris magnuson
chrism@col.hp.com
hewlett packard company
(719) 590 2963

from gsnow@clark.edu (gary snow)
subject re warning ! do n't break powerbook screen
article i.d. clark.1993apr6.210853.26502
organization clark college , vancouver , wa. usa
lines 20

in article d2150035.ub9c68@outpost.sf bay.org peirce@outpost.sf bay.org (michael peirce) writes

surprised \? should n't be. protective tarriffs almost always end up
hurting the u.s. in the long run. same with subsidies. they way
to build a strong economy is n't to wall it off from the tough outside
world , but rather to compete in the global market place (and do n't
come crying when the world does n't always want to play by our house
rules).

tell that to the japanese , their local market is neatly protected by
the japanese government. its one very tough nut to crack. in fact
the only current way to break into it , is to do it with a japanese
company as a partner in the venture.

gary



gary snow
uunet ! clark ! gsnow or gsnow@clark.edu

from lreiter@jade.tufts.edu (lowell b. reiter)
subject hp laserjet iii , printing(non appletalk) with duo
lines 25
organization tufts university medford , ma

how does one print to a non appletalk printer using dmm laserwriter stuff.

i'm using the serial driverand does nothig. i 'vetried saving a postscriptfile and then tried sending with sendps2.0 and it says ca n'topen laserwriter driver ,
then some appletalk messagethatprinter not specified. i'm using and imagewritwrite one cable. should i use a null modem adapter \? help...

lowell


lowell reiter i need a vacation... now ! ! !
tufts university
internet account lreiter@jade.tufts.edu















from chris roberts ctr@po.cwru.edu
subject re floptical question
organization case western reserve university
lines 28
distribution world
nntp posting host b63683.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d16
x xxmessage id a7f4897f5a01f8c3@b63683.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate fri , 16 apr 93 21 04 15 gmt

in article bmyers 140493201843@slip x27.ots.utexas.edu billy lee myers ,
bmyers@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu writes
floptical is , of course a different technology , and does n't enjoy the
long
term data storage of opticals. and the last time i looked , floptical
disk
were n't all that cheap , ( 30 per floptical disk 1.40 per megabyte , 60
per sysquest is 1.36 per megabyte).


i do n't know how many times i 've posted this the net. no one ever
listens.

once and for all floptical media is only 1.40 a megabyte if you do n't
know where to buy it. i am bying my flopticals at 30 per 2 disks. i
see that as .75 a meagabyte , not 1.40. no , i'm not buying in bulk , i'm
not getting a special deal. .75 a meg is good in my book , approching
floppy price.

any questions on my source can be sent to ctr@po.cwru.edu.


chris
chris roberts here we go again...
ctr@po.cwru.edu ctr@pyrite.som.cwru.edu
roberts@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu roberts@alpha.ces.cwru.edu
well , at least you know where to find me now.. logged in a terminal ,
checking my mail..

from nestor @cs.cmu.edu (nestor f michelena)
subject help ! ! 0300ff error at power up a mac plus
nntp posting host nestor.cimds.ri.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 7

i'm getting a sad mac icon on a black screen with the error code 0300ff.
could someone please tell me what 's wrong \? memory \?

thanks a lot. i 'd appreciate it infinitely...

nestor michelena


from rvenkate@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (ravikuma venkateswar)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
distribution usa
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 59

ray@netcom.com (ray fischer) writes

dhk@ubbpc.uucp (dave kitabjian) writes ...
i'm sure intel and motorola are competing neck and neck for
crunch power , but for a given clock speed , how do we rank the
following (from 1st to 6th)
486 68040
386 68030
286 68020

040 486 030 386 020 286

how about some numbers here \? some kind of benchmark \?
if you want , let me start it 486dx2 66 32 specint92 , 16 specfp92 .

while you 're at it , where will the following fit into the list
68060
pentium
powerpc

060 fastest , then pentium , with the first versions of the powerpc
somewhere in the vicinity.

numbers \? pentium @66mhz 65 specint92 , 57 specfp92 .
powerpc @66mhz 50 specint92 , 80 specfp92 . (note this is the 601)
(alpha @150mhz 74 specint92 , 126 specfp92 just for comparison)

and about clock speed does doubling the clock speed double the
overall processor speed \? and fill in the 's below
68030 @ mhz 68040 @ mhz

no. computer speed is only partly dependent of processor clock speed.
memory system speed play a large role as does video system speed and
i o speed. as processor clock rates go up , the speed of the memory
system becomes the greatest factor in the overall system speed. if
you have a 50mhz processor , it can be reading another word from memory
every 20ns. sure , you can put all 20ns memory in your computer , but
it will cost 10 times as much as the slower 80ns simms.

not in a clock doubled system. there is n't a doubling in performance , but
it is quite significant. maybe about a 70 increase in performance.

besides , for 0 wait state performance , you 'd need a cache anyway. i mean ,
who uses a processor that runs at the speed of 80ns simms \? note that this
memory speed corresponds to a clock speed of 12.5 mhz.

and roughly , the 68040 is twice as fast at a given clock
speed as is the 68030.

numbers \?


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth
ray@netcom.com than lies. friedrich nietzsche

ravikumar venkateswar
rvenkate@uiuc.edu

a pun is a no' blessed form of whit.

from ravi konchigeri mongoose@leland.stanford.edu
subject re lciii problems
x xxmessage id a7f4a76b690100ed@kimball pc 316.stanford.edu
x xxdate fri , 16 apr 93 02 11 55 gmt
organization stanford university
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
lines 24

in article 1qmgjk ao5@menudo.uh.edu , sunnyt@coding.bchs.uh.edu writes
its not a good idea to have a horizontally formatted hard disk in a
vertical position. if the drive is formatted in a horizontal position ,
it can
not completely compensate for the gravitational pull in a vertical
position.
i'm not saying that your hard disk will fail tomorrow or 6 months from
now , but
why take that chance \? if you want more detailed info on the problem ,
please

i think the other replies sum up the fact that you can place a hard drive
on its side. the point is this will only be sure to work on the 'new'
drives , namely 1 3 ht lps drives that have a smaller platter and are also
more stable.
why should i take the chance \? because i 've been running a maxtor 1 3 ht
120 lps on both its side and flat for about a year and i 've had no
problems with it. period.
like i always say , never trust the manufacturer.

just like everything else in life , the right lane ends in half a mile.

ravi konchigeri.
mongoose@leland.stanford.edu

from jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov (jim jagielski)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
keywords quadra scsi aps
lines 29
reply to jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov (jim jagielski)
organization nasa goddard space flight center

tzs@stein2.u.washington.edu (tim smith) writes

attention mac quadra owners many storage industry experts have
concluded that mac quadras suffer from timing irregularities deviating
from the standard scsi specification. this results in silent corruption
of data when used with some devices , including ultra modern devices.
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault , an
example would be a sony 3.5 inch mo , without the special mac compatible
firmware installed. one solution , sometimes , is to disable blind writes

this does n't sound right to me. do n't quadras use the 53c96 \? if so , the
mac has nothing to do with the scsi timing. that 's all handled by the
chip. about the only the timing could be wrong is if apple programs the
clock registers wrong on the 96. that , however , should only really hurt
synchronous transfer , which is not used by the mac scsi manager.

furthermore , disabling blind writes should be meaningless on a quadra.
on macs that used the 5380 , which is a much lower level scsi chip , the
mac was responsible for the handshake of each byte transferred. blind
mode affected how the mac handled that handshake. on the 5396 , the
handshake is entirely handled by the chip.

the docs say that it 's a scsi manager bug , if this changes things at all...

jim jagielski and he 's gonna stiff me. so i say ,
jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov 'hey ! lama ! how about something ,
nasa gsfc , code 734.4 you know , for the effort ! '
greenbelt , md 20771


from kjt001@dunix.drake.edu (albatross)
subject re 14 monitors
article i.d. dunix.1993apr6.012714.11565
distribution na
organization drake university , des moines , iowa , usa
lines 12

on a related note , will the 1304 work on a centris 650 with internal video
and give the multiple resolutions \?

this i'm very curious about...

thanks !



kevin tieskoetter technical support
drake looniversity microfrontier , inc


from ggw@wolves.durham.nc.us (gregory g. woodbury)
subject q900 fp errors \? (was quadra 900 950 differences
reply to ggw@wolves.durham.nc.us
organization wolves den unix
lines 16
x md4 signature 682f2f434b0ed4717bc807af66e9b5a4

rdk2@cec2.wustl.edu (robert david klapper) writes

i also believe that the 950 fixed a bug in the cpu which screwed up
some floating point calculations.

does anyone have details on this \? what sort of fp errors is
the q900 sensitive to \?

(my q900 is having some strange problems with an fp intensive
program , getting a lot of ds15 (segment loader) errors. thinkc5.0.4 and
system 7.0.1 )

gregory g. woodbury @ the wolves den unix , durham nc standard disclaimers
uucp ...dukcds ! wolves ! ggw ...duke ! wolves ! ggw use the maps !
domain ggw@wolves.durham.nc.us ggw wolves@duke.cs.duke.edu
this site is not affiliated with duke university. (idiots ! )

from ams@auspex.com (allan schwartz)
subject re making an internal hard disk into an external
organization auspex systems , santa clara
lines 29
nntp posting host auspex.auspex.com

its not a difficult operation the cables and such are standard ,
except for scsi id. scsi id is usually three jumper pads labelled
a0 a2 on quantums.

i am trying to put a 40mb drive from my lc into a case. it is a conner
cp3040a. i ca n't figure out which jumpers are the scsi id jumpers.
is anyone familiar with this drive \?

at the end of the drive (oposite the 50 pin pibbon connector) , there
are eleven pins which look like this


o o o o o o 1
o o o o o 2

l5 cr12 c37

where the o are pins , and the l5 cr12 c37 represent some of the
silk screen notation near these pins.

elsewhere on the board there are four jumper pads marked e1 , e2 , e3 , e4
on the silk screen.

does anyone know where the scsi id a0 , a1 , a2 pins are , and where the
drive activity light led should be plugged into \?

allan

allan m. schwartz 1 408 492 0900 ams@auspex.com

from rogntorb@idt.unit.no (torbj rn rognes)
subject adding int. hard disk drive to iicx
keywords mac iicx , internal , hard disk drive , scsi
reply to rogntorb@idt.unit.no (torbj rn rognes)
organization div. of cs telematics , norwegian institute of technology
lines 32

i have n't seen much info about how to add an extra internal disk to a
mac. we would like to try it , and i wonder if someone had some good
advice.

we have a mac iicx with the original internal quantum 40mb hard disk ,
and an unusable floppy drive. we also have a new spare connor 40mb
disk which we would like to use. the idea is to replace the broken
floppy drive with the new hard disk , but there seems to be some
problems

the internal scsi cable and power cable inside the cx has only
connectors for one single hard disk drive.

if i made a ribbon cable and a power cable with three connectors each
(1 for motherboard , 1 for each of the 2 disks) , would it work \?

is the iicx able to supply the extra power to the extra disk \?

what about terminators \? i suppose that i should remove the resistor
packs from the disk that is closest to the motherboard , but leave them
installed in the other disk.

the scsi id jumpers should also be changed so that the new disk gets
id 1. the old one should have id 0.

it is no problem for us to remove the floppy drive , as we have an
external floppy that we can use if it wo n't boot of the hard disk.

thank you !


torbj rn rognes email rogntorb@idt.unit.no

from f0975893@jaguar.csc.wsu.edu
subject re educational pricing
article i.d. jaguar.1993apr15.134938.1
organization washington state university
lines 27

in article c5iz7n.kyv@cs.dal.ca , hayes@ug.cs.dal.ca (kevin b. hayes) writes
you can find retail that is within the price of a keyboard of educational
prices.

i would be very wary of retail outlets selling as cheap as educational prices !
i went for a retailer , actually mail order (cda computers) , because its price
was better thant the campus computer store. i found out why later on when i
tried to get a repair done at an apple registered repair center the cpu was a
resale. the serial number had been removed and replaced with a non standard
number (probably from cda computers). consequently , the apple repair man could
not do any warrenty repairs. so i ended up with just a 90day warrenty from cda
over the apple 12month warrenty. boy , was i pi ed ! moral of the story , caveat
emptor.

however , if you go with a reliable , trustworthy mail order firm (if they exist
maybe someone could enlighten us with their experiences) , you will probably
get a better price than your local educational outlet simply because mail order
out of state does not require sales tax yet. though for how much longer remains
to be seen. the addition in sales tax on a cpu purchase will probably wipe out
an educational discount. again caveat emptor , some mail order companies do
include sales tax on purchases even if they are out of state , so check !

richard.
richard j appleyard f0975893@jaguar.csc.wsu.edu
o o washington state university
( ) ) voice (509) 335 7728 fax (509) 335 9688
o to err is human , but to really screw things up takes a computer !

from tjacobs@bvsd.co.edu (s. tyler jacobs)
subject centris610 problem.
nntp posting host bvsd.co.edu
organization boulder valley school district
lines 10

the problem is this
after starting up my machine it gives a high pitched sound once at the desktop also it only does it when the mouse is up or a menu is not showing.

as if i click the mouse the noise goes away for the amount of time the mouse is down. also this problem only happens for about 5 10 minutes.

please let me know if you know what this is , it sounds like it is coming form the power supply.
please post here and email me
tjacobs@bvsd.co.edu
thanks !


from t. kephart kephart@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu
subject re lciii problems (sideways hd 's)
organization case school of engineering
lines 27
distribution world
nntp posting host b62182.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxmessage id a7f445923701f2e6@b62182.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate fri , 16 apr 93 11 14 26 gmt

in article 1qmgjk ao5@menudo.uh.edu , sunnyt@coding.bchs.uh.edu writes
its not a good idea to have a horizontally formatted hard disk in a
vertical position. if the drive is formatted in a horizontal position ,
it can
not completely compensate for the gravitational pull in a vertical
position.
i'm not saying that your hard disk will fail tomorrow or 6 months from
now , but
why take that chance \? if you want more detailed info on the problem ,
please
mail me at sunnyt@dna.bchs.uh.edu .


sunny ,

i asked this question a while ago while contemplating placing my 650 on
it 's side. i received a response from someone at seagate (sorry i
trashed the message) stating that most newer drives (seagates at the
least) can very well compensate for gravity. this means that a
horizontally formatted drive can be later placed vertically with no data
integrity problems. the only way that newer drives cannot work is if you
have varying forces (shaking , bouncing , etc) so do n't place the drive on
it 's side on a rocking chair ). what constitutes a 'newer' drive i
do n't know , try calling your drive manufacturer. i have a quantum lp240s
internal , and since i got it a month ago , i am guessing it 's 'newer'.

t

from eric.choi@p5.f175.n2240.z1.fidonet.org (eric choi)
subject re educational pricing gray market
organization fidonet node 1 2240 175.5 association mac bbs , grand blanc mi
lines 17


eu apple does not authorise sales through mail order. as a result mail
eu order companies have to obtain their machines by the grey market.
eu
eu this market is supplied with machines from authorised resellers who
eu have more machines than they can sell. they come into this state of
eu affairs by overordering either accidentally or deliberatly to get a
eu better wholsale price from apple. in either case they often obscure
eu the serial nunber to protect their identity. as a result the warranty
eu is void.

i have ordered several macs from different mail order companies with absolutely zero problem. you have to dig around to find the true gray market dealers that sell macs with authentic serial numbers untouched. there are value added dealers (nothing to do with vat , no flame please) that are very legitimate.

cda unfortunately is one of those that replace the serial number with their own to prevent apple from tracing which authorized dealer sold that machine to cda.


eric choi internet eric.choi@p5.f175.n2240.z1.fidonet.org

from peter@ferranti.com (peter da silva)
subject re dcc and minidisc next dat dds like story \?
organization xenix support , ficc
lines 15

in article c50cmd.1zz@newcastle.ac.uk tor olav.berntzen@newcastle.ac.uk (tor olav berntzen) writes
another thing , why a scsi interface \?

because scsi works well with removable media , and works well with large
capacity devices. the floppy interface you suggest handles the former , but
it does n't have any hooks for dealing with the latter... you 'd have to kludge
it. plus , it 's extremely low performance. and , scsi has gobs of room for
expansion compared with a floppy (i can just see it , let 's stick a 5.25 ,
a 3.5 , a tape drive , and a mo drive , all on the floppy interface. the
possibilities for unexpected collisions are enormous).

peter da silva ` '
network management technologies incorporated 'u`
12808 west airport blvd. sugar land , tx 77478 usa
1 713 274 5180 zure otsoa besarkatu al duzu gaur \?

from leewaiw@yalevm.ycc.yale.edu (spaceman)
subject 512k vram for sale lc or lcii
nntp posting host branford college node.net.yale.edu
organization yale u.
lines 11

i have a 512k vram chip for sale. worked fine in my lcii and will give 256
colors on 640 x 480 size screen. asking 50. i 'll cover postage. speaking
of which , does anyone know what the best way to send a chip is. i have a
plastic antistatic sleeve , but what 's the best way to send it \? in an
envelope \? first class \? all info appreciated.


bill spaceman lee
p.o. box 532 , yale station
new haven , ct 06520 0532


from gweil@ibeam.intel.com (garry weil)
subject monitor recommendation needed
summary which one larger than 14 \?
organization multimedia software technology group
lines 16


i have finally decided to update my se )).
i am planning on buying a centris 610 8 230 cd.
now , what monitor should i get \? here are a few
guidelines
my wife uses pagemaker occasionally , i use excel sometimes
and i do alot of telecommuting from home to work. we both
do word processing. greater than 14 inches.

i have looked at the radius color pivot. this can be bought for
under 1000. i have heard good things about the e machines t 16 ,
the older model not the new t 16 ii. how about the super mac 17t \?
these both can be had for a little over 1000. any others \? \?

garry


from jsm1@crux1.cit.cornell.edu (jason s. macdonald)
subject re lc ram upgrade will be slow !
nntp posting host crux1.cit.cornell.edu
reply to jsm1@cornell.edu
organization ono sendai corporation
lines 35

douce@tfsquad.mn.org (andrew geweke) writes
i cannot speak for dale. but i am quite sure that the macintosh
uses the full 16 bit or 32 bit data path to its full advantage. that is ,
it is running as fast with two or four 30 pin simms as it would with one
72 pin simm. now , it may be that longword accesses (assuming a 32 bit
data path here) get the first byte from the first simm , the second byte
from the second , and so on. this would mean that each longword of memory
is actually split among four simms , one for each byte. on the other hand ,
it could be that the simms are interleaved by word or longword (not just
by byte) , or they could be successive in memory , and the memory
controller deals with the eight bit data path that each one has. i
suspect , though , that they are interleaved to some extent so that 32 bits
can be read or written at once. this would indicate a byte level
interleave.
i am not confusing this with the new machines' longword
interleave with two 72 pin simms of the same sort , although that seems to
be the same sort of idea. there , you get an essential 64 bit data path ro
(excuse me , to) ram instead of just a 32 bit one. yes , the cpu ca n't
handle it , but when writing to successive addresses it speeds something
up.
so , dale , am i right \? 30 pin simms are interleaved by bytes ,
allowing the full data bus \? or , as is common with usenet and me in
particular , am i as clueless as everyone else \?

what conclusion can be drawn from this \? i'm trying to figure out what kind
of memory configuration for the lc iii (32 bit datapath) would be fastest. any
ideas \?

thanks ,
jason macdonald

jason scott macdonald jsm1@cornell.edu jsm1@crux3.cit.cornell.edu
technology sufficiently advanced is
indistinguishable from magic. cats exist so that we
arthur c. clarke may caress the lion.

from d88 jwa@eufrat.nada.kth.se (jon w tte)
subject re se rom
nntp posting host eufrat.nada.kth.se
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 21

in 1993apr20.085651.1@mrl.dsto.gov.au ryanph@mrl.dsto.gov.au writes

there is no reason that apple could n't release software patches for older
computers (there are lots of mac pluses , classics and ses that have been
upgraded to 68020 and 68030 processors which should be perfectly able to deal
with color quickdraw) but they wont , and 3rd parties are having a difficult

there is one reason market size.

the market size for color quickdraw for accellerated plusses and
ses (which do n't go beyond 4 mb anyway) is just too small the
extra cost would belike 1 , 000 and with that money , you can buy a
color classic instead.

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe

i do n't fear death , it 's dying that scares me.

from cmmiller@iastate.edu (c. m. miller)
subject results of mathematica speed tests ! !
organization iowa state university , ames , ia
lines 84

well , here are the results of the mathematica test which i posted to
this newsgroup. the test was the following command

plot3d (( 2 9000) (2 3.1416 ((x 5000) 2 (y 8000) 2
81000000) 1.5)) (( 3 9000) (2 3.1416 ((x 10000) 2
(y 1000) 2 81000000) 1.5)) ((4 2000) (2 3.1416
((x 7000) 2 (y 10000) 2 4000000) 1.5)) ,
x , 5500 , 19500 , y , 5500 , 19500 , plotpoints 50


i was just curious how fast the plot command would be executed on
various macintosh machines as well as other personal computers and
workstations. the results are posted below

machine system math vers. of trials time , min

pb 170 7.0.0 with 2.1 2 2 08
tuneup 8mb
ram 5mb for
mathematica

dec 5000 ultrix v4.2a 2.1 for 1 0 25
dec risc

iisi 7.1 cache@96mb 1.2f33enh. 1 4 30
25mhz 5mb ram
3mb for math.
w 68882

c650 7.1 8mb ram 2 0 32

q800 8mb cache@384 1.2 1 01
4mb for math.

sparc sunos4.1.3 0 14
station 40mb ram

sgi iris 4d r3000 risc 0 01
processor
version

sparc sunos4.1.2 2.1 0 26
station2

iisi 7.1 3 15

next nextstep 2.1 1.2 2 38
cube 68030 based
w coprocessor

next nextstep 3.0 1.2 5(ave) 0 52
cube 68040 25mhz
20 mb ram

iisi 17mb 8mb for 2.102 enha 3 15
math.
w 68882

next 16mb ram 1 0 37
25 mhz 040
workspace
manager 2.1

funny how the iisi running at 25 mhz is slower than other equivalent
machines , lots slower in fact. perhaps the version of mathematica
makes a difference or the fact that not much ram was allocated.
another interesting thing is how fast the sgi did it. wow.

basically , though , i would n't draw any conclusions from this data. it
seems that mathematica 's speed is dependant on a lot of variables. i
was just curious how different machines would measure up.

well , if you have any questions or if i forgot something , just drop me
a line at cmmiller@iastate.edu .

chad

ps if the spacing of the above table does n't come out right on your
machine , tell me and i 'll mail you a copy of this in a binhexed word
5.1 document.





from sunnyt@coding.bchs.uh.edu
subject re when is apple going to ship cd300i 's \?
organization university of houston
lines 22
reply to ln63sdm@sdcc4.ucsd.edu
nntp posting host franklin.bchs.uh.edu

in article 1993apr19.164734.24779@newsgate.sps.mot.com
rjacks@austlcm.sps.mot.com (rodney jacks) writes
i would really like to get one of the new cd300i cdrom
drives for my c650 , but my local apple does n't know
when they will be available. he does n't even have a part
number yet. does anyone know what the part number
for this drive is and when it will be available \?

my apple dealer suggested i buy one of the cd300 external
drives , but i do n't want to pay extra for a case power supply
i'm not going to use.

rodney jacks
(rjacks@austlcm.sps.mot.com)

the cd300 (external) is already shipping and has been shipping for quite awhile
now. demand for the units are high , so they are pretty rare. i 've seen them
listed for around 525 550 at local computer stores and the campus mac
reseller. i 've also heard rumors that they are bundled with a couple of cd 's ,
but i ca n't confirm it.

sunny sunnyt@dna.bchs.uh.edu

from kiran@village.com (kiran wagle)
subject replacing internal fdhd w floptical \?
organization the syllabub sea
lines 13
nntp posting host cs.utexas.edu

hi all ,

i have a iisi with a floppy drive that might be bad (and might just be out
of alignment , i have n't checked yet. )) if the drive is not easily
reparable , i 'd like to replace it with an internal floptical. can this
be easily done \? can it be done at all \?

i'm assuming that floptical drives can read and write both 800k and 1.4k
floppies. if this is not in fact true , please tell me.

thanks in advance ,
kiran


from wstomv@wsinpa04.win.tue.nl (tom verhoeff)
subject deskwriter drivers 3.1 how to install \?
organization eindhoven univ. of technology , the netherlands
lines 15
nntp posting host wsinpa04.win.tue.nl
keywords hp deskwriter , dw 3.1 , system 7.1 , installation

i recently upgraded to system 7.1 and now i also upgraded my
deskwriter drivers from 2.2 to 3.1. i got the software from sumex ,
but it is not clear to me where to install what.

can someone tell me which of the files that come with dw 3.1 go where
and for what purpose \? what can be left out , for instance , if
you do n't want to do background printing \?

thanks ,

tom

internet wstomv@win.tue.nl eindhoven university of technology
voice 31 40 47 41 25 dept of mathematics computing science
fax 31 40 43 66 85 po box 513 , nl 5600 mb eindhoven , netherlands

from michael t. callihan mc5o @andrew.cmu.edu
subject full page pb screen
organization junior , social decision sciences , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 31
nntp posting host po2.andrew.cmu.edu

hi. i am working on a project for my marketing class and i 'd like to
ask your help. the assignment is to come up with a product and create a
marketing plan for it. technical issues are not terribly important at
this point. well , my group 's plan is to market a full page monitor
for laptop computers. it would be a third party product to be installed
by authorized repair centers (like newer technology 's palettebook
screen). the idea is that the screen would fold in such a way that you
would get twice the screen height of a normal screen (remember ,
technical issues aside ! ). in fact , by adjusting the fold of the screen
and the monitor configuration , you could have regular or full height.
the screen would probably be monochrome.
the motivation behind this is that laptop computers seem to be very
popular among business people. business people also commonly use word
processing and spreadsheet applications for which it is very convenient
to see a large portion of the document. because of the target users and
applications , color screens are n't really a neccessity. we could
hopefully keep the cost between 2000 and 3000.

now , please do n't write this off as completely ridiculous. i really
need some constructive feedback. so , if you would , please reply to me
via email and let me know
1. if you would consider buying a full page laptop screen
2. how much you would be willing to pay for it
3. any helpful commentaries on the idea

also , if you take this idea and make a lot of money off it (doubtful ,
but who knows ! ) , please send me some.

thanks in advance ! ! !

mike

from peterco@eff.org (peter cohen)
subject re asante en sc pb adaptor wo n't work with duo 230
originator peterco@eff.org
nntp posting host eff.org
organization the electronic frontier foundation
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl8
lines 23

bill kurland (bill@panix.com) wrote

i guess this changes my opinion of them and i thought i would warn
any prospective customers for the en sc pb.

fwiw , i work for focus enhancements , and a lot of the people we sell our
etherlan sc sc t (our scsi ethernet interface) are disgruntled en sc
users.

i also now need to know if anyone has been successful with the
comparable product from dayna or focus. i really do n't want to use up
that nubus slot.

sigh . i wish i had better news. the focus etherlan sc is currently
incompatible with the duos. this may change in the future. we do have
apple register compatible cards that are 100 compatible with the
duodocks , though.

send questions to focus@applelink.apple.com.


peter a. cohen i 'd rather be telecommuting.


distribution world
from bruce linde@bmug.org
organization bmug , inc.
subject eight 4mb 70ns simms 105 ea. , o.b.o.
lines 14

a friend of mine has eight (8) 4mb 70ns simms for sale for 105 each or best
offer. since techworks sells these puppies for 140 ea. , you may want to
contact him directly at

steve epstein
895 6236 days
706 2436 evenings

thanks ,
bruce l.

from planet bmug , the firstclass bbs of bmug. the message contained in
this posting does not in any way reflect bmug 's official views.


from hayes@ug.cs.dal.ca (kevin b. hayes)
subject re changing port buffer size in zterm
nntp posting host ug.cs.dal.ca
organization math , stats cs , dalhousie university , halifax , ns , canada
lines 20

in 19930419.060948.343@almaden.ibm.com petrack@vnet.ibm.com writes

some kind soul told me that i could change the serial port buffer size
of zterm via resedit. he did not tell me how i could change it using
resedit , and i have lost his e mail address.

could he or any one else please tell me what to do \?

i assume that the relevant resource is zset , but i do not know , and
chop

could you please post it to the net too please , as i , and i'm sure many others
would like to know. thanks !
kev.


kevin hayes my opinions do necessarily
dalhousie university reflect the opinions of
halifax , nova scotia , canada myself so sue me !
hayes@ug.cs.dal.ca

from ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
subject power supplies for mac 512 's
summary i need them
nntp posting host cunixa.cc.columbia.edu
reply to ayr1@cunixa.cc.columbia.edu (amir y rosenblatt)
organization columbia university
lines 13


i thnik i 'll be able to pick up a piar of mac 512k 's for nothing , but
their power supplies are dead. anyone know where i can pick up a pair
of refurbished ps 's for cheap (preferably mail order).
yes , i do have uses planned fior them. one will be sold to a friend who
just needs a terminal to connect via modem to his e mail account.
the other will be used by me as a net client to run my downloads and or
printing.

also , what is the latest system software usable with these suckers \?




from sml@eniac.seas.upenn.edu (steven m labovitz)
subject re accelerator for se
keywords accelerator , compatibility
organization university of pennsylvania
lines 13
nntp posting host eniac.seas.upenn.edu


i too am interested in peoples' experience with accelerators for the
se. is an accelerator the best route to improve performace in my se , or should
i consider upgrading to an se 30 motherboard \? obviously , buying a new mac
would be ideal , but alas , i only have enough money for an accelerator or
motherboard.
e mail reply preferred. thanks.



steve labovitz
dept. of materials science engineering
u. penn

from eric.choi@p5.f175.n2240.z1.fidonet.org (eric choi)
subject re hongkong
organization fidonet node 1 2240 175.5 association mac bbs , grand blanc mi
lines 25

ku from kinau@mondrian.csufresno.edu (kin hung au) date 13 apr 93
ku 07 22 05 gmt organization california state university , fresno
ku message id c5ev4t.g0a@zimmer.csufresno.edu newsgroups
ku comp.sys.mac.hardware
ku
ku in hong kong , you can buy a cheap pc 386 or 486 based computer.
ku however , it is very experience to buy a macintosh. last winter , i was
ku back to hong kong. i saw the price of mac classic in hong kong is same
ku price to buy a lc in the u.s.
ku
ku i am not recommended to buy mac in hong kong since mac is not popular
ku in hk.
ku
ku kin hung au

hello mr. au ,

i have to disagree regarding your assessment of macintosh in hong kong. the mac has a sizeable share of the typesetting market , as in the u.s. a local magazine , next magazine (similar to newsweek here) , uses the mac extensively. i have seen sir speedy and other franchises in hong kong equipped with mac based systems. true , the discount is not as steep as here because customers in hong kong cannot buy from gray market , nor are mac being sold thru mass merchandisers like apple does here with the performa lin


e. at this point the sale of mac is handled by one exclusive distributor. on the other hand , you can always get a pc clone or in the earlier days , illegal clones of the apple iie.

your perception of the mac not being too popular in hong kong is simply because most hobbyists and users find it much cheaper to go to one of those basement stores that sell pc clones with probably illegal copies of bios than to pay for a mac.

similarly you cannot say lotus 1 2 3 surely is not well accepted in hong kong because the sale is so low. may be it is because of all those places in kowloon where illegal copies of lotus 1 2 3 can be bought for 20 and 10 for a professional looking but illegal copies of the manuals.


eric choi internet eric.choi@p5.f175.n2240.z1.fidonet.org

from thomas kephart kephart@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu
subject re thanks apple free ethernet on my c610 !
organization case school of engineering
lines 13
distribution world
nntp posting host b62182.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxmessage id a7e72d2f8001f2e6@b62182.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate tue , 6 apr 93 12 50 55 gmt

in article apr.6.12.05.34.1993.11732@pion.rutgers.edu gregory nelson ,
gnelson@pion.rutgers.edu writes
oh , and the screen seems tojump in a wierd way on power up.
i 've seen this mentioned by others , so it must be a...feature...
anyway , above all , it 's fast. a great machine at a great price !

well , i saw a few posts on this and asumed that everyone is talking about
the new 14 display... mine does it to... kinda like when i would degauss
my old 13 , and since the new one lacks this button , i assume that is
what it is doing... anyone that knows i 'd appreciate the info , but it
does n't worry me...

t

from ladd.morse@his.com (ladd morse)
subject mac oriented bbss in chicago
lines 8

a member of the local bbs i frequent is looking for mac oriented bbss based in
chicago.

any leads would be most appreciated.



!

from nodine@lcs.mit.edu (mark h. nodine)
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
keywords quadra scsi aps
organization mit laboratory for computer science
lines 28

in article c5l39p.2qz@news.udel.edu , johnston@me.udel.edu (bill johnston) writes
in article 1993apr16.144750.1568@mintaka.lcs.mit.edu nodine@lcs.mit.edu (mark h. nodine) writes
i do n't know about the specific problem mentioned in your
message , but i definitely had scsi problems between my
q700 and my venerable jasmine megadrive 10 cartridge
drives. my solution was to get silverlining. none of
the loops that involved blind writes worked to the drives
in fact the only loop that worked was the macintosh
software loop (whatever that means).

i doubt this is a quadra specific problem. i had to get
rid of my venerable bernoulli 20 last year (with enough
cartridges purchased at 90 each to make the whole thing
worth more than my whole computer ). the tech support guys
at ocean microsystems suggested that some third party drivers
might fix the problem in my case the cartridges would n't
format mount partition for a ux.

all i know is that the megadrives worked perfectly on both my
mac plus and my powerbook 140. it was for this reason i assumed
the problem had something to do with the quadra. even with the
quadra , they mostly worked ok. the problem occurred when i ejected
a cartridge from a drive it would start popping up dialog boxes
saying this cartridge must be formatted with jasmine driveware
even though there was no cartridge in the drive.

mark


from mirsky@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (david joshua mirsky)
subject lciii powerpc \?
organization dis
lines 9
distribution world
nntp posting host hal.ai.mit.edu

hi. i own an lciii and i recently heard an interesting rumor.
i heard that the lciii has a built in slot for a powerpc chip.
is this true \? i heard that the slot is not the same as the pds
slot. is that true \?

thanks
david mirsky
mirsky@gnu.ai.mit.edu


from bredell@tdb.uu.se (mats bredell)
subject re quadra 900 startup w out monitor...ya right.
reply to mats.bredell@udac.uu.se
organization uppsala university computing center (udac)
x newsreader tin version 1.1 pl6
lines 16

shawn fitzgerald (chungkuo@umcc.umcc.umich.edu) wrote
is there a fix for this \? we have a quadra 900 that will not finish startup
unless there is a monitor connected. this would be no problem , but since
we 're running it as a file server , there is no need to have a monitor
connected all the time.

i 've seen a control panel made for this. i do n't remember the name , where i
saw it , or on what quadra models it will work. but i do know it exists )

mats


mats bredell mats.bredell@udac.uu.se
uppsala university computing center (udac) ph 46 18 187817
department of medical systems fax 46 18 187825
sweden think straight be gay !

from steed.bell@macrocosm.omahug.org (steed bell)
subject networking how to get 10 ma
reply to steed.bell@macrocosm.omahug.org
organization the macrocosm bbs , lawrence , ks
lines 10

peter , i'm sure someone out there has a better easier way to do what you want
to do , but i 'll tell you how we do it where i work. we have about 15 macs
networked together using appletalk and phonenet connectors. to chat we use a
program called 'broadcast'. with it we can send brief messages to all or
selected machines within the network.

hope that helps...

steed


from shagberg@vm.cmp.ilstu.edu
subject updated keyboard question for the plus
organization illinois state university
lines 44

i have an old mac plus. a couple of years ago i bought a shiney new lc.
it came with apple 's new keyboard (with abd ports). i replaced it with
a mac pro plus extended keyboard (which i thoroughly enjoy , thank you
very much).

well , i have this extra keyboard which i would like to use on the plus
but there 's a little problem. the plus uses an rj 11 jack for keyboard
input and the new keyboards do n't. i got an extra adb cable from my
local apple dealer (they 're such nice people) , but they could n't tell
me the order of the wires.

there are four wires in the adb cables black , white , red , tan. i know
one 's a ground , one gets the serial signal , one supplies 5 volts , and
i forgot what the fourth one does. anyway , if you hook them up wrong
you 'll fry a board and i really do n't want to do that .

if any brave souls out there have done this before , please e mail your
experience directly to me. i would greatly appreciate it especially
since apple 's original keyboard is not . . . ergonomically correct.

btw , i did take apart my new keyboard to see if i could find the
correlation between the wires for the rj 11 jack and the adb since it
has both , but no such luck (the connections are soldered inside of
little boxes). oh , well . . .

one more thing in case you are thinking that the abd ports on the
newer models are different from the connection used on the plus
you 're right. however , you can use the telephone cable from the plus
and connect the mac pro plus keyboard via its own rj 11 jack. in
other words , this little engineering feat i wish to do is possible.
it 's merely a matter of finding out the correct order.

omt , when i get this to work , i definitely will post the solution
so others can , too. thanx for the input.


tis the blink of an eye , tis the draught of a breath ,
from the blossoms of health , to the paleness of death ,
from the gilded saloon , to the briar in the shroud ,
o , why should the spirit of mortal be proud \?
william knox

shagberg@vm.cmp.ilstu.edu


from jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey)
subject re quadra 900 950 differences
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 43

jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov (jim jagielski) writes

jbailey@world.std.com (jim bailey) writes

rdk2@cec2.wustl.edu (robert david klapper) writes

i also believe that the 950 fixed a bug in the cpu which screwed up
some floating point calculations.

robert d. klapper
washington university in st. louis
rdk2@cec2.wustl.edu
lubarsky 's law of cybernetic entomology there 's always one more bug.

does someone have any definite information on this. this is the
first i 've heard of it. how does the cpu get fixed by a hardware
upgrade \? this does n't make much sense to me.

let 's see now... the differences between the 950 and 900 are
basically

1. runs at 33mhz , not 25mhz
2. has 25mhz i o bus , not 16mhz
3. upgraded graphics controller
4. 3 results in q950 requiring 80ns vram , not 100ns
5. rom fixes
a. rounding errors in floating point calculations
at 15th digit

so patch the roms with the latest os version. i do n't see
how this is a problem.

b. ethernet problems with more than 16 buffers

so , no doubt , the person was refering to 5a , hardly screwing
up though )


jim jagielski and he 's gonna stiff me. so i say ,
jim@jagubox.gsfc.nasa.gov 'hey ! lama ! how about something ,
nasa gsfc , code 734.4 you know , for the effort ! '
greenbelt , md 20771


from pritchet@cs.scarolina.edu (ronald w. pritchett)
subject removable storage
organization usc department of computer science
distribution comp
lines 16

we have a quadra 700 with 170mb hd , but need to a lot of sound sampling
for auditory research. what would be the best type of removable media for
storing these audio clips \?

ron



'they say i'm lazy , but
it takes all my time...
life 's been good to me so far ! ' joe walsh

ron pritchett internet pritchet@ash.cs.scarolina.edu
fidonet ron pritchett @ 1 376 74.0



from ksloan@ucsvax.ucs.umass.edu (duncan m chesley)
subject do n't repair that sticky mouse button call apple ! ! !
organization university of massachusetts amherst
lines 52
distribution world
nntp posting host deimos.ucs.umass.edu
x news reader vms news 1.24


x posted to comp.sys.mac.hardware and misc.consumers

you 've heard about apple 's great new customer support program. well ,
think again. sometimes the only real support out there is what apple
computer users can give to each other. for another example , read on

in the march 15th issue of macweek , ric ford described a two year effort
by liam breck to document and bring to apple 's attention a problem with
certain defective mice. at random , the switches on these mice stick in
the down position until clicked a second time , apparently regardless of the
machine they are used with or the system software involved. most of the
reported problem mice were manufactured in malaysia and have an fcc id of
bcga65431. you 'll recognize this sticky button symptom immediately if you
have such a mouse the problem is intermittent , but it 's not subtle.

liam breck recently gave up trying to document this problem , and instead
suggested that people contact apple 's customer assistance center directly
( macweek 4 5 93 p. 64). when i called apple on march 23rd and described
my defective mouse , i was eventually given a case number (f83y) and told
apple would replace this mouse even though it is a few months out of
warranty. after waiting for three weeks , i called back today wondering
where my new mouse was. this time , i was told that apple had decided the
serial number on my mouse (mb13831fc25) is not within the (undisclosed)
range apple is willing to replace , and there is nothing i can do about it.

nothing , that is , unless enough people complain about this problem to make
it worth apple 's while to fix or replace the entire lot of defective mice.
please , if you have one of these mice , i need your help ! do n't assume you
know what causes the problem (there are lots of theories) and start
hacking around inside your hundred dollar mouse. instead , let apple do it.
please take five minutes to call apple right now at

united states 1 800 776 2333
canada 800 665 2775
uk and europe 33 1 49 01 49 01
australia 61 2 452 8000
japan and pacific 81 3 5411 8500

if the number is n't toll free , call collect. describe the problem and ask
for a replacement mouse. even if they refuse , insist that they register
the details of your case , including your mouse 's serial number. be firm.

network managers and user group leaders especially , please query your user
bases. everyone ask your friends and colleagues. please do n't send mail to
me or post yet another sticky button report , call apple directly ! if
enough victims take the trouble to report this well known problem , apple
will eventually be forced to respond. if apple continues to find it easy
to stone wall on this issue , do n't expect them to offer support when the
next , potentially more serious mac defect is uncovered.

bill sloan

orginization old dominion university computing communications services
from kay alexander kba100s@oduvm.bitnet
subject quadra 800 problem question
lines 16

i just got a quadra 800 8 230 and i 've noticed that i ca n't change the
desktop color from the beautiful gray. i thought maybe i should reinstall
the os using the install me first , macintosh centris , quadra... diskette
because the system file on this diskette is more recent than the one on the
hard disk.

the easy install selects macintosh cnetris system software . does anyone
know if i should use this or customize and use system software for any
macintosh \? or does it matter \?

thanks in advance for any suggestions...

kay alexander
old dominion university
bitnet kba100s@oduvm
internet kba100s@oduvm.cc.odu.edu

from hrose@eff.org (helen trillian rose)
subject duo 230 slowdown problems
nntp posting host rocza.eff.org
organization the electronic frontier foundation
lines 33

i'm a system and network admin. one of my users has a duo 230
( specifications below) that has been having slowdown problems.
leaving the duo on for several hours causes it to slow down
unacceptably. it can take 10 15 seconds to change applications. during
this time it is completely hung. if he reboots , the problem goes away
(for a while). it seems the system is getting itself into a wedged
configuration.

he 's re installed system 7.1 and rebuilt the desktop. neither of these
have helped.

it 's possible that it 's network related , he uses eudora which checks his
email every 10 minutes (over ethernet). he has n't checked to see if this
problem occurs while undocked (he 's docked most of the time).

little to no non apple inits , i do n't want to start yanking the rest
unless i know that might really be the problem.

he has n't tried zapping the pram , i have advised him to do that next.

anyone who has ideas , i 'd love to hear about them. i 'd call apple , but
i 've found they 're best to call during the week (it 's sunday evening).


powerbook duo 230 16 120. 12mb ram card from tech works to replace
non self refreshing 8mb card. is using system enabler 1.0.1. express
modem (including latest software). has been to apple dealer for keyboard
replacement.

helen trillian rose hrose@kei.com , hrose@eff.org
kapor enterprises , inc. email eff@eff.org for eff info
electronic frontier foundation flames to
systems and networks administration women not to be messed with@eff.org

from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re file server mac
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 10

pkr@slacvm.slac.stanford.edu (patrick krejcik) writes

i saw once an article about a new line of macs configured to
work more optimally as file servers.
anyone know any more details \?

check out the may issue of macworld the new servers are on the
cover. should be at your favorite newstand.

hades

distribution world
from david a. schnider@bmug.org
organization bmug , inc.
subject re monitor for lciii
lines 21

jeff ,
i have answers to both of your questions. first , i recommend the sony
cpd 1320 monitor. it is a 14 trinitron vga monitor , but it is designed
specifically for use with the lc. it works only with macs with specific video
capabilities which means only the lc 's and anything after the ci. all it
takes is a mac vga cable (i recommend one from james engineering which is
about 20). these cost about 335 as compared to the much higher prices of
comparable monitors because they are not multisynch. i have used one for half
a year and i love it.
second , i have used syex and found them to be decent. i had a backorder on a
supra modem which i cancelled. they were helpful in explaining the reasons
why there were delays and they had supra 's number ready for me. the only
complaint was that they did not always return my calls.
i have been told that the cpd 1320 is selling for 339 from j r 's
(800)221 8180. i think syex is a little more , but i do n't know.

david

from planet bmug , the firstclass bbs of bmug. the message contained in
this posting does not in any way reflect bmug 's official views.


from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re new apple ergo mouse
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 19

nwcs@utkvx.utk.edu (schizophrenia means never being alone) writes

does anyone know how to open up the apple ergo mouse (adb mouse ii) \?
mine lives near a cat (true , really...) and picks up her fur. from what
i can tell , it looks like apple welded it shut.

you must not have tried very hard. i just opend mine in about 2
seconds. take a look on the bottom , it has a dial that turns to open
much like the older adb mouses used to have. it 's a bit harder to turn
at first but it is quite simple to open.

also , does anyone know about installing fpus in a mac lc iii \? i 've heard some
people saying it has fried the motherboard of the lc iii.

well , if you do n't match up the pins correctly you will have some
problems. a close look at the socket should give you an idea of the
proper orientation of the chip.

hades

from gsnow@clark.edu (gary snow)
subject re cheapest mike for centris \?
article i.d. clark.1993apr6.220053.27621
organization clark college , vancouver , wa. usa
lines 13

in article summeral.733961443@rintintin.colorado.edu summeral@rintintin.colorado.edu (summerall thomas g) writes

i just bought a centris 650 and discovered , to my dispointment , that apple
has gotten too cheap to include a mike anymore , internal or external.

you get a mic with the c650 if you get it with the internal cd rom drive.

gary



gary snow
uunet ! clark ! gsnow or gsnow@clark.edu

from ray@netcom.com (ray fischer)
subject re can you share one monitor w 2 cpus \?
organization netcom. san jose , california
lines 13

bm967@cleveland.freenet.edu (david kantrowitz) writes ...

i have a centris 610 want to get an ibm machine as well.
to save space on my desk , i would like to use one monitor
for both , with a switch box. does anyone know of a way to do
this \?

sure. buy a switch box and a multisync monitor. i have just that
arrangement on my desk and it works fine.


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth
ray@netcom.com than lies. friedrich nietzsche

from wcaw@juliet.caltech.edu (wilisch , wolf c. a.)
subject imagewriter ii at 50 hz
organization california institute of technology
lines 12
distribution world
nntp posting host juliet.caltech.edu
news software vax vms vnews 1.41

hi !
a while back , there was a thread in this group about the use of the iwii
in europe (in countries with 50 hz ac current). the consensus at the time
was that the iwii would not work there. as i will be moving there this summer ,
i called apple to make sure and they told me (today) that the iwii (as bought
in the u.s.) will definitely run on 50 hz ac current (as long as a step down
converter is employed if 240 v current is used). the same info , turns out , can
be found in the iwii manual (p. 127 in the 1989 version) , but i did n't really
trust that. does anyone have any direct experience to the contrary \? just
wondering.

chris w.

from jdsiegel@garnet.berkeley.edu (joel siegel)
subject re 2 questions about the centris 650 's ram
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 18
distribution usa
nntp posting host garnet.berkeley.edu

according to the (seen several times) postings from dale adams of apple
computer , both the 610 and the 650 require 80ns simms not 60 ns. only
the centris 800 requires 60 ns simms.

pete

i think you meant quadra 800 ..... (but a centris 800 probably
would be a real nice machine... ) )

but yeah , it needs 80ns not 60ns.

joel


joel siegel jdsiegel@garnet.berkeley.edu jdsiegel@ocf.berkeley.edu
i myself have never been able to find out what feminism is i
only know that i am called a feminist whenever i express
sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat. rebecca west , 1913

from gene@theporch.raider.net (gene wright)
subject re mac portable vs. powerbook 100 answers ( \? )
organization the macinteresteds of nashville , tn.
lines 37

regarding the post for information about the mac portable and the
powerbook 100 , here are a couple of the answers
(1) does the mac portable support appletalk \? yes
(2) what cpu is in the mac portable \? a low power version of the 68000
running at 15.87 mhz.
(3) does the mac portable run system 7 \? yes , although it does use up a
lot of memory.
(4) is memory still availabe for the portable \? there are several vendors
that still make ram for the portable. there are two options some vendors
sell memory that plugs into the ram slot inside the portable. others sell
memory that plugs into the processor direct slot. either way , the most
memory you can address is either 8 or 9 megabytes , depending on whether
the portable is backlit or not. king memory and peripherials in irvine
california is the cheapest place i know of for portable memory. 2mb
140 , 4 mb , 250 , and 7 mb 415. i still see several ads in macuser that
are selling 4 mb modules for 450. wide variety in pricing here.
(5) what is the internal hd \? its a conner cp 3045 40 mb hd with an
average access time of about 25 ms.
(6) is the screen better that the pb 100 \? heavens yes ! the pb 100 is a
backlit passive matrix screen which means it fades out on you if you move
your head a few degrees left or right. the portable has a backlit or
non backlit active matrix screen which i think is a joy to read.

other things to consider where to get the portable and how much to pay
for it \? a good supplier has been selectterm in mass. they were willing to
sell a 2mb non backlit portable with an internal 2400 bps modem for about
650. or a 4 mb backlit portable with an internal 2400 bps modem for
about 900.

the answer is call around for a good while or you 'll pay too much.

i'm still looking for an internal fax modem for the portable \? anybody got
one they want to sell \? good luck , gene wright


gene@theporch.raider.net (gene wright)
theporch.raider.net 615 297 7951 the macinteresteds of nashville

from earl d. fife fife@calvin.edu
subject re daystar again ...
x xxdate thu , 15 apr 93 01 21 14 gmt
nntp posting host 153.106.4.42
organization calvin college
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
lines 30

in article c5fqno.9hh@news.udel.edu bill johnston , johnston@me.udel.edu
writes
i'm going to buy a daystar 68040 with 25 mhz for the se 30. since there
were so many mails about problems with this board , my questions
does the board work with 7.1 and a ux 3.0 \? does anybody know problems
with any kind of software \?

well , i have n't seen any reports of problems with the turbo '040 ,
but to my knowledge , daystar has not released a version of the
board that works with anything but the iisi and iici , and they
have not finished tweaking testing for use with a ux. this may
not happen until the a ux 3.0.2 upgrade is released (my guess) so
i 'd recommend waiting or buying the 50 mhz '030 board and upgrade
later when a ux compatibility is assured. turbo '040 interface
cards for the ii , iix , se 30 , iicx , etc will probably be available
sooner , but if a ux compatibility is a requirement , it is probably
best to be patient and let someone else be the pioneer. )

an added advantate of waiting for the daystar for the se 30 is that ,
just as with the '030 power cache , the '040 accelerator will plug into
the cpu socket , leaving the pds slot free for a video card or ethernet
card. with daystar 's upgrade path , it 's a no lose situation.



earl d. fife department of mathematics
fife@calvin.edu calvin college
(616)957 6403 grand rapids , mi 49546



from mirsky@hal.gnu.ai.mit.edu (david joshua mirsky)
subject re desktop rebuild and datadesk keyboard \?
organization dis
lines 30
nntp posting host hal.ai.mit.edu

in article c5i77w.3oe@cs.uiuc.edu tthiel@cs.uiuc.edu (terry thiel) writes
ijust got a new datadesk 101e keyboard to go with my new centris 610 and have a
problem doing desktop rebuilds. i hold down the command and option keys and
restart but nothing happens. the dip switches are set the right way and the
command and option keys seem to work on anything else. i'm running 7.1 btw.
anyone know what the problem is \?
terry


terry , hi. i recently bought an lciii and a datadesk 101e. i ca n't
remember trying to rebuild the desktop with it , however it did give me
a strange problem. when i held down shift during startup to disable
all extensions , nothing happened. i tried it with another keyboard , using
the same adb connector cable and it worked with the other keyboard.
the shift key on the datadesk keyboard worked well otherwise. i checked
the dipswitches and they are fine. try disabling your extensions and tell
me if it works.

i am annoyed with datadesk. i sent them the keyboard in the mail for
inspection repair replacement. the technician on the phone said they
have a 10 14 day turn around time meaning you should receive the
inspected repaired keyboard in that time. well , they have had the
keyboard for over 3 weeks and i still have gotten very little info
from them about it. it 's annoying because it cost me 12 to send them
the keyboard (they do not refund the money) and their costumer service
lines are toll calls. tell me if you have a similar experience.

david

mirsky@gnu.ai.mit.edu

from hk.mlr@forsythe.stanford.edu (mark rogowsky)
subject re iintx upgrade \?
organization stanford university
lines 27
nntp posting host morrow.stanford.edu

in article 1pqprtinnf2@escargot.xx.rmit.oz.au ,
s912013@minyos.xx.rmit.oz.au (douglas barry mcpherson) writes
could someone please tell me what a

laserwriter iintx upgrade kit is.

its a small box , which has a bag inn it , seemingly
containing 6 chips (look like roms) and a iintx manual.
the installation instructions are most informative and say , in full ,
this product must be installed by an apple .........

so what does this do \? at first i thought it might be a nt to ntx
upgrade , but i thought that required an entirely new board.

any info appreciated.

doug.

the kit is for an already existing laserwriter iintx. it is a rom
upgrade that replaces the font rasterizer code with the more
efficient , speedier code that first became available in adobe type
manager 1.0.

that software came out after the original ntxes and the so called
atm rasterizer is now standard on postscript printers.

mark

from kssimon@silver.ucs.indiana.edu (kenneth steven simon)
subject re help need modem info for duo 210
summary very hard to get a modem
nntp posting host silver.ucs.indiana.edu
organization indiana university
lines 34

jdsiegel@garnet.berkeley.edu (joel siegel) writes

jmilhoan@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jt) writes

hi... what alternatives to the express modem do duo owners have (if
they want to go at least 9600 baud) \?

every place in town says they are back ordered , and part of the reason
i want a laptop mac is so i can use it as a remote terminal from
wherever i am , but i really would hate to have to wait 2 months to get
a modem in or have to settle with 2400 baud.

if apple did n't put out such a good product i 'd gladly take my
business to to the 8 bit ataris. i think the
situation with the express modem is inexusable for any business.
i 've had mine on order since january. apple finally called me last
week to tell me that i should have it by the second week of may.
in the meantime , i 've been stuck with my duo210 without the
connectability i needed it for. i'm sure there are plenty of people
who can bite back at me , citing all sorts of reasons why apple is
right or at least justified , but i'm just a crabby consumer and
when i order a duo210 with modem that 's the product i expect.

oh , well. it 's not like it 's limited to the computer biz. remember
when the miata came out \? what about those cabbage patch dolls \? well ,
i want my toy ! )





kenneth simon dept of sociology , indiana university
internet kssimon@indiana.edu bitnet kssimon@iubacs


from meg5184@hertz.njit.edu (starman)
subject what 's the difference between a mac portable and powerbook 100 \?
distribution usa
organization new jersey institute of technology , newark , n.j.
lines 24
nntp posting host hertz.njit.edu

i 've been looking into getting a portable mac to do some work and i 've
had my eye on the pb 100. lately , i 've been seeing people with the old
portables , and they 're selling for 300 less that the pb 100s. what i
want to know is what are the differences between them \? all i know is
that the portable is heavier , but the pb100 does n't have an internal
drive. here 's what i need to know

does the portable support appletalk network connections \?
what 's the cpu inside a portable \? (68000 \? )
does the portable support system 7 \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \? \?
what 's the maximum memory capacity of the portable \? can you still get
ram (meaning does it use special simms \? )
what kind of internal hd does it use \?
does the portable have a better screen \?

thanx in advance.

mike gaines
what is your name \? captain jean luc picard
what is your quest \? i seek the holy grail
what is the top velocity of a bird of prey \? romulan or klingon \?
i....i do n't know...aaahhhh ! ! ! !
meg5184@hertz.njit.edu
graphix@aol.com

from oelt0002@student.tc.umn.edu (bret oeltjen)
subject cheap video card for lc \? w fpu \?
nntp posting host dialup slip 1 33.gw.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 7

just wondering if anyone had info experience with a video fpu for a mac lc ,
just thinking of adding a second monitor , most likely grayscale.


bret oeltjen exp(pi i) 1 0
university of minnesota
electrical engineering

from chyang@leghorn.engin.umich.edu (chung hsiung yang)
subject re cd300 300i
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor
lines 28
distribution world
nntp posting host leghorn.engin.umich.edu
originator chyang@leghorn.engin.umich.edu


in article bauer 060493101758@134.60.68.23 , bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de (christian bauer) writes
in article afi9shs00vohmrylee@andrew.cmu.edu , donpaul c. stephens
deathbird @cmu.edu wrote

what is the difference \?
i want a double spin cd rom drive by may

looking into nec and apple , doublespins only
what is the best \?

nec toshiba and sony (apple) nearly deliver the same speed.
as apples prices are very low (compared to there ram simms)
you should buy what is inexpencive. but think of driver revisions.
it is easier to get driver kits from apple than from every other
manufacturer

christian bauer

bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de


i thought nec and toshiba cd rom mechanism have an average
access time of less than 200 ms. while the sony apple cd rom
drive has an access time of 300 ms for the doublespin models.

chung yang


from rogoschp@max.cc.uregina.ca (are we having fun yet \? \? \? )
subject vga monitors and the mac lc series of computers
organization university of regina
lines 9

i recall reading that the mac lc (and presumably the lc ii iii) can use stand
ard vga monitors , with appropriate cable adapters. i am uncertain of this sinc
e i have asked other people who say this is not so. so can all vga monitors be
used on the mac lc \? what are the specs needed for a pc monitor to work with a
mac lc (horizontal nad vertical frequencies) \?





from mmadsen@bonnie.ics.uci.edu (matt madsen)
subject se 30 acc graphics card \?
nntp posting host bonnie.ics.uci.edu
reply to mmadsen@ics.uci.edu (matt madsen)
organization univ. of calif. , irvine , info. computer sci. dept.
lines 9

are there any graphics cards for the se 30 that also have , say , an 040
accelerator \? there seem to be plenty of accelerator graphics cards for
the se , but none (that i 've seen) for the se 30.

thanks

matt madsen
mmadsen@ics.uci.edu


from pritchet@cs.scarolina.edu (ronald w. pritchett)
subject cd rom for a quadra...
organization usc department of computer science
distribution comp
lines 17

would there be any problems with hooking up a toshiba 3401 external cd rom
drive to a 700 \?


ron




'hey jack the ripper ,
wo n't you come on over and
hook me up to the power lines of your love.' jethro tull

ron pritchett internet pritchet@ash.cs.scarolina.edu
fidonet ron pritchett @ 1 376 74.0



from dlc@umcc.umcc.umich.edu (david claytor)
subject re noisy se what can i do \?
organization umcc , ann arbor , mi
lines 27
distribution usa
nntp posting host umcc.umcc.umich.edu

in article 1qk2rjinn503@cae.cad.gatech.edu vincent@cad.gatech.edu (vincent fox) writes
there 's this old se here. it 's got the older style fans that remind
me of a house ventilator. a cylindrical drum instead of the bladed rotor
i usually see. anyway , the se makes this loud buzzing noise due
to vibration somewheres. if i remove the screws and loosen the front
from the back , it quiets down. i can only assume that the fan housing
from this goofy thing is touching the back of the case and vibrating
against it.

anyway , any suggestions for where to get replacement fans and how to
stealth this guy \? your experiences welcome.....


if everything had gone as planned , everything would have been perfect.
batf spokesperson on cnn 3 2 93 , regarding failed raid attempt in tx.


when i owned an se , i replaced the fan with se silencer , available , i
believe , from macwarehouse or macconnection. it comes with instruction for
installation and requires no soldering. worked like a charm. i think the
manufacturer is mobius.

dave


dlc@umcc.ais.org 313.485.3394


from wstuartj@lucky.ecn.purdue.edu (w stuart jones)
subject adding vram to quadra 800 \?
summary how many 512k vram simms do i need to add to the quadra 800 \?
keywords vram quadra 800
organization purdue university engineering computer network
lines 12

i want to go from 512k to 1m vram on my quadra 800. how many 512k simms do i
need to buy \? is the current 512k soldered on the board or do i need to take
out the current vram before i add more \?

thanks ,

wesley stuart jones


wesley stuart jones jonesw@res.wes.mot.com
wstuartj@ecn.purdue.edu


from lreiter@jade.tufts.edu (lowell b. reiter)
subject re duo 230 crashes aftersleep (looks like apple bug ! )
lines 23
organization tufts university medford , ma

mysstem crashes aftwer sleepp. i use 1.0.1 enabler. i use appletalk and
filesharing. i have and expressmodem.

lowell


lowell reiter i need a vacation... now ! ! !
tufts university
internet account lreiter@jade.tufts.edu















from cptnerd@access.digex.com (captain nerd)
subject simm re use nubus board... anyone seen one \?
organization express access online communications , greenbelt , maryland usa
lines 29
distribution world
nntp posting host access.digex.net
summary does anyone make this \? does anyone know what i'm talking about \?
keywords simm nubus board ramdisk



hello ,

i remember running across an ad in the back of mac user world
a few years ago , for a nubus board that had umpteen simm slots , to be
used to recycle your old simms , when you upgraded memory. i do n't
remember who made this board , and i have n't seen it advertised in
any of the latest mac magazines. it mentioned that it included software
to make the simms on the board act like a ram disk. as someone who has simms
he ca n't get rid of use , but hates the waste , this sounds to me like a majorly
good idea. does anyone out there know what board company i'm talking about \?
are they still in business , or does anyone know where i can get a used one
if they are no longer made \? any help would be greatly appreciated. please
e mail me , to save net.bandwidth.


thanks ,

cap.





internet cptnerd@digex.com aol cptnerd compuserve 70714 , 105
consilio manuque
otium cum dignitate
credo quia absurdum est parturient montes nascetur ridiculus mus

from breedsa@wkuvx1.bitnet
subject tempest and cyclone info. needed
organization western kentucky university , bowling green , ky
lines 8

if anyone has any information about the upcoming new computers
(cyclone and tempest) , i am in need of some info. anything would be
greatly appreciated.

thanks ,

shawn
breedsa@wkuvx1.bitnet

from gsnow@clark.edu (gary snow)
subject re the c650 fan is noisy ! any solutions \?
article i.d. clark.1993apr6.213229.26970
organization clark college , vancouver , wa. usa
lines 18

in article summeral.733798199@rintintin.colorado.edu summeral@rintintin.colorado.edu (summerall thomas g) writes
is it me , my 650 , or all 650s \? it does n't seem to broken. it is n't making
grinding noises or anything , it 's just loud ! much louder that the fan in
the iici i just sold.

anybody else have this problem \? how about a solution \? is there a good
replacement fan that 's a lot quieter but moves the same air \? any easy
way to insulate the sound but not the cooling air \? (hah ! )

i ca n't even hear the fan on my 650.....gee i wonder if its working.....yup ,
just checked , its exhausting air out the back just fine.

gary



gary snow
uunet ! clark ! gsnow or gsnow@clark.edu

from charles p. cox , jr. cox@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu
subject calling all mac gurus
organization case western reserve university
lines 21
distribution world
nntp posting host b61506.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d17
x xxmessage id a7f8ecc4a901f042@b61506.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate mon , 19 apr 93 04 56 52 gmt

question for those familiar with quadra vram

i put 2 256k vram simms in my quadra 700 (in the 2 slots closest to the
ram simm slots) and i got no results whatsoever. i have been told that
the built in video should support at least 16bit and maybe 24bit color on
a macintosh color display. however , the monitors control panel still
lists 8bit (256 colors) as the highest possible.

does it make any difference which slots you put the simms in \?
do you have to do something to activate them \?
do you have to do something to the monitors control panel \?

btw , i am running system 7.1 with 8 megs of ram.



charles p. cox , jr.
computer engineering
case western reserve university
cpc3@po.cwru.edu
cox@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu

distribution world
from robert n. ward@bmug.org
organization bmug , inc.
subject great deal !
lines 10

for those of you who have ti ps35 laser printers , if you want an envelope
feeder , they are now on sale , direct from ti for the unbelievable price of
45 ! call 1 800 847 2787. same for extra paper trays. they have too many
gray ones and want to move them out. strange but true.

the bobmeister

from planet bmug , the firstclass bbs of bmug. the message contained in
this posting does not in any way reflect bmug 's official views.


from peba@snakemail.hut.fi (petri aukia)
subject diy phonenet , midi adapt macrecorder
nntp posting host lk hp 18.hut.fi
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
distribution comp
lines 7

i remember seeing complete instructions for making phonenet adapters ,
midi adapters and a macrecorder lookalike. after a short search through
mac.archive and info mac i failed to see any of the above. any pointers \?

petri.aukia@hut.fi supreme court ruling bolo is an illegal drug !
peba@hut computer programmer steals minds of youths through new tank game !
pa telephone standards rethought because of new addictive computer game !

from thomas kephart kephart@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu
subject need help installing a simms in 700 , quick !
organization case school of engineering
lines 5
distribution world
nntp posting host b62182.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxmessage id a7f60e8b6e01f2e6@b62182.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate sat , 17 apr 93 19 44 11 gmt

could someone please send instructions for installing simms and vram to
jmk13@po.cwru.edu \? he 's just gotten his 700 and wants to drop in some
extra simms and vram that he has for it.

thanks... and do n't reply to me , reply to jmk13@po.cwru.edu (joe)

from dashley@wyvern.wyvern.com (doug ashley)
subject re lciii problems
organization wyvern.com
lines 25

ravi konchigeri mongoose@leland.stanford.edu writes

about hard drive companies the original 160 meg drive that was bad (bad
sector or something) was an ibm. the new one is a quantum. is the lciii
supposed to be shipped with ibms \? is there a quality difference \?

officially , no. from experience (yours now included ! ) , yes. quantums seem to
be the most problem free brand on the mac.

second , about hard drive position. i 've put the lciii on its side and
the new 160 hd has had no problems at all. i 've even switched back and
forth between horizontal and vertical and there are no problems. as far
as i'm concerned i do n't believe hd position is important for drives up
to 160 meg , in any computer. do n't know about cd rom , though.

it should not matter for the hard drive or the mac. well , as long as it
does n't fall over. )


doug

this signature under construction

wyvern technologies tidewater 's premier online information system
(804) 627 1818 , login guest , password guest to register

from daniel salber salber@imag.fr
subject quadras vram question
x xxmessage id a7f4f033e3012026@planet.imag.fr
x xxdate fri , 16 apr 93 23 22 27 gmt
nntp posting host planet
organization imag institute , grenoble , france
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
lines 28


hi there ,


i have a question regarding quadras vram. i have tried to find info on this
but i could not get precise answers.

on one hand , we have a quadra 950 with a 16 monitor , which is capable of
32 bit color. how much vram does it have \?
on the other hand , we have a quadra 800 with a 16 monitor , which is capable
of 8 bit color only , so it must have 512 ko of vram.

i would like to take vram simms for the 950 and put them in the 800 so that
both machines have 16 bit color capability.
is it possible , and if yes , how many vram simms should i take from the 950 \?
from the documentation i have , the quadra 800 must get 1 mo vram to have
16 bit color , is that correct \?

bonus question where do vram simms hide \? from the 950 documentation , they
seem to be behind the power supply. do i really have to take off the power
supply to access the vram simms \?


thanks for your help !


daniel salber , user interface research team , lgi imag , grenoble , france.
salber@imag.fr

from v cckch@microsoft.com (kenneth charlton)
subject re jump starting a mac ii
organization microsoft corp.
distribution usa
lines 5

apple dealerships once had kits to replace the soldered in batteries with a battery
holder.

real easy to install , but it does require some soldering.


from cm51@lafibm.lafayette.edu (cm51)
subject half page hand scanners \?
organization lafayette college
lines 6
originator news@lafcol
nntp posting host lafibm

is anyone out there using a greyscale handscanner. i'm thinking about
buying one. is the inexpensive logitech pretty good. i do n't need
super high quality scans but want it to be worth the .

thanks in advance
mike charles

from bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de (christian bauer)
subject re q700 at 34.5mhz , it 's fine...
nntp posting host christian.informatik.uni ulm.de
organization university of ulm
lines 23

in article lee5.734735026@husc.harvard.edu , lee5@husc8.harvard.edu
(patrick lee) wrote

menes@informatik.tu muenchen.de (rainer menes) writes


i wonder why nobody has ever tried to replace the oscilator only , like on a mac iisi. as i understand the newer variable speed overdrive is only hardware , and alittle init which is use to adjust the speed. my idear is to replace the cristal oscilator wit
h a socket and than i can change the oscilator very easy. this will be alot cheaper the the newer variable speed overdrive. i would gues only 20 to 50 are need to do the upgrade.

does someone on the net ever tried this variant of speeding up the quadra 700 \? \?
in the may issue of c't magazine was an article about upgrading 040 models
of apple. they simply change crystals and add a fan.
hammerhead centris 610 was able to work with 25 mhz (cooler prefered)
and for 1000 dm you get an 68040 (33mhz) which works with the
appropriate crystal at full speed. (extra cooling required)
centris 650 like quadra 700 with extra cooling 33mhz works on
most machines and for real power enthusiasts they used a
quadra 950 at 40 mhz wow ! but for better description you should
get this issue of c't (a german pc magazine ! )

christian bauer

bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de

from farrar@cogsci.ucsd.edu (scott farrar)
subject re caps lock vs. control ( was re apple keyboard )
organization university of california , san diego
lines 9
distribution world
nntp posting host cogsci.ucsd.edu

please excuse and redirect me if this has already been answered , but is
there a small utility that switches the functionality of the caps lock
key and the ctrl key on the powerbook keyboard \? i use the ctrl key far
more than caps lock , so it would be more convenient and comfortable.
thank you for any help ,
scott farrar




from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon wtte)
subject re networking how to get 10 ma
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 24
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se

in 92.2bd1cd0c@axolotl steed.bell@macrocosm.omahug.org (steed bell) writes

networked together using appletalk and phonenet connectors. to chat we use a
program called 'broadcast'. with it we can send brief messages to all or
selected machines within the network.

if you use system 7 , you can use my application zing which has
a 30 kb footprint (meaning you can have it running all the time
without losing memory)

it is also compatible with the chat program fishbomb which allows
sounds and pictures as well.

both are , as far as i know , freeware (i dustribute zing with source)
and should be available on the normal services (mac.archive.umich.edu
for instance)

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe
this signature is kept shorter than 4 lines in the interests of usenet
s n ratio.

from scott@silverbullet.cam.org (jeff scott)
subject re ntsc and the mac
lines 24
x mailer rnmac buggy , i mean beta , test version


stuff deleted

also , i am not interested in quicktime. i would merely like to
use my mac as a television from time to time. i have a nice
sony 1430 monitor , and i would like to use it as a second tv
when my wife is watching sitcoms on our regular tv.

other stuff deleted

would n't it be cheaper to just buy a little fourteen inch colour tv \? just
curious...


george micahels






jeff scott
montreal , que , canada
scott@silverbullet.cam.org

from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon wtte)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 34
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se

in c5npy2.li3@news.cso.uiuc.edu rvenkate@ux4.cso.uiuc.edu (ravikuma venkateswar) writes

not quite. 66mhz pentium 65 specint92 , 57 specfp92 .
66mhz mc98601 50 specint92 , 80 specfp92 .

but the interesting comparision is how fast clock cycle chips
you can get an alpha is way slow at 66 mhz , but blazes at
200 mhz.

680040
486

as far as the 486dx2 66 goes 32 specint92 , 16 specfp92 .

but the 68040 is (or will soon be) available in 40 mhz version ,
making it comparable to a 486dx2 80

intel chips have traditionally been faster than their motorola equivalents
although the significance of chip speed in real world application performance
is something that is highly debatable.

i think you have that one turned around they have faster clock
cycles but less power behind each cycle. not to mention that the
intel instruction stream is byte oriented (longest intel instruction
is 15 bytes what an odd number ) which makes it hard to do any
intelligent memory subsystem.

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe

this article printed on 100 recycled electrons.

from chen@nuclear.med.bcm.tmc.edu (chenlin)
subject re can i get more than 640 x 480 on 13 monitor \?
organization baylor college of medicine
lines 5
distribution na
reply to chen@nuclear.bcm.tmc.edu
nntp posting host nuclear.med.bcm.tmc.edu
keywords 13 monitor , 8 24 resolution


try maxapplezoom ( a shareware init ) if your monitor is not driven by internal
video.

chen

from slang@bnr.ca (steven langlois)
subject increasing the number of serial ports
reply to slang@bnr.ca (steven langlois)
organization bell northern research ltd.
lines 15

does anyone know if there are any devices available for the mac which
will increase the number of serial ports available for use
simultaneously \? i would like to connect up to 8 serial devices to my
mac for an application i am working on. i must be able to access each
one of the independently.

if such a device exists , are there are any limits to the number of
serial devices i can use \?

any information is appreciated.

steven langlois
slang@bnr.ca



from c604223@mizzou1.missouri.edu (cho chuen wong)
subject performa plus monitor
nntp posting host mizzou1.missouri.edu
organization university of missouri
lines 3

i would like to know if a performa plus monitor is compatible with apple 14in
color display , or it is just a vga moniro. any help will be appreciate.


from joshc@csa.bu.edu (josh carroll)
subject racet optical
organization computer science department , boston university , boston , ma , usa
lines 13
originator joshc@csa


i 've got a racet 5.25 mo drive with a ricoh ro 5030e mechanism with the
new roms... the thing is , i have a new tosoh optical disk 512 bytes per
sector cart for the thing that refuses to mount or be formatted... all the
carts that i have for the drive that work are racet certified media
512k sector carts... all i can think of is that this tosoh cart uses some
kind of incompatible low level format... anyone know what software will
allow this to be formatted on this drive \? or a new dip setting for the
mechanism \? i 've tried just about every combination of drivers and custom
formatting programs i can find with no luck... any ideas \?

joshc@csa.bu.edu (if you have a good idea , please e mail it to this
address if possible , i ca n't check this newsgroup constantly , thanks)

from hew@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu
subject monitor shut down on 13 hi res
organization georgetown university
lines 11
summary monitor shutoff on 13 er 's
reply to m torricelli@unhh.unh.edu
distribution world

there is a defect in the 13 hi res monitors , bring it to a dealer and
they will replace the flyback for free , i think.


i just heard of this problem at work today and we are fixing
them for free.



o r r


from hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes)
subject re centris 650 math coprocessor option
reply to hades@dartmouth.edu
organization dartmouth college , hanover , nh
disclaimer personally , i really do n't care who you think i speak for.
distribution usa
moderator rec.arts.comics.info
lines 40

david anthony guevara@cup.portal.com writes

sorry if this is a faq. i do n't normally read comp.sys.mac.hardware.
i am purchasing a couple of centris 650 's. i configured the systems
as follows

eight (8) mb ram
ethernet
1 mb vram
math coprocessor option

my purchasing agent told me about the math coprocessor option and sent
me the apple summary documentation to prove it. i ordered the coprocessor
option , but i'm really not sure that we needed it. i thought the '040 chip
had a math coprocessor built into it. has apple had a math coprocessor chip
architectured to keep up with the speed of the '040 chip in the centris 650 \?
i am concerned that i may have set up a hardware bottleneck.

apple has really confused people with this whole thing. i think
we 'll be answering this question for about the next year or so. there is
no option to get an fpu on a c650. what you have is a choice of cpus
there is the 68lc040 that does not have an integrated fpu like the full
'040 and is only present in the base 4 80 model of the c650 (appleusa).
and there is the full '040 which you get when you order anything other
than the base 4 80 configuration. therefore , since you have ordered one
of the 8mb versions with on board ethernet models you will not be
getting the lc040. but even if you wanted to have the lc040 you would n't
be able to order a c650 with 8mb ram , on board ethernet and an lc040.
it 's not an option.
also , a note to people out there that have 4 80 c650s and c610s
thinking that there is an optional fpu , the '040 class chip cannot
recognize an external fpu , so there is no socket on the motherboard for
a fpu chip and you cannot go out and purchase an fpu on a pds card or
something like that. the only way to get an fpu in these machines is to
replace the lc040 with a full '040. and if you have a c610 , you will not
need to worry about a heat sink if you do replace the lc040 with the
full '040 , but if you have a 4 80 c650 you do need to have a heat sink.

hades


from blast@nntp.crl.com (tim keanini)
subject attn 160 , 165c , 180 and duo owners ! ! !
lines 11
nntp posting host crl.com
summary buzzing
keywords buzz

be very careful when you plug in a external monitor and a external speaker.
make sure that all the power cords are in the same strip. if you do n't you
take a chance of having a very bad audio buzz. this is caused be a ground loop and the only way of getting rid of this loud buzz is to make sure that you
have a common ground.
make sure that all the power cords are going in to the same strip or off the
same outlet. this will assure you of a common ground.

tim keanini sound designer
timk@broder.com broderbund software
blast@crl.com


from winstead@faraday.ece.cmu.edu (charles holden winstead)
subject ftp site for radius software \? \? \?
organization electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon

hey all ,

does anyone know if i can ftp to get the newest version of radiusware
and soft pivot from radius \? i bought a pivot monitor , but it has an
old version of this software and wo n't work on my c650 , and radius said
it would be 4 5 weeks until delivery.

thanks !

chuck



from erik@cheshire.oxy.edu (erik adams)
subject help ! ! my macintosh luggable has lines on its screen !
organization occidental college , los angeles , ca 90041 usa.
distribution comp
lines 20

okay , i do n't use it very much , but i would like for it to keep working
correctly , at least as long as apple continues to make system software
that will run on it , if slowly )

here is the problem when the screen is tilted too far back , vertical
lines appear on the screen. they are every 10 pixels or so , and seem
to be affected somewhat by opening windows and pulling down menus.
it looks to a semi technical person like there is a loose connection
between the screen and the rest of the computer.

i am open to suggestions that do not involve buying a new computer ,
or taking this one to the shop. i would also like to not have
to buy one of larry pina 's books. i like larry , but i'm not sure
i feel strongly enough about the computer to buy a service manual
for it.

on a related note what does the monitor connector connect to \?

erik


from dpb@sdchemw2.ucsd.edu (doug p. book)
subject re stereo sound problem ( \? ) on mac games
organization uc san diego chemistry
lines 13
nntp posting host sdchemw2.ucsd.edu


thanks , steve , for your helpful and informative comments on mac stereo
sound.

too bad some developers are n't addressing the problem.

this did make my trusty old mac ii superior to the quadra i replaced
it with in one way though ! )


thanks ,

doug

from quan@xenon.stanford.edu (tony quan)
subject re new apple ergo mouse
organization computer science department , stanford university.
lines 22

in article c52eqg.6h2@dartvax.dartmouth.edu hades@dartmouth.edu writes
nwcs@utkvx.utk.edu (schizophrenia means never being alone) writes

does anyone know how to open up the apple ergo mouse (adb mouse ii) \?
mine lives near a cat (true , really...) and picks up her fur. from what
i can tell , it looks like apple welded it shut.

you must not have tried very hard. i just opend mine in about 2
seconds. take a look on the bottom , it has a dial that turns to open
much like the older adb mouses used to have. it 's a bit harder to turn
at first but it is quite simple to open.


nope. i'm pretty sure that this person knows how to take the ball out.
i think that what they want to do is take the mouse apart. the old mouse
had four screws on the bottom that you could unscrew to do this ,
while there 's no obvious way to take the new one apart.


tony
quan@cs.stanford.edu


from wls@calvin.usc.edu (bill scheding)
subject re full page pb screen
organization university of southern california , los angeles , ca
lines 14
distribution world
nntp posting host calvin.usc.edu


in article mfohvgq00wbme4yado@andrew.cmu.edu ,
michael t. callihan mc5o @andrew.cmu.edu writes
hi. i am working on a project for my marketing class and i 'd like to
ask your help. the assignment is to come up with a product and create a
marketing plan for it. technical issues are not terribly important at
this point...

i'm not surprised to learn that `technical issues are not terribly important' to
anyone working on a 'marketing plan'

)

wls

from guykuo@carson.u.washington.edu (guy kuo)
subject quadra clock chipping works
organization university of washington
lines 11
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu
summary quadra clock chip swap success
keywords quadra , clock , accelerate

after reading reports from germany of success in accelerating a quadra
or centris simply by changing the clock oscillator , i decided to test the
claim. i pulled out my variable speed overdrive and the motherboard 's
50 mhz clock chip. i put a socket in the clock 's place and inserted a
64 mhz ttl clock oscillator i had left over from working on some si 's.
i ca n't believe it. it actually works. i'm not getting scsi timing errors
either. this is only after a short run time but i 'll keep posting results.
did i spend all that money on the vso for nothing \? if this keeps working ,
the lack of a double boot in itself will be worth the effort.

guy kuo guykuo@u.washington.edu

from twillis@ec.ecn.purdue.edu (thomas e willis)
subject pb questions...
organization purdue university engineering computer network
distribution usa
lines 36

well folks , my mac plus finally gave up the ghost this weekend after
starting life as a 512k way back in 1985. sooo , i'm in the market for a
new machine a bit sooner than i intended to be...

i'm looking into picking up a powerbook 160 or maybe 180 and have a bunch
of questions that (hopefully) somebody can answer

does anybody know any dirt on when the next round of powerbook
introductions are expected \? i 'd heard the 185c was supposed to make an
appearence this summer but have n't heard anymore on it and since i
do n't have access to macleak , i was wondering if anybody out there had
more info...

has anybody heard rumors about price drops to the powerbook line like the
ones the duo 's just went through recently \?

what 's the impression of the display on the 180 \? i could probably swing
a 180 if i got the 80mb disk rather than the 120 , but i do n't really have
a feel for how much better the display is (yea , it looks great in the
store , but is that all wow or is it really that good \? ). could i solicit
some opinions of people who use the 160 and 180 day to day on if its worth
taking the disk size and money hit to get the active display \? (i realize
this is a real subjective question , but i 've only played around with the
machines in a computer store breifly and figured the opinions of somebody
who actually uses the machine daily might prove helpful).

how well does hellcats perform \? )

thanks a bunch in advance for any info if you could email , i 'll post a
summary (news reading time is at a premium with finals just around the
corner... ( )

tom willis twillis@ecn.purdue.edu purdue electrical engineering

convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth than lies. f. w.
nietzsche

from b clark@nwu.edu (brian clark)
subject re high resolution adc for mac ii
nntp posting host elvex33.acns.nwu.edu
organization northwestern university
lines 24

in article 1qidk1innhk9@iskut.ucs.ubc.ca , rob douglas
douglas@ecc.ubc.ca wrote

in article 1qhfmg hoh@lll winken.llnl.gov charles e. cunningham ,
cec@imager writes
i would like to buy a 16 bit adc card for the mac ii with digitization
rate of at least 100 khz , preferably 200 khz. i would prefer one with
good differential and integral linearity , and dma would be a plus. other
than national instruments , do you know of any other vendor who sells such
a card \?

instrutech corp has a nice looking 16 bit a d and d a board that can run
at the speeds you want. the itc 16 ( \? ) does n't have dma , but it does have
a good sized fifo that can buffer your samples. instrutech can be reached
at (516) 829 5942 , or 929 0934 (fax).


i do n't know about the instrutech boards (though i plan to check them out) ,
but you need to be very careful checking the monotonicity and s n ratio of
many of the 16 bit boards out there. the ni boards are very clearly
specified in terms of monotonicity , s n ratio , accuracy , etc and the
nb a2100 and nb a2150 have all the dyynamic range and freedom from
distortion that you 'd expect from a good , true 16 bit converter. this is
not true for the spectral innovations boards , for example.

from aep@world.std.com (andrew e page)
subject re setwutime works on a pb 230
organization the world public access unix , brookline , ma
lines 12


i have tested this on a 230 and it does work there. so it would
seem that the 140 and 170 are out though. one way to tell is to
go and open the powerbook control panel(7.1). there is a setting
there that allows you to set the time to wake up the mac. if it
is present when you open the control panel , then you can assume that
setwutime will work.


andrew e. page (warrior poet) decision and effort the archer and arrow
mac consultant the difference between what we are
macintosh and dsp technology and what we want to be.

from ujfrye@mcs.drexel.edu (jason w. frye)
subject re pc syquest on a mac \? \?
organization drexel university
lines 19

in article 1qsk6u d8l@usenet.ins.cwru.edu rcs8@po.cwru.edu (robert c. sprecher) writes

is it possible , ie via creative cable splicing or whatever , to
hook a syquest 44mb removable drive to a mac \?

is there any difference with the guts of the drive or is it
just cable differences \?

thanks.

rob

rob sprecher
rcs8@po.cwru.edu

many companies package syquest drives for the mac already.... so unless you
are using one for the ibm world , id buy a mac ready config.

j.

from cf947@cleveland.freenet.edu (chun hung wan)
subject re your opinion of the laserwriter select 310 \?
article i.d. usenet.1prg8a psr
reply to cf947@cleveland.freenet.edu (chun hung wan)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 25
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


in a previous article , jcav@ellis.uchicago.edu (johnc) says

this model is one of the two low cost laser printers that apple just
introduced. i'm thinking of getting one to use at home. have any of you
had any experience with this printer \? does it have level 2 postscript \?
if you 've bought one , are you happy with it \?


john cavallino email jcav@midway.uchicago.edu
university of chicago hospitals john cavallino@uchfm.bsd.uchicago.edu
office of facilities management usmail 5841 s. maryland ave , mc 0953
b0 f w c g k s e h p chicago , il 60637


frankly , i think this model is a screwup. it does not have postscriptlevel
2 , only has 13 fonts , and does not even have fine print or photograde , or
grayshare. even the 300 model has this ! i am shocked by the kind of
features you get for this printer. i myself was hoping for some decent
printer to replace the personal laser writers.

a motion picture major at the brooks institute of photography , ca
santa barbara and a foreign student from kuala lumpur , malaysia.

the mind is the forerunner of all states.

from da228@cleveland.freenet.edu (charles g. williams)
subject has anyone had problems with ibm drives in their machines \?
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 24
reply to da228@cleveland.freenet.edu (charles g. williams)
nntp posting host hela.ins.cwru.edu


hi ,

the subject line says it all. my system acts weird at times. all of a
sudden the system will be corrupt , boot blocks will get chewed , etc.

this was a really big problem for a while. i could n't even format my
drive properly. i installed hdt 's driver and things got better. now
all i have to do is reinstall the system. could an incompatibility
exist between it and a quantum external drive.

i'm looking for a pure hardware solution. it 's not a virus , bad
software , etc. could i have a bad scsi cable \? or is the ibm (wds 80)
just a screwey drive \?

thanks ,

chuck


chuck williams cs intern pacific northwest laboratories

da228@cleveland.freenet.edu
cg williams@ccmail.pnl.gov

from blast@nntp.crl.com (tim keanini)
subject mac scsi spec \?
lines 20
nntp posting host crl.com

i have a maciifx and i know that it is wired about its scsi chain.

i just bought a drive and i need to find out a few hardcore scsi question

does the iifx scsi chain want to see active or passive termination \?

does the iifx scsi spec want me to enable the initiation of the sdtr message \?

what does the iifx scsi spec want as far as parity checking \?

these are some very good questions for the faq.
if someone does not have time to answer these questions but does know
where i can look them up please let me know and i will repost the answers
for everyone to see.

thanks ,

tim keanini timk@broder.com or blast@crl.com
sound engineer broderbund software


from choo@ecs.umass.edu
subject techworks what you say \?
lines 19



greetings ! !

i'm planning to upgrade my mac iisi

(1) from the present 5megs to 17megs
and (2) add a math coprocessor.

technology works , of austin (texas) comes quite highly recommended by
some mac magazines. i was just wonderring if anyone could share with me
anything about tech works (both good and bad experiences) or give any advice
about other mail order companies that i may consider.

your reply would be very much appreciated. thanks in advance.

sincerely
peter choo
choo@sigma.ecs.umass.edu

from earl d. fife fife@calvin.edu
subject re se 30 acc graphics card \?
x xxdate mon , 19 apr 93 05 13 14 gmt
nntp posting host 153.106.4.43
organization calvin college
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
lines 25

in article 2bcf3dd9.8771@ics.uci.edu matt madsen ,
mmadsen@bonnie.ics.uci.edu writes
are there any graphics cards for the se 30 that also have , say , an 040
accelerator \? there seem to be plenty of accelerator graphics cards for
the se , but none (that i 've seen) for the se 30.


the daystar powercache for the se 30 replaces the cpu with an accelerated
cpu plus the powercache. this leavese the pds slot open for a video card.
currenty , daystar does not have the '040 in this configuration , but it is
due out early next year. with their upgrade policy , you can get the '030
accelerator now , and when the '040 version becomes available , you get
credit
for the one you have.

i am running their 50 mhz version with fpu along with a radius precision
color pivot and i'm very satisfied.



earl d. fife department of mathematics
fife@calvin.edu calvin college
(616)957 6403 grand rapids , mi 49546



from ryanph@mrl.dsto.gov.au
subject re se rom
organization defence science and technology organisation
lines 45
nntp posting host mrl.dsto.gov.au

gosh , i wish people would read the postings that they are 'following up' to.

in article c5pmsv.jtp@wyvern.wyvern.com , dashley@wyvern.wyvern.com (doug ashley) writes
seanmcd@ac.dal.ca writes

in article wgwc5pdl4.43y@netcom.com , wgw@netcom.com (william g. wright) writes

anyway , i was hoping someone knowledgeable
about mac internals could set me straight is it simply
impossible for a mac se to print grayscale , or could

to use the grayscale features , i believe you need a mac equipped
with colour quickdraw. i was told this somewhere or other , but it 's

i think you will find that the mac se can print grayscale images , loaded
with the proper software. however , the mac se cannot display grayscale on

the original poster (w g wright) posted an item saying that he had bought a new
wizz bang laser printer from apple (a select 300 i think) which can print
grayscale. he then said that he cannot print grayscale from his se computer
(and also that all the 'experts' he has dealt with agree that it is not
possible).

this is the one major bugbear about doing a 3rd party se upgrade (compared to
apple 's se to se 30 upgrade) you will never be able to run color quickdraw. it
is color quickdraw that controls color and grayscale.

ses can print some colour this is because quickdraw the original , non colour
version , has the right hooks for eight colours. some of you will remember the
'scsigraph' solution to getting a colour screen for your se (i think that it
gave you sixteen colours by dithering or something).

there is no reason that apple could n't release software patches for older
computers (there are lots of mac pluses , classics and ses that have been
upgraded to 68020 and 68030 processors which should be perfectly able to deal
with color quickdraw) but they wont , and 3rd parties are having a difficult
time in duplicating the mac 's roms (i.e. nutek et al.).

just one caveat i would have thought that if you were printing a postscript
grayscale image onto a postscript grayscale printer , that you would be able to
do so , whatever mac you were using. (and i am pretty sure that the select 300
is not a postscript printer \? correct me if i'm wrong \? ).

phil ryan
melbourne , australia

from maarten@fwi.uva.nl (maarten carels)
subject re simm vs dram
nntp posting host mail.fwi.uva.nl
organization fwi , university of amsterdam
lines 16

arthur.greene@p6.f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org (arthur greene) writes
can anyone tell me what the difference is between a 256k dram chip and a
256k simm \? i need the former (i think) to add memory to my laserwriter
ls. someone is offering to sell me 256k simms he removed from an se , but
i have a feeling this may not be the correct form of memory. the sockets
in the laserwriter look like they want the spidery shaped chips (there
are 4 sockets , each with , as i recall , 20 pins , arranged in two rows of 10).
believe it or not , i 've never actually seen a simm. help appreciated.
a simm is a small pcb with dram chips soldered on.

maarten

in real life maarten carels
computer science department
university of amsterdam
email maarten@fwi.uva.nl

from jartsu@hut.fi (jartsu)
subject best frontplate for syquest in iivi iivx c650 \?
nntp posting host lk hp 7.hut.fi
reply to jartsu@vipunen.hut.fi
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
lines 11


could someone tell me how to make find get the best frontplate for
iivi iivx c650 with internal syquest drive \?

is there one available or do i have to make one from the original or
cd rom one or scratch \?

every suggestion welcome.


jartsu

from jmg14@po.cwru.edu (john m. graham)
subject re new apple ergo mouse
article i.d. usenet.1pt3ns mdu
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 15
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


i believe that in order to get at the innards of the new mouse ,
you must remove the label on the bottom that says apple desktop
bus mouse ii there you should find two screws on either side.
i have n't tried it myself yet , but when i ran my fingernail
accross the label , these two divots appeared , and i can only assume
that these are the elusive screws in question.

cheers ,
john

john m. graham
the cleveland institute of music
jmg14@po.cwru.edu
brought to you by the letters j , m , and g , and the number 14.

from corbo@lclark.edu (beth corbo)
subject re non apple mini docks available \?
article i.d. lclark.1993apr20.034614.12989
organization lewis clark college , portland or
lines 22

in article c5pc9f.n4i@rahul.net jonathan@mecca.epri.com writes
a a deguzman (deguzman@after.math.uiuc.edu) wrote
my boss is considering the purchase of a powerbook or duo. he is leaning
towards a 180 , because of the math coprocessor (for mathematica) , but would
get a duo if he could find a mini dock with a coprocessor. have any
third parties announced such a beast \?

i believe that e machines might produce something of this nature.


yes , e machines makes two mini docks the powerlink presente and the
powerlink desknet. the presenter offers a variety of video out options ,
including ntsc , rgb and svga. it also has sound out , floppy drive port
and a power port. unfortunately no scsi port and it blocks the serial port.
the desknet has the standard ports plus built in ethernet. alas , none of
these have an fpu.
in the future , rasterops is putting out a mini dock , but the name escapes
me now. it is supposed to support 16 bit color and quadra comparable
video speed. no idea if it has an fpu.
hope this helps...

beth corbo

from csp1dwd@mvs.oac.ucla.edu (csp1dwd)
subject duo parking hd heads when iddle
nntp posting host mvs.oac.ucla.edu
lines 8

the duo powerbooks seem to park the heads after a few seconds of
inactivity... is that builtin into the drive logic or is it being
programmed via software , any way to tune the iddle timeout that
makes the heads park themselves... i think the heads are being
parked since after a few seconds of inactivity you can hear the
clunk of heads parking.

denis

from jas@isi.edu (jeff sullivan)
subject adb mouse ii (ergo) when \?
organization usc isi
lines 11
distribution comp
nntp posting host tigger.isi.edu


when is apple supposed to start bundlign the new ergonomic adb mouse
ii with all cpus sold \?

jas



jeffrey a. sullivan research scientist et al.
jas@isi.edu (internet) information sciences institute
72511 , 402 (compuserve) university of southern california

from bruceg@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (bruce gimble)
subject built in video
article i.d. geraldo.1pqt5ninn605
reply to bruceg@ccwf.cc.utexas.edu (bruce gimble)
distribution usa
organization the university of texas at austin , austin tx
lines 14
nntp posting host sneezy.cc.utexas.edu
originator bruceg@sneezy.cc.utexas.edu

i have many questions for all you experts out there pertaining to apple 's
built in video.

1 , do all macs that have built in video have the ability to use vga monitors \?
2 , if so if not , which macs have this capability \?
3 , can they drive svga as well \?
4 , how big of a vga monitor can they drive \?
5 , how can you tell if an unlabeled monitor is vga \? by the pinouts \?
if so , what should it look like \?

particularly , i'm interested in knowing if the si or ci drive vga , as well
as the lc 's capabilities in driving vga svga

thanks ! ! !

from feldman@urbana.mcd.mot.com (mike feldman)
subject re ok to set 54 lbs on top of centris 610 \? \? \?
keywords centris
nntp posting host charm.urbana.mcd.mot.com
organization motorola computer group , urbana design center
lines 32

in article c5hvjx.dj7@news.cso.uiuc.edu dlbg1912@uxa.cso.uiuc.edu
(david l. berk) writes
i recently purchased a centris 610 and a mirror technologies 19 inch
mono monitor. i'm wondering if it is ok to set the monitor on top
of the cpu. the monitor weighs 54 lbs.

i 've called apple. the person i spoke with was not sure but was
going to find out and call me back in a couple of days. that was
over a week ago....

if anybody knows , please respond via email as i do n't always have time
to read this group. thanks.

david berk
d berk@uiuc.edu

yea , thanks to lots of good information in this newsgroup , i was prepared
for lots of details (even shipping time ... got my c610 8 230 cd in 5 weeks).
i guess my biggest disappointment is the lack of detail in the written
specs and documentation. the case load spec is an example the setup
section says apple 14 and 16 monitors can go on top , but 21 and other
big ones ca n't. why could n't they publish a maximum load \?

now if i can figure out if there 's any hope using the partition button
on the hard disk setup utility (do i dare just try it and see what happens \? ) ,
then maybe i can divide up the wealth among the family members a bit more
securly. the getting more information section of the manual suggested
trying other avenues before calling apple , but did n't mention the net.

mike feldman , motorola computer group , (217) 384 8538 , fax (217) 384 8550
1101 east university avenue pager in il (800) 302 7738 , (217) 351 0009
urbana , il 61801 2009 (mcdphx uiucuxc) ! udc ! feldman feldman@urbana.mcd.mot.com

from d88 jwa@eufrat.nada.kth.se (jon w tte)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
nntp posting host eufrat.nada.kth.se
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 18

in rayc5rpxb.ak8@netcom.com ray@netcom.com (ray fischer) writes

but the interesting comparision is how fast clock cycle chips
you can get an alpha is way slow at 66 mhz , but blazes at
200 mhz.

the only problem is going to be finding someone who can make a 200mhz
computer system. could be tough.

you can order one from digital today.

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe

i do n't fear death , it 's dying that scares me.

from ab220@freenet.carleton.ca (michel dozois)
subject re powerbook batteries
reply to ab220@freenet.carleton.ca (michel dozois)
organization the national capital freenet
lines 20


in a previous article , gil@cc.gatech.edu (gil neiger) says

i have a few questions about powerbook batteries , specifically ,
the nicad batteries i have for my pb170.

2. can the powerbook run without any battery if the charger is
plugged in \?

no problems.

michel dozois gloucester , ontario , canada ab220@freenet.carleton.ca
membre du club de cerf volant de l'outaouais ovkc
membre du national capital macintosh club ncmc
membre du jungle bbs un babillard macintosh

from u2087546@ucsvc.ucs.unimelb.edu.au (the jester)
subject re info on apple 8 24gc requested.
organization comedy company
lines 25

in article 1993apr5.122613.12289@alijku05.edvz.uni linz.ac.at , norbert mueller k360171@alijku11.edvz.uni linz.ac.at writes
newsgroups comp.sys.mac.hardware
in article prudhom.733762331@iros1 serge prud'homme ,
prudhom@iro.umontreal.ca writes
any info on the video processor am29000 that sit on it , any way to
program that
chip \? what companie makes that chip \?

apple was never able to provide any docs or tools to program that chip. i
value it as
the least value per piece of computer hardware i ever bought due to the
complete
lack support tools. there was a refund for us buyers of this card but we
europeans
were left out in the rain once again...

i agree completely , but there was only a refund for people who bought the gc
with a quadra. i have seen an alpha version of an extension from apple called
8.24 gc quicktime video which offloads quicktime compression decompression
from the cpu to the am29000 on the card. so it seems it can be done even though
in a developer article it states that the gc ca n't be programmed but they
asked that any suggestions be sent in anyway...

steve margelis
melbourne university

from jfinete@cats.ucsc.edu (joseph manuel finete)
subject re what do y'all think of the iivx \?
organization university of california santa cruz
lines 28
nntp posting host am.ucsc.edu


in article 1p5e0tinnojp@minerva.cis.yale.edu bell peter@yale.edu (peter bell) writes
my advisor has decided to get a mac for the lab now that we are funded again.

the consensus in the lab was that all we really needed was an lciii , but
he decided he wanted a centris 610. the lack of an fpu on that machine ,
and the price , struck me as making it worth less than an lciii , so i have
suggested we get a iivx instead. it seems heavily expandable , and for

what do people with iivx 's think of them \? they seem like good machines to
me , and i like the nubus slots in case we ultimately decide we want to do
work with video on it....

the iivx...lciii performance at a centris 610 price. the only reason
to get an iivx is if you really need the full size nubus slots. keep
in mind that the 610 supports all apple monitors and has optional ethernet.
this lessens (but does n't eliminate) the need for nubus cards. and unless
you 're running fpu intensive software , the 610 will blow the doors off the
lciii and the iivx. the lciii , on the other hand , is sufficient for most
people and has a great price.

if you have n't guessed , i find halving the bus clock (the iivx 32mhz up vs.
16mhz bus) a throughly bad thing and i hope apple never does it again.


joe finete
jfinete@cats.ucsc.edu


from blob@apple.com (brian bechtel)
subject re drivers for cd rom
organization apple computer , inc. , cupertino , california
lines 44
nntp posting host apple.com

sakelley@jeeves.ucsd.edu (scott kelley) writes

does anybody know where i could find a driver for a future echo
infomasster sic cde 600 cd rom drive \? a friend is running this drive
off of a pc and would like to use it on the mac.

here are some contacts for generic cd rom drivers
optical access international
800 west cummings park , suite 2050
woburn ma 01801
(617) 937 3910
(617) 937 3950 fax
applelink oai
fwb , inc.
2040 polk street , suite 215
san francisco , ca 94109
(415) 474 8055
(415) 775 2125 fax
applelink fwb
optical media international
180 knowles drive
los gatos , ca 95030
(408) 376 3511
(408) 376 3519 fax
applelink omi
trantor systems (for intel architecture machines)
5415 randall place
fremont , ca 94538
(415) 770 1400
applelink trantor
software architects (not verified)
11812 north creek parkway n.
suite 202
bothell , wa 98011
applelink softarch.dev
casa blanca works(not verified)
415 461 2227
applelink cbworks

to send a message to someone on applelink , use the form
address@applelink.apple.com
where address is replaced by the appropriate applelink address.

brian bechtel blob@apple.com my opinion , not apple 's

from mcguire@utkvx.utk.edu (michael a. mcguire)
subject re 2 questions about the centris 650 's ram
organization university of tennessee computing center
x newsreader versaterm link v1.1
distribution usa
lines 27

in article 1993apr16.075822.22121@galileo.cc.rochester.edu ,
hlsw ltd@uhura.cc.rochester.edu (dave hollinsworth) wrote
with a little luck , i could own a c650 sometime in the near future , and
so i was just wondering if someone could clear these two questions up for me

1. what speed simms does the c650 need want \? (i know that it needs 80ns
vram...not sure for the main ram.)


60ns 72 pin simms.

2. i 've heard two conflicting stories about the total expandibility of the
c650 's ram...132 and 136 megs. which is true \? (perhaps another phrasing
would be better does the 8 meg version come with all 8 megs on the logic
board , or 4 megs a 4 meg simm \? )

2 configs 4mb 8mb. in each case the memory is soldered on the board
leaving the 4 simm sockets open. 132mb is the total addressable memory for a
650.

just wondering....



michael a. mcguire , )
mcguire@utkvx.utk.edu
utcc user services

distribution world
from hyerstay@adrenaline.com (jason hyerstay)
organization adrenaline online , (802) 425 2332 , a firstclass bbs
subject re mac oriented bbss in chicago
lines 28

a member of the local bbs i frequent is looking for mac oriented
bbss based in chicago.

any leads would be most appreciated.

here is a list of the firstclass systems in illinois

chicago machine chicago , il (312) 233 9607
insane domain chicago , il (312) 274 9515
mac universe bbs chicago , il (312) 235 6794
the net rockford , il (815) 968 4729
mactripp wilmette , il (708) 251 4158
innovators vernon hills , il (708) 918 1231

if anyone wants the numbers to more firstclass systems , i would be glad to
post the complete list.
jason hyerstay
adrenaline admin


adrenaline online (firstclass)
(802) 425 2332 charlotte , vt
free access ! ! 16.8k hst dual

onenet macunion fidonet usenet 120 conferences megs of files
dedicated to mac users , cyberpunks , civil libertarians and mecha gamers



subject re mac plus is constantly rebooting !
from stubbs@hawk.cs.ukans.edu (jerry stubbs)
organization university of kansas computer science dept
lines 14

on a side note , has anyone ever had a mac plus smoke out on them \? we
have had four machines that all of a sudden start emitting a thick grayish
white smoke. in each case it was a capacitor that had gone bad. has
anyone else encountered this \?

keith cooley
ee macintosh lab administrator
louisiana tech university
tkc@engr.latech.edu


we 've had it happen a time or two. beginning students think it is pretty
entertaining when it happens during a lab lecture or demonstration.


from erme@pobox.upenn.edu (erme maula)
subject re macs suck ! buy a pc !
organization university of pennsylvania
lines 7
nntp posting host pobox.upenn.edu

this is a test





erme

from lumpkin@corvus.nas.nasa.gov (forrest e. lumpkin iii)
subject help scsi woes on mac iifx
keywords scsi , iifx
organization nasa ames research center
lines 46

i am having trouble with scsi on a mac iifx. the machine is 3 years old
and i have been using the same hard drive (internal maxtor lxt 200s) for
two and a half years. the disk recently crashed. i reformatted (silverlining
5.42) , but during the reformat i received random write errors during testing.
the error message reported was like

sector 0 write error detected after testing good sector not mapped out.

this occurred randomly all over the hard disk (which makes me suspect the
diagnostic 's reference to sector 0 \? \? \? ). on the third reformat and after
reinstalling the scsi read write loops i was able to get through passes
2 , 3 , and 4 with no errors. (pass 1 for some reason reported a lot of errors ,
but still mapped out no sectors.) i decided to go ahead and try to resinstall
system 7 and reload my data from a backup. this proceded normally however ,
i now have sub optimal performance. symptoms include

o frequent crashes
o instances of extremely sluggish disk access requiring a reboot to
correct.
o instances of not finding the disk on the scsi chain on reboot.
if i boot from norton utl. after this occurs , it cannot find the
disk either.
the only thing that fixes this is recycling the power. it sometimes
requires several attempts.

questions

1) has anyone had this type of problem before \?
2) is the problem with the fx motherboard (and its non standard
scsi implementation) or with my maxtor disk \? is there some
diagnostic software that would help me make this determination \?
3) is it a termination problem \? i currently have external syquest
and an external dataframe xp60 on the chain. the xp60 is at the
end , and has internal termination so i am not using the iifx
terminator. i do have the scsi filter installed on the internal
drive. i have run with this exact steup for 2 1 2 years with
one previous disk crash requiring a reformat (about a year ago).
i also have symptoms if i disconnect the external devices
so i do n't see how scsi termination would now be an issue. of
course who knows

help would be much appreciated.

forrest e. lumpkin iii
nasa ames research center
lumpkin@corvus.arc.nasa.gov

from jeffh@ludwig.cc.uoregon.edu (jeff hite )
subject re monitor shut down on 13 hi res
organization university of oregon network services
lines 23
nntp posting host ludwig.cc.uoregon.edu

in article 1993apr15.183527.3365@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu
hew@guvax.acc.georgetown.edu writes
there is a defect in the 13 hi res monitors , bring it to a dealer and
they will replace the flyback for free , i think.


i just heard of this problem at work today and we are fixing
them for free.



o r r

the service notice on the 13 hi res monitors expired 3 23 93 after this
date apple will not reimburse service providers for the fix (replacement
of the hi voltage capacitor). all you folks that have been putting up with
intermittant shutdowns without getting it to your service provider missed
out on the freebie. it was in force for a year. if you got it free after
3 23 , you got a deal...
jeff hite
computing center
u of oregon
jeffh@ludwig.cc.uoregon.edu

from geoffb@coos.dartmouth.edu (thumper)
subject re new apple ergo mouse
reply to geoffb@dartmouth.edu
organization amos tuck school
lines 16
disclaimer i do n't represent dartmouth and dartmouth does n't represent me.

in 5apr199312491648@utkvx.utk.edu nwcs@utkvx.utk.edu (schizophrenia means never being alone) writes

does anyone know how to open up the apple ergo mouse (adb mouse ii) \? mine
lives near a cat (true , really...) and picks up her fur. from what i can tell ,
it looks like apple welded it shut.


by rotating the plate around the mouse ball counter clockwise you can open
the mouse and clean it. it is n't as obvious as the desktop bus mouse i but
it opens quite easily once you see what has to be done.

geoff

geoffb@dartmouth.edu computing support consultant , tuck school of business

if you do n't vote... you do n't count.

from arp0150@ritvax.isc.rit.edu (pieman)
subject macplus home brew acceler question \? \?
nntp posting host vaxb.isc.rit.edu
reply to arp0150@ritvax.isc.rit.edu
organization rochester institute of technology
lines 16

ha... all this talk about changing the clock speed of the q700 makes me ask \? \?
if i replaced the 8mhz 68000 in my plus with a 16mhz 68000 with a 16mhz
clock occilater of its own( not shared by the rest of the mac... just the new
16mhz68000) would my mac work..... and if it would work.. would you think there
where be any problems with sound , vidio , scsi........

it seems like a simple solution to keepa dead slow mechine a
live a little longer..
oh if this would not work any idears on how to make it work \? \? \?
thanks

alex

arp0150@ritvax.isc.rit.edu



from ray@netcom.com (ray fischer)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
organization netcom. san jose , california
distribution usa
lines 36

dhk@ubbpc.uucp (dave kitabjian) writes ...
i'm sure intel and motorola are competing neck and neck for
crunch power , but for a given clock speed , how do we rank the
following (from 1st to 6th)
486 68040
386 68030
286 68020

040 486 030 386 020 286

while you 're at it , where will the following fit into the list
68060
pentium
powerpc

060 fastest , then pentium , with the first versions of the powerpc
somewhere in the vicinity.

and about clock speed does doubling the clock speed double the
overall processor speed \? and fill in the 's below
68030 @ mhz 68040 @ mhz

no. computer speed is only partly dependent of processor clock speed.
memory system speed play a large role as does video system speed and
i o speed. as processor clock rates go up , the speed of the memory
system becomes the greatest factor in the overall system speed. if
you have a 50mhz processor , it can be reading another word from memory
every 20ns. sure , you can put all 20ns memory in your computer , but
it will cost 10 times as much as the slower 80ns simms.

and roughly , the 68040 is twice as fast at a given clock
speed as is the 68030.


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth
ray@netcom.com than lies. friedrich nietzsche

from cr@cs.strath.ac.uk (chris reid)
subject quadra 700 memory upgrade
organization univ. of strathclyde , glasgow , uk
lines 18
distribution world
nntp posting host simpson 06.cs.strath.ac.uk


hi folks ,

what exactly is the maximum memory i can put in
a quadra 700. my manual says 20mb (with 4 x 4mb simms) ,
but macwarehouse and the like advertise 16mb simms to
give it a total of 68mb. who 's wrong \? has anybody got
68mb \?


thanks ,


chris


chris reid cr@cs.strath.ac.uk


from trrrc@rc.rit.edu (thomas r. ridley)
subject token ring cards for macs
nntp posting host mutsu.rc.rit.edu
organization rit research corp
distribution usa
lines 6

i am looking for recommendations experiences of bringing macintosh cpus
onto token ring nets. can someone point me in the right direction for
information.

thanks in advance.
tom

from ferch@ucs.ubc.ca (les ferch)
subject re lcd overhead projectors
organization the university of british columbia
lines 25
distribution na
nntp posting host swiss.ucs.ubc.ca

in 1993apr15.114208.2945@ug.eds.com jan@camhpp12.mdcbbs.com (jan vandenbrande) writes

i am looking for one of those color lcd screens you
place on an overhead projector and control the presentation
with a mac.

can you recommend me a particular brand \?
what price are we talking about \?

for a good display , you must get an active matrix panel and a very
bright overhead projector designed to be used with an lcd panel (i.e.
stage must not get too hot). i tried out a proxima ovation unit and liked
it , but i needed a brighter projector (i used it with a 3m 920). it is
also too expensive for what you get , imho. prices of active matrix panels
are rumoured to drop substantially sometime this year (something to do
with tarrifs being lifted i think).

in canadian dollars , the proxima ovation models ranged in price from about
5000 to 7000 and a good overhead projector about 1000 to 1500. for
that kind of money , you can get a brighter image from a three beam
projector , but sacrifice portability.

oh yes , proper room lighting is extremely important , especially if you
want your audience to have enough light to read handouts and not have that
light wash out your display at the front of the room. tricky to get right.

from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon wtte)
subject re increasing the number of serial ports
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 29
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se

in 1993apr18.134943.16479@bmers95.bnr.ca slang@bnr.ca (steven langlois) writes

if such a device exists , are there are any limits to the number of
serial devices i can use \?

how many nubus slots do you have \?

applied engineering has something called the quadralink , which is
a card with 4 serial ports that you get at through the comms
toolbox (in addition to the built in ones) it also comes with
software for fooling applications to open an ae port when they
think they open a built in port.

they also have a more expensive card with dma (better performance)
and i think they , or someone else , have a card that handles
8 ports simultaneously.

as i said , with nubus , you 're green. learn how to use the comms
resource manager to get at the various installed cards.

cheers ,

h


jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe
you never hide the menu bar. you might go about and change the color
of it to the color of the background , but you never hide the menu bar.
tog

from gcohen@mailer.acns.fsu.edu (gregory cohen)
subject re photo shop scanner \?
organization florida state university
lines 37

in article c5lgii.euj@ncube.com root@ncube.com (operator) writes
from root@ncube.com (operator)
subject photo shop scanner \?
date fri , 16 apr 1993 20 49 30 gmt
i have a macc iici and a color scanner.
i scanned a picture at 600 dpi. when i try to print
it on my hp500 color printer , after 10 minutes of
making noise , the mac hangs. i would need to reboot it.
what does this mean \? do i need to buy more memory \? i have
5.0 mb now. i also have about 50 mb of disk free , and the
scanned picture is about 12 mb.






@
captain zod...
zod@ncube.com
0 0







have you tried printing the data file (tiff) from another application such
as freehand or pagemaker \? i have found that photoshop has occasional
problems printing files that i can print through other applications.

greg

gcohen@mailer.cc.fsu.edu infinite illusions juggling supplies
beware of the fnord or it will 1 800 54torch call or write for a
eat you catalog.

from bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de (christian bauer)
subject re macplus freezes after 1 hour use , fails to boot
nntp posting host christian.informatik.uni ulm.de
organization university of ulm
lines 27

in article 1osu69inn11r@tamsun.tamu.edu , mclean@math.tamu.edu (robert
mclean) wrote

my macplus is having problems which seem temperature related. after using
it for a while it freezes. the when i turn off then on , the screen does n't
show the disk icon , and then goes dark. i consulted larry pina 's book and
could not find these symptoms. has anybody else seen such symptoms \?
suggestions \?

shure it is temperature dependent , but this does not clean all your
problems.
based on some exp. i must say that the connections between the power supply
and the monitor and main board are usable to this failure , ram simms can be
badly connected due to some corrosion and the powersupply can be in the
last
phase (lower voltage).

so you can do following if you are used to such technical terms.
1) clean all mentioned contacts with contact spray
2) readjust the 5 volt level of your powersupply
3) use a calm fan and think of preventing dust blowin through the floppy !
(a fixed piece of paper can prevent this)
if you do n't know how to do it beg a friendly technician !

christian bauer

bauer@informatik.uni ulm.de

from mpretzel@cs.utexas.edu (benjamin w. allums)
subject re mac ii scsi pmmu socket question
organization cs dept , university of texas at austin
lines 29
distribution world
nntp posting host tokio.cs.utexas.edu

in article 1qkmb2 n0d@jethro.corp.sun.com khc@marantz.corp.sun.com writes

1. the mac ii is supposed to have a socket for the mc68851 pmmu chip. could
anyone let me know where that socket is on the motherboard. i have obtained
a pmmu chip (16 mhz) from a surplus store , and would like to install it onto
my mac ii (circa 1987). but i cannot see the socket myself when i tried to
install it.

the original mac ii had an apple mmu chip installed which performs a subset
of the 68851 's functions. if you look underneath your front left floppy
bay you will find three chips , all approximately the same size. one will
be the 68020 , the next the 68881 , and the third , approximately the same
size , will be the apple chip. it is easy to spot because it has a 'hump'
in the middle of it.


example








that and the apple logo should make it easy to find.

ben
mpretzel@cs.utexas.edu

from jdsiegel@garnet.berkeley.edu (joel siegel)
subject re help need modem info for duo 210
article i.d. agate.1qo9c6 8oj
organization university of california , berkeley
lines 27
nntp posting host garnet.berkeley.edu

jmilhoan@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jt) writes

hi... what alternatives to the express modem do duo owners have (if
they want to go at least 9600 baud) \?

every place in town says they are back ordered , and part of the reason
i want a laptop mac is so i can use it as a remote terminal from
wherever i am , but i really would hate to have to wait 2 months to get
a modem in or have to settle with 2400 baud.

you 're not going to like this , but if memory serves me , postings
i 've read in this newsgroup and elsewhere indicate that there are
no , repeat no , internal modems for the duo besides the express
modem... at any speed. something having to do with the modem
using the main cpu for some of its tasks , and apple not releasing
details on the architecture , or something. i'm vague on the
details , but the gist was that there are going to be no
third party internal duo modems. if i'm wrong , somebody please
correct me on this. sorry to be the bearer of bad news.

joel


joel siegel jdsiegel@garnet.berkeley.edu jdsiegel@ocf.berkeley.edu
i myself have never been able to find out what feminism is i
only know that i am called a feminist whenever i express
sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat. rebecca west , 1913

from aw@camcon.co.uk (alain waha)
subject re new duo dock info.
organization cambridge consultants ltd. , cambridge , uk
lines 7

in article nazario 040493023201@stiles 42 kstar node.net.yale.edu , nazario@pop.cis.yale.edu (edgardo nazario) writes
the info i am about to give is not a rumour , it 's the truth. the new
macintosh coming in the second quarter , will have a cpu of their own.

excuse me but... have not all macs got a cpu ! ! !

alain

organization the american university university computing center
from br4416a@auvm.american.edu
subject to fix trackball
lines 11

the trackbal on my pb140 no longer moves in the horizontal direction. when i
called the nearest authorized apple service person i was told that it probably
needed replacing and that would cost me over 150 ! ouch !
can anyone recommend a less expensive way to fix this problem \? one strange
symptom of the problem is that when i take the ball out of the socket and shine
a light into the hole i can make the cursor move horizontally by moving the
wheel with my finger , it works fine that way but wo n't work if i turn off the
light. any suggestions or comments \?

ben roy .......just a poor college student.......internet br4416a@american.edu


from gpb@gpb mac (greg berryman )
subject re memory upgrades
nntp posting host 222.1.248.85
reply to gpb@gpb mac.sps.mot.com
organization memories at motorola
x newsreader tin 1.1 pl4
lines 33

jacob@plasma2.ssl.berkeley.edu (nga throgaw shaygiy) writes

excuse me if this is a frequent question , i checked in
several faqs but could n't really find anything.

you are excused... the answer varies from mac to mac so it would be
a complex answer in the faq.

i have a iisi with the standard 5 meg memory and i want
(need) to add additional memory. but i'm on a budget.
i really do n't need more than 10 meg max , so what is
the best (performance wise) and most economical way
to do this \? someone told me that i should only use
simms of the same amount of memory , that is 4 1 meg ,
4 2 meg , etc. what if i just wanted to buy just 1 4 meg
and use the rest of what i already have \? the manual
has n't been very helpful with this.

the si uses a 32 bit wide data bus and therefore you must use 4 8 bit
wide simms. sorry , but no short cuts here.

thanks.

you 're quite welcome.

greg.


my words , not motorola 's. equal rights not special rights
gpb@gpb mac.sps.mot.com bi i will not ride in the back of the bus.
greg berryman (512)928 6014 silence death
motorola austin , texas , usa first , be true to yourself.
glb mailing list glblist@gpb mac.sps.mot.com (motorola only)

from brucet@extro.ucc.su.oz.au (bruce tulloch)
subject re help ! duo 230 problems
nntp posting host extro.ucc.su.oz.au
organization sydney university computing service , sydney , nsw , australia
lines 76

bcherkas@netcom.com (brian cherkas) writes
chess@cats.ucsc.edu (brian vantuyl chess) writes
i just got a duo 230 , and i'm having some difficulties.
if the machine is plugged in to the wall adapter , put to sleep ,
unplugged from the wall , and woken up , it crashes 75 of the time.
(there 's nothing but the original system software on the machine.)
the battery has plenty of life i think this must be a power manager
problem , but i do n't know what to do about it.
also , the speaker occasionally makes a high pitched hiss. the noise
is irregular , but seems to favor sleep and restart commands.

i 've had my duo 230 for a few weeks now and suffer from both
of the above problems. i reinstalled my system software twice
in an effort to combat the problems thinking they were
system software problems. initially reinstalling the system
seemed to help but not anymore. occasionally when i try to
wake up the duo i get a solid screen of horizontal lines on
the screen it freezes.

i also get the high pitched hiss occasionally but only at
startup.

i 've called the apple hotline (800 sos appl) three times
already and finally they agreed something is astray after my
duo 's screen would go dim and the hard drive spun down by
itselft and put itself to sleep. this problem only occured
twice. apple sent me a box to ship my duo to be looked at in
new york but the problem now is intermittent and i ca n't
afford to be without my duo at this time.

anyone out there with these same problems \?


brian cherkas bcherkas@netcom.com
i
aol brianc22 compuserve 71251 , 3253
netcom online communication services san jose , ca

yes , quite a number of people it seems from discussions i 've had (me
included). i bought my machine a couple of weeks ago as well and
started to experience these problems.

apple australia via my dealer said that this problem has a number of
potential causes faulty applications , faulty third party hardware
(modems , memory etc) , system software , pram corruption and power
manager corruption , and the duo hardware itself.

none of the above are relevant in my case except the last two maybe
(no applications were running , the system software was re installed , i
have no additional hardware). i have found that clearing pram appears
to help for a while at least (hold down command option p and r on
startup). unfortunately the problem returns suggesting that pram is
being corrupted by something (system software bug \? i do n't have any
non issue inits in my system). apparently the power manager can be
reset by holding the reset and interrupt buttons while powering up
apple 's advice but since the duo does not have an interrupt button
i'm not sure what they mean in this case. this may also help if
someone can decipher apple 's advice for me.

beyond this apple suggest that you should follow the technical
procedures to check the hardware of this duo . since so many others
appear to be having the same problem it would seem to me that there
has been a system software bug introduced somewhere along the line
and quite recently too since it only seems to be recent duo 230
purchasers who have this problem.

any more comments from others in the same boat are welcome ,
particularly apple duo engineers )

cheers

brucet


bruce tulloch sydney australia brucet@extro.ucc.su.oz.au
complex problems have straight forward , easy to understand wrong answers

from f tawb@va.nkw.ac.uk
subject us simm prices please
organization natural environment research council
lines 15


please could someone in the us give me the current street
prices on the following , with and without any relevant taxes

8 mb 72 pin simm
16 mb 72 pin simm (both for mac lc iii)

are any tax refunds possible if they are to be exported
to the uk \? can you recommend a reliable supplier \?

as i am posting this from a friend 's account , please
reply direct to me at
s.fraser@ic.ac.uk
thanks in advance for any help )
simon

from narlochn@kirk.msoe.edu
subject general questions on software and hardware...
distribution usa
organization milwaukee school of engineering , milwaukee , wi usa
lines 18

i have just been introduced to macintosh systems.
i have a few questions. e mail prefered.

1) just what is system 7 \? i want hard details not dingy commercials
like their ads in magazines...

2) has anyone used the microsoft office 3.0 \? i would like
suggestions on , and descriptions on
each has a microsoft before the actual name.

a) word 5.1
b) excel 4.0
c) power point
d) mail 3.1

3) what is the major differences between mac wordperfect and word \?

thanks a lot !

from ()
subject re quadra scsi problems \? \? \?
organization apple computer inc.
lines 28

attention mac quadra owners many storage industry experts have
concluded that mac quadras suffer from timing irregularities deviating
from the standard scsi specification. this results in silent corruption
of data when used with some devices , including ultra modern devices.
although i will not name the devices , since it is not their fault , an
example would be a sony 3.5 inch mo , without the special mac compatible
firmware installed. one solution , sometimes , is to disable blind writes

to the best of my knowledge there are n't any problems with quadras and
blind transfers. trouble with blind transfers usually means the programmer
screwed up the tibs or did n't test their driver with the device in question.
well designed tibs poll or loop at every point where delays of 16 sec occur.
this usually occurs at the first byte of each block of a transfer but some
devices can hiccup in the middle of blocks. if this happens in the middle
of a blind transfer there is the possibility of losing or gaining a byte
depending on which direction the tranfer was going. in anycase the scsi manager
will eventually return a phase error at the end of the transaction because
it is out of sync. actual data loss would only occur if the driver did n't
pay attention to the errors coming back.

note that this effect is not caused by anything actually on the scsi bus but
rather by the transfer loops inside the scsi manager. the problem occurs when
the processor bus errors trying to access the scsi chip when the next byte
has n't been clocked yet. also note that the bus error is dealt with by a bus
error handler and does n't crash the machine...

clinton bauder
apple computer

from bcherkas@netcom.com (brian cherkas)
subject re help ! duo 230 problems
organization netcom on line communication services (408 241 9760 guest)
lines 41

chess@cats.ucsc.edu (brian vantuyl chess) writes


i just got a duo 230 , and i'm having some difficulties.
if the machine is plugged in to the wall adapter , put to sleep ,
unplugged from the wall , and woken up , it crashes 75 of the time.
(there 's nothing but the original system software on the machine.)

the battery has plenty of life i think this must be a power manager
problem , but i do n't know what to do about it.

also , the speaker occasionally makes a high pitched hiss. the noise
is irregular , but seems to favor sleep and restart commands.

i 've had my duo 230 for a few weeks now and suffer from both
of the above problems. i reinstalled my system software twice
in an effort to combat the problems thinking they were
system software problems. initially reinstalling the system
seemed to help but not anymore. occasionally when i try to
wake up the duo i get a solid screen of horizontal lines on
the screen it freezes.

i also get the high pitched hiss occasionally but only at
startup.

i 've called the apple hotline (800 sos appl) three times
already and finally they agreed something is astray after my
duo 's screen would go dim and the hard drive spun down by
itselft and put itself to sleep. this problem only occured
twice. apple sent me a box to ship my duo to be looked at in
new york but the problem now is intermittent and i ca n't
afford to be without my duo at this time.

anyone out there with these same problems \?


brian cherkas bcherkas@netcom.com
i
aol brianc22 compuserve 71251 , 3253
netcom online communication services san jose , ca


from jenski@cae.wisc.edu (anders jenski)
subject quadra 950 900 case source wanted
organization u of wisconsin madison college of engineering
lines 12

hello all ,

if anyone knows of a place to get the case to hold the power supply and
motherboard of a quadra 950 please let me know. i have tried some mail
order places and some local stores. both groups would prefer that i part
with over 1000 to get just the case. in my eyes this seems about 600 700
to much. any comments \? i currently own the guts of a 950.

please email me or post to this group w info ,

thanks in advance ,
andy

from kemper@informatik.uni kl.de (michael kemper rhrk )
subject hard disk error
organization university of kaiserslautern
lines 16

hi there ,

when i run disk first aid on my external hard drive (quantum lps 240) i get the followinf
message error 535 missing thread record (tarid 31015 tarblock 416)
disk first aid is not able to fix this problem , norton utils does n't find it at all.
when i use norton disk editor to look at tarblock 416 i can read something like dirreservedarea

my question how can i get rid of this error (without reformatting of course)


michael kemper
university of kaiserslautern , germany
email kemper@rhrk.uni kl.de

although they gave me that email address ,
this is not the opinion of rhrk , uni kl or de !

from khc@marantz.corp.sun.com (kelly chang)
subject mac ii scsi pmmu socket question
organization sun microsystems , inc.
lines 17
distribution world
reply to khc@marantz.corp.sun.com
nntp posting host marantz.corp.sun.com


this is a posting for my friend who does not have usenet access
please contact him (not me) directly , thank you

1. the mac ii is supposed to have a socket for the mc68851 pmmu chip. could
anyone let me know where that socket is on the motherboard. i have obtained
a pmmu chip (16 mhz) from a surplus store , and would like to install it onto
my mac ii (circa 1987). but i cannot see the socket myself when i tried to
install it.

2. could anyone send me the pinouts for the mac ii scsi db 25 interface \?


thank you.

contact david chan , bzone@attmail.com


from mmatteo@mondrian.csufresno.edu (marc matteo)
subject why the drive speeds differ \? \?
keywords quantum , lps , speed
nntp posting host mondrian.csufresno.edu
organization california state university , fresno
lines 13

hi all ,

i just got a la cie 240 meg external hard drive. speed tests show that it 's
substantially faster that my internal 105 meg quantum hd. supposedly the 105
and the 240 (both lps drives) are roughly rated the same speed. why such a
large difference \?

marc.


marc matteo , applelink matteo
california state university , internet mmatteo@mondrian.csufresno.edu
fresno aol m matteo

from thomas kephart kephart@snowhite.eeap.cwru.edu
subject re interesting adb behaviour on c650
organization case school of engineering
lines 29
distribution world
nntp posting host b62182.student.cwru.edu
x useragent nuntius v1.1.1d20
x xxmessage id a7f350070401f2e6@b62182.student.cwru.edu
x xxdate thu , 15 apr 93 17 46 47 gmt

in article 16bb1a4df.djcohen@yalevm.ycc.yale.edu daniel cohen ,
djcohen@yalevm.ycc.yale.edu writes
i 've noticed an interesting phenomenon on my centris 650. if i unplug
the
keyboard and mouse and plug them in again without turning the power
off ,
the mouse suddenly switches to about half its normal movement speed. i
check the mouse control panel , and there 's no change in its setting
there it 's still on full speed , the way i like it. restarting the
machine
restores the normal mouse speed.

by the way , it happens with both the newer style mouse that came with
the
centris , and the older style mouse from my iifx at work. thus i do n't
think
it has anything to do with the resolution setting in the mouse it 's
definitely a quirk of the adb interface (either hardware or software)
in
the centris itself.

i have noticed this exact same phenomenon occurs with my lciii. perhaps
it
is a quirk of the new machines \?


sorry , but mine works fine (c650)

my 2 cents worth...

from dfclark@snll arpagw.llnl.gov (clark dean f)
subject re centris cache bernoulli box
article i.d. snll arp.519
distribution world
organization sandia national laboratories
lines 27

in article 1993apr2.123619.548@physc1.byu.edu goblec@physc1.byu.edu writes
i just tried running my bernoulli box off a centris and the driver
software only seems to work when the 040 cache is off. if it is
on i get the message this is not a macintosh disk do you wish
to initialize it.

i have iomega driver 3.4.2. is there a newer version that works
with the 040 's \? is there something i am doing wrong \?

clark goble
goblec@theory.byu.edu

i have version 3.5.1 which i believe was needed for a 040 machine.
you should be able to get the newest version by calling their tech
support at 1 800 456 5522 or if you have a modem you can get the
driver from their bbs at 801 778 4400.



dean





dean clark
internet dfclark@ca.sandia.gov

from billd@informix.com (william daul)
subject toshiba 3401 e and p cd rom
summary need info on what difference is and where to find 3401p or e
keywords toshiba , cd , cd rom , cd rom
organization informix software , inc.
lines 10

i notice the toshiba 3401 has 3 versions , b internal , e external and p
portable. can anyone tell me the difference between the portable and the
external version \? where in the sf bay area can i find a model p \?

thanks , bill


william daul advanced support informix software inc.
4100 bohannon dr. (415) 926 6488 wk
menlo park , ca. 94025 uunet ! infmx ! billd or billd@informix.com

from smedley@ecst.csuchico.edu (steven medley)
subject 72 pin simms , where \?
distribution usa
organization california state university , chico
lines 13
nntp posting host pigface.ecst.csuchico.edu

i am looking for a 8 meg 72 pin simm for my centris 610. where is the
best place to purchase one (stock , shipping , warrenty) , and if
possible , phone numbers so that i can order one as soon as possible.

thanks ,

steven


and hope that there 's intelligent life somewhere out in space monty python
'cause there 's bugger all down here on earth the meaning of life

steven medley email to smedley@erasure.ecst.csuchico.edu

from guykuo@carson.u.washington.edu (guy kuo)
subject re iisi clock upgrades
organization university of washington
lines 16
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu

i 've just completed a successful upgrade of a an si to 27.5 mhz. i'm waiting
on delivery of a 62 mhz clock for a final speed trial. definitely needed the
heatsink. the cpu was quite hot to the touch at higher speeds until i glued
on a 90 cent radio shack sink.

i made a call for reports of failures last week. no reports have arrived
here. locally , in seattle there is a reported cpu damage due to the user
slipping with the iron and putting a gash into the board not exactly
a problem due to the cpu running too fast.

i think it would be nice to have a poll to report top speeds and system
configurations including pds and nubus cards which were used. i 'd be happy
to coordinate and report results

guy kuo guykuo@u.washington.edu


from wlyle@sju.edu (wayne lyle)
subject driver for dataframe xp60 b
organization st. joseph 's university
lines 14

i am in need of the driver for the bernoulli cartridge on a dataframe
xp60 b. the hard disk on the system got fried and i have n't been able to
locate the original disks. if anyone has it or know where i can get this
please let me know via e mail.

thanks in advance.

wayne lyle



wayne j. lyle
dilworth , paxson , kalish kauffman
philadelphia , pa 19109

from dpb@sdchemw2.ucsd.edu (doug p. book)
subject stereo sound problem ( \? ) on mac games
organization uc san diego chemistry
lines 62
distribution world
reply to dpb@sdchemw2.ucsd.edu (doug p. book)
nntp posting host sdchemw2.ucsd.edu
keywords sound stereo , quadra , 900 , powerbook , 170


hi. i think i have a problem with the stereo sound output on my quadra
900 , but i am not totally sure because my roomate has the same problem
on his powerbook 170. any info or experience anyopne has would be
greatly appreciated.

when i hook my quadra up to my home stereo system , the following types
of sounds (mono , as far as i can tell) all play fine through both
speakers

system beeps (already provided ones such as indigo and ones i record)

armor alley
spectre
spaceward ho !


but , the following games only play out of the left channel

lemmings
out of this world (awesome game , btw)
glider 4.0
oids


but still , stereo system beeps do play in stereo , through both speakers.
(the one i'm specifically referrring to is apocolyptic beginning , which
my roommate downloaded from some ftp site (sumex \? ))


all of the symptoms are the same on my rommates 170 (he ca n't run
ootw because he does n't have color).

we 're both running system 7.1



does anyone with lemmings or the other three games i mentioned above get
sound out of both speakers on a mac ii class , quadra , lc , powerbook 140 or
greater , centris , se 30 , etc... (stereo) machine \?

i used to have a mac ii , and i sort of rememeber lemmings playing in
stereo on that machine , not just on the left channel. (i could be
mistaken , though. if there were a problem with the quad 900 's and pb
170 's , i am wondering why the system beeps still play in stereo \? if there
is n't a problem with our machines , i wonder why the 4 games above are
apparantly written to support only one channel of stereo when they
could just use mono sounds so the mono sound would at least come out of
both speakers (like spectre , etc. do) \?

quadra 900 's and powerbook 170 's have the same roms (to my knowledge) ,
so maybe this is a rom problem \? (if so , though , why would n't system 7.1
patch over this problem \? )




thanks for any help you can provide !


doug book
dpb@sdchemw2.ucsd.edu

from schandra@bme.ri.ccf.org (shalabh chandra)
subject trying to find a reliable power center for macs
article i.d. bme.1993apr15.222020.4004
organization biomedical engineering and applied therapeutics , ccf
lines 18

hi there ,
i am trying to find out a reliable power center , it is basically
a surge protector that sits below the monitor and has individual control
for each outlet. some people have an opinion that none of them work well.
the ones that i could locate in microcenter catalogue were

tripp lite 's isobar command console ( 79)

proxima power director (89.95)

kensington masterpiece plus (109.95)

has anyone used one of these \? could you please send me your feedback
on these \?

thanks

shalabh

from qman@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (charlie kuehmann)
subject trouble w vga displays
nntp posting host ironman.ms.nwu.edu
organization northwestern university
lines 17

i'm currently having trouble connecting my pb to a true blue (ibm model
1513) vga monitor. the display is bearly readable but all the details are
seperated into yellow and red colors. ie. a window will have two images one
in yellow and a ghost image in red. the background is also a little
greenish. i read some time ago , before i ever thought i would hook my mac
up to a vga screen , about an incompatability with some vga monitors due to
the sync on green signal. does this sound like it could be the same demon \?
i also read that there are both hardware (putting a diode on the green
signal \? ) solution and a software solution to this problem. i do n't the
details does somebody have them the can e mail to me or post them \? i
checked all the faq 's for this and did n't find anything about it. did i
miss it somewhere \? this sure seems that it would be a good thing to have
in one. thanks for any replys.

charles kuehmann
northwestern university
steel research group

from petrack@vnet.ibm.com
subject serial line connection between duo 210 and pc \? \? \?
reply to petrack@vnet.ibm.com
disclaimer this posting may contain no views at all
news software usenet 3.1
lines 45

i have tried almost everything under the sun to get a null modem connection
between a mac duo 210 and a pc. i have used mackermit and versaterm on
the mac side. i have used procomm , kermit , and softerm (on os 2) on
the pc (or ps) side. i have used non hardware handshaking and hardware
ahdshaking cables. and know my hands are shaking from the effort. nothing
has allowed file transfers from the mac to the ps.

in general , i can type back and forth with no trouble , but only if both sides
are set to speeds over 9600 baud. i cannot send files from the mac to the
ps at all , and file transfers from the duo to the ps are not possible.
when i do a straight ascii send , i can send from the ps to the duo flawlessly.
i can send binhex files this way quite fast , and i know that the
transmission is error free.
but straight ascii sent from the mac to the ps is full of errors.
unless , of course , i do text pacing so slow that it is like human
typing. (well , like 2 3 times faster than human typing).

i would like to hear from anyone who has been able to transfer files
from a duo 210 to a ps via modem or null modem. if you can do it , please
tell me your exact combination of hardware and software. obviously , i am
talking of a true serial port modem , not the express modem. maybe some
kind soul with access to a modem and a duo 210 can check this out for me.

right now , i am of the opinion that it wo n't work at high speeds because
of the power interrupts on the duo , and it wo n't work at low speeds
because of some crazy reason i do n't understand.

could i hear from someone attesting that they can really pump information
out the serial port of a duo 210 fast \? like via a modem or via a
sys ex dump \?

could anyone with a duo help me out \? \? i am going absolutely insane.
i wanna know if the problem is my duo , or all duo 210s , or all duos ,
or just me.

yes , i have checked the cable 1 , 000 , 000 times. and not only can i type
back and forth , but zterm alerts the users if s he uses hardware handshaking
and cts is down. so i know that hardware handshaking is working. and also ,
according to zterm port stats , the buffer never overflows.

please help me figure out what 's going on...

scott petrack
petrack@haifasc3.vnet.ibm.com


from higgins@fnalf.fnal.gov (bill higgins beam jockey)
subject pds vs. nubus (was re lc iii nubus capable \? )
nntp posting host fnalf.fnal.gov
organization fermi national accelerator laboratory
lines 24

in article c5kzls.kkb@dartvax.dartmouth.edu , hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes) writes
mmiller@garnet.msen.com (marvin miller) writes
my friend recently purchased a lc iii and he wants to know if there is
such a demon called nubus adapter for his pds slot \?

the lc family of macs can only
use pds cards. they are not able to use nubus.

ah , but why \? can some technically hip macslinger tell us what the
difference is between pds and nubus \?

is it impossible to make a gadget that plugs into pds and ends in a
nubus card cage \? at least , marvin 's friend has not been able to
locate one and neither have i. what is the fundamental reason for
this \?


o ) ' ' , , ' ,
) ( ) ( ) zap !
( ) ( )
bill higgins fermi national accelerator laboratory
bitnet higgins@fnal.bitnet
internet higgins@fnal.fnal.gov
span hepnet 43011 higgins

from tthiel@cs.uiuc.edu (terry thiel)
subject re why does apple give us a confusing message \?
organization university of illinois , dept. of comp. sci. , urbana , il
lines 16

ferch@ucs.ubc.ca (les ferch) writes

in c5ngii.bgx@news2.cis.umn.edu bunt0003@student.tc.umn.edu (monthian
buntan 1) writes

does anyone know why apple has an ambiguous message for c650 regarding
fpu \? in all mac price lists i 've seen , every c650 as the message fpu
optional . i know from what we 've discussed in this newsgroup that all
c650 have the fpu built in except the 4 80 configuration. why would they
be so unclear about this issue in their price list \?

perhaps the reason is simple maybe the marketing people who put together
the brochures and price lists were n't clear on the fpu issue.

perhaps the marketing people do n't know what an fpu is !
terry

from james jim frazier@cup.portal.com
subject mo driver compatibility \?
organization the portal system (tm)
distribution world
lines 10

it 's my understanding that , when you format a magneto optical disc , (1) the
formatting software installs a driver on the disc , (2) if you insert the
disc in a different drive , then this driver is loaded into the computer 's
memory and then controls the drive , and (3) if this driver is incompatible
with the drive , then the disc can not be mounted and or properly read written
is that correct \?

thanks ,
jim frazier
73447.3113@compuserve.com

from rrn@po.cwru.edu (robert r. novitskey)
subject cyclone and tempest \? \? \? \? \?
article i.d. usenet.1pskav qtu
reply to rrn@po.cwru.edu (robert r. novitskey)
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , oh (usa)
lines 10
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


could someone please post any info on these systems.

thanks.
bob


robert novitskey pursuing women is similar to banging one 's head
rrn@po.cwru.edu against a wall...with less opportunity for reward


from kerr@ux1.cso.uiuc.edu (stan kerr)
subject re sigma designs double up \? \?
article i.d. ux1.c52u8x.b62
organization university of illinois at urbana
lines 29

jap10@po.cwru.edu (joseph a. pellettiere) writes


i am looking for any information about the sigma designs
double up board. all i can figure out is that it is a
hardware compression board that works with autodoubler , but
i am not sure about this. also how much would one cost \?

i 've had the board for over a year , and it does work with diskdoubler ,
but not with autodoubler , due to a licensing problem with stac technologies ,
the owners of the board 's compression technology. (i'm writing this
from memory i 've lost the reference. please correct me if i'm wrong.)

using the board , i 've had problems with file icons being lost , but it 's
hard to say whether it 's the board 's fault or something else however ,
if i decompress the troubled file and recompress it without the board ,
the icon usually reappears. because of the above mentioned licensing
problem , the freeware expansion utility dd expand will not decompress
a board compressed file unless you have the board installed.

since stac has its own product now , it seems unlikely that the holes
in autodoubler diskdoubler related to the board will be fixed.
which is sad , and makes me very reluctant to buy stac 's product since
they 're being so stinky. (but hey , that 's competition.)


stan kerr
computing communications services office , u of illinois urbana
phone 217 333 5217 email stankerr@uiuc.edu

from noah@apple.com (noah price)
subject re how long do ram simm 's last \?
distribution usa
organization (not the opinions of) apple computer , inc.
lines 12

in article 1993apr11.234818.1755@ultb.isc.rit.edu ,
jek5036@ultb.isc.rit.edu (j.e. king) wrote

does n't a 1 mb simm have about 1024 1024 8 moving flip flops \?

they do n't move , to anybody much bigger than an electron )

noah


noah@apple.com macintosh hardware design
... ! sun , decwrl ! apple ! noah (not the opinions of) apple computer , inc.

from dingman @cs.cmu.edu (christopher dingman)
subject re buying a high speed v.everything modem
nntp posting host pie9.mach.cs.cmu.edu
organization school of computer science , carnegie mellon
lines 38

in article 1993apr20.001127.4928@rs6000.cmp.ilstu.edu behr@math.ilstu.edu (eric behr) writes

the at t dataport earns nearly unanimous praises for reliability. they are
backordered at the moment , probably because of the special 299 price in
effect until may. its fax capabilities are worse than that of the other two
modems. warning at t ads say that the modem comes with a mac kit (cables
all) , and has lifetime warranty. this applies only when you order
directly from paradyne ! i called elektek (one of the distributors) , and
they wanted to charge me 16 for cable , and gave only 1 year warranty...


hmm , i do n't know where this information concerning the cable and the
warranty came from but i ordered mine from logos communications , near
cleveland , and inside was a mac cable (with the correct pin connections ))
and a lifetime warranty. the whole package was assembled at at t paradyne ,
and every piece (the serial cable , the telephone cable , etc.) had at t
part numbers on them , except the quicklink software package and the
compuserve intro kit.


eric behr , illinois state university , mathematics department
behr@math.ilstu.edu or behr@ilstu.bitnet (please avoid ! )

if anyone 's interested , logos number is (800) 837 7777. i ordered mine
last wednesday and got my modem on friday , though it 's not to far from
cleveland to pittsburgh.. ) on the down side they only ship ups cod.


chris


christopher p. dingman
electrical and computer eng. dept. dingman@ece.cmu.edu
carnegie mellon university (412) 268 7119
5000 forbes ave
pittsburgh , pa 15213



from jartsu@hut.fi (jartsu)
subject help wanted ! monitor problems (nec 3d iivi)
nntp posting host lk hp 15.hut.fi
reply to jartsu@vipunen.hut.fi
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
lines 107


hello all !

for few past days i 've been fighting to get my nec multisync 3d
(predecessor of 3fg) to work properly with the internal video of mac
iivi.

with a vga adapter (as described in dale adams' posting about quadra
video) it works , only some minor interferences occur , small enough not
to prevent any action on screen to be visible clear.

but because the scanrates stuff of 3d are well enough for emulating
apple 13 rgb , i first made an adapter , then got one fron the local
distributor of nec.
with both adapters i can get a picure , which looks excellent most of
the time or every now and then.
but with radical changes on screen (opening palettes , large windows
etc.) there are major interferences in sync. the picture either tilts
sideways or scrables up totally. even when it is clear , there are some
spiky interferences on horizontal line alignment when accessing
pull downs etc.
with the self made adapter , almost identical to the vga one , only
sense pins differ , it is sometimes impossible to even boot up with a
picture clear enough to shut down from menu...
with the adapter from nec , everything is well most of the time , but
sometimes the picture tilts badly sideways or the sync is completely
lost. but not nearly as often as with the self made one.

i know , with self made adapters there can always be interference , but
with the one provided by nec... where 's the source of this interference \?

i 'll give you the pinouts of the whole mess , and i hope that you can ,
at least someone (please try ) figure out what could be the best pin
assignment for nec 3d.
i am going to make a completely new cable with maximum shieldings and
isolations , as soon as someone figures out how the pins should be
arranged , especially syncs and groundings.

yes , i have checked that the monitor is not defective , it works
perfectly well with all pc graphic adapters up to 1024x768 pixels and
also atari 71hz monochrome , which i am using now with it.

here are the pinouts stuff

15 pin mini d sub (nec 3d) 15 pin d sub (mac , at least quadra)

1 red video 1 red gnd
2 green video 2 red video
3 blue video 3 composite sync
4 gnd 4 sense 0
5 gnd 5 green video
6 red gnd 6 green gnd
7 green gnd 7 sense 1
8 blue gnd 8 nc
9 nc 9 blue video
10 gnd 10 sense 2
11 gnd 11 c.sync v.sync gnd
12 nc 12 v.sync
13 h.sync 13 blue gnd
14 v.sync 14 h.sync gnd
15 nc 15 h.sync
shell gnd shell gnd



connection suggested by apple for vga svga , sense pins changed to
emulate apple 13 with multisync (my self made adapter)

multisync (15pin mini d sub) mac (15pin d sub)

1 2
2 5
3 9
6 1
7 6
8 13
10 14
13 15
14 12
4 (sense0) grounded to 11 (sync gnd)


connection measured from an adapter to make nec 3fg 4fg
emulate apple 13 (adapter provided by nec representative)

nec (15 mini) mac (15)

1 2
2 5
3 9
4 shell gnd , 1 , 4 , 6 , 13
5 same as above
6 same...
7 same...
8 same...
10 same...
11 same...
13 3
14 not connected !


well , i am waiting for your solutions...

and thanks !


jartsu

from chyang@engin.umich.edu (chung hsiung yang)
subject re x86 680x0 \? \? (how do they compare \? )
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor
lines 55
distribution world
nntp posting host leghorn.engin.umich.edu

in article 27837.2bd08c3a@zeus.ieee.org michael.ameres@f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org (michael ameres) writes
i believe it goes or will go
680060
powerpc
pentium
680040
486
680030
386
680020
286 680000



i think this kind of comparison is pretty useless in general. the
processor is only good when a good computer is designed around it adn the
computer is used in its designed purpose. comparing processor speed is
pretty dumb because all you have to do is just increase the clock speed
to increase speed among other things.

i mean how can you say a 040 is faster than a 486 without
giving is operational conditions \? can you say the same when
you are running a program that uses a lot of transidental functions.
knowing that 040 does not have transidental functions building in to
its fpu and 486 does , can you say that 040 is still faster \?

anyway , i hope people do not decided upon wether a computers
is good or not solely on its processor. or how fast a processor is
based on its name , because one can alway do a certain things to a
processor to speed it up.

but if we restrict our arguements to , for example , pure
processor architectural issues. or how one processor will work
well and another will not based on its design , then we can get
somewhere with our discussions.

chung yang

in a resent article in one of the macmags i think a 50mhz 030 accelerator was
slightly slower than a 25mhz 040 accel. but , this is using a system designed
for the 030. so , it stands to reason that a system designed for an 040 ie
quadra) would do better. so overall i 'd figure 040 030 2.5 or so.
along the same lines the new powerpc stuff is supposed to run the system
at the level of a fast quadra , but system 8 or whatever will allow 3 times the
speed of a 040 in the powerpc based systems. and wait for the 680060. i think
it laps the pentium.

pro life pro women




michael ameres internet michael.ameres@f204.n2603.z1.fidonet.org



from michael robert peck mp5j @andrew.cmu.edu
subject 800x600 video on a iici \?
organization freshman , electrical and computer engineering , carnegie mellon , pittsburgh , pa
lines 6
nntp posting host po4.andrew.cmu.edu

what do i need to do to be able to run an nec 3fgx in 800x 600 mode
on my iici \? can it be done with the right video card \? if so , which
video card \?


michael

from rcrispin@watarts.uwaterloo.ca (richard crispin)
subject quantum q250 hard disk
organization university of waterloo
lines 24

i recently aquired a quantum q250 harddisk. it is a 50 meg 5.25
mechanism. it is scsi. i have a few questions and a few problems. first
there seems to be an extra connector socket on the back that i ca n't
figure out what it is for. the address is set by some jumpers on the
bottom so i do n't think it is for that. any ideas \?

second , it would be nice to get a hardware manual for the drive. there are
a lot of jumpers on it that we do n't know what they are for.

third , i have got the drive to format. it took a while to get things to
work and most of it is fine for now. the formating initialy was
troublesome but seems to be ok. the main problem is if you do a reset on
the macplus the drive disappears. if i shut the mac off and then back on
agian then the drive comes up fine. any ideas.

please reply to one of the email addresses below.

thanks

richard crispin
department of psychology email rcrispin@watarts.uwaterloo.ca
university of waterloo psych@watserv1.uwaterloo.ca
waterloo , ontario phone (519)888 4781 or 885 1211 ext. 4781
canada n2l 3g1 fax (519)746 8631

from dickg@vm.temple.edu (dick grant)
subject memory in plus se
organization temple university
lines 8
nntp posting host vm.temple.edu
x newsreader nnr vm s 1.3.2


i have to increase the memory in a plus or se (i'm not sure which since
i have n't seen it yet). i did this a few years ago but i no longer have the
instructions. i forget which resistor needs to be cut to go from 1 to 4 mbs.

can anyone direct me to this information \? is there an ftp'able doc some
where with diagrams \?
thanks , dick grant

from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon wtte)
subject re stereo sound problem ( \? ) on mac games
keywords sound stereo , quadra , 900 , powerbook , 170
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 26
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se

in 1qsfak skc@network.ucsd.edu dpb@sdchemw2.ucsd.edu (doug p. book) writes

but , the following games only play out of the left channel

...

but still , stereo system beeps do play in stereo , through both speakers.

mac sound hardware is diverse some macs play in stereo and
mix the output (the se 30 for instance) while others play in
stereo but only has the left channel for the speaker , while
some are truly mono (like the lc)

developers know that stuff played in the left channel is
guaranteed to be heard , while the right channel is n't. some
send data to both , some only send data to the left channel
(the first is preferrable , of course)

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe
engineering how will this work \? science why will this work \? management
when will this work \? liberal arts do you want fries with that \?
jesse n. schell

from jmg14@po.cwru.edu (john m. graham)
subject re 14 monitors
article i.d. usenet.1pt447 n3r
organization case western reserve university , cleveland , ohio (usa)
lines 23
nntp posting host thor.ins.cwru.edu


joseph m. kasanic jmk13@po.cwru.edu writes

just thought i would mention that sony no longer manufactures the cpd
1304 because of several manufacturing flaws. the new model is now the
1430 , which just like apple 's new sony trinitrom claims to be 14 inches.
i'm not sure of the details on the defects , but i work at our schools
bookstore
and can tell you that nearly half of them were returned with some kind of
defect or another.

i'm assuming that you are referring to the 1304s , correct \? what kind of flaws
have been reported \? i 've been using mine for about 6 7 months now , and i
have n't noticed any problems. might they develop later , or did i get lucky
and snag a good monitor \?

just curious ,
john

john m. graham
the cleveland institute of music
jmg14@po.cwru.edu
brought to you by the letters j , m , and g , and the number 14.

from folta@zen.holonet.net (steve folta)
subject re using setwutime() with a pb170
nntp posting host zen.holonet.net
organization holonet national internet access system 510 704 1058 modem
lines 13

aep@world.std.com (andrew e page) writes
i can get the mac to go to sleep , but i ca n't make seem to
make it wake up with setwutime().

the powerbook 170 hardware does n't have a wakeup timer. nor does the 140.
the mac portable had one , and i think the powerbook 100 had one. i do n't
know about the newer powerbooks , but i kind of doubt it. i got bit by
this too , and it took my a while rooting around on the developer cd
before i found this out.

steve folta
folta@well.sf.ca.us


from abravo@mondrian.csufresno.edu (andrew bravo)
subject asynch to synch on the mac
nntp posting host mondrian.csufresno.edu
organization california state university , fresno
lines 8

does anyone have any good code to drive the serial port in syncronos
mode \?
i really need it bad

tia

abravo@mondrian.csufres.edu


from jmilhoan@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jt)
subject re a stylewriter ii question
nntp posting host top.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 10

in article egaillou.734894813@miniac egaillou@etu.gel.ulaval.ca (eric gailloux) writes
i just read an article on the swii. one thing puzzles me the article says the
swii is a serial only device. does that mean i 'll have to unplug my modem each
time i want to print something \? \? \?

no. plug the printer in the printer port , and the modem in the modem
port. )

jt


from nsomerse@uglx.uvic.ca (neil somerset)
subject re adb woes
nntp posting host uglx.uvic.ca
organization university of victoria , victoria , bc , canada
lines 28

in article 1993apr3.010808.3589@afterlife.ncsc.mil mlbelan@afterlife.ncsc.mil (mark belangee) writes

greetings , oh , wise netters.. (oops.. that 's the oracle..sorry..)

anyhow , i have a basic question that i cannot answer.. just where in the
heck can i buy a adb cable \? \? mine on my trackball is shot.. and i have n't
been able to find a replacement anywhere.. unless i'm looking in the
wrong mail order catalogs....

anyone have any ideas \? (places prices just make it myself \? )


mark

mlbelan@afterlife.ncsc.mil

you should be able to pick up an adb cable at any computer wiring store...
i 'd give you the address of alberta computer cable in calgary , but a i'm
in victoria (b.c. , canada) and b i do n't think an address in calgary would
help you too much....basically however i just phoned them up , and they
charged me approx. 15 cnd for a custom made adb extension cable for my mouse.

hope this helps...

dave maclachlan
dmaclach@ra.uvic.ca
nightfall software inc.


from maynard@leah.msc.cornell.edu (maynard j. handley)
subject quickdraw gx (was re when are the rest of the inside mac 's due \? )
organization cornell materials science center
lines 21


we 'll be releasing a whole new suite of quickdraw gx related docs. if
you 're going to be at the wwdc next month you 'll get a preliminary
version
of most of this documentation on the cd. we 're talking multiple
thousands
of pages , i'm afraid gx (comprising graphics , layout and printing)
has
lots of new api calls and other functionality , all of which need
documenting...

dave opstad
gx line layout weenie

does gx take the place of 32 bit qd or add to it \? right now 32 bit is
kinda aesthetically a pain in a few places because of hacks upon hacks
to maintain compatibility with original qd i think of things like
where you have to cast cgrafports to grafports and such. it would be a
lot cleaner to ditch this entire mess and start over do we get that \?

maynard

from aris@psssun (aris gerakis)
subject pixel disappear on powerbook 140 screen
organization michigan state university
lines 10
nntp posting host psssun.pss.msu.edu
keywords powerbook , 140 , pixel , screen

some pixels on my pb 140 display disappear intermittently. they are not in
a particular place but random. if anybody has suggestions i would appreciate
e mailings. thanks.



aris@psssun.pss.msu.edu (beware of the 3 s)

o o
nnnnn u nnnnn

from qman@casbah.acns.nwu.edu (charlie kuehmann)
subject lciii to vga monitor adapters
article i.d. ironman.qman 060493132722
organization northwestern university
lines 17
nntp posting host ironman.ms.nwu.edu

i'm having a real tough time finding out the proper adapters to use a vga
monitor (an ibm 8513 sold w many ps 2 's to be exact) on the mac lc iii.
all of the vendors i have called say that the internal video will not work
on a true vga monitor but will work on a ibm compatible multisync like the
sony 's or the nec monitors. i thought the vga capability of lciii was very
attractive because it allowed you to use inexpensive vga monitors. am i
confused or are these vendors just not up to speed \? has anyone used an
lciii with a non multisync vga monitor and if so where did you get your
adapter (please be specific w vendor and cat ) \? i would prefer to get a
apple monitor for these lciii 's (it 's unseemly to see the finder inside an
ibm bezel) but the more money we save on monitors the more lciii 's we can
afford and the more ps 2 's we can get rid of !

charles kuehmann
northwestern university
steel research group
qman@casbah.acns.nwu.edu

from pebi@aem.umn.edu (peter a. bidian)
subject re cache card for iisi
nntp posting host zephyr.aem.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 5

hi , i bought a while ago a cache card w fpu from techworks. it was 219 .
i think that was the cheapest i ever saw.

peter


from chyang@engin.umich.edu (chung hsiung yang)
subject re computer engr vs. computer science
organization university of michigan engineering , ann arbor
lines 54
distribution usa
nntp posting host arno.engin.umich.edu

in article tecot.735093703@xenon.stanford.edu tecot@xenon.stanford.edu (edward m. tecot) writes
a professor of mine once said the difference between a computer engineer and
a computer scientist is about 5000 meaning the engineer makes 5000 more than
p.s. the 5000 is not just a joke
scott

for the most part , this is a bunch of bunk. i 've got a computer engineering
degree , yet i 've spent the last 7 years writing software that people actually
use. moreover , the salary distinctions are incorrect i received 3 job offers
upon graduation the two jobs that actually used my hardware experience were
7000 year lower ! my advice is to decide which classes and projects most
interest you , and pick the major that allows you to take them.

emt

well here is my 0.02 worth. advice from a grad student.

i agree with the gentlemen who wrote the comment before me.
the important thing is pick what ever interest you the most and
learn as much as possible about it.

in my five years of education in this field , though brief
compare to alot of people , i had to think about this kind of
question a lot. did i make the right decision in going into
electrical engineering as opposed to computer engineering or
cs \? the more i go thru school , the more i believe that this
kind of question is irrelevant.

i have come to believe that choosing cs because one
does not like hardware or choosing hardware because one does
not like to program is really doing an injustice of building
and computer and making it useful for something. everything
is interwoven and inseparable. cs , ce , and ee are all a
part of a really great discipline and do depend on each other.

my advice is do n't limit yourself , but make a decision
based on which major will give you the best opportunities to
learn. that of course depends on the curriculum at your
persective school. i would choose a major that allows me to
explore as much as possible. beside , i do n't know why the
school would make a student choose a major before her his
sophamore year.

hey you may be so interested in this field that you
decided to learn all about the making of computers in which
case , you suffer a little more and go to grad school.

about the money. do n't look at the averages , if you
are good , you are going to earn more money than anyone else.
if you are a superstar programmer , you will earn millions.
like wise if you are a hotshot computer designers.

chung yang


from pmontan@nswc wo.navy.mil (paul montanaro)
subject re tcp ip routing localtalk ethernet.
organization nswc
lines 32

in article 1qpn8uinnjs8@stimpy.css.itd.umich.edu ,
bchuang@css.itd.umich.edu (ben chuang) wrote

here is the story
i have a network with 4 macs on localtalk. one of them has an
ethernet card , and is currently connected to a next (do n't laugh
i got it for the price of a mac iisi). the next is connected
to the internet over slip running on a 9600 baud modem.

currently , we can telnet from the mac w ethernet to the next ,
and then telnet out again to the rest of the world.

what we want to know is if there is some sort of hardware that
will route telnet sessions from the localtalk macs to the next
via the ethernet mac. from what we have heard , air does n't do
the trick.

software solutions would be good too , but my impression is that
there are n't going to be any.

our immediate interest is to be able to get to the next and telnet
out again. the slip connection does n't allow us to assign ip numbers
to machines , so everyone shares that 1 number...oh well...


what you need is a hardware router such as etherroute tcp made by
compatable systems ( 1400). this will allow you to connect your localtalk
network (4 macs) to your ethernet network (next and ethernet mac). it will
route tcp ip protocol between the two networks. software routers are also
available for less money , but i'm not sure if they work with tcp ip.

paul

from cmwand@leland.stanford.edu (christopher wand)
subject re syquest 150 \? \? \?
organization dsg , stanford university , ca 94305 , usa
distribution usa
lines 30

in article 93759@hydra.gatech.edu gt8798a@prism.gatech.edu (anthony s. kim) writes
i remember someone mention about a 150meg syquest. has anyone else
heard anything about this \? i 'd be interested in the cost per megabyte and the
approximate cost of the drive itself and how they compare to the bernoulli 150.

i think you must be talking about the syquest 105 (code named mesa i believe).
it is a 3.5 winchester technology drive pretty much like the other syquest
drives in terms of how it works. according to the latest macleak , the
drive has a 14.5 ms access time , 1.9 mb s sustained throughput (these figures
are from memory so they could be slightly off , but they give you an idea of
performance nonetheless). the drive was originally released for the pc
and just recently was released for the mac world (do n't ask me what the
differences are) and through they are currently in limited supply , according
to a syquest rep. they are in the process of ramping up for mass production.
i have already seen them advertised by a number of manufacturers in macleak
including pli , massmicro , clubmac , and macwarehouse 's poweruser. the pli
and massmicro units are priced at just around 1000 the lesser name brands
are going for around 750 for an external drive. cartridges which hold
105 mb sell for about 80 each. at these prices , the drives and cartridges
are cheaper and better performing than the 88mb drives.
cost per megabyte compares favorably with other cartridge drives and bernoulli
drives , but for large amounts of data optical is still cheaper , and more
reliable. personally , i'm excited by the new drive and look forward to
getting my hands on one.
chris wand



egotism is the anesthetic that dulls the pain of stupidity.
frank leahy

from bchase@bigwpi.wpi.edu (bret chase)
subject re pds vs. nubus (was re lc iii nubus capable \? )
organization worcester polytechnic institute
lines 44
nntp posting host bigwpi.wpi.edu

in article c5mqk0.f29@liverpool.ac.uk wis@liverpool.ac.uk (mr. w.i. sellers) writes
bill higgins beam jockey (higgins@fnalf.fnal.gov) wrote
in article c5kzls.kkb@dartvax.dartmouth.edu , hades@coos.dartmouth.edu (brian v. hughes) writes
mmiller@garnet.msen.com (marvin miller) writes
my friend recently purchased a lc iii and he wants to know if there is
such a demon called nubus adapter for his pds slot \?

the lc family of macs can only
use pds cards. they are not able to use nubus.

ah , but why \? can some technically hip macslinger tell us what the
difference is between pds and nubus \?

is it impossible to make a gadget that plugs into pds and ends in a
nubus card cage \? at least , marvin 's friend has not been able to
locate one and neither have i. what is the fundamental reason for
this \?

i think that there do exist nubus expansion cages (i'm sure i 've seen
them advertised occassionally) , but i think that the main problem is that
they cost much more than the difference in price between say a lc and iivx
so unless you need lots of nubus slots its not worth the bother.

(of course , it may be that these extra boxes are so expensive because
no one buys them because they are so expensive...)

nubus technology is n't a special apple proprietry thing (i have this
sneaky feeling that it is licensed from texas instruments \? \? \? ) so there
is no problem building an expansion box.

apple uses the ieee nubus 90 standard for their 32 bit backplane bus.
(i got this from a technote that i reada couple of weeks ago)

other stuff deleted

hope this helps ,
bret chase



internet bchase@wpi.wpi.edu macintosh !
bellnet (508) 791 3725 smile ! it wo n't kill you !
snailnet wpi box 3129 ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )
100 institute rd. worcester , ma 01609 2280

from ytwu@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (yih tyng wu)
subject help ! how to test simms \?
nntp posting host top.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu
organization the ohio state university
lines 10


hello ,
i just got some simms , at least one of which does not work. i do n't know if
there is a software that can test simms thoroughly or i could just rely on the
ram test performed by my computer during the start up. when i installed a dead
simm into an lc or an lc ii , there would be a strange music and no display on
the screen. why \? i need your help ! thanks in advance

yih tyng
ytwu@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu

from guykuo@carson.u.washington.edu (guy kuo)
subject quadra 700 memory install faq
organization university of washington
lines 69
nntp posting host carson.u.washington.edu
summary instructions for quadra 700 memory installation
keywords memory , quadra , 700 , install

this is turning into a faq


here is how to violate your quadra 700 warranty and install your own
memory.

1) insert usual disclaimer here

2) remove the top lid of the machine. you will see the floppy disk and
hard drive mounted in a plastic tower. follow the usual anti static
precautions and of course make sure the machine is off when you do
this. unplug the wall and monitor power supply cords from the back
of the mac.

3) remove the power supply by pulling the plastic interlocking tab on the
tower forward and simultaneously pulling the power supply straight up.
the tab is a piece of plastic from the left posterior aspect of the
tower which extends downward to hook on to the power supply. you may
also feel a horseshoe shaped piece at the right portion of the power
supply. leave that alone. the plastic tab from the tower is all you
need release.

4) look at the rear of the tower assembly. you will see the flat ribbon
scsi connector to the hard drive , a power cable and a flat ribbon cable
leading to the floppy drive. disconnect all these from the motherboard.
the hard drive power cable connector has a tab which must be squeezed
to release it.

5) unplug the drive activity led from its clear plastic mount

6) look down the posterior , cylindrical section of the plastic tower. a
phillips head screw is at the base. remove it , taking care not to drop
it into the case. a bit of gummy glue on your screwdriver is helpful
here.

7) remove the tower assembly by pulling medially the plastic tab on the
right side of the tower. this tab prevents the tower from sliding
posteriorly. slide the entire tower assembly 1 cm posteriorly then
lift the tower assembly straight up and out of the case.

8) congratulations , you have now gained access to your machine 's simm
slots.

9) the six big slots are for vram. one usually must install all six to
gain useful video modes. all simms (ram or vram) installed with their
chips facing the front of the motherboard.

the four smaller sockets in front are for ram simms. install simms in
sets of four into these sockets. be sure you seat the simms squarely
and firmly into a fully upright position.

10) reinstall the tower assembly by first placing the right wall of the
tower against the right wall of the case with the tower assembly about
1 cm posterior of its intended position. lower the tower assembly into
place while maintaining contact with the right wall of the case.
once fully down , slide the tower assembly anteriorly until it clicks
into place.

11) reconnect the motherboard ends of the cables. dont't forget the floppy
drive cable.

12) replace the phillips head screw

13) drop the power supply straight down into place until it clicks in.

14) plug the hard drive activity light back into its clear plastic mount

guy kuo guykuo@u.washington.edu


from b91926@fnclub.fnal.gov (david sachs)
subject re apple tape backup 40sc under system 7.x
organization fermi national accelerator laboratory , batavia il
lines 15
distribution usa
nntp posting host fnclub.fnal.gov
keywords backup , tape ,

in article generous.734035090@nova , generous@nova.sti.nasa.gov (curtis generous) writes

i need to get an apple 40sc tape backup unit working under
sys 7.0.x , but do not have any drivers software to access
the device. does anyone know where i can fidn the tools
to access this device \?

appreciate any info comments.

curtis

curtis c. generous generous@sti.nasa.gov (703) 685 1140
nasa sti , code jtt , washington , dc 20546

retrospect (dantz) works nicely with this combination. you can buy it from the mail order vendors.

from mbuntan@staff.tc.umn.edu ()
subject fax modem for the mac
nntp posting host staff.tc.umn.edu
organization university of minnesota
lines 26

hi all
thanks to you all who have responded
to my request for info on various kinds of fax modem.
i 'd like to ask a few more questions.
1. what are the advantages of buying a global village
teleport gold over other cheaper brands like supra , zoom etc \?
2. i heard that both supra and zoom use the same software.
why are there so many complaints about the incompatibility problems
of supra \? what kind of incompatibility is it \?
3. if i decided to buy the teleport gold , is there any
possibility to add a voice option in the near future \?
4. has anyone heard of a possible voice option that supra will offer
this coming summer \?
5. a person did mention a new at t modem. is it
getting good reviews from various mac magazines \?
6. if i want the best , fastest , most economically sound and
possible voice option , what fax modem should i buy \?

sorry for posting so many questions , but i think they 're necessary.
i promise to repost any answers if they 're not already posted by a responder.

thanks so much in advance.

regards ,

thian.

from daves@xetron.com (dave steele)
subject whither quickdraw performance (across product line)
organization xetron corp.
lines 21

my company has developed an application for the mac that emulates a chart
recorder virtual pen traces scroll smoothly across the screen. as we
tested the application on a number of computers we discovered some
surprising performance differences across products. the scroll performance
of the iisi and lcii was better than the iifx. this led us to investigate
color quickdraw performance across the apple line.

the results

the fastest quickdraw color performing computer apple makes is the
(drumroll please) lciii. and the color classic ranks right up there with
the quadra line. the centris line pales in comparison.

does anybody know the differences in these computers that explains the
disparity in graphics processor performance \?


dave steele (daves@xetron.com) (513)881 3330
xetron corp.
40 w. crescentville road
cincinnati , ohio 45246

from jaker@csugrad.cs.vt.edu (jacob rose)
subject re position of 'b' on erg. keyboard
organization virginia tech computer science dept , blacksburg , va
lines 17
nntp posting host csugrad.cs.vt.edu

viralbus@daimi.aau.dk (thomas martin widmann) writes

so far i have only seen pictures of the new ergonomic keyboard ,
but it seems that the 'b' is placed on the left part after the split.
however , when i learned typing in school some years ago , i was taught
to write 'b' with my right hand. is this a difference between danish
and american typing , or what \? \? \?

it must be... ...i type it with my left hand. personally , i would have
a real problem with my keyboard opened up like that , because i tend to
share some keys with both hands , particularly if i'm doing something else
with one hand (like using the cursor keys , mouse , or glass of jolt).


deej (jacob rose) amazing but true there is so much sand in northern
jaker@csugrad.cs.vt.edu africa that if spread out it would cover the sahara.


organization rohm and haas company
from rbpj4h@rohvm1.rohmhaas.com
subject wanted 120m hard drive
lines 5

i am in the market for a 120m hard drive ! i have a iisi with 5 80 and i am
almost all filled up ! is anyone selling any hd 's for the mac for cheap \? where
can i get one through mail order and where is the best place to buy from for
the best prices \? is there anyone on the net or on this newsgroup that sells
them for wholesale or cheaper \? any info would be appreciated ! thanks !

from d88 jwa@hemul.nada.kth.se (jon w tte)
subject re interesting adb behaviour on c650
nntp posting host hemul.nada.kth.se
organization royal institute of technology , stockholm , sweden
lines 23

in 1993apr16.091202.15500@waikato.ac.nz ldo@waikato.ac.nz (lawrence d'oliveiro , waikato university) writes

i have heard of no such warnings from anybody at apple. just to be sure , i
asked a couple of our technicians , one of whom has been servicing macs for
years. there is no danger of damaging logic boards by plugging and unplugging
adb devices with the power on.

the problem is that the pins in the adb connector
are close to each other , and if you happen to bend the
cable a little while inserting it , you short the adb
port. if you take it to an apple repair centre , that
means a new motherboard (though a component replace is
physically possible)

same goes for serial ports (localtalk as well)

cheers ,

h

jon w tte , h @nada.kth.se , mac hacker deluxe

this article printed on 100 recycled electrons.

from jartsu@hut.fi (jartsu)
subject good display card for 14 multisync \?
nntp posting host lk hp 20.hut.fi
reply to jartsu@vipunen.hut.fi
organization helsinki university of technology , finland
lines 20


hi there !

i wonder if anyone knows and can recommend me a good nubus display
card for driving a 14 multisync (nec 3d) \?
the nec 3d can do horizontal refresh from 15.5 khz to 38 khz and
vertical from 50 hz to 90 hz and can do max 1024x768 interlaced ,
though i am looking for something more like 800x600 or 832x624
noninterlaced.
it would be very nice to find a card which can be programmed quite
freely within these limits and is capable to display at least
8bits pixel , preferably more.

is there anything on the market that comes even close \?


thanks


jartsu

from casgrain@ere.umontreal.ca (casgrain philippe)
subject re what do y'all think of the iivx \?
organization universite de montreal
lines 23

jfinete@cats.ucsc.edu (joseph manuel finete) writes
the iivx...lciii performance at a centris 610 price.
and unless
you 're running fpu intensive software , the 610 will blow the doors off the
lciii and the iivx.

from the benchmarks i 've seen (was that in macuser or macweek \? ) the fpu less
centris 610 is faster at floating point operations (the kind of calculations
that get routed to an fpu) than a mac iifx !

and a mac iifx (68030 @ 40mhz fpu) is the fastest 030 based mac.

take note , of course , that benchmarks never tell the whole story... get your
favorite program(s) and run them on both machines at the store. they should
let you do that before you plunk down a hefty amount...

virtually ,
philippe


philippe casgrain etudiant chercheur casgrain@ere.umontreal.ca
departement des sciences biologiques universite de montreal
define disclaimer(caught) (caught \? i was n't even there ! i did n't do it ! )

from jmilhoan@magnus.acs.ohio state.edu (jt)
subject 2 powerbook questions
article i.d. magnus.1993apr6.215646.23800
organization the ohio state university
lines 13
nntp posting host bottom.magnus.acs.ohio state.edu


1. why , or how actually , can a powerbook have a 640 x 400 pixel
display , regardless if it is a 9 or 10 , and still keep the
72 dpi resolution \? (i assume that it does n't , and i do n't
mean to imply they all have these dimensions)


2. any info on price drops or new models (non duo) coming up \?



thanks ,
jt

from generous@nova.sti.nasa.gov (curtis generous)
subject apple tape backup 40sc under system 7.x
keywords backup , tape ,
organization nasa sti
lines 12


i need to get an apple 40sc tape backup unit working under
sys 7.0.x , but do not have any drivers software to access
the device. does anyone know where i can fidn the tools
to access this device \?

appreciate any info comments.

curtis

curtis c. generous generous@sti.nasa.gov (703) 685 1140
nasa sti , code jtt , washington , dc 20546

from ray@netcom.com (ray fischer)
subject re 68040 specs.
organization netcom. san jose , california
lines 43

patrickd@wpi.wpi.edu (lazer) writes ...
i 'd appreciate it greatly if someone could e mail me the following
(if you only know one , that 's fine)
1) specs for the 68040 (esp. how it compares to the pentium)

specs for the 68040 can fill a 500 page book. some highlights are...
32 bit address space w 32 bit data width. 18 32 bit integer registers
8 80 bit floating point registers. 8k copyback capable caches ,
4 way set associative. typical 1.2 clocks integer instruction. 5
clocks for a floating point multiply.

(interesting aside the 68040 can multiply two 80 bit floating point
numbers in less time than it can multiply two 32 bit integers)

2) specs for the 68060 with estimated cost , release date , etc...

more of the same but with multiple instruction dispatching. figure
about 0.8 clocks per instruction typical (my guess). but the motorola
guys are pretty bright , it may be less.

i'm interested in speeds , systems it can run (windows nt , risc , or whatever) ,
costs , bus info , register info. all the technical info.

call motorola. i'm not typing it all in.

i am hoping that the 68040 can win yet another battle against the intel people.

i'm predicting that both the 680x0 and x86 lines are reaching their
ends. new experimental processors have 64 bit data pathways and can
schedule up to 8 out of 32 instructions each clock cycle. that sort
of trick ca n't really be done with cisc architectures.

i finally saw some details on the 586 pentium and was not greatly
impressed. they 've finally done some work on the fpu to get it up to
speed , but otherwise it 's only going to be a 2x speedup. and to get
that they 're using two integer units , larger caches , and a branch
target buffer. yes , i know they 're talking about 100mhz processors.
big whoop. designing a 100mhz board is difficult and really
expensive. priced 15ns memory chips lately \?


ray fischer convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth
ray@netcom.com than lies. friedrich nietzsche
